Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alison Ziegler — Vice President, Cameron Associates, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Mark S. Hiltwein — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. And welcome to the Rand Logistics Inc. Fiscal Year 2016 First Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Alison Ziegler. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2016 first quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's President and CEO; Mark Hiltwein, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will join the call for the question-and-answers. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated.

Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in certain of our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes and our ability to maintain or replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2015, as well as other recent filings.

We may refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as adjusted EBITDA, which we define as operating income plus depreciation, amortization, and loss or gain on foreign exchange. Please see our press release dated August 6, 2015 filed on Form 8-K for a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thank you, Alison, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. For our fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2015, we reported net income of $2.6 million, a 47.6% increase compared to the prior year period.

EPS increased by 40% to $0.14 from $0.10. Adjusted EBITDA of $12.3 million was up nearly 10% from $11.2 million in the prior year period. On a constant currency basis, EBITDA equaled $13.1 million, up 17% in the quarter ended June 30, 2015.

Total Sailing Days were 1,228 compared to 1,138 in the prior year. Ice and weather conditions on the Great Lakes at the start of this sailing season, while not as bad as the start of the 2014 sailing season were still not optimal, resulting in an improvement of 90 Sailing Days as compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2014, which was approximately 138 less than we would expect during the quarter in a normal year.

Delay Days, which comprise lost time due to inclement weather, dock delays, traffic congestion, and mechanical issues, declined by approximately 17% to 8.9% of Sailing Days, compared to 11.5% of Sailing Days in the comparable period last year. We have not experienced any days out of service to date in the 2015 sailing season.

Business conditions in the quarter were consistent with our expectations. Tons carried were up over 19%, including tonnage carried on a vessel we are time chartering from a third party until we introduce our newest vessel into service later this sailing season.

Tons carried on our own vessels increased approximately 13% in the quarter. The 19% growth in tonnage carried reflected an increase in the number of Sailing Days, market share gains, organic growth in certain of our end markets, continued improvement in our vessel efficiency metrics and higher water levels, which are allowing us to carry more tonnage per trip.

On a constant currency basis, marine freight and related revenue was up 13.3% quarter-over-quarter as result of the increase in tonnage carried. On a per Sailing Day basis, marine freight and related revenue was up 5% quarter-over-quarter.

Four weeks into our second fiscal quarter business conditions for the primary commodities that we carry remain satisfactory. There is presently excess capacity in both the Canadian and U.S. Great Lakes market for larger carrying capacity vessels which are markets that we have limited exposure to. Of late, we have been experiencing somewhat higher traffic delays at certain of our customer loading facilities due to the capacity issues in the market.

Our newest vessel will be introduced into service later this calendar year. The necessary financing to make the final shipyard payment is in place. This vessel is scheduled to arrive at or near the time our present agreement to time charter a third party vessel expires. At that time, we will transfer tonnage to this vessel at what we expect will be levels of profitability consistent with or better than our existing fleet and at higher levels than we are currently achieving through utilizing a time charter.

We estimate that on a full year basis this vessel will increase our overall return on invested capital by approximately 100 basis points. We are not projecting a meaningful profit contribution from this vessel in the current fiscal year.

As we have discussed on previous calls, vessel margin per Sailing Day is a key metric that we monitor to evaluate fleet performance. Our vessel margin per day for the fiscal quarter increased 2.1% to $12,652 and 8.6% to $13,456 on a constant currency basis compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2014.

The improvement in margin per day is being driven primarily by both price increases and operating efficiencies that we are capturing by virtue of executing our strategy to increase the percentage of time that our vessels are in revenue loaded condition.

As I previously mentioned, demand is consistent with our expectations. Tons carried were up over 19%, including tonnage carried on a vessel we are time chartering from a third party. On the 15 vessels that we own, tons carried was up 13.3%.

Now, let me turn to the quarter-over-quarter change in our commodity tonnages. The commentaries that follow and the tonnage growth for certain commodities that we experienced in the first quarter reflect the impact of the delayed start of last year's sailing season and are not indicative of sustainable demand growth we anticipate for the remainder of the sailing season.

Our aggregate tonnage was up 21% on a quarter-over-quarter basis and aggregates represented approximately 52% of our total tonnage in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. A portion of the quarter-over-quarter increase is due to last year's delay in the opening of our customer's queries due to the ice and weather conditions that persisted through April 2014.

As we have mentioned previously, the majority of our aggregates are used in construction end markets, primarily in Michigan and Ohio. Aggregates demand continues to build off the lows experienced in the 2009 through 2012 period in these markets.

Certain of our aggregate customers have told us that they foresee continued growth in demand for the next several years. The demand is being driven by infrastructure projects as well as for the first time in several years an increase in residential and light commercial construction.

For example, while still below historical levels Metro Detroit and certain of the surrounding counties are experiencing the highest rate of single family new home permits since 2006. Iron ore represented approximately 13.5% of our total tonnage in the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

Shipments increased by 36.8% during the quarter as compared with the same period in 2014. The increase was due to improved weather conditions in the quarter. As we mentioned in our previous investor conference call, weakness in the iron ore market is impacting the efficiency of larger carrying capacity vessels. We compete against these size vessels on a limited basis.

Coal comprised approximately 9.5% of our total tonnage. Our coal shipments decreased by approximately 14.1% during the quarter. The decrease is a function of delivery timing and not a change in market conditions or customer demand.

Salt represented approximately 11.4% of our total tonnage. Our salt tonnage decreased by 7.9% during the quarter versus the year ago fiscal first quarter. We are expecting that our salt tonnage on a full year basis will be relatively consistent with the levels we experienced in the 2014 sailing season.

Grain represented approximately 10% of our total tonnage during the first quarter. The grain tonnage that we carry increased by 25.3% during our fiscal first quarter versus the prior year period. The increase was primarily attributable to an earlier start to the season and an increase in domestic milling requirements.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Hiltwein for a review of the financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Ed. I would like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 compared to the prior year first quarter. Net income increased 48% from $1.8 million last year to $2.6 million this year. Earnings per share on a diluted share calculation was up 40% from $0.10 last year to $0.14 this year.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 9.7% from $11.2 million in the first quarter of last year to $12.3 million in the first quarter of this year. On a constant currency basis, EBITDA increased by 17% to $13.1 million. Freight and other related revenue, which excludes fuel and other surcharges and our outside charter revenue, increased by 6.4% to $39 million from $36.6 million in the first quarter of 2014.

On a constant currency basis, freight and other related revenue increased by 13.3% or $4.9 million. The year-over-year increase in revenue is attributable to an increase in tonnage, Sailing Days, contractual price increases and higher water levels. Tonnage carried benefited from the usage of the usage of an outside time chartered vessel. When taking into account the outside charter, tonnage was up 19% compared to the same period last year.

As reported in the financial statements, the revenue associated with the outside charter is virtually a pass-through as the profit is minimal. Our current margins are being compressed by this agreement. We anticipate transferring tonnage to our new vessel at the time our outside charter contract expires, and we expect to achieve levels of profitability from the new vessel that will be at or better than our existing fleet.

Excluding this vessel, tonnage was up 13%. Sailing Days, which exclude the Sailing Days associated with outside charter vessel, were up 90 days or 8% from 1,138 days last year to 1,228 days this year.

Freight and related revenue per Sailing Day decreased $440 or 1.4% to $31,733 per Sailing Day from $32,173 per Sailing Day, primarily due to the lower Canadian dollar. On a constant currency basis, freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased 5% or $1,621.

Total revenue for the quarter increased by 3.5% or $1.5 million to $44.8 million. Vessel operating expenses decreased by approximately $1.5 million or 5.2% from $28 million last year to $26.6 million this year. The decrease was primarily due to improvements in our operating performance, a reduction in fuel expense and the weaker Canadian dollar. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased by 12.2% or $3,003 from $24,628 last year to $21,625 in the first quarter of this year.

Our general and administrative expenses were up approximately $400,000 to $3.3 million this year. G&A cost increased year-over-year due to an increase in compensation and benefit cost, including expenses associated with new hires offset by the weaker Canadian dollar.

The increase in compensation expense is primarily due to non-recurring duplicative head count cost resulting from changes in our management team. Our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of freight and related revenues in the quarter was 8.5% compared to 8% in the first quarter of last year.

Interest expense decreased by approximately $800,000 in the first quarter to $3 million from just under $3.8 million last year. Our effective income tax rate was a deferred tax expense of 5.8% compared to 14.3% in the same period last year. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the state valuation allowance against the US deferred tax assets, which are mainly in the net operating loss position.

As stated earlier, net income increased 48% from $1.8 million last year to $2.6 million this year. Earnings per share on a diluted share calculation was up 40% from $0.10 last year to $0.14 this year. For the quarter ended June 30, 2015, the average exchange rate equaled $0.813 per Canadian dollar. This compared to $0.917 per Canadian dollar for the quarter year ended June 30, 2014.

Moving on to the balance sheet, the increase in accounts receivable from our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 reflects the seasonality of our business. When comparing to the prior year balance sheet, accounts receivable is down $351,000 and our DSO is down two days to 39 days this year.

Our accrued liabilities are up $12.4 million, which represents a $12.2 million accrual for the completed shipyard costs for the new vessel. Total debt is up $16 million, representing the seasonality of collections as well as some payments related to our newest vessel.

When comparing the balance sheet to last year's first quarter, our debt balance is down by over $4.6 million, reflecting strong cash flow, a weaker Canadian dollar, offset by payments made on the construction of our 16th vessel.

We find ourselves in a solid position as it relates to our end market served, the performance of our fleet and our market position within the river class segment of the Great Lakes. We are focused on leveraging our position with some of our largest purchasers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies in the supply chain.

Water levels remain at or above historic norms which enable us to increase our tons per carry trip. And as discussed on our year-end call, we are currently projecting operating our vessels for 3,850 Sailing Days in our 2016 fiscal year. Given that we are readdressing our service model after January 1, we have only budgeted Sailing Days in our fiscal 2016 fourth quarter that we are currently contractually obligated to provide.

This compares to the 4,106 Sailing Days booked in fiscal 2015. Our goal is to mitigate the operational risk that is inherent in sailing in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 without receiving the appropriate return on the capital and the risk taken.

Now, I'd like to return the call back over to Ed.

Thanks, Mark. We remain focused on developing and executing initiatives to improve our return on invested capital. Specifically, these initiatives are intended to drive operational excellence, leverage our market position, capture cost savings opportunities and improve the efficiency of our capital spending.

We continue to evaluate our customer contracts and, to the extent we are finding our capital returns inadequate, we are proposing price or terms adjustment that will allow us to continue to provide those specific customers with quality service while achieving an acceptable return for our shareholders.

We look forward to continuing to report our progress on these initiatives given the everyday focus that they are receiving.

With that, we'd like to open the line up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jon Tanwanteng of CJS Securities.

Good morning, guys. Nice quarter.

Thanks, Jon. Good morning.

Good morning. Can you just update us on the client reception to trying to improve pricing in the winter sailing season, how has that gone so far?

We're relatively early in that process, Jon. And so, I prefer to differ that until we speak at our next conference call. If something – that's an initiative that has recently begun and continuing to evaluate the feedback from customers.

Okay. And Mark, can you just talk about the fuel savings a little bit, was that as simple as gas prices went down or were you able to procure gas at a lower costs than you were previously?

I think it's a little bit of both. You see the oil prices continuing to drop even as far as yesterday. So, I think that there was a combination of market driven decline and also some leverage of our largest expense.

Okay. So what measure of that is sustainable, I guess is the real question.

It's a good question. I don't know where the fuel costs are going to go in a market level. I will tell you that we've got a keen focus on a daily basis to try to determine where we can best manage the purchasing of our fuel and where the lowest levels are in the region.

Okay, great. And then I'm sorry I jumped on a little bit late. But Ed, I think you mentioned something about increasing delays with congestion on the docks. Could you just go into further detail on that?

Sure. Over the last couple or three or four weeks, Jon, we've just seen our traffic delays increase a bit, and so it's something that we're being very mindful of on a go-forward basis. I'm not sure it's necessarily a trend that will persist throughout the year. It's just something that we've seen in the last four weeks, something we want – a sign that we've got to be careful to watch and we've got to be watching our scheduling to make sure we're driving our maximum efficiencies.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Jon.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Kevin Sterling of BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Ed, I want to dig into the vessel you chartered in this quarter. Was this something you had anticipated doing at the start of the sailing season as you awaited the delivery of the new vessel or is this a result of demand maybe picking up a little bit better and you thought relative to your customer nominations. I don't recall you mentioning it before, so I'm just trying to get a hand on the drivers behind chartering in this outside capacity?

Sure. We had contracts that we had been awarded for April 1, 2015, Kevin, which we had gone out and captured in anticipation of our newest vessel being introduced into the market. And so, the third party vessel that we are chartering is just a bridge for us between today when we've got the demand and the new vessel that we'll be introducing later on this calendar year, okay?

And so, as soon as the new vessel comes on, we'll convert all that tonnage that we know we already have to the new vessel because as I said we've said many times before that we did not fill that vessel on spec, we built that vessel knowing that we had the demand for it and the demand – you're seeing the demand for it in the context of that third party chartered vessel.

Yeah. And Kevin, as far as strategy, I think that's the great strategy, right? Is instead of building it and hoping they will come, this capacity was old and we're going to be able to just move it on to the new vessel as it becomes available to us.

No, that makes a lot of sense. You don't want a vessel sitting [ph] out there empty, no, (24:07) that's very good to hear. Let me touch, again, kind of follow-up on Jon's questions, you talked some of the congestion, I think there is a recent closure of the McArthur Lock, do you have contractual provision that protect you from delays such as malfunctioning locks.

Not specifically, Kevin. The Mac Lock is impacting us. Our percentage of business that we do in the Lower Lakes region is far higher than we do in Lake Superior. We expect – I was on a call yesterday with the Lake Carriers Association, we expect that that outage right now is going to be in the neighborhood of 10 days on the Mac lock. We're using the Poe Lock right now. So, the lock outage is not something that is having a material impact on our results at this point.

Okay. Thanks, Ed. And I think you've talked a little bit about your iron ore tonnage being up in the quarter. I think you said it's kind of related to winter catch up. And are you still calling for about 5% decline in tonnage this year or maybe or we should – or you're think about revising that given the strength you saw in the first quarter? Did you see any new contractual business or is it just mainly demand catch up following the winter?

Mainly demand catch up following the winter. I think we're still looking at modest declines, mid-single digit decline in tonnage this year, Kevin. And that decline is the function of our contract with a customer. So, we knew coming into the year that we're going to have that modest decline.

And the contract stipulates that in the 2016 sailing season, we go back to prior levels of demand with this particular customer. So, we're not seeing the opportunity for growth in iron ore for sure right now. There is a fair bid of bar and steel that's being dumped into this country and that is, as we've mentioned now and last call and this call, that is having an impact on the larger vessels, but we compete in a limited way against those assets.

Yes, got you. All right, Ed. Thank you. And last question here, the water levels, they're all above long-term averages, some at levels we haven't seen since the mid to late 1990s. So how much of a benefit are you seeing on the margin front? Would you attribute to improved sailing conditions versus the level of organic growth and other efficiencies you put into place?

We're seeing about – and this is rough number, but year-to-date, we're seeing about 1% increase in our per trip tonnage, Kevin, by virtue of higher water level. So if we're carrying, let's assume, theoretically 20,000 tons, we're seeing about 200 ton increase on average due to higher water levels thus far this sailing season.

Okay. Great, Ed. Gentlemen, thanks for your time this morning. Have a great weekend.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And it appears there are no further questions at this time.

Thank you, operator. And thank you everybody for your continued interest in Rand Logistics. To the extent you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call Mark or myself. We're certainly available to answer anything that you require. We look forward to speaking with you next conference call.

Thank you for your participation. That does conclude today's conference.