Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alison Ziegler — Vice President, Cameron Associates, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Mark S. Hiltwein — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Ben Rubenstein — Research Analyst, Robotti & Company Advisors, LLC
Richard G. D'Auteuil — Senior Portfolio Manager, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Paul D. Sonz — Owner, Paul D. Sonz Partners

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day everyone and welcome to the Rand Logistics Incorporated Fiscal Year 2015 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

For opening remarks and introductions, I will turn the conference over to Ms. Alison Ziegler, Vice President, Cameron Associates. Alison, please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2015 year-end conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's President and CEO; Mark Hiltwein, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand's retiring Chief Financial Officer, will join the call for the question-and-answer session.

A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan, as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in certain of our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2015, as well as other recent filings.

We may refer to certain non-GAAP measurements such as adjusted EBITDA, which can be defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss on foreign exchange and lease termination costs. Please see our press release dated June 10, 2015 filed on Form 8-K for a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.

And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thank you, Alison, and good morning, everyone. Before I discuss our fiscal year 2015 results, I would like to update everyone on recent additions to our management team. Over the last 100 days, we have added two seasoned executives.

Mark Hiltwein recently joined Rand as our Chief Financial Officer. Mark is replacing Joe McHugh, who is retiring at the end of this month. Mark has an impressive background as a public company CFO. In addition to his strong accounting skills, Mark is someone with a mindset that is quantitative metrics-based and centered on continuous improvement. His skill set will be invaluable as we focus on rationalizing costs and further driving process improvements.

Nassry Zamora joined Rand in a newly created position of Chief Human Resources Officer. Nassry has an extensive background managing human assets. Among his objectives will be developing a comprehensive HR plan for the company, including talent acquisition, training, congruent goals development, employee evaluation, succession planning and employee communications. We continue to assess the company's organizational structure to clarify job definitions and build upon the overall strength of the management team.

For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we reported adjusted EBITDA of $33.7 million, an increase of 3.5% from fiscal 2014, 6.1% on a constant currency basis. We were generally satisfied with our fiscal 2015 results, which overcame extreme ice and weather conditions on the Great Lakes at both the start of the fiscal year in April 2014 and at the end of the sailing season in January 2015, which severely impacted our performance in these months. The improvement in our results was also offset by the weaker Canadian dollar as compared to the same period last year, which negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA by $900,000.

For the fifth consecutive year, we increased Marine Freight revenue per Sailing Day to a record level. Our tonnage carried increased by 0.4% to 22.2 million tons, and we experienced a 3.5% reduction in vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day. We continue to improve all of the metrics associated with the operating efficiency of the fleet and we've successfully renewed all of our expiring contracts, achieving low to mid single-digit price increases on new contracts signed.

Turning to the three-month period ended March 31, 2015. We sailed for 256 Sailing Days, compared to 248 Sailing Days during the same year-ago period. Historically, vessel margins from Sailing Days in our fiscal fourth quarter are less profitable relative to the average for the sailing season. This was particularly true this year due to the severe weather conditions experienced on the Great Lakes in January and March 2015.

As a result, our vessel margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was $2.3 million less than the comparable period last year. We are revisiting our service terms subsequent to January 1 to determine how to better mitigate the inherent weather and vessel damage risks that are associated with operating at this time of the year.

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, our total Sailing Days decreased by 60 days or 1.4% to 4,106 Sailing Days during the fiscal year 2015 from 4,166 Sailing Days during fiscal year 2014. The decrease in Sailing Days was offset by price increases, a more favorable commodity mix and higher water levels, resulting in Marine Freight revenue improving by just under 1% or an increase of 4.3% on a constant currency basis.

One of our primary objectives in the 2014 sailing season was to build on our improvements in operational execution. We were able to offset challenging weather conditions and the decline in the Canadian dollar by further improving the operating reliability of the fleet. Specifically, we experienced 30 days out of service for the sailing season or 0.7% of total Sailing Days.

We also measured Delay Days, which we define as the lost time incurred by our vessels while in operation. Delay Days occurred due to mechanical issues, inclement weather, dock delays and traffic congestion. We experienced 434 Delay Days during the year ended March 31, 2015, compared to 470 during our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Lost time due to mechanical delays decreased by an additional 3.7%. Over last two sailing seasons, we have improved this reliability metric by 33.2%.

We continue to believe that the opportunity exists to realize further improvements in certain of our key operating metrics. Weather-related delays accounted for approximately 48% of the Delay Days in fiscal 2015, as compared to approximately 43% of the Delay Days in the comparable period. Delay Days as a percentage of total Sailing Days equaled 10.6% in fiscal 2015, compared to 11.3% for fiscal 2014.

We were generally satisfied with our customer nominations for the 2015 sailing season. As a result of these nominations, as well as new business that we have captured and an improved start to the season versus last year, we are projecting that our tonnage transported in the 2015 sailing season will equal 25.2 million tons, a 13.5% increase compared to the 22.2 million tons hauled in the 2014 sailing season.

Our salt tonnage was up 29% in fiscal 2015 and accounted for 12.4% of our total tons. The increase in salt tonnage was primarily due to restocking depleted supplies and contributed to the improved efficiency of our trade patterns. Based on our customer nominations received, we are anticipating that our salt volumes in the 2015 sailing season will be consistent with our volumes in the recently completed season.

Our iron ore tonnage was up 25.6% in fiscal 2015 and accounted for 14.9% of our total tons. Growth in our iron ore tonnage was almost entirely a result of long-term contracts that we were awarded and that began in the 2014 sailing season. We are projecting a 4.6% decline in our iron ore tonnage transported in the 2015 sailing season relative to 2014 sailing season. Iron ore is projected to equal 12.5% of our total tonnage in 2015 sailing season.

All of our projected decline in the 2015 sailing season is related to a contractual provision that results in a decrease in tonnage this year, but a contractually mandated rebound back to fiscal 2015 levels in subsequent years. The slowdown of the domestic steel industry and the decline in worldwide iron ore prices is contributing to excess capacity in certain vessel size segments of the Great Lakes market that we do not participate in.

We haul a majority of the construction aggregates transported on the Great Lakes and in the 2014 sailing season, aggregates accounted for approximately 45.2% of our total tons moved. Our aggregates tonnage was down 10.1% on a year-over-year basis, with much of the year-over-year decline a result of the delayed start of the 2014 sailing season.

For the second year in a row, we are witnessing modest organic growth in certain selected aggregates end markets. As a result of the organic growth and new contract wins, we are projecting a 25% increase in aggregates tonnage in the 2015 sailing season. Thus far, this season, we have been pleased with the level of demand from our aggregates customers.

Our coal tonnage decreased by 6% and equaled approximately 12% of our total tonnage in fiscal 2015. We are projecting that our coal tonnage will remain relatively steady on a year-over-year basis in the 2015 sailing season.

Our grain business in fiscal 2015 decreased by 6.6% and accounted for 10.4% of our total tonnage. Again, the decline was due to the delayed start of the 2014 sailing season. Given the size of the Canadian and U.S. harvest last year, we are expecting that our grain tonnage hauled will modestly increase in the current sailing season.

While weather and ice conditions in April 2015 were not optimal, they were much improved in comparison to April 2014. For the month of April 2015, we sailed for 318 days, compared to 223 days in April 2014. Delay Days as a percentage of total sailing days for the month were 18.6% versus 28.3% in April 2014.

We are pleased with our preliminary May revenues. We sailed for 459 Sailing Days in May, which equaled 98.7% of our theoretical maximum. The demand environment allowed us to create efficient trade patterns and maximized the percentage of time that our vessels were in revenue-generating condition. Thus far in the 2015 sailing season, we are continuing to realize executional improvements in our operations. We are cautiously optimistic about customer demand for the remainder of this quarter and into our second quarter.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Hiltwein for a review of the fiscal 2015 financial results. Mark?

Thank you, Ed. I would now like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the year ended March 31, 2015 compared to the prior year. Freight and other related revenue, which excludes fuel and other surcharges and outside charter revenue, increased by 0.8% to $129.1 million from $128.1 million. On a constant currency basis, freight and other related revenue increased by 4.3% or $5.5 million.

Tonnage carried was up just 0.4% as a result of delays experienced during April 2014. The weaker Canadian dollar offset price increases, improvements in commodity mix, and water levels which contributed to the higher percentage of time in revenue loaded condition.

Marine freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased $683, or 2.2%, to $31,443 per Sailing Day. This increase was due to a change in the mix of cargos carried, associated price of those cargos, higher water levels, and the efficiency of trade patterns.

Total revenue for the year decreased by 1.8% to $153 million. This was primarily due to the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar, a reduction in fuel surcharge revenue, and fewer Sailing Days offset in large part by a slight increase in tonnage carried, contractual price increases, improvements in commodity mix and water levels, and a higher percentage of time spent in revenue loaded condition.

Vessel operating expenses decreased by approximately $5 million, or 4.8%, to $97.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to improvements in our operating performance, a reduction in fuel expense, and the weaker Canadian dollar. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased by 3.5%, or $853, to $23,824 in fiscal 2015 from $24,677 in fiscal 2014.

As we have discussed on previous calls, vessel margin per Sailing Day is a key indicator that we monitor to evaluate fleet performance. Despite the challenging weather conditions for the year ended March 31, 2015, vessel margin per day after winter work was $11,430 compared to $10,712 in the same year-ago period.

We estimate that vessel margin per day in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was reduced by approximately $342 due to the year-over-year change in the average exchange rate. The 10% increase in vessel margin per Sailing Day before the change in exchange rate compares positively to our 5% to 7% objective that we said at the beginning of the sailing season.

Our general and administrative expenses were $13.3 million in fiscal 2015. G&A costs increased year-over-year due to a modest increase in compensation and benefit costs, legal costs, and onetime incremental proxy related expenses offset by the weaker Canadian dollar. Our general and administrative expenses represented 10.3% of freight and related revenues compared to 9.5% in the year-ago period.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 3.5%, or over $1.1 million, to $33.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2015. Assuming no change in exchange rate compared to the prior year, our adjusted EBITDA for the year ended March 31 increased by approximately $2 million, or 6.1%, above the prior year.

For the year ended March 31, 2015, the average exchange rate equaled USD 0.88 per Canadian dollar. This compared to USD 0.95 per Canadian dollar for the year ended March 31, 2014. The change in the exchange rate resulted in a reduction of adjusted EBITDA of $900,000 as compared to the prior-year period.

Over the course of a year, for every one penny change in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar, our annual EBITDA is affected by approximately CAD 215,000. In addition, we incurred $873,000 of balance sheet adjustments during fiscal 2015 that were recorded in our earnings as a loss on foreign exchange. This was primarily a noncash loss on translation of USD 34.2 million denominated debt incurred in March 2014 and carried on the balance sheet of the Canadian subsidiary net of increasing currency hedging that commenced in August 2014 to the full USD 34.2 million in our last fiscal quarter.

For the year ended March 31, 2015, our effective income tax rate equaled a negative 4.7%, primarily driven by the change in the valuation allowance against our U.S. federal net deferred tax assets. For fiscal 2015, net loss per share on a diluted basis was $0.59 compared to $0.44 in fiscal 2014.

During the 2015 fiscal year and excluding our new vessel, capital expenditures and five-year special survey expenses equaled approximately $16.6 million, which included $4.1 million that was carried over from the 2014 winter season. Our capital expenditures were consistent with our expectations. In addition, we spent $9.1 million related to the new vessel.

The 2015 sailing season has gotten off to a much better start than last year. We find ourselves in a good position as it relates to the performance of our fleet in our dominant market position within the River Class segment of the Great Lakes. We were able to achieve low to mid-single digit increases in contracts that we renewed prior to the beginning of the 2015 sailing season. Water levels remain at or above historic norms, which enables us to increase our tons carried per trip.

As has been typical in prior years, variability in customer demand may result in our laying up of one or more bulk carriers between now and the Canadian grain harvest, which normally begins in the second half of August. Our near- and medium-term long goal – our near- and medium-term goals remain to increase our return on invested capital in part by increasing our vessel margin per Sailing Day before currency changes by 5% to 7% per year.

This compares to a 10% increase in our recently completed fiscal year and a five- and seven-year compound annual growth rate in vessel margin per Sailing Day of 3.5% and 15.1%, respectively. Vessel margin per day before and after currency change equaled $11,773 and $11,430, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2015.

We are currently projected to operate our vessels for 3,850 Sailing Days in our 2016 fiscal year. Given that we are readdressing our service model after January 1, we have only budgeted Sailing Days in our fiscal 2016 fourth quarter that we are currently contractually obligated to provide. This compares to 4,106 Sailing Days booked in fiscal 2015.

We anticipate G&A expenses will be approximately $12.8 million in fiscal 2016, which represents a 3.8% decrease as compared to fiscal 2015. We are projecting cash interest to equal approximately $11.5 million in fiscal 2016. This represents a $1.2 million decrease in interest expense compared to the most recently completed fiscal year. The decrease in interest expense results from the refinancing we completed in March 2015. As a result, we lowered our cost of capital to a blended rate of 6.8%.

Now, I would like to turn the call back over to Ed. Ed?

Thanks, Mark. While we continue to make gains in operating performance and profitability, management is sharpening its focus and placing a higher priority on return on invested capital moving forward. Management has developed a series of initiatives designed to improve return on invested capital.

Our road map consists of six primary elements, including: capitalizing on recent IT investments to identify, modify, or eliminate customer contracts that are yielding an unacceptable return on invested capital; formalizing ROIC parameters for setting new contract terms and pricing; continuing to improve reliability and operating efficiency metrics to increase the percentage of time our vessels are in revenue loaded condition.

This initiative is referred to internally as finding 15 minutes a day. Rationalizing costs, increasing our self sufficiency relating to ship repair, maintenance and capital expenditures, and finally, introducing our newest vessel into service in the second half of 2015.

As regards to our newest vessel, we estimate the introduction of this vessel into service during the fourth quarter of calendar 2015. The project remains on budget and we have secured the necessary financing to make the final shipyard payment which is due on delivery of the vessel.

The new forebody has been affixed to the stern and we have entered into the vessel fit-out stage of this project. As previously mentioned, we have long-term contracts in hand that fully utilize this vessel. We estimate that on a full-year basis, this vessel will increase our overall ROIC by approximately 1%.

As an example of our sharpened focus on ROIC and as part of our effort to rationalize costs, during the fourth quarter, we elected to incur a onetime charge of approximately $700,000 to transition our existing workers' compensation plan. We estimate that this conversion will save the company approximately $500,000 annually. We look forward to continuing to report our progress on our road map to driving ROIC initiatives, given the everyday focus that they are receiving.

With that, I would like to open the lines up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first today to Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions and welcome to the new execs.

Thanks, Jon.

Mark, my first question is for you. What are your high-level objectives for Rand and can you discuss on the low-hanging fruit you're seeing there, what are you hoping to take off in terms of cost or other operating improvements?

Sure. I think that there are certainly some operational efficiencies that I've seen early on that we can take advantage of. I think there are certainly some savings that we can drive out of our procurement dollars. I'm not sure that we've done a real efficient job as far as leveraging the spend across our platform, so that's certainly something that I am going to be focused on. I take the discipline as it relates to forecasts, certainly the budget, and just monthly overall review of financial statements is something that I certainly feel strongly about and just overall cost control across the company I think is something that I'm really going to be focused on.

Okay. Great. And then, Ed, I just wanted to touch on the higher vessel expenses in the quarter. How much of that was weather or icing delays and how much was damage and was there any maintenance that you guys pulled in while you're waiting ice to kind of melt away?

We incurred a bit less than $400,000 of damage, ice damage, in the quarter, Jon. Our inefficiencies in January were pretty significant and as result of that, our vessel margin on a comparable period-to-period basis was $2.3 million less in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 versus fiscal 2014, [ph] again, (29:43) much of that resulting from January. In addition to that, you've got the $700,000 onetime charge that we took, which is embedded in that $2.3 million loss – $2.3 million differential, excuse me.

Got you. That's...

Jon, I think it's forcing us, too, to reassess our service to non-contractually obligated customers in, certainly, April but more importantly, January. I'm not sure that the risk that we take is necessarily reflected in the pricing and certainly going after the price increases is going to be extremely important for us as we move forward as well.

Great. That's helpful. And then finally, you have a bridge in the slide describing the EBITDA impact from the icing year-over-year. I was just wondering if you have a preliminary number for this year as well.

I think at this point, Jon, we're not prepared to provide guidance. That's something typically that, to the extent we are going to provide it, we would do after our first quarter – during our first quarter call and we'll reassess that, Mark and the team will reassess that, we'll sit down and reassess how we want to think about guidance.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Jon. [Operator Instructions]

We will go next to Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Hey. Ed, it sounds like you had a smooth start to sailing season this year compared to last year. Your May revenues are encouraging. As I look at that revenue performance to date, is it more of a function of improved utilization from an operating standpoint or is it more related to improved pricing and organic volume growth?

I'd say, Kevin, that we're getting three things. We're getting – we've certainly had much better efficiency thus far in the 2015 sailing season than we had this time last year. Our pricing is up, as we said, low mid-single digits and demand continues to be very strong for us right now. And we're cautiously optimistic that that will remain the case to the end of this quarter and into the next quarter. But as you recall, we had a relatively significant loss in April 2014 relative to April 2013. Our April 2015 results are more consistent with what we've seen historically.

Yeah. That was good. Thank you, Ed. And early in your prepared remarks, you talked about kind of the difference between the segment classes and maybe some of the weakness that might be – the larger vessel classes are seeing. But the River Class segment where you guys operate, you're not really seeing that weakness. Can you kind of dive a little bit more into some of the differentials and why your business and why the River Class segment may not be seeing some of that weakness that the larger tonnage is seeing, is it really just an overcapacity situation or is something else going on there?

The weakness that we're seeing is primarily being driven by what's going on in the domestic steel industry and the worldwide iron ore markets, Kevin. Our steel exposure to steel related customer are tonnages in the 12% to 13% range. We've always tried to be very conservative and not put too much of our capacity into steel customers as our end customer. And in addition to that, our vessel size is not necessarily conducive to the needs of the steel customers. And so as a result of the dynamics of our fleet and the characteristics of our fleet, we really have not had a significant amount of exposure to those markets.

Thank you, Ed. That's good to know and I think [ph] it's (34:07) differentiated for you guys. You talked about organic growth opportunities. Is this new business or is it maybe higher tonnage commitments from existing customers, or maybe both, as you kind of think about some of those organic growth opportunities?

We commenced a new contract this year, April 1, 2015, a new contract commenced for us, that was a market share gain and that was a material improve – material increase in our tonnage. And then in addition to that, Kevin, we're just seeing good organic growth. We're seeing that particularly on the aggregates side right now and the higher water levels have also impacted our growth opportunities. We're able to load the vessels with greater tonnage given where water levels are today.

Okay. Great. How much – can you remind us how much business you have up for renewal or rebid this year?

Typically, we're turning – our contracts typically have a three-year to four-year duration on them. And so assume that we're turning between 25% and 30% of our contracts annually, 25% and 33% of our contracts annually. Nothing this year coming up that – no single customer contract coming up this year that has a meaningful impact on our business though.

Okay. And as you guys kind of look and push pricing and you begin to have that pricing discussion with some of your customers, what kind of pushback are you getting [ph] now (35:44)? Do they understand or are they aware that kind of where prices need to go for the risk you're taking? Just curious as [ph] any (35:53) time you talk pricing with a customer, that's always a difficult conversation. I'm just curious as to any pushback you might be getting initially, if any at all.

And I think to clarify what Mark was saying, we were talking about after January 1. So in the month of January if we're operating, re-looking at our pricing or the way we service our customer, and basing our pricing on facts and circumstances at the time, looking at what ice conditions are, looking at what weather conditions are, and using price to mitigate some of that risk.

We're prepared to underwrite that risk but we've got to make sure we're being properly compensated. And so that's how we're thinking about it in terms of the after January 1 period, that month of January. We just completed our contract renewal cycle, Kevin, as you're aware and so we're not having discussions necessarily at this time with customers around price for the 2016 sailing season, and we'll post you as that – as we get close to that, we'll post you on that.

Got you. Okay. No, that makes sense, particularly if you're sailing in a little more treacherous conditions. Obviously, you want to make sure you're getting acceptable return. Okay. Thank you.

Last question, Ed, and this is maybe a bigger picture. Three years to five years, as you think about the business, a competitor of yours recently announced a fleet expansion program. Has this impacted your thinking longer term in the River Class segment, or is it still kind of steady as she goes? I'm just curious to kind of get your thoughts as we look out longer term – as you look out longer term with a competitor of yours looking to renew [ph] and possibly (37:40) expand his fleet.

Yeah. I think that the Canadian competitor that has announced that they're evaluating and has signed up – signed a shipyard contract, the two vessels that they're contemplating, we believe, are replacement, potentially, for existing capacity, Kevin. And it's yet to be seen what their timing is on that equipment. I don't think it necessarily changes from our perspective our market position and the customer relationships that we have.

I think near term, our focus is going to be continue to drive growth by focusing on operating efficiencies that we recognize exists in our business and process improvements. And that's one of things that is very attractive to our board and to our management team in terms of bringing Mark [ph] on site (38:31), is that he has a keen background in terms of driving those sorts of process improvements and doing it from a financially quantitative-driven mindset.

Got you. So as far as you can tell, no new net additions to the industry fleet, is that right?

No new net additions to the fleet, correct, to the River Class market. That is correct.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Gentlemen, thanks so much for your time this morning.

Thank you, Kevin.

We will go next to Ben Rubenstein with Robotti.

Good morning.

Good morning, Ben.

A quick question. What do you think the timeframe is for seeing the results of the operational improvements in terms of earnings and free cash flow?

I think we'll see improvements each and every day as we start tightening up and continue to make some of the refinements that we've been working on. So I think you'll see improvements on an everyday basis. Obviously, some of the larger ones, maybe renegotiating of some of our vendor contracts may take a little bit longer, but I do believe that just with some additional discipline around those operational efficiencies and a little more urgency and accountability, we'll start seeing those dividends on a daily basis.

I think, Ben, I'd add to that. The April 2015 results, and eliminating the April 2014 weather event, certainly will have an impact on our financials as well.

Thanks.

We will go next to Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Threadneedle.

Yeah. I wanted to drill down a little more on the pricing comments. So let's say mid to – I'm sorry low to mid-single digit price increase is 3%. Just to – so that 3% is only on the 25% to 30% of the business that came up for renewal. Is that correct?

That's right. Good morning, Rick. That is correct.

Okay. And then if it's a three-year to four-year kind of renewal, are there going to be annual 3% increases in round numbers in those, or is it a 3% jump and then goes back to static pricing after that?

It's contract-specific, but in all of our contracts, at a minimum, we've got CPI increases built in, at a minimum, though, Rick, but again, it's contract-specific.

Okay. So the other contracts that have – weren't up for renewal have CPI at the minimum in them too, right?

That's correct. That's correct.

Okay. So that doesn't – I guess it doesn't mean the other contracts are static, they're still enjoying price increases with at least the CPI. And then is there – so if you were to characterize the expected mix of business relative to last fiscal year, is the mix richer this year or the same or diluted?

I'm going to say it's probably the same to modestly diluted, because I believe our stone tonnage will be up meaningfully and we'll see a little bit of degradation in our iron ore tonnage. Now, it's not going to be a meaningful degradation and we've talked about the fact overall that our vessel margin per day, which is that $11,700 number, roughly, before the currency change, we're shooting to try to increase that by 5% to 7%. So we're not – there's not going to be mix degradation such that you're going to see dilution in the vessel margin per day, Rick.

Okay. And then just going back to the reevaluating January shipping – or sailing, I should say. So if you have contracts that specify pricing, how do you go back and carve out January on those?

The contracts specify the pricing only holds till the end of December. Now we have a few contracts where we do have pricing that runs through mid-January and we'll continue to stand by those contracts. But for contracts where the contract of affreightment rate only runs through the end of December, on those contracts, we'll look at facts and circumstances to determine whether we can hold the rates that are in the contract or whether conditions require us to look at a different form of customer relationship.

Okay. Can you always say to them that the conditions aren't appropriate to sail, even if you could theoretically sail, knowing that you're going to get hurt by sailing? Can you just walk away from that business or are you obligated to do it if the conditions permit?

Again, I think it's facts and circumstances-based. And each customer – and I think given the nature of our business and the importance of our customers to us, we'll evaluate the customer relationship at that time and sit down with the customer and make sure that both our needs and the customers' need can be met.

So again, I think it's something that we continue as a management team to evaluate. We recognize this is something that we have to address and we're developing the communication that we want to have with our customers. But we want to make sure that our customers appreciate that we've got to have a balanced fair relationship back and forth, and we want to be there for them, but we've got to make sure that we're not taking unmitigated financial – or undue financial risk.

Okay. And then lastly, there was a comment on ROIC and one of the things that was discussed or mentioned was the IT investment. Are you getting good data on that right now so that you can make concluding decisions on evaluating some of the shipments you're – or the cargo you're hauling and whether it's priced appropriately, or is that still on the [ph] comm (45:31)?

No, it's absolutely something that we're doing. I think as we've announced in prior conversations or conference calls, we've gone back to several of our customers and said to them that the current rates in their contracts are not rates that we can support in the future. And we're having discussions with several customers in terms of reevaluating those rates.

And we're giving the customers frankly complete transparency and telling them here's what our economics look like and this is what we've got to work together to come to a mutually acceptable solution. So by no means are we doing this in a roughshod way. We're doing it very much in a partnership way with our customers.

When will those discussions conclude? Will they help you this year?

They're happening as we speak and my hope is that in subsequent calls, Mark and I and the team can come back and continue to report on advancements that we're making in terms of driving ROIC. And as we're able to achieve some of those contract adjustments, we will for sure report them back. And so, again, it's something that's happening live time, Rick, as we speak.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will go next to Paul Sonz with Paul D. Sonz Partners.

Thank you. Gentlemen, I have two questions. The first is, is there a – it's all wonderful to see the continuous improvements that you're making, but what I wondered is there a potential for benchmarking so that we can tell how your performance looks against your competitors' performance?

Good morning, Paul. It's hard to – we don't have publicly-traded comparables and so, therefore, we don't necessarily have that information. One of the things that we have done as a result of the IT program that we put in place a couple of years ago is we are doing a much better job at internally benchmarking our own vessels versus standard and that's something that we rolled out or in the process of rolling out at the beginning of this sailing season.

So, we are doing that benchmarking that you're talking about. We're doing it internally. We are evaluating a number of publicly-traded transportation companies to conclude whether there is a comparable metric that we can use that they use to provide that sort of benchmarking that you're suggesting. And so it's something that we are absolutely looking at.

Yeah.

Mark and I have discussed it. There's a couple of metrics out there that are interesting. But give us a couple more quarters, perhaps another quarter or so and we're going to try to roll out something which will give you a better framework on a benchmarking basis.

That would be great. Thank you. Second question is in looking at the dynamics of your – pricing dynamics and your ability to price, what I wondered is, what is the alternative for your customers? If you were to go and say, look, our return on invested capital is just -- is not sufficient to our business and so we're going to be raising prices, how – what are their alternatives? If they don't go on the Lakes with you, how else can they get their products to where they wanted to go?

It's really situationally specific, Paul, by commodity and so a grain customer may have an alternative. A stone customer may have a different alternative. A grain customer may be shipping their grain for export, and so therefore they can use a foreign flag carrier that happens to be in the Lake as a way to take a spot movement out of the market, or they may rely on those foreign carriers as opposed to entering into long-term contracts with us. So that's an example.

The dynamic, though, that we focus on or concerned about is not raising our prices to a level where it puts our customers in a competitive disadvantage relative to comparable product that sourced from off of the Lakes.

Got it. I see.

And so that's really – that's the more important dynamic from a pricing perspective versus alternative mode of transportation.

I see. An alternative supplies that maybe shipped by truck or something, which is more expensive but it's maybe closer at hand.

As an example. That's correct.

Yeah.

That's particularly prevalent in the stone, in the aggregate market. We're particularly conscious of it in that market.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

We will go next to Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of follow-ups. You mentioned that you may lap a vessel or two based on grain end markets. I'm just wondering when was the last time you did that, how long? Was it foreign? And what – is that fairly normal for your business?

The last time it happened, Jon, it happened I think modestly last year; maybe 8 or 10 days, but not material. The last time it happened in a material way was in the 2013 sailing season, and the vessel margin per day on a bulk carrier is less than on a relative basis are self-unloaders. And so to the extent that we're talking about laying up the vessel would only be a – we've got four bulk carriers, as you know. It maybe one or two of the bulk carriers in intermittent periods between now and when the grain harvest begins in the second half of August.

Okay. Got it. And then just going back to pricing in terms of winter sailing, what percent of your contract can you actually make a change on either on a pricing basis or refusing to sail if it doesn't makes sense?

Yeah. For competitive reasons, I'd rather not give you a percentage. But instead, I'd say to you that an overwhelming majority of the pricing provisions are such that we can re-evaluate them come the 1st of January. And you can see that from our projection in terms of number of Sailing Days that we're forecasting for this year and why that number of Sailing Days is down so much this year versus prior year, and Mark spoke about that in his prepared remarks.

Got it. That's helpful. And finally, if I recall it correctly, your customers usually aren't obligated to use your capacity that along with I guess the winter contract adjustments. Are you planning to change the way your contracts work in terms of customers' ability to leave you hanging?

We're not planning on changing that. We're just focused right now on evaluating opportunities for the post-January 1. Really for Sailing Days in January, Jon, that's really what we're focused on just Sailing Days in January where we do not have a contractual obligations to the customer for that period.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

We will go next to [ph] Don Dusicky (52:58).

Yes. Thanks for taking my call. I've been on these calls for several years now and we hear about this relatively small percentage changes in revenue or EBITDA and clearly, the market has been unimpressed with the overall performance for the last several years. What are the big opportunities that really make a difference in the results of this company?

I'm going to put that over to Mark and have him address, then I'll take it from there.

Okay.

Yeah. Thanks, [ph] Don (53:35). Again, I think that there are definitely some opportunities on the cost side of the ledger here as it relates to procurement to dive down and make some real changes there. I think there's real money there. I do believe that each and every improvement that we make as it relates to putting these vessels into positions where they're in a revenue setting is a key as well. So, there's a lot of areas for improvement. And this is a pennies, nickels, and dimes business and if we can capture all of them, it is going to add to our earnings as we move forward. [ph]

Don (54:36), I would add to that...

Yes.

...two areas. Finding 15 minutes a day, we can convert 15 minutes of wasted time in the 15 minutes of revenue loaded time. As Mark was just referencing, that's where number one biggest opportunity in this company is and we are incredibly focused on that.

And then the second is improving our operational efficiency, our process improvement. There's process improvement opportunities out there. And again, I think that one of the reasons that we were so attracted to bring Mark on was that he comes with that mindset of process improvement and looking at it from a quantitative standpoint.

Are the [audio gap] (55:17) now that your business is divided into different segments of products, are there any product areas where if you just concentrated on those products, there would be opportunities to drive dramatic price increases and leave behind then several other product categories that are marginally profitable?

Given our – the IT systems that we put in place, we now have the ability and we are looking at contracts on a contract-by-contract basis. And we're doing the evaluation that you're speaking of and we're always looking at can we better maximize the efficiency of the fleet both in terms of commodity mix and trade patterns. And so that's something that is ongoing for us. And we're always trying to tweak the mix obviously to drive a better commodity mix from a gross profit perspective. So it's certainly a focus and will continue to be a focus for us, and we're using the technology and data in order to make those decisions every day.

My last question is with the low stock price, does it make sense to do a stock buyback to increase the return on investment?

Yeah. I think we'd have some limitations as it relates to the refi that we just did. I think that from my perspective, I'd like to start paying down some debt here and provide some flexibility there. I think that if we do pay down debt, for every dollar that we pay down, as long as we've got the same multiple in regards to the business, that's going to accrete to the equity side of the house and hopefully impact the stock price.

But I think short term, we need to continue to fix the business. We need to continue to increase our earnings and cash flow. And short term here, we need to pay down debt. And then that may provide some flexibility but I think right now, we need to focus on – back to basics with the business, blocking and tackling, generating cash and paying down debt.

We'll take our next question from Walter [ph] Schenker (57:46) with Premier Capital Markets.

In an effort to beat to debt pricing, which about half of the questions have been oriented to, it would seem that while you can make you use pennies, nickel, dimes, small amounts through better operations. Clearly, the main driver or the straightest driver to improving return on capital is pricing and to again beat it to debt.

3% was you went in from meaningfully higher number to many of these accounts and were negotiated down because you already add a – not a course to living, but already had some inflation index. You really only picked up 1% to 2% in pricing versus your inflation index or you went into 3% because you didn't want to push very hard on pricing?

I think our desire is certainly to maximize return on invested capital for all shareholders. On a facts and circumstances basis, depending on the customer trade pattern, et cetera, that's how we evaluate our pricing and that's how we'll continue to do it. From a driving ROIC standpoint, all of our goals are goals that we can control, Walter. To the extent that we can get price on top of those goals, then we think that's a terrific outcome. But we don't want to predicate our driving return on invested capital strategy on something that we can't necessarily control.

We're going to push price hard for sure, but we want to make sure that we are rationalizing costs, driving operating efficiencies, finding those 15 minutes a day, all of which are things that we can control.

Okay. So the takeaway is supposed to be the things we can control will dramatically improve ROIC. And to the extent we can push some on pricing, it is – I won't call it icing, it is another plus. But we can get there, we believe, on things we can control in operating the business better.

That's exactly correct.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

With no other questions in queue at this time, I'll turn it back to management for closing remarks.

Thank you, Operator. Thank you everyone again for your interest in Rand Logistics. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call Mark or myself. We look forward to speaking with you after our first quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's conference.