Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lesley Snyder — Head-Investor Relations, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation Company, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Joseph W. McHugh — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Andrew Gadlin — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Matt S. Dodson — Analyst, Edmunds White Partners LLC
David Marc Horn — Analyst, Kiron Advisors LLC
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Analyst, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Ross L. Haberman — President, Haberman Management Corp.
David Pointer — Managing Partner, VI Capital Management, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Rand Logistics Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I would now like to hand the program over to Ms. Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2013 second quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand' s President; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lake; and Joe McHugh, Rand' s Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation are available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which may not even be anticipated.

Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to the effect of the economic downturn in our markets; the weather conditions on the Great Lake; and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the "Risk Factors" section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 8, 2012.

And with that, I would like to turn call over to Mr. Laurence Levy

Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes will discuss our operating results. Joe McHugh, Rand's CFO will review the financial results and Ed Levy Rand's President will provide further insight into the quarter.

We will then open the call up for questions. We are satisfied with our second quarter fiscal year 2013 results, despite the previously disclosed impact of a mechanical issue associated with one of our vessels and the delay in introducing our new Articulated Tug/Barge or ATB, the Jones Act compliant tug Defiance and the self-unloading barge Ashtabula into service.

We estimate that the vessel margin loss from these two events reduced our year to-date profitability by approximately $3.9 million, of which $2.2 million was incurred in the second quarter. With the exception of these two events, our fleet on the whole has met our expectations thus far in the 2012 sailing season

Marine freight revenue per sailing day increased by 11.5% on a quarter-over-quarter basis, and 9.4% on a year-over-year basis. Our vessel margin per day for the six months ended September 30, 2012 is up 8.6%, compared to the same time period last year and our absolute dollar vessel profit per day reached a historic high in the second quarter.

Management believes that this metric is one of the most important in evaluating the business, as it reflect our success in both maximizing revenue and managing cost on a per day basis. We have good visibility for the remainder of the 2012 sailing season and will be operating our entire fleet well into December.

Additionally, we are licensed to have several vessels operating into January 2013. We have recently secured several new pieces of business, which are not only strategically important, but continue to validate our customers continued confidence in the services that we provide. Based on recent new business wins and existing contracts in hand, we are fully booked for next year's sailing season. At the present time, we do not anticipate having to add capacity to our existing fleet or modifying any of our existing vessels to accommodate our next year sailing season book of business.

We continue to be enthusiastic about the highly strategic nature of the five vessels that we acquired during 2011, and remain confident that our fleet and customers network cannot be duplicated. We expect that the Ashtabula which went into service at the end of October will both augment our River Class market position and also allow us to increase our presence in the mid class segment of the U.S. market, which is an area that we have not participated in historically.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Scott. Scott?

Thank you, Laurence. Although demand throughout the second quarter was firm, it did not allow us to optimize either the operating efficiency of our delivery network or the commodity mix that we carry. Specifically, we encountered a number of customer and end market challenges, including a work stoppage at one of our customers' locations, an engineering issue that caused a customer's facility to be down for an entire month, our largest customer modifying their typically ratable delivery schedule, softness in the specific geographic end market and a challenging overall grain crop.

Even with these customer-related challenges, aside from the previously disclosed mechanical issue that occurred on one of our vessels and the delayed entry into service of latest self-unloading ATB, our fleet performed close to or surpassed expectations for the quarter.

As we have discussed on previous calls, vessel margin per day is a key performance metric that we monitor to evaluate fleet performance. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2013, vessel margin per day increased by 8.6% or $1,196 to $15,098 per day as compared to $13,902 per day for the same year ago period. Our year-to-date vessel margin per day equaled $14,052 per day for the six months ended September 30, 2012, an increase of 8.6% or $1,118 per day as compared to $12,934 per day for the six month period ended September 30, 2011.

We achieved these levels of margin per day in spite of the vessel margin loss from the mechanical issue that occurred on one of our vessels. We believe that the increase in vessel margin per day illustrates our ability to respond to challenges within our fleet and within the market, and highlights the benefit of a larger fleet and the capital investments that we continue to make in our vessels.

Thus far in the 2012 sailing season, our total tonnage carried is up 10.4% despite sailing days increasing by only 4.6% compared with the comparable period last year. Aggregate shipments increased 4.3% lakes-wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. As I have mentioned previously, the majority of our aggregates are used in construction end markets. Our shipments were up 13.4% during the second quarter as compared to the same year-ago period. This increase was primarily driven by market share gains from additional new business.

Based on conversations with our customers, aggregate shipments for the construction industry were pulled forward in the first two quarters due to an earlier than normal start to the construction season as a result of an abnormally mild winter in the Great Lakes region. We are projecting our aggregate shipments to increase in the third quarter, given the introduction of our new vessel and the afore-mentioned market share gains.

Iron ore comprised approximately 11% of our total second quarter tonnage. Shipments increased 3.5% lakes-wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. Our shipments decreased by 7.3% during the second quarter as compared to the same year ago period. The decrease in our shipments was primarily related to shifts in the timing of shipments for our main steel customer.

Coal comprised approximately 16% of our total second quarter tonnage. Shipments decreased 8.1% lakes-wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. We increased coal shipments by 26.5% during the second quarter as compared to the same quarter last year. Demand was strong across our entire coal customer base, including coal for export. Our coal tonnage for the 2012 season is projected to increase, but not at the rate we experienced in the second quarter.

Salt comprised approximately 7% of our total second quarter tonnage. Our salt tonnage decreased by 33.9% during the second quarter as compared to the same quarter last year due to abnormally mild weather patterns last winter in the Great Lakes region and production issues at a customer's facility. This tonnage decline had an impact on the operating efficiency of our fleet in the quarter. Grain comprised 6% of our total second quarter tonnage. We faced a challenging overall grain crop, which resulted in 117 days that we did not sail in the quarter with our bulker fleet.

As I have mentioned in the past, much of our bulker capacity is on long-term time charter. While we are paid for not operating the time chartered vessels, our margins are lower as compared to when we are sailing.

Our total sailing days decreased by 5 days or 0.4%, to 1,185 days during the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 from 1,190 sailing days during the same year ago period. The company's vessel sailed an average of approximately 79 sailing days during the three-month period ended September 30, 2012 compared to an average of 85 sailing days during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011. Management believes that each of our vessels should achieve approximately 92 sailing days in an average second fiscal quarter assuming no major repairs, incidents and vessel lay-ups.

We operated 15 vessels during the three-month period ended September 30, 2012 including the bulker vessel acquired in the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 compared to 14 vessels during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011. Although we operated one more vessel this year, we experienced a 0.4% decrease in the number of sailing days during the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 compared to the same year ago period. For the quarter ended September 30, 2012 we lost 36 sailing days versus the comparable quarter last year on our bulkers due to a host of crop-related issues in the grain markets and 47 days due to the mechanical issue previously mentioned.

During the three-month period ended September 30, 2012 the company did not sail the ATB which it acquired during the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as that vessel was undergoing conversion and modification to a standard Great Lakes-capable self-unloading vessel. We had expected to sail the vessel for 61 days in the quarter.

While not impacting our second quarter results, we experienced severe weather delays across our entire fleet at the end of October as a result of tropical storm Sandy. Given the loss of these operating days and the needs of our customers, we will be operating our entire fleet well into December and are likely to have several vessels operating into January 2013.

The acquisition of the five vessels that we acquired in 2011 has allowed us to secure several pieces of new business which are not only strategically important, but continue to validate our customers' continued confidence in the services that we provide. These market share gains will allow us to maximize the efficiency of our existing vessels – we continue to target key pieces of business that are well suited to our fleet, allow our future growth and that will be accretive to our profitability.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks, Scott. I would now like to give you a more detailed explanation of our financials. Total revenue during the three month period ended September 30, 2012 was $50.6 million, an increase of $2.2 million or 4.5%, compared to $48.4 million during the same year ago period.

This increase was primarily attributable to higher freight revenue, partially offset by a weaker Canadian dollar and reduced fuel surcharges. Marine freight and other related revenue generated from company operated vessels increased $3.9 million or a 11.0% to $39.0 million during the three month period ended September 30, 2012, compared to $35.2 million during the same year ago period. Excluding the impact of currency changes, freight revenue increased 12.1% during the three month period ended September 30, 2012, compared to the three month period ended September 30, 2011.

This increase in revenue was attributable to contractual price increases and a shift in customer and commodity mix. Freight revenue was also positively impacted by the additional sailing day arising from the vessel acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. These gains however were partially offset by the loss of sailing days due to mechanical repairs required following an incident in the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and vessel layouts due to the reduced grain crop.

Freight and related revenue per selling day increased $3,395 or a 11.5% to $32,945 per selling day in the three months period ended September 30, 2012 compared to $29,550 per selling day during the same year ago period. This increase was somewhat offset by slightly reduced backhauls due to reduced salt carriage and a weaker Canadian dollar.

Fuel and other surcharges decreased $1.7 million or $13.5% to a $11.1 million during the three months period ended September 2012, compared to $12.8 million during the same year ago period. The increase was attributable to a net reduction in sailing days, a shift in commodities carried and the associated fuel surcharge levy and a lower fuel cost upon which the surcharge is based and a weaker Canadian dollar.

Vessel operating expenses increased $700,000 or 2.3% to $32.0 million during the three months period ended September 30, 2012, compared to $31.3 million during the same year ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to an additional vessel acquired in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 that we sailed during the three months period ended September 30, 2012 and was partially offset by lower fuel prices, a reduction in sailing days due to the vessel incident related repairs, bulker layups due to the shortage in the grain market and to a lesser extent by the weaker Canadian dollar.

Vessel operating expenses per sailing day increased $727 or 2.8% to $26,992 per sailing day during the three month period ended September 30, 2012 from $26,265 per sailing day during the same year ago period.

Our general administrative expenses increased $700,000 to $3.2 million during the three month period ended September 30, 2012, compared to $2.5 million for the same year ago period. These cost increased due to $300,000 of legal costs, the write-off of $100,000 of financing cost incurred with the execution of a new credit agreement and compensation cost primarily related to higher engineering and IT head count.

Our general and administrative expenses represented 8.1% of freight revenues during the three month period ended September 30, 2012, an increase from 7.0% of freight revenues during the same year ago period.

During the three month period ended September 30, 2012, $1.0 million of our general administrative expenses was attributable to our parent company and $2.2 million was attributable to our operating companies.

Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and dry-dock costs and amortization of intangibles increased 4.4% or $600,000 to $14.7 million during the three month period ended September 30, 2012 from $14.1 million during the same year ago period.

Additionally, as a result of the third amendment and restated credit agreement, we recognized the loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.3 million during the three month period ended September 30, 2012 which comprised a write-off of the unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with previously existing financing arrangement.

Finally, I would ask you to turn to slide 18 of the afore mentioned presentation. We believe that this chart which illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation and amortization, since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes, highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ed. Ed?

Thanks Joe. Before I go into granular detail regarding the vessel that did not perform up to our expectation due to the mechanical issues, we thought it'd be helpful to provide a sense of our historical experience which puts in perspective what an outlier this particular incident has been.

The economic impact from an incident is both the direct income statement effect arising out of the repair cost, as well as the loss profits from the days that the best was out of service. In general, lost service days are far more impactful to our results than the repair cost.

On average in the past, our budgeted income statement expenses and projected loss time factors have been relatively consistent with our actual experience. As a percentage of the size of our fleet, the average number of incidents per year has remained fairly constant over the last five years. The average lost time per incident over the last five year has equaled approximately 15 days per incident. Our lost sailing days per year has averaged 2.7% of our total sailing days over the past several years.

On our first quarter conference call, we stated that we expected the vessel that did not perform up to our expectation due to a mechanical issue would return to service by mid-August. Instead, this vessel did not return to service until September 3rd. For the second quarter and year-to-date ended September 30th, 2012, this vessel sailed for 45 days and 98 days respectively. Our expectation entering this sailing season was that this vessel consistent with the 2011 sailing season would operate for 92 and 183 days in the second quarter and for the year-to-date period respectively.

Accordingly, we had a shortfall in sailing days of 47 and 85 for the second quarter and for the year-to-date period respectively. Additionally, of the days that the vessel did sail in the second quarter and year-to-date period, 18 days and 37 days respectively were on a single engine. In general, we generate significantly reduced vessel margin per day when we sail on a single engine due to the slower speed of the vessel.

The 85 days that we lost due to this mechanical issue, which excludes days that we operate on a single engine was the most days lost by any single vessel as a result of a mechanical or operational occurrence in the history of the company.

Finally, this vessel is in the upper quartile of our fleet's profitability. As discussed on our first quarter conference call, the loss of Sailing Days related to this particular vessel was related to a mechanical issue that was entirely avoidable.

As we have discussed in the past, we have began the process of upgrading our engineering team including hiring a new Vice President Engineering & Technical Services at the beginning of this calendar year.

Since the beginning of this fiscal year, and in response to this mechanical issue, we have accelerated this process, realigning our engineering department, including terminating or demoting certain individuals and adding to our supervisory personnel. We have also revamped our protocol related to routine vessel audits to ensure that uniform maintenance practices are being followed and were being consistently applied across the entire fleet.

To date, we are pleased with the realignment and protocol measures that had been instituted, and are exceptionally focused on making sure that we are dedicating the necessary resources for implementing these procedures and protocol.

Last week, we were pleased to announce the introduction into service of the Jones Act compliant tug Defiance and the self-unloading barge Ashtabula. This unit was acquired on December 1st 2011. Modifications required for Great Lakes service began in May 2012. This vessel was originally scheduled for delivery in early August, but was delayed due to complexities in the conversion process.

The total invested cost of the ATB is substantially less than the new build cost of a similarly sized Jones Act compliant vessel. The introduction of this vessel into service demonstrates our continuing commitment and confidence in the future of our industry and our customers' growth prospects.

Relative to our fiscal 2013 expectations, the Ashtabula did not operate for the number of sailing days that we had budgeted. Specifically, the year-to-date loss of profitability due to the vessel that underperformed because of the mechanical incident and the later-than-planned entry into service of the Ashtabula has been approximately $3.9 million, of which $2.2 million was incurred in the second quarter.

As Scott mentioned, with the exception of these two events, our fleet on the whole has met our expectations thus far in the 2012 sailing season. As Joe mentioned, we entered into a new credit agreement on August 30, 2012. The primary benefit of this new agreement is that it will meaningfully reduce our schedule, mandatory amortization over the next several years.

We will begin to enjoy the benefit of additional discretionary free cash flow from this modification over the next several quarters. As we have stated previously, one of our key capital structure objectives is repaying the accrued dividend on our convertible preferred stock either through a lower cost refinancing or from excess free cash flow.

With that, I would like to open the lines up for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin with CJS Securities.

Good morning. Thank you for taking my question.

Good morning, Andrew.

And I'm trying to read into some of your commentary about fixing up the or realigning the engineering department in the company and could you talk a little bit about what's pushing you to do that?

Scott, could you go ahead please?

Good morning, Andrew. You know something that we've -- as Ed mentioned, we are already in the process of doing with the recent growth in the company and some of the integration issues that we are experiencing, it was one area of our business that we had identified that we did have some weakness then.

We have completely revamped that department over the past several months and we believe that we have a good team in place going forward and the right process is now and we've been – as we implement them, we expect that we're going to see much better results on the mechanical side of our business going forward, particularly within – on the U.S. side of the fleet which is where with the recent growth we did have some weakness and we needed to, with some of the people that we inherited with the growth of the company, we had to read out several individuals and we think we're at the point where we've largely addressed any of the issues related to the integration and also addressed where we thought we had weaknesses in the company, we've made – I think we've made some pretty good strides in improving our operations in that area.

Did you feel that in regards to the mechanical issue you had this year, there was some inefficiency on your part in getting the vessel back into service?

Not so much inefficiency in getting it back into service, a lot of the delay in getting our vessels back was due to the specialty nature of the equipment that was destroyed. Our weakness was more in the lack of oversight – that was one of the vessels that was newly acquired within the past year and I guess our weakness within the lack of oversight in monitoring the personnel and the maintenance procedures that were ongoing on board in that vessel and we sense addressed that.

Got it. In your closing comment, Ed, you talked about, we ideally have significant more cash flow and wanted to address the preferred shares. And you also in the beginning I think mentioned that you don't have any planned pushes or CapEx that you know of for your vessels of the major kind. So do you expect next year to be – to have a significant amount of cash with which to start repaying that accrued preferred?

Yeah, I think as you are aware in the past we talked about the fact that we have a meaningful drop off in the number of vessels that we are drydocking next year. And so we expect a significant acceleration in excess free cash flow and we think that we have created a capital structure given the modification in our senior loan agreement. We think, we've created a capital structure which gives us a lot of discretionary room, so I would like to do -- to use our free cash flow as we think it's most accretive to our shareholders.

Are there any other competing purposes beside the accrued preferred?

At this point, you know, we are always obviously looking at a number of alternatives. But as we look at capital allocation, Andrew, we look at it against what is the risk adjusted return that we can get from that capital allocation and we think that taking out the accrued preferred on a risk adjusted basis is a fairly attractive investment opportunity for us. Obviously, facts and circumstances may change, but all capital allocation in terms of discretionary capital allocation is weighed against the risk adjusted return that we can get and taken as that accrued preferred dividend.

Got it. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Andrew.

Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital.

Good morning, gentlemen. It's William Horner for Kevin.

Hi, William.

Scott, maybe you can touch on this, the new business wins you mentioned, is this incremental new business or is it tonnage replacing softness in coal, salt in other markets, we're just trying to get a hand on your outlook for 2013 whether you're materially benefiting from these new business wins?

Good morning, William. Yeah, we've managed to – in a couple pieces of business that we've acquired, added additional tons to existing business that we do which will further optimize our scheduling efficiencies of the vessels, and the amount of time they spend in the loaded conditions i.e. backhauls. We've also added some future business that's going to allow for future growth of the company as we move forward. But the business that we have added further solidifies our book of business for 2013.

Okay. Great. Thanks, yeah, that's helpful. And maybe touching on the Ashtabula sailing. I know, this is going to increase your presence in the mid-class segment in the U.S. market. Is this something you've been targeting around. I know a lot of these vessels are few and far between. So I'm assuming it's more opportunistic, because the Europe expanded asset base, but and just going to be a potential growth market going forward?

Yes, the answer to that is yes, volume particularly attractiveness of this vessel is that it can participate in most of our niche market, River Class market, most of the ports that we service is also of sufficient carrying capacity and that it can also penetrate into that mid-market class of vessel when some of the new business that we're actively pursuing and have acquired is in that segment of business. So, we're looking forward to the opportunities that vessel presents.

Okay. Great. So just further helping and realign your fleet can meet those demand trends?

William, good morning it's Ed. Just I think in the case of Ashtabula, it's really the best of both wells. It's solidifying our River Class position and it's also creating an avenue for incremental growth, because we can now go into the mid-class given the cubic capacity of that piece equipment. And so that's why we find that -- that's why that asset was so particularly attractive to us because it really is going augment our growth opportunity outside the River Class market, but solidify what we do so well today.

Okay. Thank you and that's helpful. And I guess, playing with that and your color earlier on your fleet while Sailing Days, now to Ashtabula in service, I know the peers all of your mechanical peers and that's one thing behind you. So is it safe to assume that all vessels are operable or sailing. Currently I know with the exception of some void up tonnage due to grain markets, but is your fleet, I guess fully functional as we stand today?

Scott, go ahead, please.

Yeah, I mean all of our drilling vessels are sailing now, we are into what is the fall green rush, so they're all actively employed well for the balance of the third quarter a grain. This is the typical fall rush for grain market, so all of our vessels are actively employed. We have a full book of business for our sell promoters out for the end of the season.

Demand is adequate for the balance of the season and we have as we touched upon have had some customer issues in the second quarter, and some of which are ongoing through the balance of this year, which have caused some disruption in our trade patterns. But we have managed to work through them and around them. We do have one vessel that have an operational incident in -- at the end of September that is scheduled to come back into service in the next three days. And other than that we have a full fleet operating.

Okay, great. Thanks, Scott, that's helpful. And just one last question. I know, you've got good visibility from a demand perspective, and you mentioned a few days inoperable because of Sandy, but how are the rest of the conditions looked on the Lakes for the remainder of the season, are water levels normalizing a little bit or they still decently low?

Well, we've had some early adverse weather in the early part of October and with Sandy recently, our water levels are at – read the press reports are nearing record lows on the Great Lake. They are in a seasonal – water levels are seasonal on the Great Lakes. So the decline right now is a seasonal decline, they will continue decline until early spring when they start their seasonal rise. Whereas water levels for us right now, we're at levels now where we'll start to actuate clauses within our agreements where we recoup some of the cost of decrease in water level. So we don't expect water levels to affect us in a material way beyond what they have today.

Okay. Thanks, Scott. That's helpful. That's all I have for today.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Capital.

Can you just talk about, obviously, you've talked about the new things that you put in place. But us being shareholders for a while, we're very frustrated, because you basically have an oligopoly here, you have pricing power, you have strong demand, but you can't execute. So help us understand these new things that you've put in place, when we should hold you accountable that you're going to up and start to execute on a go-forward basis. Because I think everyone on this phone realizes how cheap this piece of paper is, but if you continue not to execute, we're never going to realize the value. So can you help us understand that?

Yeah, good morning, John (sic) [Matthew] (40:30). It's Ed. I think when you come to a conclusion that we can't execute, I would request that you take a look at what our vessel margin per day numbers are and the kind of growth that we've seen and the fact that we continue to increase our vessel margin per day in what is ostensibly a very challenging market, not by virtue of anything that we're doing, but by issues that our customers are facing. And yet, notwithstanding that, we continue to expand that very critical metric of vessel margin per day. So I would just temper what you're saying and I would just sort of think through and look at the trend line of how we've done in that particular metric.

That being said, all the management team, as you're aware, are major shareholders here and we share your frustrations certainly in value of the paper, as you call it, I guess you mean the stock price. We also share your disappointment in terms of these mechanical issues. That being said, we feel as though we have aggressively addressed the issues and we're going to continue to monitor the situation so that we know we've got the resources in place to ensure that an issue like the mechanical one that occurred this year doesn't happen again.

We've been very upfront to say that was a problem that should not have happened, we're not trying to hide from that. Now it's our responsibility to make sure that it does not happen again in the future. We think we put all of the proper protocols and procedures in place to avoid it from happening in the future. Again, we're going to have to constantly address this and make sure we're very focused on this because clearly it's an area that we got to be very mindful of.

Just as a follow-up to that, I would highlight that from our perspective we believe the fundamental earnings power of this company remains very positive and very strong. As Ed highlighted, the vessel margin per day is at an all-time record and up very substantially since we first invested in the company.

But for the mechanical issue which, as we discussed during our prepared remarks, was the largest incident that's ever occurred in the company's history and the late delivery of the newer vessel, our underlying performance is strong and positive. So we are confident that as we move into the next year, having addressed this engineering department that we should be able to deliver the free cash flow that we believe these assets inherently should be able to deliver. And hopefully over time as the market gains confidence in that, that will be reflected in the price of our stock as well.

Okay. So...

Just to add to that, Matthew, when we're talking execution, we will always be at risk of operational incidents due to the nature of our business and the ports and trade partners that we service, which are very aggressive, smaller ports, restricted. We will have them from time to time. We build them in to our business plan. As for our failure to execute, yes, in this case we dropped the ball in this particular incident, but I think our record over the years and our ability to execute has been very good and we're very confident in our ability to execute going forward and we believe we have addressed some problems that we have identified within our organization due to the recent growth in the organization.

Okay. Ed, you kind of danced around this before relative to the preferreds, but, I mean, when or what are you waiting for to get current? Because you got this new financing, I mean, all of us can do the math, there's a significant pick-up and tapping the line and paying back the preferred. So what is the critical point that we should look for from either a time, a date, what you have to do from a cash flow to get the preferreds current?

Right. And I think – I think, John, and my prepared remarks were intended to address this, the benefit of the modification to the mandatory amortization occurs prospectively over the next several quarters. In other words, we've got a drastic reduction in mandatory amortization over the next several quarters which results in a lot more discretionary free cash flow for us. And so hopefully that gives you a sense as to how we're thinking about cleaning up that accrued dividend. We didn't raise additional capital to take out the accrued, we created the ability to use our excess free cash flow as it's generated to take out that accrued.

So does that mean you've got to get into the sailing season of next year to do it from a cash standpoint? I mean, I guess I'm trying to understand the timing.

I think it's prospectively – doesn't necessarily mean, John, we've got to get into next year's sailing season, but as the next several quarters occur, that's where we've dropped the mandatory amortization amount.

I mean, practically we, as you said, are well aware of the very strong returns we achieved by paying off the accrued amounts and recognize that it's a no risk proposition for the company. So it's a very attractive investment and we definitely want to achieve it. We balance that with the capital needs of growing the business and certainly we don't want to pay it off and then discover we've got any liquidity challenges. So as we move forward and generate free cash flow, we will be carefully monitoring it. And certainly, as we sit here today, it's a very high priority for us to address this issue just based on the risk return inherent in the instrument. So I think we will be focused on it as soon as cash flow allows us.

Got it. The last question I have for you, so if we go into the 2013 sailing season, it sounds like you have strong demand, you should have less dry docking, so you should have days up/ When you think of what your customers potentially give you this coming sailing season, what do you think any – when do you think tonnage will be up? Can you give us a range? And then the last question is what do you think pricing will be up next year?

Scott, could you address that, please?

Well, one of the biggest things that we see for next season, Matt, and we cannot, obviously, we cannot guarantee that at this point. But we expect a return to normal weather patterns in the Great Lakes, which we see our salt tonnage rebounding significantly. It's down 30% on the lakes this year. And that plays an important role in our profitability and the efficiency of the scheduling and of backhaul of our fleet. Which, with a return to normalized or semi-normalized salt patterns, we return to normal profitability patterns for this company. So going into 2013 with the book of business we have and the expectations from what we've seen to-date that we are returning to normal weather patterns, we think that our tonnage is, particularly in our salt markets, is going to increase.

So we're not seeing tremendous growth. Aggregates are relatively flat. The economy is flat, it's still challenging. But with the book of business and the market share gains that we've got, we've got a full book of business for our vessels and we intend to operate a lot more sailing days than we have this year because we're going to take – we're not going to have the mechanical issue that we have had here and that's going to add up a lot to the bottom line with the additional sailing days.

But you didn't answer my question. Do you think tonnage will be up 3%, do you think it would be up 5%? What do you think pricing will be up, and then what do you think days will be up? I mean, you've got to have some kind of estimate, don't you?

Yeah, we don't have – we have not done our 2013 sailing season budgeting yet at this point. I think what I would encourage you take a look at it is take a look at our vessel margin per day and take a look at where it is right now. We were up 8% this quarter. I think if you increase our vessel margin per day by mid-single digits, high-mid single digits kind of number and multiply that by 4,400 sailing days, which is the available number we have based on 16 vessels, you're going to get pretty darned close to what we're going to do in our fiscal 2014, which is the 2013 sailing season. Setting aside where we are with tonnage and pricing and the like, I would go back to that metric of vessel margin per day, that's really the best proxy for us to take a look, for anybody to take a look at it.

All right. Just the last question then. Can you talk about pricing? Is pricing starting to tighten up just as the industry is consolidated more and more? Can you give us any insight to that?

Well, as you know, Matt, most of the – over 95% of the business that we do is contractual, of a long-term contractual nature. We do very little on the spot market. So we're operating under long-term agreements with pricing increases built into those agreements. And every year we're continuing to see at or above the rate of inflation right now in all of our – in almost all of our agreements. We don't have a lot of new business running off at the end of this year. So we're looking at what we've seen in the past couple of years is what we can expect going into next year.

I mean, just if you look at the operating...

As far as the pricing environment, the North American economy right now is not overly strong. We've got a relatively solid book of business, but there is some excess capacity in the market right now.

I was just going to highlight if we do achieve the price adjustments that Scott referred to in the mid-single digits, considering the increases that we incur in our cost structure, that should result in an improvement in profitability in the double-digits and higher level just on an organic basis with no significant change in our book of business or anything.

Obviously, to the extent we were to identify effective investment opportunities beyond that, that would all be incremental. So we think our fundamental business model has some very attractive growth characteristics on an ongoing basis.

Your next question comes from the line of David Horn with Kiron Advisors.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. So going back to something you said a little bit earlier, you talked about I guess the capability here is for 4,400 sailing days and you talked about vessel profitability per day up in let's just say high-single digit. Is that going from – last year we did $11,300 per day for the whole year. And I don't want to sort of screw up my numbers because Q4 is so different, fiscal Q4. So sort of and – but the fleet is much larger than it was in 2012, so when you talk about high-single digits, off of what sort of base?

David, the high-single digits is a growth number that I was talking about. And so if you take that $11,500 number and begin to apply a range of growth numbers off of that, I think you're going to start to come to a vessel margin and then apply that to those 4,400 sailing days and you can back into what our pre-SG&A profitability looks like.

So, basically – so you're talking about $11,900 or $12,000 to round it off. Is that a realistic profitability per day?

I mean, that's certainly within the range of feasibility based on historic trends, David. And it also highlights when you're looking at the 4,400 days, that's a theoretical maximum taking the 16 vessels [ph] from 375 (53:27). While we certainly strive for that in practice, it's unlikely that we're going to achieve that full theoretic amount, so you should build in some flex there for whatever were to occur with weather, any incidents, et cetera.

Right. So I mean, if you do multiply that, you get about $52 million and then we have about $11 million in SG&A, so you're looking at about $40 million. And I guess that that's we – I guess it's a bit higher than sort of what we're doing now. I was – I guess what I'm a bit confused about is if you add back in the $3.9 million, if you look at in the slideshow, you talk about the last 12 months and we're looking at $35 million and if you add back in the $4 million from the mechanical issue and the new ship, we're pretty much there now. So I guess what improves or maybe there's just it's the same fleet, so nothing materially improves in the next fiscal year outside of execution, there's no sort of latent earning power.

And, David, I'm not sure that – we're not saying $12,000 is the right number that was a number you came up with, $12,000 per day, you may be light on your $12,000 per day.

Okay.

And then particularly when you overlay the incremental new business that we've already achieved and the benefit from that incremental new business and then the addition of salt back to normalized levels, which improves the operating efficiency of the entire fleet. So, I think perhaps your $12,000 a day might be a little bit light relative to what the profit per day opportunity is.

Okay, all right. So, that's the metric to play with. All right.

It's all right there. That's the number.

Okay. And sort of a maintenance question. How do you think of the useful life of the entire fleet? I mean, I know we have a – obviously we have a wide range of boats, how I think about that.

Scott, go ahead, please?

Our more recent valuation and survey of vessels, David, I don't think we have any vessels with less than 15 years life expectancy. They range from 15 years to 30 years right now. I think we're not contemplating any further vessel retirements from our existing fleet for at least 15 years.

And then what – outside of mechanical issues, what sort of – what would be like a maintenance CapEx for those, again, if we just sort of random normally and did whatever it takes to keep them up, what would be that cost for those ships?

Scott, go ahead.

Our routine CapEx for those vessels is now for the fleet of vessels that we now have, David, would be in the neighborhood of $10 million to $12 million on an annualized basis,. Some years that would be higher to do number of dry dockings and we have some years lower, but I think we're in with the steel renewal programs and that we have going forward on our existing vessels, we're in that $10 million to $12 million annualized CapEx range of maintenance.

And dry dock costs.

Okay.

David, I would also highlight that that number can move around year-to-year depending on the number of dry dockings you've got in that particular season.

Sure.

And I'd also just mention that the age that Scott mentioned on the vessel is based on the vessels as they currently exist. To the extent we were to approach the end of any of those life spans, we have the election at that point to invest additional capital and, in essence, extend the life significantly. These are somewhat like aircraft frames, as long as you keep repairing and replacing the moving parts, they're irreplaceable hulls and a very valuable asset. So we are in a very good position right now considering the life span we have on the assets, but certainly as and when we approach the end of any of those life spans, we have the flexibility of addressing it with additional capital if it makes sense at that point.

Okay.

David, the vast majority of our fleet is U.S. built vessels that have operated on the Great Lakes in fresh water in their entire life. So they haven't been exposed salt water in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence like a lot of our competitor's vessels. They haven't seen the wear and tear of the St. Lawrence Seaway, the lock systems. So structurally those vessels, as Laurence indicated, you continue to upgrade, you continue to upgrade the propulsion systems, which we've been at the forefront of.

We've repowered four of our nine Canadian vessels over the – since the year 2000. So we are – we do operate pretty modern the most part propulsion systems in comparison to some of our competitors on the Great Lakes. So as long as you continue to modernize your propulsion components and there's an economic use for those vessels, you could keep them around for a very long time.

Okay. I guess the reason I asked the question is just sort of normalizing business which I realize is a challenging thing to do. We talked about the inputs, we talked about vessel profitability per day and how many days this fleet could, should achieve. And sort of if nothing changed next year and the year after and the year after and we just did maintenance, I mean, it sounds like – earlier Laurence used the term fundamental earnings power. And whatever sort of comes up with that, the math comes up with sort of an EBITDA before SG&A, we subtract out the SG&A of $11 million and then our maintenance CapEx. That's where I was just trying to get to a free cash flow number that – does that sort of make sense?

Yeah, but I mean, those are the kinds of models we clearly look at and many of our shareholders do as well. Clearly, as we move into next year's sailing season, we'll have better clarity on what our vessel margin per day will be. And, as Ed highlighted, there's the critical number in addition to the number of sailing days that we actually do achieve next year.

Right. And when you talk about we're fully booked for the 2013 sailing season, what is that? Clearly there's – however, there is some variances to what we earn, so, and outside of mechanical issues or execution on our side like – from the people that pay us perspective, what moves around, what exactly are they committed to by being -- by fully booking our fleet?

Scott, go ahead.

David, we operate minimum percentages of the customers' cargo or minimum volumes, maximum volumes. They are nominated at different periods throughout the year going into the year based on historical volumes. Right now, I think that's what we're basing our working on, on historical volumes and patterns of our customers. In this environment the past couple of years that is what we're -- that's what we're basing our 2013 projections on, on the current environment and the current tonnages that our customers are moving under our contracts.

Okay. All right. That, I guess that's all I have for today. Thanks.

I guess, well, further to that – what moves around, what can cause issues within, you know, as we talk a little bit in the second quarter here, we've had customers that have their own mechanical issues, shutting down facilities. We've had customers that their ratability patterns have been affected in this quarter and those type of thing could affect the efficiency of rescheduling and profitability of your fleet and we've seen a number of them in this past quarter. But in a typical year, those are the type of things that can affect – even though you have a full book of business, your ability to optimize, your profitability and your scheduling. Typically, we don't see the number of challenges that we've seen in this past quarter, but those are the, David, I think can move around.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Bob Salen with LMK Capital Management (01:02:25).

Hi.

Hi, [ph] Bob (1:02:31) .

Hi. Just a couple of my – most of my questions have been answered. I have two of them. I know you probably don't want to convey the specifics of new customer wins, but can you describe amongst the different types of cargo you carry or the industries that you serve where the new business is broadly coming from?

[ph] Bob (1:02:55), I think, broadly speaking as we talked about in the presentation, the new business is going to enhance our operating efficiencies and that tends to -- in our parlays that means that it's going to be backhaul. And so there are several of our commodities that we move, that are particularly backhaul centric, maybe for example, coal, salt, mill byproducts. So amongst that group of – that commodity set, that's where we're collecting some pretty nice wins. And that's what's driving the operating efficiency in the fleet in 2013.

Okay. And then, Ed on that note, if there is a little bit a slack in terms of the overall capacity of the industry; help us understand how you are able to grab that new business from the competition?

I think [ph] Bob (1:03:55), it's a function of the size of our fleet today and the fact that we are able to generate meaningful efficiencies as we're adding incremental tonnage and in part, we're able to share that efficiency gains that we're creating with the customer. And so that incremental business is profitable for us. And yet, we're also able to create value for the customer in the context of value proposition that we're proposing.

Understood, so it's the cost structure. I know....

It's the cost structure, it's also the size of our fleet, right? It's both pieces.

Okay. And then I know this has been asked a couple of times in the call, but I just wanted to try and understand the drydocking at a little more granular level. If you look at the last two seasons of drydocking, I think drydocking cost still across those the expense side and the CapEx side. Can you help us understand what that aggregate bucket has been for the last two years and what you think that bucket of cash out if you will, will look like for the drydock FY 2013 season, FY 2014, calendar 2013?

Scott, go ahead.

Yeah, [ph] Bob (1:05:24) as we talked – last year we had five drydocking. This year we have three dropping to one next winter and the year after. So the next couple of years after this year we drop off the past three years have been a heavy cycle to their vessels have been ribbed together within their five year cycles. And last year our capital spend, Joe, on the drydockings was what?

Last year we spend 6.5 million of additional drydock expenses on our drydocks for the year, the fiscal year last winter in 2012, some of that spilled over in April of this year.

And that was when you had three vessels drydocked or five?

Five.

Five.

Five.

And we had additional steel CapEx in...

Yeah actually, if we includes...

That's just the drydocking portion of it.

If you include what we did in Q1 with the steel, it was almost – it was over $8 million.

In all of that is in – is capitalized?

Yes it is, the drydock is capitalized and amortized over the five year survey period and the capital expenditures depends on the life of the incremental improvement.

Of the three drydockings that we have this winter, Bob, two are routine and the third will involve life extension work, life extension work.

Okay. And so the estimated total cash expenditure for this winter would be roughly what -- what's the budgeted range?

This year with the three drydockings and including the steel, major steel renewal one drydocking on a regular plan, it will be around $15 million. So this is the last big year before we have the big drop-off over the next two years in drydocking and the related steel work in capital expenditures.

[ph] Bob (1:07:47) , that's total capital expenditures including the drydock thing, excluding the drydockings, including what we do to the 16 vessels – 16 vessels away from drydock, that's the total number.

The budgeted number for -

Capital expenditure for CapEx.

Okay. And so what was the comparative number though last year then, just to get apples-to-apples?

Yeah, last year the apples-to-apples number was about 25 million plus, about 12 million came in the fourth quarter. But that included substantial new work on the vessels that we acquired last year, the Manitoba bulker and the Tecumseh bulkers as well.

That included conversion cost of the ATB.

I mean, in general the way we think about that is in average winter season, we should be spending approximately $12 million, assuming that the drydockings are done on a ratable basis. So if an average since we've now got 16 vessels and every five years assuming we're doing an average of three per year. Now that assumes nothing extraordinary comes up in the form of steel work or any affect. And clearly you do have the variability in the number of vessels per winter season and that can reduce that number or increase that number somewhat.

Understood. And then...

That number, [ph] Bob (1:09:19), includes the engine overhaul et cetera within the fleet, so it's the full cap actually those 16 plus.

Okay. And then, am I hearing you guys correctly, I don't hear any aspirations to size of the fleet for the 2013 sailing season. Is that the right read?

I'm sorry.

Certainly, I would say we aspirations to continue to grow much differently that has being the base on which we built this company and we will continue to grow the company. Having said that, as we indicated in our prepared remarks, with our existing book of business, we do not see a necessity or requirement to go and increase the fleet in order to address that business.

So we continue to keep our eyes and ears open for opportunities on the Lakes and as growth opportunities, and if and when they came up we certainly would look at them very, very carefully. But our comments regarding not making any investments in upcoming year relates to the book of business specifically.

Yes, understood. Okay, thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Management.

I'll make mind quick, I think a lot of things have been answered. The competitive environment, you talked about that the challenges with customer environment, has anything changed on the competitive front, you can confirm with that?

Scott, go ahead.

On the competitive front, as we talked about – there is some excess capacity – the only vessels that did not operate in the Lakes fleet this year, one main U.S. competitor had one vessel that didn't operate for the full season and our main Canadian competitor have one of the smaller vessels that probably will not operate again within that market that did not operate.

So we haven't seen a lot of competitive pressure in the market and as Ed touched upon earlier, we think we're pretty well insulated because of the flexibility and service levels that we can provide with our operating cost structure to our customers and the fact that all of our, well over 95% of our business is presently under long term contract and we've continued to gain market share in this environment.

So we're not overly concerned about competitive pressures and we're not seeing a lot of pressure in our business from our competition at this point.

I guess I was coming out of more from the angle of – its some of the compensation, I think a year ago one of the, I believe it was a River Class vessel was scrapped, has anything changed in that and with the two or three competitors that are left as it relates to taking their vessels out of the Lakes.

Today, Rick, nobody has made any public announcement in terms of reducing capacity, but again that may change, that's relatively fluid. And we're at the point of our season where new business is being awarded or has been awarded and so presumably people will look at what their demand requirements are in 2013 and they'll make determinations as to whether they want to continue to participate in the market or not.

The timing – so you talked about some new business and helping efficiency and backhaul opportunities. What's the timing? Will some of that new business affect fiscal 2014 or is it likely to be more fiscal 2015 business?

It will kick in April 1st of 2013.

And we have a fairly large chunk of business that comes on for fiscal 2015 which at that point gives us an opportunity to consider growing the fleet again.

Okay. And then...

I think, Rick, to Scott's point though as we look forward for the next couple of years, we've got a nice run way in terms of growing efficiency in existing fleet and then figuring out what we want to do with incremental demand that we've already captured and how we want to manage the fleet on a go forward basis. So we're pretty pleased about that.

So again the answer to my question, some of its fiscal 2014, some of its fiscal 2015 on the new win.

That's correct.

Right.

And then of course on top of that we have the inherent organic growth within that existing book of business, which is driven by further efficiencies and opportunities for pricing and whatever else we are able to realize.

Right. And then it seems to me – and I don't know, what you can do about this, but one of the big shortfalls is what's going on with the shipyard and the maintenance side of your business? Is there any way to contractually obligate them to make you all or give you some compensation for missing deadlines on returning ship to you for sailing? And it seems to me like that's a big hole and what you're doing and it's....

And Rick, you raised an excellent point and the way we've addressed that, in fact we've already gone down that road. The way we've addressed that is that we have a broad in-house capability, which will allow us to provide repair and maintenance services that we were previously outsourcing that we can now do ourselves.

And we haven't necessarily changed our cost structure, because we are going to do on a flex basis. In other words, when we layup our ships in the winter season, we are going to bring on a crew of men to do things like welding and steel work for us, where we're going to control that, which will allow us to better meet our schedule needs versus relying on the shipyards, who are all very busy in that January through March period, because everybody is trying to get their work done.

And so we've got enough fleet now to a size, where we can bring that service in-house and it will make us much more timely and efficient and also reduce the cost meaningfully of that service provider.

So your point is an excellent one and we've already gone down that road and we're going to implement that in this coming winter season.

Thanks. So...

Rick, I think I don't know if your question more related to the Ashtabula] and the delays in bringing out in the operation too. And we did have family provisions within our shipyard, contract with that. So unfortunately the delays were mainly attributable to the delivery of the long lead time items that were incorporated in that contract and beyond the control of a shipyard, generated from electrical components that could not be delivered on time. And that's what led to the delays in the delivery of the Ashtabula.

Okay. So the incident that Scott you brought up in late September, what's nature of that and again was it negligence or was it just an operational kind of event that happened in your business?

We cut the radar on one of our ships backing into the slip at one of our customers slips on some shore length due to partially low water and shore length silting and in the process when the radar caught on it was, especially try these tear and gear which we have to replace on the vessel. It is the type of the incident as I talked about earlier that we can be subject to from time to time in the trade patterns, in the ports that we service, we service lot of the smaller ports, shallower ports, and quite aggressive trade balance and we do build the cost of that into our business model. What we don't build into our business model is the type of incidents that we had with James L. Kuber and a complete mechanical failure caused by negligence of our employees.

Yeah. Okay. And then the fact that it was out of service for 40 days or something was that in line with your expectations?

For the...

For the late September...

For the last September vessel, yeah. Yeah, there was -- it was a fairly extensive repair they have to replace the steering gear in mid-season.

Okay. That's all I have. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Bobby Melnick with Terrier Partners LP

04).

I was briefly touched on by literally the last question, I want Scott if you could help elaborate a little bit on the Saginaw which was the router incident, if you are out 40 days to 45 days on that vessel, you talked about that some of the grain vessels were tied up which would suggest, I am not sure if the capacity is interchangeable, but will we recapture the lost business that this Saginaw was to have delivered in the last 40 days to 45 days? And is that one of the reasons why will be continue to sailing into January and also as we're about half way through the third quarter, have there been any other incidents, noteworthy incidents something I think I recall though [indiscernible] (1:19:46) are there any other vessels just only because you talked about how utilization is 86% so far. I'm just trying to get a general sense of where we are in the third quarter? Thanks.

Good morning, Bob. We haven't had any vessel tied up for lack of business during the third quarter. The bulker fleet has sailed the entire third quarter. So, no, we did not have the ability to interchange. And yes, that is driving somewhat, driving cargo later into the season for delivery that Saginaw was rescheduled to pick up. We have had to use the Ashtabula to pick up some of the Saginaw's cargo which now gives us some degree of interchange ability in our grain.

Some of our grains – self unloading grain patterns that we service with the Saginaw we did not have a lot of options for that vessel previously. Now we do have some interchange ability with the Ashtabula. And no we haven't had any other incident of significance during this quarter, other than we touched upon, we have in early October and late October with tropical toward Sandy, we have seen some fairly severe weather conditions on the Great Lake. And recently we've experienced some fairly good weather conditions, so hopefully we can maintain that for the balance of the year.

Your next question comes from the line of Ross Haberman with Haberman Management.

Good morning, gentlemen. I just had a quick question for Ed, you talked about those – the incident where as if you had the two ships running to with 2.2 million this quarter, with 3.9 for the half. Was that a cash flow number, was that an operating income number, what were those numbers?

EBITDA number, Ross. And it's 85 days in the case of the vessel that went down and 60 in the case of the Ashtabula. And so you can do the math and figure out the impact.

And just one other question, the pick-up in the or the big pick-up in the long term debt quarter-to-quarter, was that from – where do that arise from and is the $12 million, is that a seasonal number in the bank indebtedness your balance sheet?

Yeah primarily sea fall, that's right. And also cleaning up the revolver a bid to create more liquidity, as we think about addressing capital structure opportunities in the future i.e. the preferred.

Got it. Okay. All right, thanks guys.

Thank you.

Your final question comes from the line of David Pointer with VI Capital Management.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for staying long on the call in taking some extra questions.

Sure, David.

So you have a line and I don't have in front of me right now, you have a line in the presentation, you said that you didn't anticipate needing to extend the fleet or any vessel enhancements for the next season. And I know in the Spring you were talking about and I think it was the way filling a self unloader in it, if that's the right vessel the past season, $18 million, $20 million spend, does that, if you're not doing is that, is that what that mean and this – do you have any comment on kind of the distribution of shares by now – and kind of where that's at, communicate to you?

Yeah, I think David, I think that as we hopefully articulated clearly in our presentation, we are not going to modify any of the existing fleet to reflect the new business wins that we've achieved. We feel as though we can enhance our percentage of time and revenue loaded condition of the existing fleet versus add to our capacity and we feel so that will drive incremental profitability as a result of improving that efficiency.

And as it relates to one of our major shareholders, that's not something I think the company can answer, you have to discuss it with them directly, we don't know, we don't know what they're thinking.

Okay. And so kind of the – and just to clarify that was a little bit of a change from say six months ago in terms of the off-season spend on the domicile unloaded and so that kind of part of your confidence and kind of your free cash flow and addressing the preferred issue into the early part of next year, is that kind of what's been a little bit of change in the last six months maybe?

I don't know if it's going to change as much as we've really looked at the fleet and we've challenged ourselves to determine whether we're maximizing the percent of time in revenue loaded condition. And we've said given the size of the fleet and the flexibility that we've got with the fleet that we really need to be adding capacity right now and the conclusion was we don't need to be – we don't need to add capacity, yet we can go and capture strategically very important new business, and overlay that new business on to the existing fleet to really enhance the profitability, the return on invested capital that we've got in the business today.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, David.

At this time, there are no further questions. I would now like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. We'd like to thank all of you for participating on this call today and certainly if you have further questions, please reach out to our management team. This has been a challenging quarter for us considering the incident that has occurred and the late delivery of Ashtabula, but having said that our base business continues to strive and do well and we are confident about the long-term future for Rand. So thank you all again.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.