Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lesley Snyder — Head-Investor Relations, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Joseph W. McHugh — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Fred Buonocore — Research Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Ross Leslie Haberman — President, Haberman Management Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, my name is Jackie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Mrs. Snyder, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, Joe McHugh, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; and Ed Levy, Rand's President. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control, and some of which might not be even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include but are not limited to the effect of the economic downturn in our market, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description on these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2011.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.

Thank you, Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results; Joe McHugh, our CFO, will review the financial results; and I will discuss our fiscal 2012 earnings outlook. Ed Levy, our President, will join us for the question-and-answer session.

We are pleased with our first quarter fiscal 2012 results. While we only have approximately 75 days of data, the repowered Michipicoten is meeting our operating and financial expectations. Additionally, the two vessels which we acquired in February 2011 are performing well and we believe that there is an opportunity for these vessels to exceed the performance expectations that the transaction was based on.

Finally, our newly acquired vessel, the Manitoba, formerly known as the Maritime Trader, went into service on August 6, 2011 and is already helping to balance our capacity and customer demand more effectively.

We have completed half of the 2011 sailing season which typically account for approximately two-thirds of our annual operating income plus depreciation and amortization. Based on results to date, we are reaffirming our guidance that assuming a full sailing season of the Michipicoten, operating income plus depreciation and amortization will be between $34 million and $36 million, and that free cash flow per common share will be between $1.15 and $1.30.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?

Thanks, Laurence. Our customer demand is the best that it has been since 2008. We are fully booked for the remainder of the sailing season, and based on current market demand, we expect to again operate certain of our vessels into January. We are experiencing these demand levels even though lakes wide tons ships for most of the commodities that we transport are modestly below their historical five-year averages.

In general, there was not a material shift in the mix of commodities that we transported in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 versus our historical mix for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. As we had projected, our salt tonnage which increased by approximately 27% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 versus the same period last year has rebounded back to more normal levels due to more typical weather conditions this past winter in the Great Lakes region.

Also of note is our grain tonnage, which increased by approximately 34% in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 versus the comparable quarter last year. The increase in grain tonnage is primarily related to a new longer-term grain contract that we were awarded prior to the beginning of the sailing season as well as improvements to our domestic grain business.

Several vessels experienced start up delays during the quarter ended June 2011 due to winter repair work not being completed on schedule. This resulted in 42 lost sailing days in April 2011, in addition to 30 lost days related to the Michipicoten repowering. These lost sailing days caused inefficiencies in matching fleet configuration with trade patterns.

In addition, the late sailings resulted in approximately $800,000 of winter repairs and maintenance expenses in the three-month period ended June 30, 2011, compared to a negligible amount in the three-month period ended June 30, 2010.

The Michipicoten repowering project, which began in December 2010, was successfully completed in May 2011. The vessel did not sail for 61 days of the quarter. The benefits of the conversion include increased revenues from higher speeds and lower costs from reduced fuel consumption, labor efficiencies and reduced maintenance and other operating expenses. Since introducing the vessel back into service, we have been satisfied with both its financial and operating results. This was our last steam-powered vessel to be converted to diesel power. We believe we now operate some of the most efficient proportion systems on the Great Lakes.

The number of sailing days that we operated in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 increased by 4.1% to 1,065 days as compared to 1,023 sailing days during the same year-ago period. The 42-day increase in sailing days was primarily attributable to the February 2011 acquisition of two vessels. The increase in sailing days attributable to the acquired vessels as well as the reduction in lost days for major incident repairs, compared to the three-month period ended June 30, 2010 was offset by the long-term layup of our smallest vessel and the repowering of the Michipicoten, which extended through May 31, 2011.

Due to delayed winter work on certain vessels, including the two vessels acquired in February 2011, we lost an additional 42 sailing days in April 2011. Delayed vessels sailings, as well as the Michipicoten being out of service for its repowering, caused inefficiencies in matching fleet configuration with trade patterns, particularly during the month of April.

In closing, to date, I am satisfied with the company's performance in the 2011 sailing season. Our demand visibility for the remainder of the year is very good. Our customers continue to present us with a variety of growth opportunities. With the exception of delays in completing winter work on certain vessels, our operating performance across our entire fleet has met expectations.

We have also successfully integrated the vessels acquired in February 2011 and the newly acquired Manitoba into our fleet. And we have completed the repowering of our last steam-powered vessel, and are pleased with its performance thus far. Based on these factors, as well as our financial results to-date, we are able to reaffirm the earnings guidance of $34 million to $36 million of operating income plus depreciation and amortization assuming a full sailing season for the repowered Michipicoten that we put forth in February 2011 as the time of the vessel's acquisition.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks, Scott. I would now like to give you a more detailed explanation of our financials. Total revenue during the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 was $42.3 million, an increase of $5.5 million or 15.0% compared to $36.8 million during the same year-ago period. The increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel surcharges and higher freight revenue offset by substantially reduced outside charter revenue. Freight and related revenue generated from company-operated vessels increased by $2.3 million or 8.1% to $30.7 million during the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared to $28.4 million during the same year-ago period ended June 30 2000 – same period.

Freight and related revenue per sailing day increased by $1,054 or 3.8% to $28,821 per sailing day in the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared with $27,767 per sailing day in the same year-ago period. This increase was attributable to contractual price increases, new business and an increase in the average size of vessels that we operated due to our February 2011 vessel acquisition. The improvement was somewhat offset by inefficiencies in matching fleet configuration with trade patterns as a result of the Michipicoten being out of service due its repowering for 61 sailing days and a delay in completing required winter work, which caused us to begin the season later than our typical start date of April 1 on certain of our vessels.

Vessel operating expenses increased by $5 million or 20.9% to $28.6 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared to $23.6 million in the same year-ago period. The increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel cost and increased number of sailing days and a stronger Canadian dollar partially offset by cost reductions due to the long-term lay up of our smallest vessel.

As we have previously discussed, all of our company's customer contracts include fuel price pass through provisions. Vessel operating expenses per sailing day increased by $3,736 or 16.2% to $26,832 per sailing day in the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared to $23,096 in the comparable year-ago period.

Our general and administrative expenses increased by $600,000 to $3 million during the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared to $2.4 million in the comparable year-ago period. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to $400,000 attributable to the timing of tax withholding portion of restricted stock grants awarded to our senior executives, bank administrative fees, and a stronger Canadian dollar. Our general and administrative expenses represented 7.0% of revenues during the three-month period ended June 30, 2011, an increase from 6.4% of revenues during the same year-ago period.

The Canadian dollar strengthened by approximately 6.2% versus the U.S. dollar, averaging approximately US$1.03 per Canadian dollar during the three-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared to approximately US$0.97 per Canadian dollar during the comparable year-ago period. The company's balance sheet translation rate increased from approximately US$1.03 per Canadian dollar at March 31, 2011, to approximately US$1.04 per Canadian dollar at June 30, 2011.

We expect to have our new credit facility in place by the end of this quarter. This facility extends the maturity of our loan agreement through April 2015 on terms substantially similar to those that we enjoy today.

As shown on slide 11 of the presentation available on Rand's website under Investors Events & Presentations, operating income plus depreciation and amortization increased 10.4% to $9.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 compared to $8.8 million for the comparable quarter last year.

Finally, I would ask you to turn to slide 12 of the aforementioned presentation. This chart illustrates the company's trailing fourth quarter's operating income plus depreciation and amortization since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes. We believe that this track record highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Laurence. Laurence?

Thank you, Joe. We continue to believe that the long-term fundamentals of our business and the end markets that we serve remain strong. Our outlook for fiscal year 2012 remains positive.

This confidence is based on the contractual nature of our business which is providing excellent visibility for the remainder of the sailing season, the high barriers to entry into our markets and our financial performance to-date. Over the next 24 months, we remain highly confident that we will have the opportunity to accelerate our free cash flow growth as we improve the profitability of our existing fleet through contractual price increases and by better aligning our assets to the trade patterns that they are best suited for, in order to gain greater flexibility in the scheduling of our expanded fleet. Continued improvement in vessel utilization, combined with increased customer demand reinforces our confidence in the positive future for Rand, our customers, employees and shareholders.

With that, I would like to turn the call back to the operator and open it up for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Fred Buonocore with CJS Securities.

Yes, good morning.

Good morning, Fred.

Can you talk a little bit more about the delays in completing the winter work, just give us a sense of what happened there that was unexpected, please?

Great. Scott, could you address that please?

Good morning, Fred. Really that falls into three buckets, Fred, the first one, the most important I think, is planning and scheduling of the winter work. Winter work was scheduled out till later in the period. The execution on our operating team wasn't good in that regard.

Second bucket, delays in the closing of the February acquisition of the two vessels, that transaction was supposed to close much earlier. It dragged on until about mid-February and affected our ability to get those vessels out on time, and the winter work completed. And the third one was a compressed winter season due to the late season sailing of several of our vessels. As you're aware, large portions of the fleet sailed well into January last year and really compressed our winter work season, but we think that the biggest impact was the execution on our part and timing of the winter work should've begun much earlier [ph] in the piece (19:26), if we had done that, most of the vessels would have sailed on time.

Okay. And then just as an extension of that question, can you talk about the – you related inefficiencies that those delays caused in addition to – throwing the Mich repowering into the mix of that, what that did to your trade patterns?

With the Michipicoten repowering, Fred, and the delays in sailing, in particular of the James L. Kuber, one of the newer vessels, and the Saginaw, those were the three biggest delays that we experienced, and those are also our three largest vessels.

And in particular, the Saginaw does a number of pieces of business that really is best suited to what's in the fleet. We have to substitute smaller vessels, and we had to substitute other vessels into the Michipicoten's trade patterns up until the month of June to fulfill what were much heavier commitments this spring to our steel customers. So having the three largest vessels out and having the substitute smaller vessels in those trade patterns caused a number of inefficiencies that affected our results.

But the full fleet is operating now?

The full fleet is operating now, with the exception of the Maumee which is in a long-term layup.

Right, exactly. And then, related to the Mich repowering, the lost days there, and the guidance, you talked about the guidance for the $34 million to $36 million in EBITDA, can you remind us what the lost days for the Mich equates to, so we can get a sort of an apples-to-apples sense on the guidance, please?

Joe, could you address that, please?

Yes, Fred. Fred, I think if you take into consideration not only the lost margin from the Michipicoten, but the fact that we were rebalancing the fleet during that -particularly April-May period. What we're saying is that as of the last 12 months, effectively May, although we don't publish that, but the last 12 months of June 2012 which would be the first full quarter that the Michipicoten would have sailed that prior 12 months, our EBITDA guidance is $34 million to $36 million.

Okay. I'm just trying to get a sense for what that would equate to.

Fred, it's Ed. Make it simple. Take 61 days.

Yes.

And multiply that times the average vessel margin, then you got a pretty good directional sense as what the impact of 61 days is.

Sure. So for the fiscal year...

There's some inefficiency in there but don't worry about that.

Right. It's not a lot lower than the actual stated guidance.

You got it.

Got it. And then along those lines, how much of that EBITDA guidance are you expecting you get in that extended portion of the season because you're looking to have the season stretch into January the way it did last year? I mean how much are you banking on getting extra operating income then?

Fred, in general, while we are pleased to be operating into January, in order to facilitate our customers' incremental demand, we don't tend to generate enormous profitability during that time period because it's a tough operating environment. So the answer to your question is not a significant portion of our earnings is dependent on that January sailing.

Okay. Good. And then finally, the tax withholding issue that impacted SG&A, is there any more of that as the year progresses or do we kind of go back to a normalized SG&A run rate after this quarter?

In fact, what happened is that all have been frontloaded into the first quarter, so we should not see a drag as we go forward into the second, third and fourth quarter.

Okay, very good. Thank you.

Thanks, Fred. And before you go, actually we should just mention to everyone that Rand will be presenting at CJS' Investment Conference tomorrow. If anyone is attending that conference and obviously, we'd look forward to seeing you there.

Great. We'll look forward to seeing you.

Great.

Your next question comes from the line of Ross Haberman with Haberman Management.

Good morning, gentlemen. How are you?

Good morning, Ross.

Just a quick question. I was wondering if you got anywhere or further thoughts on working out the preferred shares or retiring them in some way in some form sooner than later?

Ross, we continue to evaluate that as an attractive investment opportunity for our common stockholders. Right now, the preferred is accruing a dividend rate of approximately 12% per annum. So obviously, on a relative basis, there's expense of capital but we are well aware of that and then at an appropriate point in time, which we anticipate should be in the foreseeable future, we do intend to take care of that and hopefully, if our stock price rises, that would also cause the conversion of the preferred and clean up our balance sheet.

And just one further question regarding the prior issue. All of the delays which you laid out because of the slowness in getting the work done, how much do you think it costs you in terms of your EBITDA for the first half?

Again, as Ed had laid out, Ross if you take those 42 days, just separately times our average daily vessel margin will give you a pretty good indication plus there was 61 days of the Michipicoten not sailing in that first quarter.

Okay, thanks. I'll try to work that out. Thanks again, guys.

Thank you.

At this time, we have no further questions.

Okay. Well with that, we'd like to conclude our first quarter call. We thank you all for participating on the call. And until our next call, if any of you do have any further questions or would like to discuss our operations, please do reach our senior management team. Thank you.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.