corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Cynthia and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today’s call over to Lesley Snyder.


Please go ahead ma’am.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal


year 2010 conference call. On the call today from the Company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and


Chief Executive Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Lorraine Barber, Chief


Financial Officer of Lower Lakes.


A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be made available on the Rand


website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for Forward-Looking Statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even


be anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 16, 2010.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results; then


Lorraine Barber, CFO of Lower Lakes will review the financial results; as Joe McHugh Rand’s CFO


is not able to join us today. Thereafter, I would discuss the fiscal 2011 earnings opportunities. We


will then open the call up for questions.


The overall reduction in demand from our customers in the first half of the fiscal year, due to the


weakened economy and the resultant delayed openings of our customers’ facilities for the 2009


sailing season, reduced our vessel scheduling flexibility and decreased the overall operating


efficiency of our fleet. In combination with increased customer demand in the second half of the


fiscal year, favorable weather conditions on the Great Lakes during the October to December


period, and an unusually strong customer demand in January 2010, when our vessels sailed for an


unbudgeted 111 days, marine freight revenue recovered and exceeded the second half


performance of the prior fiscal year. For the full year, marine freight revenue almost achieved prior
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


year levels, despite the adverse market conditions and a weaker Canadian dollar during the


revenue earning period.


Demand in the markets that we serve has been down by almost 50% on a tonnage basis, for


certain of the commodities that we transport. Despite this overall market softness, our fiscal year


2010 results clearly illustrate the benefits of our differentia table and sustainable competitive


advantages. These include high barriers to entry, and non-duplicatable asset portfolio, long-term


contracts with revenue visibility, and an efficient cost structure.


The severity of this downturn has tested our operating model and business strategy. Our full year


fiscal 2010 financial performance in the face of the severe economic downturn validates the quality


of our business and our position as one of the most efficient providers of bulk freight shipping


services throughout the Great Lakes region.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes Towing, and Lower Lakes Transportation


Company


Thanks, Laurence. We are very pleased with our operating performance, particularly considering


that volumes of certain commodities transported on the Great Lakes were down significantly in


2009 versus the prior year. Despite the fact that volumes were down lakes-wide, we did see a


modest improvement in some of the commodities that we transport and were able to partially offset


the reduction in overall demand with the increased business in our grain and salt cargos.


While customer demand as measured in tons was down lakes-wide by almost 50% for certain of


the commodities that we carry, versus the 2008 sailing season, our overall tonnage volumes were


only down by 2%, excluding outside voyage charter.


This was a direct result of our diverse customer base, the scheduling flexibility inherent in the size


and configuration of our fleet, our cost efficient operating model, and our market position.


Overall, we are pleased with our vessel utilization, which equaled 95.2% of the theoretical


maximum of 3,300 days for the shipping season. Despite reduced overall demand, our total sailing


days which we define as days a vessel is crewed and available for sailing, decreased by only five


days or 0.2% to 3,143 sailing days in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, from 3,148 sailing days


in the fiscal year 2009.


Due to reduced demand from our customers, we operated the McKee Sons for only 171 sailing


days in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, compared to 281 sailing days in the fiscal year ended


March 31, 2009. This was partially offset by the operation of the Saginaw for an additional 84


sailing days in the fiscal year 2010, in comparison to the previous year when the vessel was


undergoing a repowering and other upgrading during this period.


Excluding the Saginaw and the McKee Sons, we operated our remaining 10 vessels for 21


additional sailing days during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, compared to the fiscal year


ended March 31, 2009.


Thus far in the fiscal 2011 sailing season, our business has benefited from an increase in sailing


days due to additional new business and improving volumes in our existing aggregates and steel


related commodities business.