Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lesley Snyder — Head-Investor Relations, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Lower Lakes Towing Ltd.
Joseph W. McHugh — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Andrew Gadlin — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Ross Leslie Haberman — President, Haberman Management Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Rand Logistics second quarter fiscal year 2012 earnings results conference call. [Operator instructions]

Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2012 second quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand' s President; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand' s Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results, affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets; the weather conditions on the Great Lakes; and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2011.

And with that I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.

Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results. Joe McHugh, our CFO will review the financial results and Ed Levy, Rand's President will review the growth initiatives that we achieved this year. We will then open the call up for questions.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, we were pleased with our operating results including an increase in operating income plus depreciation and amortization of 72.4% to $14.1 million from $8.2 million in the year ago period.

We were particularly pleased with the improvement in our vessel-level operating profitability, which we regard as a critical performance indicator. On a per sailing day basis, our vessel-level operating profitability increased 42.7% during the fiscal second quarter of 2012 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2011 for all vessels as well as excluding the results of three recently acquired vessels and the long-term lay up of one of our vessels.

While Scott will go into greater detail about the operating performance of the fleet, in summary, we are realizing many of the benefits associated with the larger fleet including a better ability to match the appropriate vessel capacity with customer requirements, relying less on outside vessel charters to meet the contractual needs of our customers, scheduling flexibility and expense efficiencies. These benefits are allowing us to leverage the three primary organic growth drivers in our business: price, utilization and mix.

While we are pleased with the results today, we are equally excited about the company's long-term prospects. On this end, the past nine months have been transformationable for our company. Specifically, we have firstly acquired four vessels and have a fifth under contract, which we expect to close on over the next several weeks.

Secondly, successfully integrated three of the four new vessels into our operation. Thirdly, completed the repowering of our last remaining steam powered vessel to diesel. Fourthly, completed an equity raise of $16.8 million, and we are finalizing a $20 million debt syndication to fund the acquisition of the fifth vessel. And fifthly, extended the maturity of our existing debt facility by two years from April 2013 to April 2015.

We believe that our year-to-date results clearly illustrate the benefits of our differentiable and sustainable competitive advantages. These includes high barriers to entry, a non-duplicatable asset portfolio, customer and end-market diversification, long term contracts with revenue visibility, and an efficient cost structure.

We are confident that the strategic initiatives that we have achieved thus far in 2011 have enhanced our sustainable competitive advantages and will position us well to further capitalize on the three primary organic growth drivers in our business, including higher asset utilization as measured by the percentage of time our vessels are in revenue loaded condition, price increases and a continued diversification in our commodity and customer mix.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operation. Scott?

Thank you, Laurence. We continued to experience strong demand for the commodities that we carry and we will sail into January 2012 to ensure that we meet our customers' shipping needs. Based on current market conditions, all of our sailing days are already contractually committed for the 2012 sailing season, including the sailing days related to the dry bulk self unloading ATB that we anticipate closing on prior to the year end.

In general, there was not a material shift in the mix of commodities that we transported in the quarter ended September 30, 2011 versus our historical mix. As we had projected, our salt tonnage, which increased by approximately 16% in the first six months of fiscal 2012 versus the same period last year, has rebounded back to more normal levels due to more typical weather conditions this past winter in the Great Lakes region.

Also of note, our grain tonnage increased by approximately 12% in the six month period ended September 30, 2011. We operated 14 vessels during the three month period ended September 30, 2011 including the vessel acquired in July 2011, compared to 12 vessels during the same year-ago period.

Our total sailing days 109 days or 10.1% to 1,190 sailing days during the three months period ended September 30, 2011, compared to 1,081 sailing days during the same year-ago period and a theoretical maximum of 1,254. The variance between actual and theoretical maximum number of sailing days was a result of vessels out of service for repair and a delay in grain tonnage available for shipment due to seasonal factors.

The larger percentage increase in tonnage compared to the percentage increase in sailing days reflects the largest – larger average size of our vessels utilized in the three-month period ended September 30, 2011, versus the comparable year-ago period. That resulted from the addition of three vessels in the 2011 sailing season, and the long-term lay-up of one of our vessels.

Sailing days for the six months ended September 30, 2011 equals 2,255 versus 2,104 for the same period last year and a theoretical maximum of 2,437. The variance between our sailing days for the six months ended September 30, 2011 and a theoretical maximum was caused primarily by the late sailing of our repowered vessel and other delays in completing scheduled winter repairs and maintenance.

As Laurence mentioned, we believe that our per day vessel level operating profitability, which equals vessel revenue less all direct vessel expenses including repairs and maintenance divided by sailing days is one of the most important metrics that we monitor.

We are encouraged that we have increased this vessel-level operating margin per day by nearly 26% for the fleet overall for the six months ended September 30, 2011 versus the comparable period last year. Vessel-level operating margin per day for the vessels that we operated during both the six months ended September 30, 2011 and September 30, 2010 increased by approximately 22.6%. The improvement in this measure on a year-over-year basis is attributable to continued improvements in operating performance, increased average vessel carrying capacities, and higher asset utilization in part related to more normalized backhaul opportunities. While, we are very pleased with our results to-date, we believe that there is still room for improvement in our vessel level operating profitability as we continue to improve our operating practices.

This includes making sure that all vessels have completed scheduled winter maintenance by our fiscal year end. We lost 103 sailing days this year due to the delayed sailing of several vessels and incurred close to $1 million of winter work, which was expensed during the first half of the year.

In addition, over the first six months of this fiscal year, our trade patterns and scheduling efficiencies were affected by not having the use of one of our vessels until June 1, 2011, due to its repowering as well as the mismatch of certain of our capacity to the contract which it was servicing. The latter has been rectified by the acquisition of the bulk carrier several weeks ago. Given the fixed nature of our cost structure, if we are able to continue to drive utilization, improve our commodity mix, and realized price increases, we will be able to capture a significant portion of the operating leverage that is inherent in our business.

As we experienced after the vessel acquisitions in February 2008, we are confident that the expanded size of our fleet will allow us to accelerate the organic growth opportunities that result from operating more vessels.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks Scott. I would now like to give you a more detailed explanation of our financials.

Total revenue during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011 was $48.4 million, an increase of $9.6 million or 24.7% compared to $38.8 million during the same year ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel surcharges and higher freight revenue offset by substantially reduced outside charter revenue.

Freight and related revenue generated from company operated vessels increased by $4.9 million or 16.0% to $35.2 million during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011 compared to $30.3 million during the same year ago period.

Freight and related revenue per sailing day increased by $1,515 or 5.4% to $29,550 per sailing day during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011, compared to $28,035 per sailing day, during the same year-ago period.

Excluding the impact of currency changes, freight revenue increased 12.4% for the three-month period ended September 30, 2011, compared to the three-month period ended September 30, 2010. This increase in freight revenue was attributable to a 109 additional sailing days, a 20.4% increase in tonnage hauled by our operated vessels, contractual price increases, continued diversification in our commodity and customer mix, and higher vessel utilization.

Vessel operating expenses increased by $5.2 million or 19.8% to $31.3 million during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011 compared to $26.1 million during the same year ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel costs and increased number of sailing days resulting from the three recently acquired vessels operated during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011, and a stronger Canadian dollar partially offset by a reduction of costs due to a long-term lay-up of one of our vessels.

Vessel operating expenses per sailing day increased $2,123 or 8.8% to $26,265 per sailing day during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011 compared to $24,142 during the same year ago period

Our general and administrative expenses increased by $140,000 to $2.4 million during the three month period ended September 30, 2011 compared to $2.3 million during the comparable year ago period. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to bank administrative fees under the Black Creek loan and a stronger Canadian dollar. Our general and administrative expenses represented 5.1% of revenues during the three-month period ended September 30, 2011, a decrease from 6.0% of revenues during the same year ago period.

During the three month period ended September 30, 2011 $600,000 of our general and administrative expenses was attributable to our parent company and $1.8 million was attribute to our operating company

The Canadian dollar strengthened by approximately 6.1% versus the U.S. dollar averaging $1.02 U.S. per Canadian dollar during the three month period ended September 30, 2011, compared to approximately $0.96 U.S. per Canadian dollar during the comparable year ago period. The Company's balance sheet translation rate decreased from $1.03 U.S. per Canadian dollar at March 31, 2011 to $0.95 U.S. per Canadian dollar at September 30, 2011.

As shown on slide 14 of the presentation available on Rand's website under investors events and presentations, Operating income plus depreciation and amortization increased 72.4% to $14.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, '11, compared to $8.2 million for the comparable quarter last year.

Finally, I'd ask you to turn the slide 16 of the aforementioned presentation. This chart illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation and amortization, since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes. We believe that this track record highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and economic – good and difficult economic conditions.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Ed. Ed?

Thanks, Joe. Since the beginning of this calendar year, we have invested in excess of $78 million to modernize and grow our fleet, to better match the characteristics of our fleet with the growing long-term needs of our customers. Based on the data that we have to date, the return on these investments have been encouraging and our in line are exceeding the 15% un-levered return on invested capital hurdle that the investments were predicated on.

Specifically, as we have discussed in prior conference calls, we completed the conversion of our last steam powered vessel to diesel and we introduced this vessel into service on June 1, 2011.

Notwithstanding, having only sailed 122 days during the 2011 sailing season through September 2011, versus 183 days during the 2010 sailing season, and incurring $200,000 of fit out expenses in the year-to-date period during the 2011 sailing season, versus none during the 2010 sailing season, the vessel operating margin per day for this vessel has increased by over 111% year-over-year.

We are similarly pleased with the vessels we acquired in February 2011. Through September 2011, on a combined basis, the two vessels have met the projections that the acquisition was predicated on. These vessels are allowing us to be more competitive in the movement of certain commodities, thereby increasing our addressable market.

In July 2011, we acquired the Manitoba, a Canadian dry bulk carrier and simultaneously extended an existing long-term contract of affreightment. This contract of affreightment will utilize substantially all of the Manitoba's sailing days.

The Manitoba was a classic tuck-in acquisition of a vessel we are very familiar with, as we have been operating the vessel under a long-term time charter for the last four years.

Given fit out costs incurred in late July and August, this vessel was marginally profitable in the quarter ended September 30, 2011.

In September, we announced the signing of purchase and sale agreements to acquire one Jones Act compliant dry bulk self-unloading vessel and one bulk carrier, for a total purchase price of $25 million before approximately $10 million of vessel modifications.

Since the announcement, we have closed on the purchase of the bulk carrier, converted it to Canadian flag and it is currently undergoing modifications at a shipyard in Vera Cruz, Mexico.

We plan to introduce the vessel into service by late December 2011. Beginning in April 2012, this vessel is fully committed under a long-term time charter agreement. Besides this vessel achieving a 15% return on invested capital on a standalone basis by introducing it into service, we will be freeing up capacity on an existing self-unloader. This capacity will be absorbed by existing excess contractual demand.

We are in the final stages of syndicating an additional $20 million of long-term debt. This incremental debt will be added to our existing term loan facility, whose maturity date was recently extended through April 2015. Pro forma for this incremental $20 million debt, our total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2012 is expected to equal $127 million.

The weighted average interest rate on all debt outstanding after the effect of interest rate swaps as of September 30, 2011 was 6.6%. Proceeds for the incremental term loan as well proceeds from our recently completed equity offering will be used to purchase and modify the second of the two vessel acquisitions related to the asset purchase agreement signed in September 2011.

We are particularly excited about the prospects for this vessel. Management believes that it is the only Jones Act self-unloading bulk carrier not currently operating on the Great Lakes of a size and configuration suitable for operation in our market. It is the first time in many years that new Jones Act-compliant capacity has been added to the Great Lakes market.

As an indication of the customer demand that we are experiencing based on current market conditions, this vessel is already fully booked under long-term contracts for the 2012 and beyond sailing season. From a value perspective, we believe we are purchasing the asset including modifications at approximately 60% discount to the new built cost of a similarly sized vessel. While 2011 has been a transformational year for our company, we continue to believe that our customer needs and the structural dynamics within our markets will present us with meaningful growth opportunities over the next three to five years.

Given the size of our fleet and the efficiencies that are derived from scale, as well as our low cost operating structure, we believe that as a result of the actions we have taken in 2011, we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on the structural market growth opportunities that exist.

As a result, we are continuing to evaluate ways to add to the number of vessels in our fleet. That said, an equally important priority for our company over the next 12 months will be to repay the accrued preferred dividend on our preferred stock with cash flow from operation.

If we were to repay the accrued dividends from operating cash flow, it would contribute approximately $0.10 of earnings per share, based on our current share count. And we generate a return of approximately 20% per annum on the accrued dividend amount that was paid-off with no operational risks.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back to the operator and open it up for questions.

[Operator Instructions] . You've a question from the line of Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Market.

Thank you, operator. Good morning gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Let's say – first of all, could you give us some color on vessel utilization and it looks like you lost about 95% your sailing days in the quarter. Is that mainly a reflection of, the maintenance of the vessel was carried over from Q1 into Q2 or is there something going on maybe with the grain harvest that – I'd love a little more color about your sailing days?

Scott, could you address that please?

Kevin, the primary driver in the lost days during the second quarter was 35 days for the temporary lay-up of two bulkers, which was due to late harvest conditions with the lack of grain availability for those vessels, the harvest was late this year. And now we had experienced a further 28 days with mechanical difficulties on two of our vessels within the fleet. So those two drivers comprise that number.

Okay. So I would imagine that's behind you now as we enter this quarter. Is that the right way to think about it?

That's correct. All vessels have been fully operational through the month of – through the quarter to date, as of today and operations have been going quite well.

Okay, great. Scott, while I got you, maybe could you update us on kind of – have you seen any weather delays through October and early November or is it – or would you describe the environment is pretty benign in terms – from a mother nature standpoint?

We did experience some severe weather conditions in October, but the fleet actually performed quite well in October and surpassed our projections for the month. So it didn't have a material impact on us in the month of October and November too – November so far has been fairly benign compared to what you can expect at this time of the year.

Right, okay. And do you guys have procession of all of your acquired vessels now and is it next year that they will be fully operational, is that the right way to think about it?

There is one Kevin that we have not closed on, from the two vessels that we announced in September that we were acquiring, we've closed on one and the second we'll close on before the end of this calendar year and then we expect that both will be operating for the 2012 sailing season.

Okay great.

Kevin all our vessels are fully committed business wise for 2012. So we are pleased that despite the additional capacity we picked up this year, we've had more than sufficient demand from our customer base to fully support that increasing demand in capacity that we are adding.

Okay, thank you. And outside of your announced I guess changes to some of the vessels you are acquiring. Do you see any other major dry-docking costs for your existing fleet in 2013 – in fiscal 2013 or is it just mainly kind of maintenance CapEx that we'll see?

Scott.

We have five scheduled, the five-year survey dry-dockings this winter Kevin, within the fleet. And we have two life extension projects that we are beginning in the last two vessels in our fleet to undergo that process. So that's the major driver in our capital program for this winter.

Okay, but would you describe, it's nothing unusual or heavy. It's just kind of part of the normal, I guess dry-docking schedule, is that the right way to think about it?

It's part of the normal dry-docking schedule, but as the number of them because of the way they fall in the cycle are, it's a high year for us, for capital. We have this year and next year and then it falls right off to very minimal dry-dockings for the next, the following two years after that, just due to how the vessels are falling within the cycle.

Kevin, because we currently have about 16 vessels in the fleet and since they dry-docked approximately every five years, on average you can anticipate approximately three dry-dockings per winter season. As Scott said, just due to timing, this winter we have five and in fact the next winter is also quite heavy, but after that, we've got a relative holiday from them and we should see the benefit, so on average it's about three per winter season.

Okay. Thank you for that clarification. It's very helpful. And Scott you'd mentioned, I think you guys will be sailing into January, is this unusual or is it because you've seen an increase in demand, is that really kind of driving this?

For the Great Lakes fleet in general it's not unusual. For our fleet, we typically do sail into January with a small number of the vessels. We don't budget a large portion of business in the month of January. But this year, the majority of the fleet will be sailing into January just due to the fact that pent-up demand that we have just to finish servicing our customers.

Okay. Also – as you guys are probably aware, there is a lot of talk about the shale space, the opportunity to haul frac sand. I know the rails are very excited about it. Is there an opportunity for you guys to haul frac sand, and if so is it mainly a backhaul opportunity and could that help result in some operating leverage for you?

We do anticipate participating in that business, Kevin, through one of our existing customers that has a large presence in the foundry sand and frac sand business. And that's more of a front haul, but it ties in nicely with our backhaul movements coming out of the Lower Lakes. So, it's a very attractive opportunity for us right now. With the – particularly with the new ATB that we'll be bringing online next spring.

Okay, great. I got you. So you don't have to really reconfigure your network or your assets to participate in this, is that right?

That's correct.

Okay. And then one last question, I really appreciate your time today. As you have gained more scale and size, are you seeing new customers knock on your door looking for capacity or is most of your demand really coming from your existing customers?

Both Kevin, primary existing customers, but we have been – we just picked up recently fairly large – a fairly large piece of the business that we previously had not done and it's in the short haul shuttle type transportation of aggregate that we specialize in, and so we're pretty excited about that opportunity.

Okay, great. That's all I have today. Thanks so much for your time, congratulations on nice quarter, and it looks like things are coming together very nicely for you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Bob Sayles with LNK Capital Management. (33:14)

Scott, nice sailing. A few questions, on the slide that shows for the three months, the vessel operating expenses – slide 12, so what was the drop in vessel operating expenses year-over-year, was it the kind of the issues that we had last summer with a few of the – a couple of the vessels.

Yes, the major driver in that Bob is, you remember we had – together with the vessel incidents that we had last year during that quarter, in the first half of the year we also had the insurance costs associated with that because we're part of a reciprocal insurance agreement that we have since exited successfully. So we don't have – we won't have those costs going forward.

Okay and then when you breakout the operating income and the bridge charts that you show for Q2 on page 14. You don't breakout anything specifically for rate increases, and I'm curious as to whether or not you can share what the rate increases were on average for this sailing season versus last and what your expectation would be for next year?

We typically don't break that out, Bob, but what we are seeing is slightly above the inflation rate right now in anything that we've been re-pricing, and not a lot of our business is falling off this year. It's less than 10% but anything that has been renewed, has been renewed at above the rates of – above the rate of inflation.

What do you expect the fall off to be for the next sailing season, it was 10% renewed this year?

It's less than 10% this year and I don't have that number handy Bob for next year but it's not significant.

Okay. And then specifically with respect to iron ore, there has been a number of headlines with the steel market and blast furnaces being soft. Can you provide some sense of what you expect, what you're seeing with your iron ore business for the balance of the year and what your – any insight that you have into next year?

This quarter is typically the inventory building for Great Lakes steel mills, it is always a fairly strong quarter. And steel mills as they build inventories, we haven't seen any weakening of demand from our primary customer in the steel market. And certainly, if we had available capacity right now, our other customers that utilize our vessels for the transportation of iron ore would take more right now.

Going into next year in discussions with those customers, it looks pretty similar to this year. We have seen some softening, which in this quarter typically the North American steel market does soften, but we are not seeing any forecast of any drop off going into next year, they remain fairly confident in their business. We are seeing indications of the export ore market that's been being exported out of North America. We have seen some indications of that dropping off.

Okay. And then, are you willing to provide us with some sort of EBITDA guidance for the fiscal year as a whole? And then also free cash flow before additional vessel acquisitions?

Are you looking for fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2013?

'12.

No, I think that the position that we've had is the same, which is we feel highly confident that before the addition of the two vessels that we announced in September that component of the fleet will generate between $34 million and $36 million of EBITDA. We stand by that guidance that we gave people. That's based on a full sailing season for the existing complement excluding the two vessels acquired in or announced in September. Interest expense figure is about an $8 million number, and then you should be thinking about CapEx, not assuming we've got this bubble in dry-dockings, but we're thinking about CapEx is sort of $10-ish million number excluding that bubble.

Net CapEx also excludes the $10 million of reconfiguring the two...?

Yes, yes, a $10 million just of the base fleet having nothing to with what we made due to acquisition.

Okay, and then taxes?

No taxes given our NOL position.

Okay, yeah and then you talked about the dry-dock burst a couple of times. Can you give us some sense of what dry-dock costs look like, what they were last dry-dock season and what you expect they will be this season coming up?

Scott, go ahead.

In terms of dollar figures, our normal dry-docking runs about $1 million to $1.1 million per vessel, Bob. And we've got five of them this year. We have seen those costs from a few years ago, we would have allocated about 800,000 per vessel. They have continued to increase but not dramatically.

And Scott, most of that is expensed right?

No. It's capitalized.

Capitalized.

They amortize it over five years.

Okay, great. Okay, thank you that's all my questions for this shot.

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin with CJS Securities.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Andrew.

Good morning, Andrew.

I wanted to check, I'm not sure if I missed this but did you [ph] release (40:25) the best margin per day for your fleet?

We did not disclose that in our remarks Andrew, but directionally as you are thinking about it, and we recognize the importance of that number to our investors, as you're thinking about it. Last year was a number – year-to-date last year was about $10,300 a day and this year-to-date about $12,900 a day, okay. If you look at our core – what we call our comparable vessels, vessels that we sailed the first half of this year and the first half of last year. So, a comp vessel comparison, we were at about $10,700 a day last year and about $13,100 a day this year.

So, the takeaway from our perspective is that the vessel margin growth that we are seeing is not a result of acquisition, it is a result of inherent changes that we put into effect last year to improve the comparable vessels and obviously, we are getting some pick up from the new equipment as well.

Got it. And do you have a sense what it would be for comparable vessels?

Comparable vessels year-to-date the $13,100 year-to-date comparable vessels versus $12,700 last year.

Got it. All right, thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Ross Haberman with Haberman Management.

Good morning, gentlemen, I just had a quick question, a question for Ed, the $35 million you're going to pay for the two new vessels, how is that breakdown for the self loader and the conventional?

The – we've already purchased the conventional bulk carrier, Ross, and the price of that was a little bit in excess of $5 million, as you can see from our public filings. We've got some modification work to do on that vessel, which is being done right now as well we're dry-docking that vessel as part of the modifications we're doing to it. So that will increase our all-in cost by a bit, but then we've already paid for the dry-dock for the next five years for that piece of equipment. And then the remainder will be applied against the bulk carrier – the self-unloader.

Okay, all right. Thank you. That's it. Thanks a lot guys.

[Operator Instructions] . You have a follow-up question from the line of [ph] Bob Sayles with LMK Capital Management. (43:22)

Ed, on the acquisition front, as you identify other ships that become available that are available is there – is it, does it stand that you have the ability to take in several more vessels and fully book them, or is there a point where you're at capacity and you need to pull back, and so where does the tightness of the market end?

I think Bob, as we look at the market right now, we think we could add probably one or two vessels. Let's say one vessel now, and then to the extent that we could have a little bit of lead time, we think that we can certainly book out additional vessels beyond the one that we think we could put to work right now. And as we look out to the 2013, '14, '15 years, we clearly see some opportunities out there. And so, we are really thinking right now about that 2013, 2014 time period and how we're going to fill the needs of our customers, because it's really, we're trying to be responsive to the requests that they're making of us. But in this business as you know, these assets come up very infrequently, they are non-duplicatable. And so, we've got to be working many months ahead to try to fulfill the needs of the customer.

And Ed, what's driving the 2013 and '14 potential needs in the market?

We're just seeing – we're seeing – I should say we're seeing customers are coming to us and saying that existing business – that the existing contracts that they have are rolling off and would Lower Lakes to be prepared to participate in their business on a go-forward basis. And so, they're really coming to us and saying, relative to the last time they signed a contract, you guys have become a meaningful player on the Lakes and we want to be doing business with – with you.

And you think the additional vessels would probably be vessels that are already operating on the Great Lakes and perhaps higher cost structure organizations?

Well, I mean, they are in – from our observation, Bob, on the Jones Act side, we do not believe that there is another Jones Act compliant self-unloader that has the appropriate dimensions to participate in our market, that's currently not operating in our market. So we think we've tapped that opportunity with the vessel we acquired we announced in September.

And so really we think the opportunity is in market assets that potentially come available. And we'll continue to be looking to see if we can get lock-in by another one, unlikely to be Jones Act compliant though, perhaps foreign flag. The problem with the foreign flag market is the dimensions just don't work for our market, the dimensions of the vessel.

Okay. Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions.

Thank you, operator. Well, we thank you all for participating on today's call. We very much appreciate to interest in Rand and your support of the company and we look forward to keeping you apprised of the company's progress. In the interim, if you do have any further questions, please reach out to our management team. We would be very happy to talk with you. Thank you all.

This concludes Rand Logistics second quarter fiscal year 2012 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.