Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lesley Snyder — Head-Investor Relations, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Lower Lakes Towing Ltd.
Joseph W. McHugh — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Andrew Gadlin — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Analyst, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Matt S. Dodson — Analyst, Edmunds White Partners LLC
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, my name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Rand Logistics Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Ms. Snyder you may begin your conference.

Thank you. operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2012 third quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand' s President; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand's Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with the accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results, affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2011.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.

Thank you, Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results and Joe McHugh, our CFO, will review the financial results. We will then open the call up for questions. Ed Levy, Rand's President will join us for the question-and-answer section.

We are pleased to announce our second straight quarter with operating income plus depreciation and amortization growth in excess of 77% over the prior year quarter. Despite inefficiencies experienced earlier in the year in matching fleet configuration with customer requirements, delays in completing required winter work on certain vessels that caused us to begin the 2011 sailing season later than our normal start date and one of our vessels being out of service for 61 days due to its repowering, our operating income plus depreciation and amortization for our first three fiscal quarters increased by 52% as compared to last year.

We estimate that approximately 46% of the year-to-date operating income plus depreciation and amortization growth was organic and the remainder was a result of the February 2011 acquisition. Our organic growth is being driven by greater vessel efficiency resulting from growth in customer demand, improving product mix, benefits from our capital investment program, market share gains and, to a lesser extent, price increases.

As we have said for several years, size matters in our business and our larger fleet is driving tangible economies of scale. As our fleet sizes increase, we are capturing the inherent operating leverage in our business not only in our vessel margins but also as illustrated by the fact that SG&A as a percent of marine freight revenue has decreased to 7.8% for the nine months ended December 31, 2011 from 10.1% at December 31, 2007.

Finally, our earnings growth, thus far, in fiscal 2012 was achieved without any contribution from either the vessel that we acquired in July 2011 or the two vessels that we acquired in the fourth calendar quarter of 2011. We had again demonstrated our ability to effectively integrate acquired assets into our business, achieve the projections on which our capital investments were predicated and grow our core business at an attractive rate. We are very enthusiastic about the highly strategic nature of the two vessel acquisitions that we completed during the fourth quarter of 2011.

As illustrated on slide six of the slide deck available on Rand's website under Investors, Events and Presentations, these vessels further strengthen our competitive market position within the segment of the Great Lakes market that we are focused on. We expect them to contribute to our 2012 sailing season results and enhance the efficiency of our existing fleet by allowing us to match fleet configuration with customer requirements.

As highlighted on slide seven of the investor deck, our outlook for fiscal year 2013 is very positive, given our current order book as well as additional revenue and operating income expected to be generated by the two vessel acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter of 2011. Based on current economic conditions and assuming a full year of operations of the two vessels that we recently acquired, we are preliminarily projecting operating income plus depreciation and amortization to be approximately $42 million for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013.

During fiscal year 2013, we may have the opportunity to accelerate our earnings growth and exceed our preliminary operating income plus depreciation and amortization guidance as we continue to improve the profitability of our existing fleet by better aligning our assets to the trade patterns for which they are best suited and capitalize on recent new business. Our constant focus on improving vessel efficiencies combined with increasing customer demand reinforces our confidence in a positive future for Rand, our customers, employees and shareholders.

We believe that our fiscal year-to-date results clearly illustrate that Rand not only has above average growth characteristic but also benefits from differentiable and sustainable competitive advantages. These include high-legislative, geographic and economic barriers to entry, a non-duplicatable asset portfolio, customer and end-market diversification, long-term contracts with revenue visibility and an efficient cost structure. One of our key capital structure objectives over the next year is to repay the accrued dividend on our convertible preferred stock.

This payment will result in a saving to our common stockholders of about 20% per annum on the approximately $12 million of accrued dividend that we expect to pay. This attractive return is due to the saving of the annual dividend of 12% on the accrued dividend amount plus the saving due to the dividend on the base value of the convertible preferred stock of $15 million reverting back from 12% per annum to 7.75% per annum.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operation. Scott?

Thanks, Laurence. We are pleased with our third quarter results as we enjoyed consistent customer demand throughout the quarter. This demand continued across our end-markets into January 2012 as we operated for an above average 203 sailing days in the month. I believe that our fiscal third quarter financial results are indicative of the earnings power of our business. During this past quarter for the first time in the 2011 sailing season, we were able to [ph] align (09:46) our assets to the trade patterns for which they were best suited.

We experienced fleet inefficiencies in the first two quarters of this fiscal year and incurred a significant amount of winter work in the first quarter of this year that should have been incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Despite these items, total marine freight and related revenue per day plus fuel and other surcharges per day reduced by vessel operating expenses per day and repairs and maintenance per day increased by approximately $3,086 per day or 30.5% during the 2011 sailing season versus the 2010 sailing season.

Slide nine provides a historical perspective of the improvement we have made over the last six years in these key measurements and is one of the factors that we point to that affirms our confidence in being able to continue to grow earnings. We are expecting that this important metric will increase again during the 2012 sailing season as a result of organic growth in our business, a full year of sailing of the Michipicoten that went into service on June 1, 2011, and the introduction of the two vessels acquired during the fourth calendar quarter of 2011. Our optimism about the 2012 sailing season is somewhat tempered by our expectation that our salt tonnage will be reduced this upcoming season as a result of weather patterns thus far in the Great Lakes region.

We have been able to achieve the operating performance that we are announcing today even though demand for many of the commodities that we transport remains below their trailing five-year averages. That said, I am pleased to report that our markets experienced an overall increase in demand during the 2011 sailing season as compared to the same period in 2010. Overall, our tonnage carried increased by 18%.

As a result of this increased customer demand and the expanded size of our fleet, we experienced a 9.9% increase in the number of sailing days, year-to-date, compared to the prior year period, which in conjunction with a better commodity and price in – the commodity mix and price increases result in a 16% increase in marine freight revenue, excluding the impact of currency movement.

The magnitude of demand improvement varied across the end-markets that we serve and the commodities that we transport. Aggregates represent approximately 47% of our total tonnage. Shipments increased 1% Lakes-wide, year-to-date, versus the same period one year ago. The increase was primarily attributable to improved demand from the steel industry for lime and fluxing stone. However, aggregate shipments Lakes-wide were still 10.2% below their five-year average. As I have mentioned previously, the majority of our aggregates are used in construction end-markets.

Our shipments were up 23.8% as compared to the same period in 2010. This increase was primarily driven by market share gains as a result of the two vessels acquired in February 2011. We are projecting that aggregate tonnage will expand in the 2012 sailing season due to additional new business and modest growth in the market.

Coal represents approximately 14% of our total tonnage. Shipments Lakes-wide decreased 13.7%, year-to-date, versus the same period in the previous year. This is primarily attributable to reduced demand as a major Canadian utility phases out its coal-fired generating capacity. Lower Lakes increased shipments by approximately 1%, year-to-date, to our industrial and small utility customers.

Iron ore represents approximately 13% of our total tonnage. Shipments increased by 12.8%, Lakes-wide, year-to-date. Our shipments increased 15.3% during the 2011 sailing season as compared to the same period in 2010. We expect to increase our iron ore shipments in the 2012 sailing season due to a projected robust demand in the steel industry in the first half of the year.

Salt represents approximately 12% of our total tonnage. Shipments increased significantly, Lakes-wide, versus the previous year, due to a return to normal weather patterns in the Great Lakes region last winter. The tonnage that we carry increased by 16.5% for the nine months ended December 2011 versus the same period in 2010. The increase was consistent with our expectations at the beginning of the 2011 sailing season. We expect our salt tonnage to decline in 2012 as, thus far, the winter has been abnormally mild in the Great Lakes region.

Grain represents approximately 10% of our total tonnage. As I have mentioned in the past, much of the grain that we haul is used in a highly consistent and predictable basis for milling purposes, not for export. The grain tonnage that we carry increased by 13.6%, year-to-date, versus the same period last year due to an increase in our milling markets together with an increased export tonnage. We expect a slight decline in our grain tonnage due to a change in the trading patterns of one of our vessels.

Our total sailing days increased 311 days, or 9.9%, to 3,465 sailing days during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2011, from 3,154 sailing days during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010. The increase in sailing days was primarily a result of stronger overall markets and the acquisition of the two self-unloading vessels in February. The increase in sailing days was partially offset by the repowering of our last steam powered vessel, which resulted in a loss of 61 sailing days and our decision to not sell one of our vessels, which resulted in a reduction of 250 sailing days. We have subsequently decided to retire the latter vessel.

Our outlook for fiscal 2013 is very positive given our current order book as well as additional customer demand expected to be serviced with the added capacity of the two vessels we acquired in the fourth calendar quarter of 2011. Based on contracts in hand, our expanded fleet is fully booked for the 2012 sailing season. As such, subject to the timing of the introduction in the service of our new self-unloading ATB unit, we remain confident in our ability to operate our expected fleet close to its theoretical maximum of 4,320 sailing days in fiscal 2013.

We have been successful in securing additional new business for the 2012 sailing season and expect to renew all expiring contracts. Our new business can be loosely grouped into three categories, responding to growth needs of our existing customers, benefiting from the introduction of new commodities being moved in our markets, and increased market share. The increased fleet capacity due to the vessel acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2011 has allowed us to aggressively pursue additional opportunities.

Additionally, they enable us to continued improving the scheduling and efficiency of our vessels, which will in turn optimize the revenue generating capabilities of the fleet. Furthermore, given the contractual demand that we have in hand, anticipated completion of winter work and the relatively mild winter conditions in the Great Lakes region, we anticipate having substantially all of our vessels operational at the opening of the navigation season.

As previously discussed, we acquired two vessels during the fourth quarter of calendar 2011. We have substantially completed the modifications in drydocking necessary on the bulk carriers and expect that this vessel will be available to start the sailing season under a long-term time charter. As discussed previously, the addition of this vessel will allow us to continue to match customer demand with the appropriate vessel configuration by redeploying a self-unloading vessel, which previously serviced this customer. We are expecting to begin the modifications for the second unit in the near term and expect that this vessel will operate for approximately 150 days during the 2012 sailing season.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks, Scott. I would now like to give you a more detailed explanation of our financials. Total revenue during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 was $49.3 million, an increase of $12.7 million, or 34.7%, compared to $36.6 million during the same year-ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher freight revenue and fuel surcharges offset by substantially reduced outside charter revenue.

Freight and related revenue increased $8.6 million, or 31.4%, to $35.9 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to $27.3 million during the same year-ago period. Excluding the impact of currency changes, freight revenue increased 31.9% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same year-ago period.

This increase in freight revenue was attributable to 160 additional sailing days, a 23% increase in tonnage carried and contractual price increases. Freight and related revenue per sailing day increased $3,653, or 14.0%, to $29,683 per sailing day during the three month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to $26,030 per sailing day during the same year-ago period.

Vessel operating expenses increased $8.7 million, or 37.1%, to $32.1 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to $23.4 million during the same year-ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel cost and an increased number of sailing days resulting from the recently acquired vessels operated during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by a reduction of cost due to the long-term lay-up of one of our vessels.

Vessel operating expenses per sailing day increased $4,234, or 19.0%, to $26,509 per sailing day during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to $22,275 per sailing day in the comparable year-ago period, primarily due to higher fuel costs.

Our general and administrative expenses increased $142,000 to $2.6 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.4 million in the comparable year-ago period. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher bank administrative fees, slightly higher compensation costs and higher audit costs associated with the implementation of compliance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our general and administrative expenses represented 7.1% of freight and related revenues during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, a decrease from 8.8% of freight and related revenues during the same year-ago period.

During the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, $700,000 of our general and administrative expenses was attributable to our parent company and $1.9 million was attributable to our operating companies. The Canadian dollar weakened by approximately 1.0% compared to the U.S. dollar, averaging approximately US$0.977 per Canadian dollar during the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared to approximately US$0.987 per Canadian dollar during the comparable year-ago period.

The company's balance sheet translation rate decreased from US$1.031 per Canadian dollar at March 31, 2011 to US$0.983 per Canadian dollar at December 31, 2011. During the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, the company's operating income plus depreciation and amortization increased by $6.1 million, or 77.6%, to $14.0 million from $7.9 million.

As shown on slide 16, during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2011, the company's operating income plus depreciation and amortization increased $12.9 million to $37.8 million from $24.9 million.

The approximately 52.2% increase in operating income plus depreciation and amortization was somewhat offset by inefficiencies experienced earlier in the year in matching fleet configuration with customer requirements, delays in completing required winter work on certain vessels that caused us to begin the 2011 sailing season later than our normal, and one of our vessels being out of service for 61 days due to its repowering.

During the three months ended December 31, 2011, net income per share on a fully diluted basis increased $0.13 to $0.37 per share from $0.24. During the nine months ended December 31, 2011, net income per share on a fully diluted basis increased $0.11 to $0.93 per share from $0.82.

Finally, I'd ask you to turn to slide 17 of the aforementioned presentation. We believe that this chart, which illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation and amortization since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes, highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

With that, I would like to open the lines for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin with CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Good morning, Andrew.

I wanted to follow up on vessel margin per day, there are some numbers here, I just want some help putting it all together.

Okay go ahead. Do you have a specific question, Andrew or...

Yeah I mean, specifically, it looks like your margin per day was approximately $13,750, is that about right?

Year to-date Andrew – good morning, it's Ed – year to-date, Andrew, $13,200 versus $10,100 last year. So approximately 30% increase year-to-date, year-over-year.

When I think about the increase that's being driven by better revenues, the repowering, any other factors?

Revenue is a broad topic. In revenue, there's things like product mix and there is vessel efficiency. And it goes back to this concept, which we've been talking about for a while, which is the percentage of time within a single day increment that our vessels are in revenue loaded condition. And as we've increased the size of the fleet, we have been able to get much more scheduling flexibility and efficiencies and so that's what's driving a portion of the revenue growth as well as product mix and price increase, obviously. And given the nature of our cost structure, there's pretty significant operating leverage that we're picking up and you're seeing that in terms of driving the margins.

So safe to say as you add ships, that should continue?

As we add ships or improve the mix – even if we don't add ships, as we improve the product mix that our fleet is carrying and we continue to improve the efficiencies that we're driving from our vessel [audio gap] (29:27) an increased price, you'll continue to see the revenue per day statistic increase. And we think that we can continue to increase the revenue per day on a percentage basis faster than our costs are going up – our costs are relatively fixed as you know.

Okay. And as you bring on these two new ships, are there any new business opportunities and contracts that you're looking at?

Scott, would you like to address that?

Andrew, we have added new business in the last few months for the upcoming season within our existing markets. And as we have stated, we've also added some new commodity that's new to the Great Lakes also this year, which is something new for our fleet.

Thanks. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thank you, Andrew.

Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Market.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Congratulations on another nice quarter.

Thank you.

Kind of a big picture here, when I'm looking at the Lake Carriers Association, it appears that U.S. Cargo finished the year strong, with volume growth accelerating throughout the quarter and we know you've had favorable weather conditions to-date. But could you give us some color how much of this growth, and maybe particularly U.S. limestone, which is up 15% in the quarter, is from favorable seasonal dynamics versus improving demand trends you're seeing across the industry?

Scott, please go ahead.

Certainly some of that growth, Kevin, was due to the favorable weather conditions in the last quarter, but the majority of that growth is due to the improvements in the U.S. steel industry, mainly, that has driven that growth.

Okay. Thanks, Scott. And Scott, sticking with the steel industry theme, could you remind me how much coal you're moving? As you know coal similar to rails continues to come under extreme pressure, so I'm just trying to gauge your exposure, if any. Are you moving more steam coal or met coal and...

We...

I'm trying to get a breakout of that.

We move just about 2.7 million ton of coal, annually, and about half of that is met coal. And then the balance is split almost evenly between industrial customers such as cement plants and small utilities – we service several small utilities in the Michigan market.

Okay. So kind of [indiscernible] (32:29) your-end customers are more industrial focused, so your mix is different than the rail?

We expect our coal tonnage next year to be relatively flat. We don't – the main decrease that you're seeing in coal tonnage is on the Great Lakes right now, and the statistics is due to Ontario Hydro phasing out their coal-fired generating capacity here in Ontario. They were a big user of U.S. western coal – Powder River Basin coal, and those shipments have almost ceased now.

Okay. Thank you, Scott, that's a very good color. And how many days did you sail on the January last year, can you remind me?

144.

Okay. And as you think about the 2012 sailing season, as that ramps up, when do the locks open up and allow a full sailing schedule? I know it's largely dependent on [ph] lake – whether (33:33) weather conditions, but is there typically a targeted start date for you guys?

The Soo Locks, which divide Lake Superior and Lake Huron, open on a fixed March 25 in every year. And the St. Lawrence Seaway opens anywhere from the earliest is March 22 last year, up until about April 1, but generally, they're in that March 25 range the last few years. So typically, the season starts operating right then and then in our markets, most of the stone quarries don't come online until around April 1. But we will typically start in the last week of March and start servicing some of our iron ore customers and gradually phasing the vessels in until the stone quarries come online.

Okay. Thank you and kind of sticking with the weather theme here, the upside to little ice this winter is that you can continue to move cargo, but was there a fear that lower water levels next sailing season could impact any of your routes?

Right now, we certainly benefited this year from higher water levels and especially in the last quarter when, typically, water levels have a seasonal decline on the Great Lakes, they actually increased on the Lower Lakes due to the extremely wet weather conditions we had this year. Their forecast to remain high on the Lower Lakes into next summer when they should – just reading today, actually, that they should – they're predicted to be about equal to last year by summer, and that's going to be probably Lake Superior will be somewhat lower. They're now forecasting a large decline at this point, but we'll – and then the fall will be dependent upon precipitation trends in the spring and fall of next year.

Okay, thank you. And last question here, there are reports that the Saginaw lost its boom on New Year's Eve. Could you give us an update on this vessel and efforts that are underway to get the vessel repaired and will it be ready for the start of the 2012 sailing season?

Yeah, as we had a major incident on New Year's Eve with the Saginaw's unloading boom, one of the cables that are fixed to the boom to the ship had just been replaced and that cable failed prematurely and will be most likely the subject of litigation. But that did impact our third quarter results with a substantial accrual for insurance deductibles. That ship is presently being repaired right now and is ahead of schedule and projected to be ready for the opening of the season.

Okay. Thank you, Scott. And gentlemen, I really appreciate your time today, once again, congratulations on another nice quarter.

Great, thank you, Kevin. Now I should just mention to everybody that Rand will be presenting at a conference in Coral Gables next week, that Kevin and BB&T are coordinating, we look forward to that.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Bob Sales (36:49) with LMK Capital Management.

Hi. A couple questions, with respect to the accrued dividend – I don't know if I'm reading the Q right, it looks like it's about $9.5 million, you have $5 million of cash in the balance sheet, which should jump dramatically in March 31. I was wondering, Laurence, if you could provide any definitive timing on catching up that accrued dividend? And whether you have liquidity behind – what the liquidity is, currently, if you were to pay that $9.5 million for the upcoming working capital swing next year?

[ph] Bob (37:28), we contemplate addressing this in the second half of 2012. Based on current projections for our profitability, we should be generating substantial free cash flow, I mean just to put it in context, with $42 million or so of operating income plus depreciation, amortization. You deduct capital expenditure of $10 million to $12 million, interest of, say, $8 million to $10 million, all-in, you still generate north of $20 million of free cash flow this current year. So it just will be a matter of when we feel comfortable that we have adequate liquidity. We have also spoken to our lenders and they feel quite good about us adopting this repayment strategy. So we do anticipate, during the second half of 2012, we should be able to achieve it and have no pressure on our liquidity going forward from that point.

And Laurence, I can't remember, do you have a revolver available that if you wanted to pay it before that, you would – you could fall back on that for the current sailing season?

We do have a revolver available, but to a large extent, that is dedicated to the buildup of working capital at the beginning of our shipping season. So we would not ideally like to utilize that specifically for this purpose.

Okay. And then, Scott, you talked about a couple of things in terms of 2012 sailing season tonnage. You talked about a new commodity that you'll begin shipping for the Great Lakes. Can you describe, I understand if you don't want to divulge what that is for competitive reasons, but can you describe what the expected tonnage might be and impact on the growth in 2012 sailing season?

[ph] Bob (39:35), it's just – what I described earlier was part of the new business that we acquired. One piece of new business this year is a fairly substantial piece of business, which is more of a market share gain. And the new commodity is relatively, it's not immaterial but I wouldn't call it very material to our results. It's just a new movement for us that we've been able to attractively price.

Okay. And then, Scott, could you break down – we know salt is going to be down during the year, can you talk just a little maybe in big buckets, given your tonnage growth in 2012, where that comes from between contracts you bring along with the new ships versus other opportunities and with – along the lines of which particular commodity it impacts?

For 2012, you're referring, [ph] Bob (40:43)?

Yes, 2012 sailing season.

We did not acquire any new business with the two most recent acquisitions. One, the bulker is, as we stated, taking over some – an existing business that we are servicing with one of our self-unloaders that we're able to better utilize in our existing business. And the big jump you'll see in our business next year is in the – on the aggregate side, where we picked up some substantial increased tonnage on a shuttle run, which will eat up a substantial number of vessel days.

And that was, Scott, was that one customer?

That was one customer, yes.

Yeah. Okay, I think those are the questions I have for now. Congratulations and I feel like it would be a great sailing season, Scott.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Management.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So my question is related to the guidance, the EBITDA numbers provided. I think you've laid out that this does not include any improved backhaul or efficiencies that might come with that – with better scheduling. What else isn't in there? Is pricing in – is there some sort of pricing increase in there? And how about your mix of business and maybe you can comment on whether you expect that to be improved over 2011 as it relates to the margins I guess is what I'm saying?

Good morning, Rick, it's Ed. Just for your benefit and everyone's benefit, we have not completely finalized our 2013 budget. And by finalized, we mean our bottoms-up budget that we then take to the board, okay. In terms of the guidance that we're presenting today, this is based on our best estimate of what we know currently. And we continue to factor in the impact, for example, that our salt tonnage being down will have on our 2012 sailing season, okay.

That being said, as Laurence articulated in our prepared remarks, we think we may have an opportunity to exceed that guidance and the opportunity to exceed is driven by product mix, some price increases that we are in the midst of formalizing on certain contracts as well as efficiency gains that we know we're going to get. That being said, we think we put a number out there that I think we all feel very good about, that the historic vessel margins that we've been able to achieve affirms that number. And obviously, our hope is that we can exceed it, but for now, I think this is a number that we're all comfortable with. And as we learn more and we solidify our 2013 budget to the extent that we have information that we believe is important for the shareholders, we'll certainly come back to you and give you an update in terms of the ability to exceed or not the $42 million target that we're putting out there right now.

Okay. I appreciate that update. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Partners.

Hey, Ed, can you just talk a little bit about pricing and maybe how much of your contracted business that you have coming up in your next sailing season, potentially, which rolls over for pricing?

Good morning, John (sic) [Matt] (44:33). Look, we've been always – we've always said to people that we think that this single digits price increase is possible. I think what we want to make sure we continue to convey is that our revenue growth isn't just about price, okay. Our revenue growth – we've got a number of dials and levers that we're turning to drive revenue growth. Price is one of them, frankly, it's the one that we probably focus on the least, although we think over an extended period of time, we clearly have an opportunity there. But the other driver is product mix, as we continue to move towards higher value added products. Scott was talking about the fact that one of our large new business wins was very attractively priced, relative to product that it's going to displace potentially, and also efficiency of vessel operations, which is allowing us to increase the percentage of time that we're spending in revenue loaded condition.

And so it's really – it's efficiencies, it's mix and it's price that's driving the revenue growth, John (sic) [Matt] (45:45) and so we don't want – we appreciate everybody continues to ask us about contractual price increases. They're there, we'll continue to get them, but that's not – is this isn't a one-trick pony, and we think that the growth we showed in the 2011 sailing season should illustrate to people that we got a lot of ways to grow that revenue per day number. And roughly, given our cost structure and the inherent operating leverage in our business, we can really drive EBITDA growth as we increase our revenue, so roughly a 3% increase in revenues is a 5% increase in EBITDA, a 6% increase in revenue is a 15% growth in EBITDA. It's just by the nature of our cost structure, the kind of upward leverage that we can get in our business and that growth isn't just going to be contractual price. It's going to come from three buckets. We think we've got great opportunity in each of the three buckets to drive that growth. I think that's why you're hearing a level of excitement from our company in terms of where we can take this to.

Got it, that's helpful. But how much do you have that's rolling off? Is it 10%, is it 15% of the book that potentially reprices?

Scott, can you address that?

Less than 10%, Matthew.

It's 10%.

Less than 10%.

Less than 10% this year.

Okay, got it. And then the other question I have for you is relative to the question about the boom that broke, so in the quarter, you actually booked an expense to cover the insurance, is that correct? Did I understand it correct? And if it is, how much did you book and where is it in the P&L?

We did book it in the quarter, mid six figures, in terms of what we booked and it's in our vessel expenses.

Got it. And you don't think you shouldn't incur any more expense because you've already booked it, is that right or no?

That's correct, that is correct.

And one never likes to have an incident like that but we are fortunate that if it were to occur, that had occurred on December 31, which is basically the end of the sailing season, so we can use our winter period to do the necessary repairs, and these strong quarterly results that we have reported are despite taking that accrual, had that not occurred, they would have been even stronger.

Yeah, got it. And then can you help us understand January. So people are focused a little bit on the weather, can you tell us already how much more you've sailed this January because of the weather relative to last January sailing...

Yeah, we were 203 days this January, we were 144 last January.

Okay.

We're very careful and I want to make it very clear that in no way that we pull forward our 2012 sailing season demand into January. We were just meeting – we were continuing to meet customer demand that existed out there, but by no means did we pull forward.

Yeah. [ph] I see (49:10) the increased sailing days in January is more meeting customer commitments and weather-related.

Got it. And then the last question I have for you is on a lot of these energy conference calls, especially guys that have Marcellus and Utica exposure, they're talking about real problems getting frac sand. I assume that's the thing that you guys are talking about as the new commodity, but if it isn't, that's fine. But can you give us any sense of your ability to get frac sand, is that something you'll start to maybe carry and if it is, can you also give us a sense of how much maybe a ton difference, that is, than some of your other commodities?

Scott?

All I'll say on that, Matthew, is one of our long-term existing customers is in the frac sand business.

Okay. Can you give us any sense of the difference in the value on a per tonnage basis relative to your other commodities? So is it 20% greater, is it 10%, is it 15%, on average, 30%, I don't know, so I'm just trying to...

I'm not prepared to comment on that at this time

Okay, great. Hey thanks, I hope you guys have a good day.

Sure. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Chris Snyder with Sidoti & Company.

Hey, guys, congratulations on the quarter. I was hoping you could shed some light on the pricing environment within the industry, like how rates have been trending over the past year?

Scott?

Chris, most of the business on the Great Lakes is done on long-term contractual basis, there's not a lot of spot market business that occurs on the Great Lakes. So there hasn't been a lot of pricing movement in the past year or so. And we have been, if you look at the Great Lakes tonnages overall, relatively – coming out of a relatively soft market since 2008 as the economy starts to recover here in North America, particularly the U.S.

Okay, I was just trying to get a feel for the – because I know – I guess you guys just said less than 10% is going to be subject to repricing, so I was trying to get a feel for how that works?

Yeah, pricing, certainly we've been able to derive pricing increases in our business that has come off, but it's not a robust pricing environment, but certainly pricing increases at or beyond CPI-U.

Okay. And my second question is do you guys have any idea about what the CapEx after, like, refurbishments in the fiscal 2013 would be around?

It's early – we have not done our CapEx budget yet for fiscal 2013, Chris. You ought to be thinking, though, and the guidance we've always given around CapEx is approximately $300,000 a year of capitalized winter work per vessel. But we have five vessels that'll be drydocked in the 2013 fiscal year, and assume that's somewhere between $750,000 and $1 million per drydocking. We've got five drydockings that we're doing this winter, we've got five that we're going to do next winter, and then we've got a meaningful reduction in the number of drydockings, it's just the way the cycle happen to come up on our vessels.

So you guys – you have five this current winter and then five next winter?

Correct.

Correct. [indiscernible] (52:54)

And [ph] then we'll (52:56) have a relative holiday after that, having put those 10 behind us, because it lasts for five years after that.

Okay. Oh, yeah, okay. All right, thank you, appreciate it.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Partners.

Just a follow-up question for you. Can you give us what your sailing days were in February of last year?

Scott?

I believe they were zero, Matthew, we typically don't sail – the only time we ever sail in February is if we're doing – we have once in the past, with a salt shuttle in the Detroit River, but typically, thereon, I think this year, we have one or two days in February.

Okay, got it. Great, thank you.

And Matthew, I would also just highlight that while we have had a pretty strong January on a relative basis compared to last year, our January sailing days are primarily to accommodate customer demand, as Scott indicated, and are not as profitable as sailing days would be during our traditional sailing season. So they'd certainly contribute to our bottom line and we're pleased to have them, but on the other hand, they're not as profitable as we would normally have.

Thank you. That was our final question. And I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. We are very pleased with our third quarter fiscal results and are very optimistic about this upcoming sailing season. We really appreciate your investment and interest in Rand and look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress. Thank you all for participating today.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.