corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rand


Logistics Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call.


During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the


conference will be open for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference call is being


recorded today, Thursday, November 13 of 2008.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations for Rand


Logistics. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations, The Piacente Group


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal


2009 second quarter conference call.


On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed


Levy, Rand’s President; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes and Joe McHugh, Rand’s Chief


Financial Officer. This call is being webcast and a telephonic replay will be available following the


call.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


concerning Rand Logistics and its operating subsidiaries.


Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, but instead statements


based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the management of Rand Logistics. Such


forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could also cause actual


results to differ from the results included in such forward-looking statements. Rand assumes no


obligation to revise any forward-looking projections that maybe made in today’s release or call.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call.


After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating


results, Joe McHugh, our CFO, will review the financial results, and Ed Levy and I will summarize


the prospects for the current shipping season. We will then open the call up for questions.


As I have previously mentioned, we view the 2008 shipping season as the inflection point when our


company would deliver the operating results that our business plan was predicated on. In this


regard, we’re very pleased with the results for the first half of fiscal 2009. We believe that our


results for this sailing season are indicative of the earnings capability of the fleet.


Our ongoing operational improvements, strategic acquisition, vessel upgrade and our infrastructure


investments have resulted in $21.5 million of EBITDA for the first half of fiscal 2009, which is a


263.9% year-over-year increase and marine freight revenues of $59.6 million, which is a 42.8%


increase over the prior year.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


While we are pleased with our first half results, we still believe that there is meaningful room for


continued operational improvements, some of which we anticipate will be realized during the


remainder of the 2008 shipping season.


The vessels acquired in fiscal year 2008 continued to perform very well relative to expectations.


We’re pleased with their integration into our fleet and the revenue they have generated as well as


the vessel margin per day. We’re very pleased thus far with the operating and financial


performance of the Saginaw, as it is exceeding the internal projections we developed to justify the


repowering project.


Based on actual fiscal 2009 results to-date and the future prospects for these vessels, we believe


that these investments have and will continue to generate significant long-term shareholder value.


We believe that our low cost operating model, the diversity of both the end market and the


customers that we serve and the contractual nature of our business, will provide a level of stability


for our company as we continue to operate in an uncertain economic environment.


Specifically, we’re highly confident that our vessels will remain fully committed for the balance of


the current sailing season, and based on our existing contracts and our knowledge of customer


demand, we expect that our vessels will be fully utilized for the 2009 sailing season.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for review of our operation, Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, President, Lower Lakes Towing, Lower Lakes Transportation Company


Thanks, Laurence. We’re very pleased with the operational performance of our vessels in the fiscal


second quarter, highlighted by a 45.9% increase in marine freight revenue. Marine freight revenue


per day increased by $3,517 or 13.5% to $29,603 in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 from $26,086


in the comparable period in fiscal 2008. This significant increase in marine freight revenue was


driven by five primary factors: Increased freight rates, as I mentioned last quarter, we renewed


existing contracts and entered into new contracts for fiscal 2009 and beyond, all of which were


signed at rates consistent with our expectations, enhanced vessel utilization, stemming from our


ability to capitalize on greater scheduling flexibility including backhaul opportunities more readily


accessible to a larger fleet, significant improvement in vessel operating metrics, particularly on the


three vessels which we acquired in February 2008.


As a result of our being able to instill our operating philosophy on these vessels, we’re able to


meaningfully improve the efficiency of the vessels. In addition, we continued realizing the benefits


of the capital investments that we’ve made to increase the operating efficiency of the fleet. These


three factors accounted for approximately 66% or $2,312 of the increase in marine freight revenue


per day.


Approximately 21% or $715 of the growth in marine freight revenue per day was attributable to the


two bulk carriers purchased in August 2007. Approximately 13% or $440 of the growth in marine


freight revenue per day was attributable to the retirement of our oldest and smallest vessel at the


end of last year.


Based on actually year-to-date performance and our knowledge of our customers’ demand over the


final two months of the sailing season, we continue to enjoy a strong book of business for the


remainder of the season.


In addition, based on our existing contracts and our knowledge of customer demand, we expect


that our vessels will be fully utilized for the 2009 sailing season. We were very pleased that we’re


able to increase vessel margin by 176.9% or approximately $10.3 million in the quarter ended


September 30, 2008 versus the quarter ended September 30, 2007.