corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Rand Logistics First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator


Instructions]. Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations for Rand Logistics. Please


go ahead.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal


2010 first quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe


McHugh, Rand’s Chief Financial Officer. Ed Levy, Rand’s President will join us for the question and


answer portion of the call. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be


available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for Forward-Looking Statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be


anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to the, effects of the economic downturn in our markets; the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes; and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other risk factors, please see the Risk


Factors section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 25, 2009.


And with that I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results; Joe


McHugh, our Chief Financial Officer will review the financial results. And I will summarize the


prospect for the current shipping season. We will then open the call up for questions.


Given the challenging macroeconomic environment, given the significant reduction in demand for


bulk freight shipping services throughout the Great Lakes during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as


compared to the same year ago period, which reduced the overall operating efficiency of our fleets,


we are pleased that we were able to largely offset decreases in demand for the transportation of


certain commodities, with increased business from our grain and salt customers illustrating the


benefit of our end-market diversity.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Furthermore, we were able to offset the year-over-year decrease in vessel utilization with a 30%


decrease in vessel operating expenses. These reductions, in tandem with cost-cutting initiatives


already implemented, should eliminate approximately $2.4 million of cash expenses in fiscal 2010


relative to fiscal 2009 cash expenses. Excluding the impact of a weaker Canadian dollar, vessel


incidents and a one-time loan amendment fee, our operating income was comparable to the year-


ago period despite a substantially worse economic environment.


Overall, our performance for the quarter underscores our leadership position within our market


niche and reflects our continued prudent approach to managing operating costs given the ongoing


weak economic environment.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes


Transportation Company


Thanks, Laurence. Demand for certain bulk freight shipping services lakes-wide was down by as


much as 60% during the quarter as compared to the prior year comparable period. As a result,


Rand’s vessel utilization was not optimal relative to the same period last year.


However, in the fiscal first quarter, we added additional long-term business and significantly


expanded market share within our existing customer base, which together we believe will continue


to improve our existing trade patterns, diversify our end-market and enhance our vessel utilization.


Due to the contractual nature of our business, we have been insulated from any significant pricing


pressure.


Thus far in fiscal 2010 sailing season, our business has benefited from our cost efficient operating


model, the diversity of our customer network, commodity mix, and scheduling flexibility resulting


from our ability to access a variety of ports.


As a result of these factors, our vessels sailed 84% of the theoretical available days during the first


quarter of fiscal 2010 versus 87% in the comparable period last year, despite the fact that overall


volumes on the Great Lakes declined by as much as 60% year-over-year depending on the


commodity.


As announced last quarter, in order to proactively address the potential reduction in customer


demand, we initiated a comprehensive cost reduction program prior to the beginning of the sailing


season. As Laurence mentioned, as a result of the actions that we have already taken, we have


reduced projected fiscal 2010 cash expenses relative to actual fiscal 2009 cash expenses by


approximately 2.4 million and are on track to deliver our targeted reductions.


These actions include, wage and freeze -- a wage and salary freeze for shore side personnel,


elimination of all cash and equity bonus compensation, a significant reduction of IT and other third


party consulting costs, a reduction of professional fees, and elimination of all discretionary and non-


essential expenditures.


In addition to the reduction in operating expenses, thus far during the fiscal 2010 sailing season, we


continue to benefit from our operational improvements across the fleet and capital expenditures


made in prior periods. We believe that both the cost savings plan that we have implemented and


the operational improvements that we have achieved combined with our increased market share


will continue to help offset the decrease in utilization caused by sluggish demand.