Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alison Ziegler — Vice President, Cameron Associates, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Joseph W. McHugh — Jr., Chief Financial Officer
Joseph W. McHugh, Jr. — Chief Financial Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Ross L. Haberman — President, Haberman Management Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please Standby, we're about to begin. Good day, and welcome to the Rand Logistics Incorporated Fiscal Year 2015 Third Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Alison Ziegler, Vice President, Cameron Associates. Please go ahead ma'am.

Thank you, Arc. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics' fiscal 2015 third quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's Chief Executive Officer; and Joe McHugh, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; Laurence Levy, Executive Vice Chairman of Rand; and Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes will join the call in the question-and-answer session.

A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations. You just have to look down a couple on the website for today's date.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or otherwise beyond our control, and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan, as well as our financial position, results of operation and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of an economic downturn in certain of our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age. For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 12, 2014, as well as other recent filings.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thanks, Alison. We were generally satisfied with our fiscal third quarter results which continued the trend of improved vessel operating and reliability performance. Our results have also benefited from new long-term contractual business which has helped us to rebalance our commodity mix and leverage our existing route network leading to improved trade pattern efficiencies. Additionally, we're benefiting from higher water levels and modest contractual price increases.

For our fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2014, we reported operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss on foreign exchange and lease termination expense of $15.1 million, up 15.2% from the prior-year period and 20.7% on a constant currency basis. For the first nine months of fiscal 2015, this figure was $43.6 million, up 7.1% from the prior-year period and 10.8% on a constant currency basis.

The improvement in our year-to-date profitability was tempered by the weaker Canadian dollar as compared to the same period last year which negatively impacted results by $1.5 million, as well as adverse weather conditions in April through mid-May of this past sailing season. As previously disclosed, as a result of the latter, our operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss on foreign currency, was $3 million less in April 2014 compared to April 2013.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we operated 15 vessels, consistent with the third quarter of fiscal 2014. The number of Sailing Days that we operated decreased by 0.7% or 9 days to 1,361 days, as compared to 1,370 days in the same quarter last year. The decline relative to last year was related to the timing of vessel layups and was not unanticipated.

We sailed an average of 91 Sailing Days per vessel during the three-month period ended December 31, 2014 versus a possible 92 days available. This performance resulted in a fleet utilization of 98.6%. For the nine months ended December 31, 2014, we sailed 3,850 days versus 3,918 days in the comparable period last year. Our fleet utilization for the nine months ended December 31, 2014, equaled 93.3%. As previously disclosed, we lost 195 days due to adverse weather conditions on the Great Lakes at the start of the 2014 sailing season.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2014, we had a total of 30 days out of service or 0.8% of total Sailing Days, as compared to 23 days or 0.5% of total Sailing Days for the comparable period last year.

Vessel reliability remains a top priority. Process improvements that we have implemented are continuing to yield results, driving both revenue gains and expense reductions.

Delay Days, which we define as the lost time incurred by our vessels while in operation is a key reliability metric that we monitor. Delay Days can occur due to inclement weather, dock delays, traffic congestion, or vessel mechanical issues. Our overall delay time losses improved to 139 days or 10.2% of actual Sailing Days in the three months ended December 31, 2014. This compares to 178 days or 13% of total Sailing Days experienced in the quarter ending December 31, 2013. The 39-day reduction in Delay Days in the quarter allowed us to increase the time that our vessels were in revenue loaded condition and was a factor increasing our profitability by 15.2% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.

Year-to-date, overall delay time losses improved to 342 days or 8.9% of actual Sailing Days. This compares to 400 days or 10.2% of total Sailing Days for the same time period last year. We believe that we have an opportunity to continue to reduce our controllable Delay Days in the 2015 sailing season. Each 1% decline Delay Days creates approximately 40 incremental Sailing Days which, given the operating leverage in our business, are highly profitable.

Vessel margin per day for the 2014 sailing season equaled $13,849, a $1,155 or 9.1% increase compared to the 2013 sailing season. On a constant currency basis, this profitability metric increased by $1,623 per day or 12.8%.

A more balanced commodity mix, combined with consistent customer demand, resulted in improved scheduling flexibility. This allowed us to improve the efficiencies of our trade patterns.

Customer demand remain strong in the third quarter leading to a 13.8% increase in tonnage transported versus the same period a year ago, which was relatively consistent with our expectations coming into the sailing season. On a full year basis, our tonnage transported equaled 21.5 million tons. Our tonnage transported was impacted by a loss of approximately 1.6 million tons due to the delayed start of the sailing season.

Our salt tonnage was up 70.8% in the quarter and 30% year-to-date. The increase in salt tonnage is primarily due to restocking depleted supplies and contributed to the improved efficiency of our trade patterns. Based on customer nominations received and discussions we've had with customers, we're anticipating that our salt volumes in the 2015 sailing season will be consistent with our volumes in the recently completed season.

Our iron ore tonnage was up 29.1% in the quarter and 27% year-to-date. Growth in our iron ore tonnage was almost entirely a result of long-term contracts that we were awarded and that began in 2014 sailing season. We're projecting no appreciable change in our iron ore tonnage transported in 2015 sailing season relative to the 2014 sailing season.

We haul a majority of the infrastructure aggregates transported on the Great Lakes. Our aggregates tonnage was up 9.1% for the quarter and down 10.1% on a year-over-year basis. Much of the year-over-year decline is the result of the delayed start of the 2014 sailing season.

For the first time in several years, we experienced modest organic growth in certain select aggregates end markets. Aggregates account for approximately 46.6% of our total tons moved in the 2014 sailing season. A legislative initiative in the State of Michigan aimed at increasing funding for roads and infrastructure will be voted on in early May 2015. If passed, it is likely to have a positive impact on aggregate demand in the state.

Our coal tonnage was down approximately 4.9% on a year-over-year basis. The decline is due to weather issues in April and May 2014. We're also benefiting from an improvement in water levels, which have rebounded and are now at or above historical norms. This has enabled us to increase our tons carried per trip.

It is still too early to provide a precise outlook for the 2015 sailing season. However, based on tonnage nominations already received and conversations with other of our customers, we do not foresee a material change in demand for our services in the upcoming sailing season as compared to the 2014 sailing season.

We've completed the renegotiation of several of our customer contracts expiring prior to the start of the 2015 sailing season, and are satisfied with both the terms and pricing that we've been able to achieve. Of the remaining contracts that have yet to be renewed, no single expiring contract accounts for more than 2% of our total tonnage.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks, Ed. I would now like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2014, compared to the comparable period in the prior fiscal year.

Freight and other related revenue, which excludes fuel and other surcharges and outside charter revenue, increased by 5.3% to $42 million from $39.9 million. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in tonnage carried, price increases, improvements in commodity mix and water levels, and a higher percentage of time in revenue loaded condition, offset by the weaker Canadian dollar. On a constant currency basis, freight and other related revenue increased by 9.9% or $4 million.

Total revenue for the quarter decreased by 1.7% to $49.1 million. This was primarily due to the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar, a reduction in fuel surcharge revenue, and fewer Sailing Days, offset in large part by an increase in tonnage carried, an associated increase in freight and related revenue, contractual price increases, improvements in commodity mix and water levels, and a higher percentage of time spent in revenue loaded conditions.

Vessel operating expenses decreased by approximately $2.9 million or 8.9% to $29.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to improvements in certain of our operating metrics, a reduction in fuel expenses, and the weaker Canadian dollar. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased by 8.3% or $1,972 to $21,929 in the third quarter of fiscal 2015, from $23,901 in the comparable period in fiscal 2014.

We achieved an increase in vessel margin per day of 16.6% from $11,692 in the quarter ended December 31, 2013, to $13,633 in the quarter ended December 31, 2014. Assuming no change in exchange rates compared to the comparable quarter last year, our vessel margin per day for the quarter ended December, 2014 increased $2,579 or 22.1%.

Our general and administrative expenses were $3.5 million in the quarter. G&A costs increased quarter-over-quarter due to modest increases in compensation and benefit costs, legal costs, and one-time incidental proxy-related expenses, offset by the weaker Canadian dollar.

Our general and administrative expenses represented 8.3% of freight and related revenues, compared to 7.4% in the year-ago quarter. Operating income plus depreciation and amortization, loss on foreign exchange, and lease termination expense, increased 15.2% or $2 million to $15.1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2014.

Assuming no change in exchange rates compared to the comparable quarter last year, our operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss of foreign exchange and lease termination expense, for the quarter ended December 2014, increased by more than $700,000 or 20.7% above the prior year.

As illustrated on slide number 13, operating income plus depreciation and amortization, loss on foreign exchange and lease termination expense, increased 7.1% or $2.9 million to $43.6 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014. Assuming no change in exchange rates compared to the comparable period last year, our operating income plus depreciation and amortization, loss on foreign exchange and lease determination expense, increased by an additional $1.5 million or 10.8% above the prior year.

For the quarter and year-to-date periods ended December 31, 2014, the average exchange rate equaled $0.88 and $0.905 per Canadian dollar respectively. This compared to $0.953 and $0.964 per Canadian dollar respectively for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended December 31, 2013. The change in the exchange rates resulted in a reduction of $700,000 and $1.5 million, as compared to the quarter-over-quarter and year-to-date periods respectively.

Over the course of the year, every one penny change in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar, our operating income plus depreciation, amortization is affected by approximately $250,000. In addition, we incurred $300,000 and $700,000 of balance sheet adjustments during the quarter and year-to-date periods respectively that were reported in our earnings as a loss on foreign exchange. This was primarily a non-cash loss on translation of approximately $34.2 million denominated debt incurred in March 2014 and carried on the balance sheet of the Canadian subsidiary, net of $25 million of currency hedging for the three-month period ended December 31, 2014.

As of January 1, 2015, we entered into a $34.2 million currency hedge which will likely eliminate substantially all balance sheeted adjustment risk in the current quarter. For the quarter ended December 31, 2014, our effective income tax rate equaled a negative 42%, primarily due to the provision benefit for income tax of $1.3 million due to the change in forecasted pre-tax results and the implementation of the valuation allowance related to the net U.S. Federal deferred tax assets. For the first nine months of fiscal 2015, net income per share on a diluted basis increased to $0.60 from $0.16 in the year-ago period.

Finally, I'd ask you to turn to slide 14 on the aforementioned presentation. We believe that this chart, which illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss or gain on foreign exchange and lease termination expense, since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Ed. Ed?

Thanks, Joe. While we continue to make gains in our operating performance and profitability, management is sharpening its focus and placing a higher priority on return on invested capital. We've developed a series of initiatives designed to improve our return on capital.

Management's roadmap to improving return on capital consists of six primary elements, including: capitalizing on recent IT investments to identify, modify or eliminate customer contracts that are yielding an unacceptable return on invested capital; formalizing return on invested capital parameters for setting contract terms and pricing; continuing to improve the reliability in operating efficiency metrics to increase the percentage of time our vessels are in revenue loaded condition, we labeled this initiative finding 15 minutes a day; rationalizing costs; increasing our self-sufficiency relating to ship repair, maintenance and capital expenditures; and finally, introducing our newest vessel into service in the second half of 2015.

The vessel conversion project remains on schedule and on budget. [indiscernible] (20:31) began on January 5, 2015. As previously mentioned, we have long-term contracts in hand that fully utilize this vessel.

As the example of our sharpened focus on return on invested capital, during the quarter, the company exercised its right to terminate the Bareboat Charter Agreement related to the McKee Sons barge, which has not operated since December 2012. When operating, this vessel contributed to earnings. However, the capital necessary to return it to service would result in a substandard return on invested capital. In conjunction with exercising our termination right, we recorded a $2.7 million loss in the quarter including the write-off of $1.5 million of vessel leasehold improvements.

Before I open up the call to questions, I would also like to welcome Kirk Thompson and Robert Kurz as new members of our Board of Directors. Both bring significant experience and insights in the transportation and logistics industry. Mr. Thompson, the current Chairman of the Board of J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc, led J.B. Hunt from a $20 million trucking company to one of Forbes' magazines Best-Managed Companies in America and Fortune magazine's list of America's Most Admired Companies with current annual revenues of approximately $6 billion and a market capitalization approaching $10 billion.

Mr. Kurz currently serves as Vice President of Kinder Morgan Terminals and President of American Petroleum Tankers. Robert's strong experience and senior roles in the maritime industry, including CEO of American Petroleum Tankers, a Blackstone portfolio company, President and CEO of American Shipping Corporation, and President of Keystone Shipping Company will be valuable to our organization.

Operator, we'd now like to open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jon Tanwanteng of CJS Securities.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Good morning, Jon.

From what I can tell, it looks like you actually had a pretty decent quarter after taking out the impact of the Canadian dollar. First of all, maybe I missed it earlier, but can you tell us what the adjusted EBITDA would have been if the FX rate was unchanged?

Sure. The impact to EBITDA, that's excluding the gain or loss from FX that's a line item in our P&L, the impact versus last year's currency rate for the quarter was $700,000; year-to-date was $1.5 million reduction in earnings versus 1 to 1 for the quarter – if the FX rate were 1 to 1 for the quarter, our earnings would have been $1.1 million higher. And year-to-date, our earnings would have been $2.5 million higher at 1 to 1 exchange rate.

Okay. Thanks. And then second, how are you addressing the issue of currency going forward, and rates have gone down again in January. Are you actively hedging any portions of your operations and contracts?

We are actively hedging, as Joe mentioned, our balance sheet risk and we're in the process of evaluating for the 2015 sailing season, Jon, protection for our income statement. And we're in the process now [ph] of evaluating that (24:23) and we've been looking at that growth for a fair bit of time.

Okay. And then given that back drop, what is the prospect for EBITDA growth in fiscal 2016, given where rates are right now?

Including FX or excluding?

Including.

We're not smart enough to prognosticate where FX is going. Our base business, we certainly feel like we will have organic growth, Jon. That's the margin per day for the 2014 sailing season; ex currency exchange, is 13%. We're not making a projection at this point as to where we think that number will fall out. Let us continue to pull together our budgets and finish off our customer discussions, and we'll be able to give you a sense of that in the future.

Okay. Fair enough. And then could you talk about the level of ice currently on the Lakes and if you expect another delayed start to the season at all?

Jon, the level of ice formation on Lakes right now is about 50% of last year and roughly equivalent to 2011. So at this point, we're expecting a normal Great Lakes operating season for the 2015 season.

Okay, that's helpful. And then finally, can you just update us on the costs of getting number 17 out, just the CapEx that you expect to spend?

Yeah. We have not at this point, Jon, publicly disclosed the all-in cost of that piece of equipment. We continue to be on budget and on schedule with the piece of equipment, and expect to introduce it into service in the second half of 2015. And we believe it'll be strongly accretive to our return on invested capital when introduced.

Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

At this time, we have one question remaining in the queue. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning, guys. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Hey, Will.

Ed, sticking with the vessel 17, which I guess is vessel 16 now, you say the second half of 2015 – I mean do you have a better I guess ballpark of when that is? Are we talking about the latter part of the half of the year or is it maybe something mid to late summer that we could see come into service?

It will be in operation for fall third quarter of our operations, William.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(27:02) into service.

Okay, great. That's really helpful. Thanks for that. And so, sticking with your outlook for 2015, Ed, I think you mentioned your total tonnage was up this year or your total tonnage was around 21.5 million tons. Obviously, you lost the impact of 1.6 million tons in April. So I guess we're talking a 23 million ton run rate for the year if my numbers are right. Is that the right way to think about 2015 on an all-in basis, or should we think about tonnage being up a little bit given the contribution from vessel 16 in the third quarter?

William, tonnage will certainly increase beyond the $23 million this year due to the impact of the new vessel in the last operating quarter of the year.

William, as we announced a bit ago and I think we've updated it, we entered into a relatively significant new contract, which begins April 1, 2015, which will drive some growth for sure in our tonnage; and that's some of the underpinnings which will fill the capacity of what is your correct vessel 16. The other element besides tonnage is that we continue to fine-tune and modify our mix to drive as much profit improvement as possible. And we've entered into contracts this winter that will allow us to drive mix. It won't necessarily change our tonnage, but by changing the mix it will increase our profitability.

Okay. That makes sense. Because in your prepared remarks you kind of indicated your salt tonnage maybe about consistent with this year, and same with iron ore. So it's just going to be continued efforts. The way I'm reading it is, is this more continued efforts of improving that mix and really maximizing revenue loaded conditions [indiscernible] (29:02) like to say?

Yeah. We continue to drive mix and we continue to reduce the inefficiencies in our operations, which effectively creates days for us, which allows us then to drive incremental volumes without any additional cost.

All right. Okay. Thanks. And going back to the McKee Sons and the decision to terminate that charter, I know last quarter you mentioned a negotiating process with the owner of the barge and it was in a relatively fragile state, and it looks like that kind of came to came to a head. So could you maybe add some color as to what kind of led to the final agreement to terminate the charter? Was it just the owner of the barge unwilling to bend in terms of helping out with the capital commitments necessary to get it refloating? And just kind of – just a better idea of kind of what led to the end of the – or what led to the decision?

Yeah. I think the conclusion was made that we couldn't generate appropriate return on capital; and at that point, the alternative was for us to exercise our right to terminate.

Okay. That's helpful, guys. That's all I got. Good work on a nice quarter, and thanks for laying out some of the nuances with the ForEx headwinds. That's helpful for us.

All right. Thanks a lot, William. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Ross Haberman with Haberman Management Corporation. [ph]

Could you talk (30:39) about the capital expenditures for the rest of the calendar year. And just refresh us, in a normal year; my recollection is you usually lose $4 million to $5 million [indiscernible] (30:50) a cash flow basis. I know you lost a lot more last year, but is that within the ballpark on a normal fourth quarter loss?

Good morning, Ross. I'll take them in reverse order. Your $4 million number is low. We'll typically lose probably closer to double of that, call it $8 million is probably a better number.

Okay.

Okay. And that assumes that we're getting all of our vessels into operation prior to April 1. So I think $8 million is a better number to be thinking about there. And then CapEx for the January through March 31 period will be in the neighborhood of $15 million this year.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

No worries.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference over to today's speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you operator, and thank you all for your continued interest in Rand Logistics. As always, please don't hesitate to call with any questions.

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation.