corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Rand Logistics Third Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call, on the 11th of February 2009.


Throughout today’s recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the


presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions].


I will now hand the conference over to Lesley Snyder. Please go ahead, Madame.


Lesley A. Snyder, Investor Relations, The Piacente Group, Inc.


Thank you, Operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Rand Logistics


fiscal 2009 third quarter conference call.


On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed


Levy, Rand’s President; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand’s Chief


Financial Officer. This call is being webcast live and a telephonic replay will be available following


the call.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


concerning Rand Logistics and its operating subsidiaries.


Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, but instead statements


based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the management of Rand Logistics. Such


forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could also cause actual


results to differ from the results included in such forward-looking statements. Rand assumes no


obligation to revise any forward-looking projections that may be made in today’s release or call.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call.


After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating


results; Joe McHugh, our CFO, will review the finance results; and I would summarize the


prospects for the current shipping season. We will then open the call up for questions.


We are pleased with our financial and operational results for the third quarter and the first nine


months of fiscal year 2009, as we believe they are indicative of the earnings capability of our fleet.


As a result of ongoing operational improvements, strategic acquisitions, vessel upgrades and


infrastructure investments, our third quarter EBITDA increased by 135.5% to $4.4 million versus


$1.9 million for the same quarter last year. To put our results in perspective, our EBITDA was $25.9


million for the first nine months of fiscal 2009, which is a 232.8% year-over-year increase over prior


fiscal year performance. This was driven by 23.7% year-over-year increase in marine freight


revenues to $83.9 million and a 122.8% year-over-year increase in vessel margins to $34 million.


We are especially pleased with these results given some external challenges in the macroeconomic


environment that we faced in the second half of December, which Scott will discuss shortly in more


detail. The full integration of the former WMS and Voyager vessels into our fleet enabled us to
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


realize economies of scale during the 2008 shipping season, due to greater scheduling flexibility


and backhaul opportunities, which resulted in improved vessel utilization.


We continue to be pleased with the performance of these vessels in terms of both revenue


generation and vessel margin per day. We are also very pleased thus far with the operating and


financial performance of the Saginaw, which is exceeding the internal projections we developed to


justify the repowering project. Based on actual fiscal 2009 results and the future prospects for these


vessels, we expect these investments will continue to generate significant long-term shareholder


value.


We believe that our business remained well protected as a result of the diversity of the end markets


and customers that we serve, our low-cost operating position, the barriers to entry in our market


and the long-term contractual nature of our revenues. Similar to prior years, we are currently


spending a significant amount of our time with our customers to get as clear an understanding of


the 2009 sailing season requirements as possible. This includes a review of their demand forecasts


and actual bookings.


Based on these conversations and analysis and the contractual commitments that we have in hand,


we believe that our vessels will be fully utilized for the 2009 sailing season, and stand by the end


market guidance that we provided on our last investor call. That being said, this is largely


contingent on our customers’ ability to forecast their end-customer needs, which is difficult in these


fluid and uncertain economic times.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for review of our operations, Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes


Transportation Company


Yeah. Thank you, Laurence. We are pleased with the operational performance of our vessels in the


third fiscal quarter. As Laurence said, our third quarter EBITDA was 4.4 million compared with 1.9


million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, an increase of approximately 135.5%.


Third quarter vessel margins, after expensed winter work, were $7 million or $6,457 per day versus


4.6 million or $4,312 per day in the same period last year, primarily due to performance


improvements in the acquired vessels and increased operating leverage realized during the


quarter. Third quarter results also benefited from improved freight rates on new and renewed


contracts, as well as contractual rate increases from existing contracts.


During the three-month period ended December 31, 2008, vessel margin for our Canadian


operations, including acquired vessels, increased by Canadian 1.7 million or 41.5%. The third


quarter results are particularly impressive in light of the fact that they were impacted by several


unforeseen events.


Firstly, the Canadian dollar weakened by nearly 20% versus the U.S. dollar, compared to the same


period in the prior year. As a result of this decline, the vessel margin was reduced by 1.1 million to


an increase of 600,000 when translated to U.S. dollars. Second, although demand for our services


continued to meet our expectations in October, November and early December, the second half of


December results were affected by the early shutdown of both U.S. and Canadian stone quarries,


reflecting weakening economic conditions and the cessation of iron ore shipments to our only steel


manufacturing customer.


The early shutdown of the quarries and cessation of iron ore shipments resulted in our losing 85


days or 23% of the total sailing days during the month of December relative to our theoretical


maximum. We define sailing days as days of vessels crewed and available for sailing. Lastly, we