corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’


remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. Ms. Snyder, you may begin your conference.


Lesley Snyder, Head-Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal


2011 third quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand’s President; Scott Bravener, President of


Lower Lakes and Joe McHugh, Rand’s Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and


accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at


www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not, even


be anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors Section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 16, 2010.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes will discuss our operating results; Joe


McHugh, our CFO will review the financial results and Ed Levy, Rand’s President will discuss our


fiscal 2012 preliminary earnings outlook. We will then open the call up for questions.


During the first six months of fiscal year 2011, we experienced a series of mechanical incidents on


our vessels, which collectively resulted in a cumulative financial expense that, as previously stated,


management regards as non-recurring. While we normally experience and plan for ordinary course


mechanical incidents on our vessels, the financial impact of these incidents far exceeded our


historic experience and can be grouped into three distinct categories totaling approximately $4.9


million.


Firstly, approximately $1.1 million in repair costs below our insurance deductible limits. Secondly,


approximately $1.3 million of assessments from one of our insurance carriers due to unusually
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


large losses experienced in the current policy year. And thirdly, 113 days of downtime, including 77


lost sailing days, which in conjunction with our inability to utilize certain of our vessels during


periods when the repairs were made created inefficiencies in our trade patterns equivalent to lost


margin of $2.5 million.


While the entire management team is extremely disappointed by the operational incidents that


occurred during the sailing season, we still expect our operating income plus depreciation and


amortization will exceed $19 million for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011, notwithstanding


incurring the aforementioned approximately $4.9 million of one-time costs and lost margin due to


these incidents.


For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, operating income plus depreciation and


amortization and excluding a GE Amendment Fee of $446,000 in fiscal 2010, equaled $24.9 million


versus $27.5 million for the same period last fiscal year. We are very enthusiastic about the highly


strategic nature of the KK Integrated Shipping or KKIS acquisition announced earlier today. We


believe that the acquisition will add between $0.25 and $0.30 in free cash flow per common share


for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2012.


The SS Michipicoten repowering project, which began in December 2010, is on track and be


accretive to our fiscal year 2012 results as we estimate that this investment will generate an


unlevered annual return on investment funds in the mid teens. Ed will discuss the acquisition and


the repowering in detail later.


Based on current economic conditions, we are adjusting our prior guidance of $0.90 to $1 of free


cash flow per common share to $1.15 to $1.30, reflecting the anticipated benefits to be derived


from the newly acquired vessels. We believe that our year-to-date results, notwithstanding the


costs and lost margin due to the mechanical incidents, clearly illustrate the benefits of our


differentiable and sustainable competitive advantages. These include; high barriers to entry, a non-


duplicatable asset portfolio, customer and end-market diversification, long-term contracts with


revenue visibility and an efficient cost structure.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes


Transportation Company


Thanks, Laurence. Several years ago, we initiated a long-term strategy to diversify our commodity


mix to drive organic growth. We believe that we are continuing to see the benefits of the sales and


marketing strategy and that over time it will allow us to maximize our per day performance metrics.


The KKIS acquisition is the second phase of our long-term strategy. The vessels that we acquired


position us to enhance the profitability of our existing fleet by better aligning our assets to the trade


patterns that they are best suited for and gain greater flexibility in the scheduling of our expanded


fleet.


Our third quarter results were in line with our expectations as we enjoyed consistent customer


demand throughout the quarter. This demand continued across our end markets into January 2011,


as we operated for an above average 144 sailing days in the month.


While demand for many of the commodities that we transport remains below their trailing five-year


averages, I am pleased to report that our markets experienced an overall increase in demand


during the 2010 sailing season, as compared to the same period in 2009, when a weakened


economy delayed the start of the 2009 sailing season.