Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, Rentech, Inc.
Dennis Corn — Vice President, Projects, Rentech, Inc.
Matthew Thomas Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Matt Niblack — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC
Richard Leigh Haydon — Founder & Managing Member, Tipp Hill Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc. Second Quarter Conference Call. My name is Christine, and I'll be the operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform you all participants, this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech Inc. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech Inc. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Rentech Inc. is prohibited.

I would now like to turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the periods. Also in the room with us today are members of the Cyber and Fertilizer management team. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You're cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of August 11, 2015. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable law. Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our 2015 second quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Welcome, everyone. I'm here today to discuss our 2Q 2015 results, which are improved year over year, when we look at EBITDA from our operating businesses. Before I review the quarter, however, I'll speak briefly about yesterday's announcements made by RTK and RNF. Rentech Nitrogen executed a definitive merger agreement under which CVR Partners will acquire all outstanding units of Rentech Nitrogen in exchange for 1.04 units of UAN for each unit of RNF, plus $2.57 per RNF unit in cash. We've agreed to vote our 59.7% ownership interest in Rentech Nitrogen in favor of the proposed merger with CVR Partners. Upon closing of the merger, Rentech Inc. would receive approximately $318 million in cash and units of CVR based on the closing unit price of CVR Partners on August 7. So, that is snapshot number.

Holders of RNF units, including Rentech, would receive additional value for the Pasadena facility upon its disposition. In order to enter into the above transaction, we needed the consent of our largest single investor GSO Capital. As you are aware, the terms of our financing dictate that both the loans and preferred equity investments by GSO in RTK can be put to us for cash, if we were to sell RNF.

With this provision in mind, we might have been placed in a position to favor a suitor proposing a cash heavy transaction. However, we are pleased to announce or were pleased to announce that a meaningfully better outcome was negotiated with GSO. Under the terms of our agreement, simultaneous with the closing of the merger, we will reduce our leverage by $150 million. The reduction is in the form of GSO exchanging $100 million of its preferred stock for units of CVR and common shares of Rentech and GSO retiring $50 million of term debt in exchange for units in CVR.

The prices of those exchanges will be [ph] to be (4:42) determined by the discounted pre-closing VWAP. If the discounted pre-closing VWAP are equal to the pre-announcement VWAP, Rentech would own about 10% of CVR Partners and GSO would own about a 11%. With these repayments, we will recognize annual savings of $9.4 million in cash payments that we're growing in the form of interests and dividends to GSO.

What is important to note about this transaction is that GSO's willingness to take CVR equity in exchange for debt obligations enabled us to close on a predominantly equity transaction. Otherwise, we would have been in an uncomfortable position of having to liquidate almost $200 million of post-closing equity to satisfy the GSO put, an endeavor, which would be difficult to accomplish, given the combined flow to the partnerships and the discounts we would need to pay to monetize that amount of equity. For its part, GSO is retaining an investment in us of over $55 million in the form of secured Series B notes and straight equity.

In addition, they're establishing an investment in the combined CVR just as our unitholders will do. Our press release yesterday used the word transformative in its title. RTK, post closing of the RNF transaction, will be a new a company and as such moves to reorganize and pursue cost savings are afoot. We've planned to restructure our retained non-fertilizer businesses to focus on operations and execution, while significantly reducing corporate overhead.

Our fertilizer exposure is now less committal and we will be reflected – and will be reflected as equity and earnings going forward in UAN. We expect to complete the restructuring and realize at least $10 million of reductions in annual SG&A expenses, our SG&A run-rate expenses exiting 2016, if not sooner. We expect to announce in more detail the restructuring plans within the next 90 days. The scope and timing of the expected cost reductions are the result of an ongoing comprehensive organizational assessment and are expected to result in one-time charges.

If you were listening this morning to our Rentech Nitrogen call, in summary, it was a great quarter. The highlights of the call were that strong demand for ammonia and ammonia sulfate this spring led to higher realized prices and EBITDA, Pasadena had another quarter of positive EBITDA, a distribution for the second quarter of $1 per unit or about $23 million to the account of RTK was declared. We've revised our guidance for 2015, our new consolidated guidance on EBITDA is a $118 million versus the $64.7 million we posted in 2014, including partnership level expenses. [ph]

In 2015's (7:56) projected EBITDA is projected to be the second highest experienced by RNF since it went public, the record of course was [ph] $128 million (8:08) in 2012. The breakout is $117 million at East Dubuque versus $86 million a year ago and at Pasadena, the expected EBITDA is $10 million versus a negative EBITDA of $12.4 million last year which is over a $22 million swing year over year. We expect our fiscal year distributions from RNF to be approximately $2 per unit this year, which means that RTK will realize $46 million from its investment in RNF.

Now let's speak and review the operations of the businesses that will soon comprise the majority of RTK. First the Canada update. At Atikokan, our smaller facility we have completed commissioning and now we're in the ramp-up stage. The Atikokan plant has been generating positive EBITDA since May. Production rates and the quality and energy content of the pellets have been better than our internal forecast.

Through early August, we have produced and delivered to OPG approximately 26,000 metric tons of pellets. We expect to end the year at the contracted volume amount of 45,000 metric tons. We are exceeding internal production target rates despite the fact that we've been operating the plant with a temporary transformer; the temporary transformer does not permit full operation of all equipment simultaneously at the plant. We expect to be – to install the replacement transformer this quarter.

As we operate during this ramp-up period, we have identified the possibility that we may need to replace and repair the truck dump conveyer and hopper, and see the potential need to modify or replace some other conveyers. Most of these integral components to our plant were sourced from the same contractor related to similar issues we're seeing at Wawa.

Atikokan may still reach the ability to produce a full capacity in February 2016, but the timing could shift by several months depending on the degree of modifications needed to correct the identified material handling equipment issues and any other issues that may arise during ramp-up. We do expect to meet our contractual obligations to OPG in 2016.

Wawa is more problematic. Most of the equipment at Wawa has been commissioned. The plant is producing limited qualities of pellets, approximately 7,400 metric tons have been produced [ph] through (10:38) early August, most of which have been delivered to our port facility in Quebec City. We have discovered significant design and equipment flaws related to material handling at the plants that are limiting our production abilities.

The issues center around the conveyers and the log feed system. On the conveyer front, the green end supply that's basically before it reaches the hammer mills and pelletizers, the green end supply conveyers have been experiencing failures and we are also seeing some of the dry-end conveyers experiencing similar issues. The log feed index, right out adjacent, next to the wood yard, at the front end of the facility that feeds logs into the chippers require modifications. They're working now only with significant manual intervention.

In addition to pursuing options to resolve our issues with the original conveyer manufacturer, we have tasked our new project team, an independent engineering consultant to address these issues. We are targeting to have the live decks modified and to modify or install new green site conveyers by this fall and replace or repair the remaining conveyers in the first half of next year. These modifications will push our total capital spend before the project – for the projects combined to approximately $145 million, which is $5 million above the high end of our previous guidance range of $131 million to $140 million.

Our cost estimate to correct the issues are preliminary and has significant uncertainty and our revised projection for CapEx does not include contingencies to address other possible unforeseen issues that may arise as the facility then resumes its ramping-up.

We intend to pursue all remedies available to us under our vendor contracts related to issues with the conveyer systems, but cannot wait to play them out to the find a resolution. In that sense, we'll be running parallel paths. Taking into account the time required to correct the log feed-in equipment and conveyance systems, we now expect Wawa to operate at full capacity in the second half of 2016, instead of mid-2016. We have discussed these issues with our valued and patient customer Drax and have been able to again agree to an amended contract for Wawa.

We have cancelled all deliveries for 2015, which is – which were the revised 240,000 metric tons. We've agreed to pay total penalties of $2.6 million, half of the penalty will be paid in cash by the end of the year and the remaining $1.3 million will be paid in the form of credits on the first two vessels delivered to Drax in 2016.

An earlier February amendment added 72,000 metric tons of the original 2015 deliveries to the 2018 timeframes and 2019 timeframes and they will remain at 2015 pricing, which doesn't have the benefit then of the escalations built into the contracts. The pellets produced from the plant this year will continue to be shipped to the port and held in inventory to help satisfy the 2016 deliveries of 400,000 metric tons to Drax, and will be additionally supplemented by the overflow production from Atikokan.

In addition, we will not meet our 2015 commitment under our CN Rail contract. The estimated amount of penalties could be as high as $2.4 million under the terms of the contract. We are talking to them on that. We're negotiating with CN to amend the contract to allow us to make up the shortfalls in future contract years with additional volumes [ph] and move with (14:21) paying such penalties in cash, but the outcome is not certain at this point in time.

Now, on to our other operating businesses, ones that aren't in construction or ramping up, but actually doing very well. Fulghum Fibres, we expect to finish the year at the high-end of our EBITDA guidance range of $16 million to $17 million. Our cost containment efforts at our chipping mills in the U.S. are tracking better than forecast. Margins on chip exports out [ph] to (14:52) Chile is better than forecast. Fulghum had a strong second quarter, compared to last year, with EBITDA of $5.5 million, versus last year's $2.2 million, which was partially negatively impacted by the fire at our chipping mill in Maine, last year.

U.S. revenues were essentially flat to 2Q 2014, but operating costs were considerably lower than last year, as a result of efforts by our operations leadership and mill managers to contain costs. South American revenues were up $6.4 million – up to $6.4 million, as compared to 2Q 2014, due to higher biomass product sales, domestically and chip sales to Asia. Fulghum's EBITDA year to date through June was $9.5 million, or $2.6 million higher than in 2014.

And NEWP had another good quarter, and is tracking to full year – our full year EBITDA guidance of $9 million to $10 million. We've been operating the Allegheny plant under a seven day workweek since the beginning of June, which has increased the plant's annual production pre-acquisition by 40% and the ramp-up of that expanded capacities has tracked about 10% higher than we expected thus far.

At the corporate level, we're encouraged by our expectations for higher RNF distributions this year and improved performance at Fulghum which is tempered by the partially offsetting higher than expected cost [ph] to (16:24) our Canadian projects, penalties, and operating losses.

And lastly, just a reminder, so you don't wake up on August 21 and pinch yourselves, our reverse stock split whereby RTK will begin trading at one for 10 split-adjusted basis occurs on August 20. Our total shares outstanding will be reduced to approximately 23 million from approximately 230 million shares today.

Before Q&A, I'll let Dan walk through the financial details.

Okay, and thank you, Keith. The results for the quarter – second quarter were in line across the operating business segments, as Keith summarized. The Fulghum's results for the quarter improved from last year mostly driven by the cost reduction programs in the U.S., as well as higher sales of biomass in South America, higher profits on those sales. NEWP had another great quarter, including new contributions from the Allegheny plants that we purchased. The Atikokan plant up in Ontario has been generating positive EBITDA since May. But the entire Canadian segment is generating negative cash flow during the delayed ramp-ups of those plants, as Keith just discussed. Losses in the segment were worse than we expected because of those delays in production.

Turning to the balance sheet, just briefly, the GSO Tranche B term loan is now fully drawn and the outstanding balance is $45 million.

Turning to the results for the quarter, if we look at this quarter compared to the second quarter last year, our revenues – consolidated revenues were up about 8%. As we discussed this morning on the Rentech Nitrogen call, although revenues at Rentech Nitrogen were down slightly, they were down 3%. Gross margins in that business improved significantly. So, is a great quarter in terms of margins and EBITDA at Rentech Nitrogen, we discussed all the reasons for that earlier today.

Fulghum Fibres also improved revenues this year, a 35% improvement from the quarter of last year, as we saw higher biomass product sales on South America, as well as we saw the improvements from the last year because of the fire that we had last year in May, which held down revenues in that year-ago quarter.

In the industrial pellet segment, we did report $2.5 million of revenue. Despite the problems we're having, we are selling pellets to OPG and so, we are recording revenue up there, although not as much as we had hoped.

NEWP combined with Allegheny saw a very large improvement in revenues, doubling of revenues from last year, that's because we had a full period this year, only a partial period last year and of course, we also acquired the Allegheny facility, which is now contributing.

Looking at margins, Fulghum Fibres' margin improved significantly by six points, up from 11% last year to 17% this year, because of the lower costs and the higher margins on those sales in South America. The NEWP margins also improved from 19% up to 22%, so the consolidated gross profits for the company improved by 10 percentage points year over year.

Looking at SG&A trends across the businesses, when you look at the entire consolidated SG&A, it was flat for the quarter and that's in spite of the fact that we booked a $2.6 million penalty for Drax that ran through SG&A. Rentech Nitrogen's SG&A was down slightly by 7%. Fulghum Fibres' SG&A was down by almost 50%. The NEWP's SG&A was up, but that's mainly because of the full period this year versus partial period last year and the addition of Allegheny.

And then in the industrial wood pellets segment, we had a significant increase largely due to that Drax settlement of $2.6 million and also an increase of a $1 million in expenses for railcar leases and delivery expenses.

Shifting us down to net income, this is doing on the per share basis, if we take the reported numbers, we have a $0.23 loss this quarter compared to $0.09 loss last quarter, but in each of those periods, we had the one-time items related to Pasadena.

We have the asset impairment this quarter. Last year's second quarter saw the goodwill [ph] income (21:20) so if we adjust for those items, we had $0.21 per share of positive net income versus $0.03 last quarter. Consolidated EBITDA was up nicely for the [ph] full [ph] company from $21 million last year to $41 million this year.

There is a table in the press release that drills down a little bit on corporate SG&A, because the reported numbers are not really that comparable. If you just look at unallocated corporate SG&A this year, it dropped from $7.8 million down to $4.5 million. We walk you through a few adjustments having to do with allocations, non-cash comp, as well as transactions costs to get that down to an apples-to-apples basis. So, you can look at corporate SG&A on a consistent basis during the last year and you'll see a 23% improvement in that adjusted number year over year.

Shifting briefly to the balance sheet, when we look at cash, we closed the quarter with $63 million of total cash, $38.5 million of that at Rentech Nitrogen, $24.5 million at Rentech. As we look forward, we will be getting about $23 million distribution late in August from Rentech Nitrogen and we expect the total year distributions from Rentech Nitrogen to be $46.5 million, assuming that Rentech Nitrogen hits the guidance that we put out this morning.

On the debt side of the balance sheet, we closed the quarter with consolidated debt of $534 million; $190 million of that sits at RTK; $344 million at Rentech Nitrogen. Breaking that down a little bit and looking a little – broader look at the balance sheet, we want to highlight what's going to happen assuming [ph] we closed (23:20) on the merger of CVR with Rentech Nitrogen as well as on the restructuring of our balance sheet that we've agreed to with GSO, assuming that that merger closes.

So, if you look at the June 30 balance sheet, we have the $100 million of preferred stock, convertible preferred held by GSO, as well as $95 million of term loans, now that that term loan B is fully funded. So, the total GSO securities right now are $195 million.

Continuing on down the June 30 balance sheet, the balance on the Fulghum debt is $54 million, on debt at NEWP, which includes the acquisition facility for Allegheny, so NEWP's total debt is $18 million. And the capitalized lease up in Quebec [ph] for the pellet downs (24:08) is $23 million, which leads to total $267 million, including all those items of debt, capitalized lease and preferred stock.

Upon closing of the merger and closing of the restructuring with GSO, we will reduce that exposure by $150 million. So, the preferred stock will disappear completely and the term loan will decrease by $50 million as we pay off the – essentially the Tranche A term loan and leave the Tranche B in place. So, the other items of course wouldn't be affected by that restructuring.

And with that, I think we're ready to open the lines and take questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt Farwell from Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. So I'm just looking back at some of the transactions that took place back in February when this put option was introduced. It seems like you had some other liquidity options at that point? You had the capability to sell the unencumbered units to raise cash. So, I was just wondering what your thought process was at that point given that this change of control, this put option provision that was introduced into the subscription agreement is basically giving GSO a lot of leverage in this transaction?

Dan, correct me, if I'm wrong, but a change of control always triggered the original secured $150 million investment. Am I mistaken?

No. I think that came – did come in...

So, it was added when the security was added. Okay.

Yes, yes. In February. Yes.

Yes. We were in a position – we checked – we [ph] tinged (26:38) the market, we had our cost overruns which were meaningful. We had invoices here. We had to meet those obligations. We had a party that had committed more capital than any other party had and partly to protect its own investment and to enable us to have another chance to deliver on our Canadian industrial as well as to close on the Allegheny transaction. We saw fit to take that capital. We were in a very limited place, the most valuable asset we had to offer were those equity securities. And if you look at the float on RNF, Matt, I think it's [ph] 95,000 (27:29) a day. So, if you needed to raise $50 million, I'm just going to guess that that would have taken on average a long time or been sold at a very large discount, so those issues were considered, trust me.

So with regard to the UAN units that you receive, you're still going to have some units on the balance sheet when these transactions are completed. Are those going to be encumbered or that will maybe provide, [ph] it'd (28:03) be included in the collateral package to the remaining GSO Tranche B term loan?

Yes, they will.

Okay.

Well, some of them. Not all of them.

Some of them. Yes. Not all of them. It will be – presumably that would be at a higher value [ph] and is (28:17) less loan, so there'll be plenty of unencumbered of units. Yes.

Well, I think you're getting around 24 million units, but in order to satisfy

The collateral, the only thing we'll have to collateralize once this is done will be the $45 million tranche B loan.

Right.

So the collateral will be reset using CVR units at the time to collateralize the $45 million loan, so that will leave a large number of units unencumbered.

That's right. And Matt, you must – we don't have a crystal ball, but tell you what how many units that will be because it's a trailing VWAP from a date in the future.

Right, but if – we know that 24 million units is what you're going to receive from CVR Partners. You need to – you're looking to extinguish the preferred and the $50 million of debt, which is about a $140 million using those units, using a $10.50 hypothetical price and a 15% discount to that, that implies you're going to be giving back 16 million units to GSO with only eight million units left over.

Well, Matt, let's be a little bit more optimistic and use the current $14.43 price on the unit and discount that by 15% and that changes the math, right. So that's what I'm saying is, we don't know the number, it's not the $10.50 price, right.

Okay. We can discuss more of that offline, and then – if the GSO is going to retain the warrants on the RTK stock. I believe they have warrant that are struck at [ph] $2.23 (30:05)

No, Matt. That's not right. There are no warrants following this transaction. When we pay out the preferred stock using the CVR units, nothing remains. You were thinking of a different scenario, if we had refinanced out GSO and paid them back, then those warrants would have survived, but in this deal, they don't survive.

Got it. That's useful. And now that you mentioned the rail penalties, I assume those are not included in the updated project cost guidance?

They wouldn't be because they're not capitalized in that regard.

Right. Okay. That's all I have for now. Thanks a lot.

Okay.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Brent Rystrom. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just think it out loud about the NOLs When I look at what you're doing with GSO, I'm assuming that the stock that you give them, would that be a taxable event as far as using some of those NOLs?

Yes, right.

Let's be precise, the CVR units that we exchanged for debt or for preferred, that's a taxable transaction. So, that will be taxed in the same way as if we sold those units for cash. But, of course, but – the other compound of the transaction is that we're also going to be issuing some Rentech shares, which will be newly issued shares and so, to the extent we use $10 million worth of Rentech common to exchange for preferred is not a taxable transaction.

Right. So, only the $140 million would represent taxable. And then the $2.57 cash payment, would that also – since you have no basis, would that also be a taxable event?

Yes.

Okay. And then, in combination with that [ph] turning (32:12) much use up your NOLs as they [ph] received (32:15) at the end of the year?

Yes. We expect this to more than use up our NOLs.

Okay.

So, as of year-end, which is the last – completely precise number that we've disclosed. We had about $175 million of NOLs. That balance, of course, will change by the time we close this transaction, but that's our last precise public number. And then, we also – our basis in these units is very low. It's actually negative. We haven't disclosed a precise number and we won't know the precise number until we close, because we don't know exactly when we're closing. But, we do have negative basis in the units. So, there's going to be a very large gain. That gain will more than use up our NOLs and so we do expect to pay corporate tax. That's all reflected in the estimate that we put in the disclosures about after tax proceeds.

Okay. Do you have – I would assume since it will be greater than a 10% shareholder in CVR, you will be a Rule 144 [ph] restricted (33:24) seller if you were to sell shares until you get below 10%. Do you have other agreements that you have agreed to with that, that stock or how liquid is that stock if you need it?

We'll have a six-month [ph] block-up (33:38) and we will be subject to Rule 144. There are some other provisions in the agreement. I mean, as these agreements get filed, you will see typical restrictions on selling stock, but we also will have specific provisions that will allow us to sell a unit that you probably would not find typical.

Okay.

Right. And there is [ph] right, rights (34:04) and all that, right.

Okay. Keith, from the perspective of the long-term of the wood pellet business, have we lost a year on the contract by cancelling deliveries in 2015? I didn't see any wording about replacing those leader in the contract besides the 72,000 metric tons. Have we effectively lost almost a year of activity?

Yes. And I think – we think basically, it's half or more, yes. I think that's essentially what's happened, yes. We didn't flip it to the back end.

Okay. And are you still thinking in Canadian dollars that the EBITDA from these plants is [ph] $17 million to $20 million (34:49) once at full production annually?

Yes.

All right. And then, this is out there, given everything that's going on, but how do you think, I know from a legacy perspective, almost everything that's happening has kind of pre-dated you here. I mean, it's happening post your arrival, but there were issues that basically pre-dated more involvement in management day to day of the company. When you think about the wood fiber business in general or more specifically wood pellets, how do you think constructively about this business? Do you look at it as something that you want to solidify the EBITDA available to all these businesses and then, do something similar to what you're doing with RNF, [ph] you look at it as a (35:36) platform?

Well, that's a good question, Brent that, you have – this transformation is underway and this was step one or step 1A or whatever you want to call it, but it's the beginning. The businesses at Rentech had been operating under a very siloed or have been operating in a very siloed fashion. There's no need for that, so there'll be a consolidation, we will be a wood fiber company. We'll be diversified in our operations, geographically, lines of product, type of customers, margins on different product lines, low margin wood [ph] chipping (36:16) on over the fence operations at Fulghum domestically, higher margin retail pellets coming from New England Wood Pellets. Clearly, the balance sheet, we have to fix. We have to be very cognizant of our lessons learned and the way we went about investing very dear capital was it was not proper and so when I first came on board, we started to build a projects team that projects team is led by a man named Dennis Corn who actually is on this call. And Dennis has introduced some structure controls to our organization where that [indiscernible] (37:05) will be right-sized and populated with proper people to fit the situations going forward.

There wasn't a lot of cross fertilization or use of technical skills from one sector to the other, for instance the conveyer issues in Canada stand out when we successfully operate conveyers at Fulghum and at NEWP. I don't think we used enough of the expertise that we had in-house to look over that. So, that's all being fixed, and it's perspective and that being said, perspective to what, right, we have [ph] Dennis' (37:45) on top of fixing the Wawa plant and that will be taken care of. But then, where does that position us going forward and I think that, that's step three or step four in this process is to what our book of business, our greenfield development opportunities set looks like given our new balance sheet and cash flow.

Our mantra here is increasingly going to be along the lines that we're not a development-stage company, that we're an operating company. We're driven profits and costs, a profit-driven company focused on costs and the metric that I think the discipline that an MLP like structure brings is this discipline of focusing on distributable cash flow, real cash that is available after meeting all of your obligations, maintenance CapEx and servicing your debt, principle and interest and meeting your operating costs.

So, I'm trying to get this whether we ultimately become an MLP or not. So, these have that cash discipline. And though, that's going to be clear in steps two and three in between. So, we have a nice window here of time between while we work very diligently to make this merger be successful for all parties, because as we said, we're the largest single unitholder in this combined entity, actually that's not true, we are the largest non-CVR unitholder, CVR related unitholder. We'll have some board representation. So it's a very important asset even going forward, but it won't take our time because as I said, it's a one-line entry in our financials going forward. And that's a belabored answer, Brent, but which we'll put in more articulate and linear form in the coming weeks and months.

All right. I appreciate that. Final question from that perspective, Keith, a little different twist on it. But when I look at CVR maybe paying a $1.50, $1.60, $1.40 and you're going to have hopefully 11 million units or something like that. That [ph] 14 million, 15 million, $16 million, $17 million (39:54) should cover your unallocated corporate expenses meaning that, on the [ph] operating (40:11) businesses, you're going to just be able to focus on CapEx and other things. You're not going to have to worry about unallocated corporate expenses that should be covered from a cash perspective if the distributions from CVR, is that reasonable?

Right. I hope that you will never – we will be in a position to not talk about unallocated corporate expenses. I think we'll be one company with expenses and the allocation will be a natural cost of doing business for the three siloed businesses together as they exist today as one. And we won't talk in terms of unallocated. So, that's where I hope to go, but you're correct.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Niblack from HITE Hedge. Please go ahead.

Thank you. So, I guess, a couple of questions. First, after last quarter's conference call, it seemed like – I guess there was the hope that all the issues at the pellet plants were aired, and we had increasing confidence that we would be on the new plant and now three months later, it seems like things are worse than ever. Is there a point at time in the progress there where we can have confidence that we have a call and then we say, we've identified the issues and they are resolved that this is the end of it. How far down the path do we need to get to have confidence on the timeline and the CapEx budget?

Well. Matt, just Atikokan was doing what it actually has done, it just flipped over to profitable positive EBITDA right around that April, May call. Wawa had no trailing operational history as of March 31 and I think I had said that hey, we loaded up the first few railcars, but we have not run this plant. It takes 45,000 tons, which is just shy of 400 railcars to get to Quebec to fill up a vessel. So, we are commissioning – we were commissioning – commissioning does come with issues and it is unfortunate. Now, I will tell you that the plant cannot operate without conveyance. There is no question, it is a critical, critical aspect. It is not catastrophic. The conveyance systems are just like the conveyors you see in any manufacturing facility. There is specific designs with respect to the type of products that go through them and the weight and the distribution of that weight and the angles that they have to, the product has to travel. So this is not a catastrophic. The cost estimate that we have is based on us doing this fix properly, but also expeditiously.

So, I caution you in that regard. But our hesitancy here is to still stick our neck out is that until the conveyance systems can actually carry the load of 60%, 70%, 80% of the plant, we can't say that, hey, the dryer which has shown brilliant possibilities slowing 20%, the hammer mills which individually have all operated at 100%, but collectively have never operated a 100% simultaneously and the same with the pelletizers. Until we're able to deliver that volume, we can't say that, hey that's the number. We can't say that the Andritz pelletizers, the hammer mills are the same assets that or an equipment that are in Atikokan, which has been stress test albeit for short duration of time because of the transformer limitations.

So, we – there is some optimism here, but we believe it's going to happen. We believe we have the right people on top of it. We are – we have – we literally have had like an EMT, we just said, anybody here know – let's get everybody that knows something about this. let's have a collective agreement, let's have the best and brightest in the room, let's have people from Fulghum, Fulghum industries, so we don't control our own, but – I think we've got to the bottom of this, at least with respect to this issue.

So – again part of the thing here is that – it is a diagnostic, so you indicate design flaws and equipment flaws, do you feel like the entire design and all of the equipment have been tested and reviewed such that yes, I mean, there could be issues with the sort of reconstruction of the conveyance systems and what not, but there shouldn't be new issues found with parts of the system that we thought were okay?

As I said, volume and duration of operation, this plant is supposed to operate 24/7, so there'll always be – there's always the potential that something might – that will happen and I – when – we've been monitoring – Dennis has gone around to other plants owned by other parties, most of whom have experienced a similar, although not exactly the same type of issues, and so we're learning from our neighbors, as well.

Dennis, I don't know, do you – you see where Matt is – Matt is a good guy and he is trying to get to – to get a little bit of something here. Dennis is on the call. What do you think about this line of questioning?

Well, the – I think the point here is that as you pointed out Keith, until we can run the conveyer system at full output, we won't know exactly what the rest of plant holds, but as you said, these are exactly the same piece of equipment we have at Atikokan, those have been run at full output, even though – and because of the situation at Atikokan, we've been – with the transformer limitation, we've been having to run at overall capacity less than it's capable of doing, but if – but each of the individual piece of equipment have been run at full output. So, we don't expect to see any problems at Wawa, but until we've had chance to run 100% or 70% plus of the capacity through the system, we're not going to know what else we see.

Okay. And then at Atikokan, will you be able to maintain positive EBITDA through this process given some of the additional repairs and changes that are going to be [ph] needed to be (47:52) made?

Yes. I mean it's going to be spotty because shipping pellets to OPG to its contract limit of 45,000 tons, which we have another 19,000 tons to go, is good margin. But production above that level is very modest margin, if we use the Atikokan pellets to fill our storage at Quebec City because – just because of the transportation differential.

Right.

So, yes. So in that period, you'll see less margin.

Understood. And then I guess, switching over to the nitrogen business briefly – I know, on the earlier call, there was some discussion of the write-downs at Pasadena related to bids that you have received for that facility. I just want to make sure that I understand what's happened there. So, when I look at your – at the RTK 10-Q at the bottom of page 29, there is a table of assets that lists a little better than $100 million as the figure for Pasadena, but on the earlier call, you said that it was not possible to know what the right – what the asset value of Pasadena was until the prospectus came out. So, I wonder that figure that's in the Q [ph] is that (49:20) there's another write-down on top of that or that figure doesn't mean what I think it means?

Dan, I know that that figure is not the answer, but maybe you could help [ph] James. (49:31)

Let me take a look at it and I'll give you call, [ph] James. (49:34)

Yeah.

Okay. Fair enough. Really, that was somewhat technical question, but I was just staring at that number. And then, I guess the last question here – there's been talk of trying to accelerate the wood products business to a combination of business development around the existing assets, particularly Fulghum and also perhaps, New England as well as a potential for a JV of some sort or some other creative structure to expand the overall scale, the operation more quickly than what the organic development is going to be able to. Any progress on those fronts, or is so much attention being paid right now just to getting the plants up and running that there is a de-emphasis on that angle for now?

There is absolutely no de-emphasis, but we have been a little distracted. But, we have also determined that the use of [ph] Rich Kinder (50:33) line, the blocking and tackling, which by the way probably is a [indiscernible] (50:38) but the focus on blocking and tackling, look at bottom line, what are we spending, what are we getting from it, and we can't spend in the hopes that something better happens down the road [ph] that (50:52) we're going to do something that we have never shown a proclivity to do in the past. So, – but I think it remains prescient as a growing business – if we want to grow and achieve in a satisfactory timeline a deliverable return to Rentech shareholders that those types of discussions are in the forefront absolutely.

Understood. Thank you.

Thank you. Our last question comes from Richard Haydon from Tipp Hill Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi. My questions have been answered. Thank you.

Thank you. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.