Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, Rentech, Inc.
Sean Ebnet — Senior Vice President-Wood Fibre, Rentech, Inc.
Matthew Thomas Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Matt Niblack — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC
Andrew Rosen — Analyst, Dillon Hill Capital LLC
Richard Leigh Haydon — Founder & Managing Member, Tipp Hill Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Rentech, Inc. First Quarter 2015 Conference Call. My name is Brandon, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform all participants that this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech Nitrogen. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech Nitrogen. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Rentech Nitrogen, is prohibited.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Julie Cafarella. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended March 31, 2015. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also in the room with us today is Sean Ebnet, Senior Vice President of our wood fibre business and members of Rentech Nitrogen's management. The team will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You're cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 11, 2015. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable law. Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our 2015 first quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

I'll now turn the call over to Keith.

Good morning. Hopefully nobody forgot their moms yesterday. Mine called me at 7 AM to remind me it was Mother's Day even though we're on the same time zone. Forgot where I was for a second.

But back to business here, our first quarter results announced this morning align with our expectations and show year-to-year improvement. Rentech Nitrogen, our largest operating entity, had a good quarter, experiencing better margins at both plants from a year ago. Ammonia volumes were strong at East Dubuque and our Pasadena plant posted positive EBITDA during the quarter reaffirming the validity of the 2014 restructuring implemented at the plant. We have had a more fulsome discussion of Rentech Nitrogen's results on an earlier call this morning which is available on a recording.

Fulghum Fibres, which strayed some last year, is showing signs of getting back on track. It appears to be tracking towards our full year guidance of $16 million to $17 million of EBITDA in spite of slightly lower volumes during the quarter and slightly lower revenues in both the U.S. and South America. U.S. volumes were down due to the harshness of the past winter which was wetter than usual in our production area. In South America, volumes and revenues were down for a laundry list of reasons including decreased volumes while we started up our PAC mill and fewer shipments to Asia, improved EBITDA nonetheless resulted because of lower cost experienced on both continents.

New England Wood Pellet had another solid quarter and remains on track toward our guidance of $9 million to $10 million full-year EBITDA. We continue to see strong demand in the Northeast for pellets to heat residential properties. We experienced slightly higher sales prices compared to last year in indication of this strong demand. Allegheny wood pellets is fully subsumed at this point by New England Wood Pellets, which is in the process of preparing Allegheny to move toward a seven-day per week production versus the current four days a week that plant operates now.

Now that what you've probably been waiting for an update and some color on our Industrial Wood Pellet operations in Canada. In Atikokan, we are still in a commissioning phase. That being said, we've been meeting our contractual obligations to Ontario Power Group since February and have not purchased any third-party pellets this year to meet that demand. Pellet production at Atikokan began in early February and through the end of last week, we've produced about 12,000 metric tons delivering 11,000 of those to OPG. Production rates have exceeded our internal forecast for this stage of commissioning at 4,000 tons per month, which equates to 44% of the plant's nameplate capacity; yet on an annual run rate, exceeds our contractual obligation to OPG.

The feedback we have received from OPG to date has been something I'd like brag about. They've been pleased with the pellet quality and the resultant performance they're getting at their plant using our fuel. The pellet quality has consistently exceeded the contract requirements and we are seeing higher than industry standard energy content in the pellets we've been producing. Aside from a happy customer, we will be pleased as well if this advantage can be maintained as in both our term contracts with OPG and Drax, we are paid on the basis of energy content delivered. We have been manufacturing these pellets from a variety of native hardwoods, softwoods and sawmill residuals, a diversity of feedstock that should get us through all seasons. We continue to expect to see Atikokan running at or near its capacity of 110,000 tons per year by next February.

At Wawa, we began commissioning in early April and produced our first pellets on April 20. Albeit early in the commissioning phase, we like what we see thus far. We have run all 12 pellet mills successfully, not all at the same time. We have loaded our first railcars and they await shipment to our storage facility at the Port of Quebec for ultimate transportation to Drax. Although our Wawa plant is over four times bigger than our Atikokan plant, the similarity in processing equipment and feedstock between the two facilities allows us to leverage off what we have experienced at Atikokan during its commissioning and apply these lessons to Wawa in the hope that we can have a smoother commissioning there. Right now, we will stick to our earlier guidance that we expect to reach full capacity by mid-2016 at Wawa. Our amended contract with Drax calls for us to ship five vessels this year. Our port facility is ready to receive the first railcars any week now and our ship loader is fully operational.

Regarding capital costs, as we get ever so near completion, we are choosing to remain at our prior estimate of construction and working capital cost of $131 million to $140 million. The cash spend has been $114 million on both plants in aggregate through the end of the first quarter 2015.

Just a few words on the fibre market, we continue to like what we see long-term with regard to addressable market size. We are appreciative of our Canadian dollar based wood basket. As you know, U.S. dollar-based products of all types have been suffering as exports to the EU have declined. Domestically produced wood pellets are no exception in experiencing this headwind. In the last six months, the U.S. denominated price of [ph] land wood pellets (08:16) has fallen 8% to $15 – or $15 per metric ton from $185 to $170. Wood pellets for the residential heating in the Northeast remain competitive with competing heating oil, propane and electricity.

Lastly on fibre, we remain appreciative of our early on decision to build a diversified platform of fibre-based businesses such that we are not over-reliant on any one market, any one regulatory scheme, any one wood basket, any one currency, nor any one fibre industry business segment. Back to our consolidated company for a moment, we continue to be hyperfocused on our liquidity situation. Because of our good first quarter at RNF, we will receive $8.4 million in distributions to our interest base on early announced $0.36 per unit distribution.

We recently drew $7.5 million under our Tranche B of our term loan with GSO bringing outstandings to $32.5 million. We ultimately expect to draw the full $45 million commitment over the course of the year. As we spoke earlier today, RNF our largest revenue income and cash contributor performed well year-over-year with every metric meaningfully higher. The impact of our restructuring at Pasadena implemented in 2014 caused our EBITDA to be greater than $2 million for the quarter driven by higher AS margins and volumes and higher sulfuric acid sales.

Lower natural gas prices $3.65 per MMBtu versus a year earlier, $5.02 per MMBtu, contributed to higher EBITDA at East Dubuque. Improved market has carried over to the second quarter. April deliveries were 66,000 tons of ammonia from East Dubuque. In fact, on April 8, we filled 283 trucks which is a new record for us beating last year's 265 record and we like what we see for the second quarter. We said earlier today that we are comfortable with First Call consensus EBITDA for RNF of $101 million and the calendar year distribution of $1.57.

And now, I'd like to have Dan talk in some more detail about our results.

Okay. Good morning. The results for the quarter, as Keith said, were generally in line across all the business segments. At Fulghum Fibres, the cost control efforts that we put in this year are paying off. We're seeing EBITDA margins better in both U.S. and South America despite the fact that we did have lower chip processing volumes. NEWP continues to perform very well during the quarter. It's performed exactly as we expected ever since that acquisition. This quarter we recognized revenues for the first time from pellets produced at our Atikokan facility; that's a big milestone.

For the Canadian projects, gross margins and results will be distorted by the low volumes that we still have as we commissioned both plants and we still have some costs flowing through SG&A that will show up as cost of goods sold, once the plants are fully operational. So it's hard to interpret the P&L until these plants get stabilized.

Now Rentech Nitrogen, results improved significantly due to the better performance at Pasadena following the restructuring along with strong demand in the quarter for both ammonium sulfate and ammonia. At the corporate level, the cost control efforts are also showing effects. Consolidated SG&A was down by $1.1 million despite the fact that we added $700,000 of SG&A as we acquired NEWP and Allegheny since the first quarter of last year.

Starting with revenues, we discussed earlier this morning that Rentech Nitrogen revenues were up 23% over last year's quarter. The main drivers there were significantly higher volume for ammonia sales out of East Dubuque and higher sales prices for ammonium sulfate. We saw a very strong demand and higher pricing for ammonium sulfate in this quarter compared to last year. At Fulghum Fibres, revenues were actually down from the prior year because of some lower biomass product sales and the startup of the plant in South America, but the margins held very well even though revenues were down because of those cost control efforts.

We had $1.7 million of revenue in the Industrial Wood Pellets segment, again first time we've recognized revenue from one of our new pellet plants at the Atikokan plant and $12 million of revenue from NEWP whereas we didn't own it last year. So that's a $12 million improvement from the prior quarter. The gross profit margin at Fulghum Fibres held flat. So as we mentioned, even though revenues and volumes were down, the gross margin held flat at 16%, which is in line with what we expected and again the cost control there has shown effects in the margins. The margin at NEWP was 18% right in line with what we expected. So the consolidated gross profit margin improved slightly from last year at 23%, up from 22%.

Focusing on SG&A for a second, I mentioned the consolidated SG&A is down by $1.1 million from last year, corporate unallocated SG&A is down by $2.9 million. That's a 43% drop. Now, some of that decline was due to new allocations, because we changed the way we allocate overhead costs into the fibre segment. So in our press release, we provided a table to summarize the effects of those allocations, and also some other unusual items like transactions cost. But to summarize no matter how you look at it, a consolidated and corporate SG&A were down for the quarter.

With a small net loss for the quarter on a continuing operations, we reported $0.02 losses both this quarter and last quarter, and in the last quarter, we had an additional $0.01 of loss from discontinued operations. So the overall net loss dropped slightly from a loss of $0.03 down to a loss of $0.02 this quarter. In EBITDA, we saw some nice improvements. Rentech Nitrogen had EBITDA up from last year, 19.2% versus 11% last year. Fulghum had a small decline. Even though revenues were down, EBITDA held pretty well, $4 million of EBITDA this quarter versus $4.5 million in the quarter last year, and NEWP as expected reported $2.3 million of EBITDA.

So, consolidated EBITDA improved significantly from $6 million last year to $17.6 million this year. Rentech consolidated cash at the end of the quarter, was $53.7 million; if we take out the effects of cash at Rentech Nitrogen, that left us with the cash balance of $22 million as of March 31 but there are two pro forma items that we know about, one is we drew $7.5 million after the end of the quarter against the GSO loan facility and we also know that we will receive $8.3 million in distributions from Rentech Nitrogen. So that puts our pro forma cash balance as of March 31 at $37.5 million.

Looking at some operating statistics, Fulghum's processing volumes were down slightly. If we look at the processing business, 3.7 million green metric tons were processed versus a slightly higher 3.8 million last year. And with wood pellets, we delivered 9,100 tons of wood pellets during the quarter from Atikokan. Keith mentioned that we've delivered now 11,000 in total and NEWP delivered 63,000 tons of pellets during the quarter.

And with that, we're going to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] From Imperial Capital, we have Matt Farwell on line. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning. You provided some information now about operations at the pellet facilities up in Canada, and I'm just trying to get an understanding of what the operational burn will be outside of the CapEx? You gave us some color on CapEx that $114 million has been spent overall, and that the target is $130 million to $140 million. So, we're looking at about $15 million I believe roughly in additional CapEx. But trying to just clarify, what the operational burn will be for the remainder of the year?

Yeah. The only thing we've really said on that for the year is that we do not expect those plans to provide cash flow or EBITDA this year.

Right. And Matt, we also gave SG&A guidance of $11 million for Wood Pellets: Industrial.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful, and then, so you drew down another $7.5 million on the GSO loan. I believe it's $108 million remaining, and you drew that money related to I guess, the RTK component to the loan, I think there is another RNF component to that loan that you have not drawn down yet. Is that correct?

Right, I think, yes, the RNF part of $18 million has not been touched, and I think your math is wrong. Dan, what's the size of the Tranche B?

The Tranche B facility is $37.5 million.

Drawn, right $45 million available in total.

Correct, yeah, okay.

Okay, so you have about $8 million left of capacity?

Yeah, that's right.

Okay, great. Okay, great, most of my questions were answered in the RNF call then. Thank you very much.

From Brean Capital, we have Lucas Pipes on line. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi.

I just wanted to follow up on M&A opportunities and I wondered if you could give us an update on what you're seeing maybe on the wood pellets side, both in the U.S. and maybe even beyond that?

Sean, you want to take that on the M&A side, because I haven't seen anything other than the last Enviva deal, but maybe you have some color.

I can't provide much color other than to tell you that there's certainly some consolidations that occurred with Enviva acquisition of Green Circle. There're some other companies out there, sort of these we're aware of. I don't know much else to expand on in terms of the deal.

Yeah, it's a hard question Lucas to talk about. As I said, we were looking at growing our Fibre business. Just as we've had a multipronged approach in how we have diversified supply demand product lines, growth has to be diversified as well not only organic, but also through consolidation and acquisition and partnerships. So I think all those things remain on the table. But we would never hint or talk about that stuff without it being real.

Yeah. Is there something that you could share with us along the lines of what would be your preferred place to grow outside of your organic growth opportunities?

Well, I mean, preferred outside of organics.

Yeah. All I would say is, we have identified a number of potential targets within each of our business segments from industrial pellets to home heating NEWP business as well as in the chipping business. So I think really the guiding principle for us is return on investment of any of these targets will be more of the governing factor not so much which business segment we target.

Right. And also access to capital structure.

Correct, correct.

That's very helpful. I appreciate that.

From HITE Hedge, we have Matt Niblack online. Please go ahead.

Thank you. So I guess couple of things; on Fulghum, it seemed like there continued to be just kind of this minor issue and that minor issue. There is a supplier turnaround, which I guess maybe that was expected and then this customer delivery issue. Is there a sense that as you're moving forward here, that these issues are starting to become fewer and would you expect looking into 2Q and 3Q that you might have a smoother operational pattern?

Yeah. I mean, Sean, kind of talk to that how we're getting the wheels back on there.

Yeah. I think, where we're starting to see the results of a lot of the programs that we've put in place, certainly eliminating some operator redundancy, reducing reliance on outside contractors doing more of the maintenance in-house. I think we've been really pleased with what we've seen from the operational side of that business in terms of how they managed their costs and expenses and we're disappointed a little bit with some of the seasonality affecting some of the harvest inflow, but this is also the time of the year where a lot of our customers have their outages. So not unsurprising to see volumes, therefore revenues down a bit, but I do think we've seen the business get itself organized and structured and we are on a path towards where we should be headed with this chipping business.

Great. And particularly you noted the lower biomass sales in both Asia and in local markets, I guess, in Latin America I was referring to. Do you have a sense of what's driving that and is that in anyway related to the price of oil or [indiscernible] (23:33) China or is that something that was just a blip and it's coming back this quarter, how do we think about that?

Well, first of all, I would characterize that biomass sales in our South American business are a very small component of the overall business in South America. This is really the bark sales, because we do the debarking services at our mills and we sell it locally into the market. It is not so much influenced by fossil fuel because power prices in Chile, they are not based so much on gas, it's an important fuel market for all intents and purposes. But I think it's also part and parcel when we increase our chipping volumes, we're going to produce more bark, and so therefore having some lower bark sales are also commensurate with increasing chipping production. But right now, I think it's probably too [ph] small as big a segment (24:20) to really spend too much attention on.

Okay, fair enough. And then, on Wawa, so things are running better than expected. I think that the full capacity mid-2016 [ph] you gave during the call there (24:34), that's consistent with what you guys did before or is that an acceleration?

That's consistent with the guidance we gave a couple of months ago.

Right, right, and so even though things are ahead of schedule, you think it's still probably going to be a pretty similar timeframe?

You know, Matt, you've been around this longer than I have and what can go wrong does go wrong, and let's move this one forward at our pace and good news will be good news.

Yes.

Fair enough, fair enough. Again, we appreciate that perspective. The other – to follow-up on one of the earlier questions on M&A, so it sounds like you're looking at opportunities in every one of the business segments. I think you've also in the past mentioned accelerating business development efforts around some of the existing businesses. Is there anything that you're particularly excited about there that could really add a lot of value to the business in the near-term or are we looking at kind of longer burn [indiscernible] (25:46) there?

Matt, the return sooner is better than later. So we are looking to do something sooner rather than later, Matt. But this is a competitive space for capital and for the limited number of acquirable businesses. So it would be imprudent to talk about that any further.

The pipeline still looks robust. And the pipeline still is robust.

No, yes, I mean on the greenfield side, yes, the domino effect across the EU with respect to the schemes being developed country by country to conform with the Union's renewable guidelines is occurring. The Dutch have just fallen in line, the Danes and the Belgians are soon to follow. So that adds incrementally millions of tons of demand from the EU and then there's also the small continent of Asia to contemplate there longer term.

Yes, the volumes in Asia are not big, but the potential is significant. So that along with some of that stalemate that we've seen particularly, as Keith mentioned, in Belgium and in the Netherlands has been addressed. So we're starting to see more movement by the larger integrated companies looking at their biomass plans going forward.

Okay. My last question and then [ph] turn to James for more (27:20) again here, but on the Enviva IPO, has that changed anything? Do you see them getting more aggressive now that they've had a successful IPO? I know it's not that old, but in and around that. Or do you see potential partners becoming more interested in potentially doing a deal with you to get to an MLP IPO now that there is a template, an example that's had a fairly successful offering? Or those are just too early to tell?

I mean clearly it's to everyone's interest that their success continues, so we congratulate them. The obvious difference is that if they're talking to parties, they have a currency that trades in New York Stock Exchange and we don't. That being said, there is also, like you alluded, there are some benefits to not having come up with the template, where the template can still be discussed is a topic of discussion. So yes, we wish them well and it doesn't change our plans. This wasn't a surprise. We've seen this one coming like a freight train for about a year and a half. So we're glad they got it out there and they picked a nice window and they're trading well.

Great. Hi, it's [ph] James (28:56). Going through the Enviva processes as buyers on our end we observed then it's quite what we thought a compelling case for the relative competitive advantage of their wood pellets coming from the Southeastern U.S., especially given their short rail hauls, which allows them to access Tidewater rather economically. And I'm wondering if you could give us a review in terms of how you see the Drax assets, Wawa, and Atikokan stacking up competitively against now we all know what Enviva is trying to do.

Yes, I wasn't privy to your one-on-one meeting, [ph] James (29:37), so unless we could have a transcript of that. So I don't know what comparative data – but the energy content of our pellets, for instance, is very strong. We have lab reports and customer results on that.

We like C dollars versus U.S. dollars going into the EU and we're like 10 years, more than five years when we talk about contract duration. But that's not saying that there is not a lot of things, but we like where we are and I think if and when and hopefully there'll be some comparative things, nothing like American capitalists like more than competition, so.

I think, the only thing I'd add to that is, sustainability has taken on a very important role in how governments are going to affect policy and support for biomass, and to that end, not speaking about any other market, just our own. In Canada, it is so much easier for us to demonstrate chain of custody and proof of sustainability when so much of our feedstock is on Crown certified land. So that becomes a very attractive feature, and it becomes very easy for us to also demonstrate the carbon savings when making our offers to Drax or other utilities in Europe.

I see, all right. Thank you.

From Dillon Hill Capital, we have [ph] Mike T. Reilly (31:13) on the line. Please go ahead.

Hi, this is Andrew Rosen filling in. Could you give an update just on the timing and scope of the upcoming wood fibre MLP and if any of this has been impacted by this new IRS potential regulation?

Well, this company [ph] was alluded to (31:36) an MLP in the past. There was no mention of that today and there won't be, there will be no front running here of securities offerings or anything of the nature. So determining the proper corporate structure for the entity will be – MLPs is one of them. Now the rulings that just came out by the way that suggested the guidelines of the IRS specifically say that every product line in our wood fibre business is a source of qualified income. So in that regard that was positive. That's a nudge more towards an MLP structure for our business.

Both pellets and chips.

Yes, pellets and chips, I mean it's comprehensive. So it's very nice to see.

All right. Thank you.

And our last question from Tipp Hill Capital we have Richard Haydon online. Please go ahead.

Good morning. If you were to embrace these forecasts that Enviva put into their prospectus, I would assume that you would have to be thinking about a third industrial pellet plant. And if you were, how would you finance that?

Okay. You know what, I think there is a whole slew of ways to finance something of that nature. Based on the contracts themselves, there will be some locked in components so it lends itself to a project financing perhaps. It also lends itself to JV-type structures. We still have a pretty solid relationship with some of our equity holders that could come to bear. We don't know what the outcome of our strategic process is with RNF, which could have a capital component.

So I would argue or say – not argue, because it wouldn't be an argument, but just state that there's plenty of avenues for us to raise capital to deliver on our greenfield projects that we have in the hopper.

Is that a reasonable thing for one to think about?

I think that any – I can't even imagine. This is going back to the prior question a little bit, too, I can't imagine having any corporate entity, much less an MLP that doesn't have a book of greenfield growth in addition to the constant idea of M&A. Greenfield is the highest return business. It should be if you're doing things correctly. It should be a less than 5x return. The problem with greenfield and MLP structure is you have to pay for your equity as you go in cash, and so you have this bridging period of a year or two years while plants are constructed where you're actually having to pay a return on your equity. And that's why I'm not being coy saying that corporate structures are something that we're always looking at an ability to maybe warehouse that greenfield opportunity at different levels.

One other question. Relative to the two facilities in Canada, now that you've got a firm understanding of what the invested capital is, can you come up with an expected rate of return on those facilities?

In Canada because the costs got away from us, I think we're sticking to what we said earlier that the IRRs on those projects are around 8%, 8.5%, which is below, but that's not our business. We're not in the businesses of building projects that has those return profile. So those are little bit below where...

And let me just say that calculation if you do that forecast, that's a typical corporate entity holding that asset for a long period of time.

Right.

So for example, if...

There's nothing structural up there.

If there were a structural change, it might affect that projected valuation.

Right.

Well, it sounds like things are better in the aggregate here.

Yes, the patient is being visited by the medical staff only once a week now as opposed to hourly.

Terrific. Good luck.

All right.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. We thank you for joining. You may now disconnect.