Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Keith B. Forman — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Matt Niblack — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC
James M. Jampel — President & Managing Partner, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc. Third Quarter Conference Call. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform all participants, this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech Inc. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech Inc. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without prior written permission of Rentech Inc. is prohibited.

I will turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the periods. Also, on the line with us today are members of the Fibre and Fertilizer management teams. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms.

You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time-to-time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of November 10, 2015. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable law.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2015 third quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Welcome to our quarterly call. I'm going to reorder my talking points this morning in response to enquiries we've been receiving this morning with regard to our announcements and the market's interpretation of them. The issue of course being focused on is our liquidity paragraph.

Rentech for the most part, in its 32-year history has always been a company confronting issues around its liquidity. It is certainly a topic we strive to address each reporting period in our filings, on our calls and is monitored diligently by us on a routine basis.

Prudency and reporting requirements dictate that we have a clear path of liquidity for a 12-month period into the future, while we believe the transaction with CVR would initially close during the fourth quarter of this year, this path was evident as we have reevaluated that the closing will most likely pushed – be pushed into the first quarter of next year, this path is less clear without some adjustment to our capitalization or spend.

Our change in tonality around this issue was meant to focus on the importance to Rentech, Inc. that the transaction between RNF and CVR Partners close is projected during the first quarter of 2016. There were no immediate cash shortfalls. There is no current or pending amortization, no overdue senior obligation. No gun to our head.

However, in early next year, we expect to meet some of the proceeds from the expected merger and related sale of Pasadena to meet our cash requirements. If there was some unforeseen delay to this closing, we would need to procure additional capital to fund our continuing operations through closing.

The auctions we may consider for funding of capital shortfall may include and/or some combination of the following: the incurrence of additional debt through a bridge loan type arrangement; monetization of a portion of our remaining unencumbered ownership of RNF units, which total $3.1 million, which are not transferable without the consent to CVR Partners or reducing our future outlays of cash.

The good news is that this is not a surprise. We will, if needed, seek a solution that is in the best interest of our shareholders, not one driven by false panic that would have terms incongruous with attaining our long-range goals.

All right, so that being said, I'll go back to the original purpose of the call, which was to discuss things in our rearview mirror, our third quarter results.

Consolidated results improved compared to last year, as our operating businesses posted higher EBITDA across the board. Performance at Fulghum and NEWP was better than we anticipated, and as a result, we now expect both businesses to exceed our guidance for the year.

Rentech Nitrogen had a strong quarter. We discussed the Fertilizer business in some detail earlier this morning on the call for Rentech Nitrogen. The highlights of the call were the following. Financial and operating results for both Nitrogen facilities improved significantly from the third quarter of last year.

We had higher sales volumes for ammonia and UAN. Sales volumes for AS were lower due to the restructuring constraints but pricing was higher than in the third quarter of last year. Improved margins were driven by lower natural gas and ammonia feedstock costs, both of our facilities operated at high uptime rates not to mention safely. And this is to the credit of our employees at the facilities themselves.

At Pasadena, we took an additional asset impairment charge of $32.5 million, instigated by the combination of updated market reads and updated out-year forecast for production prices – for product prices, I'm sorry.

Our Rentech Nitrogen updated guidance for 2015 due to the improved performance at East Dubuque slightly lower results at Pasadena and the addition of transaction cost.

A brief update on the RNF sales process. We received no comments during the HSR portion of our process. The S4 has been filed. It was filed in September and is currently in the SEC review process.

We're running at parallel paths with the sales process and preparations of a spin-off documents for Pasadena. We specifically put the Pasadena spin-off auction in the sales document to place control of this asset disposition in our hands. And therefore, we can heavily impact the actual closing of the CVR transaction. So, we now expect to close the CVR Partners transaction in the first quarter of 2016.

Let me update you a bit on Canada, which we did a little intermittent update back in early October with respect to the Wawa situation on our website. The August update to our CapEx estimate of approximately $145 million is unchanged. We have approximately $24 million that we spent as of the end of the third quarter.

I want you to note though that the CapEx estimate does not include contingencies for any additional issues that could be identified during the ramp-up. Once we complete the in-feed and conveyance repairs, and begin to reestablish an operating history, we will have more clarity to when we might reach full production capacity and stabilize EBITDA. We estimate that several factors present in the market today, if perpetuated, would have the effect of reducing our guidance for stabilized EBITDA around – by about 10%.

Those factors may or may not improve by the time we get to full production at the plants. These factors include the fact that oil prices which drive indexation of prices in our direct contract have declined more than Canadian diesel prices.

Let me just clarify that a little bit that there is an imperfect link for cost reimbursement back in the day that this contract was signed over two years ago, those had 95% correlation between Brent and Canadian diesel, and there has been a disconnect. So the fall in Brent prices has not been matched by a commensurate fall in diesel, so we're still paying the higher price but only being reimbursed [ph] significant (08:43) dropped to the same level of Brent. So that's the situation that exists today. Of course none of that is happening because we haven't sold any pellets to Drax yet. So, we're just alerting people here that if this situation perpetuates in the south in the future, there would be a little shortfall in cost reimbursement.

There is also currency exchange rates, spot pricing for pellets that are not under contract and our reduced ability to procure third-party pellets for sale through our port facility.

So, all of those are situations that market says do not exist today that may exist in the future that has existed in the past and we'll see when we get there, we're just alerting people to that business, there is a little bit of squishiness around the EBTIDA number, but it's in the magnitude of zero to 10% range.

Switching gears, to Atikokan, we've been meeting our contractual obligations and the plant is ramping up on schedule. Now that the electrical issues which inhibited us early in the year have been remediated once we installed the larger replacement transformer in August.

Through early November, we've produced approximately 42,000 metric tons of pellets. We have delivered to OPG, under our contract, 34,000 metric tons of pellets. The quality of our production remains good, the value of the pellets, supply to OPG continues to be higher than the minimum requirements of the contract, which actually results in a little bit higher revenue to us.

During the quarter, we began shipping excess volumes to our port facility to supplement Wawa's production as we build inventory for the first shipment to Drax early next year.

We have completed most of the repairs to the truck dump hopper with some minor modifications that are just being worked down right now, and is working as expected. Atikokan is not immune from the conveyance issues that have afflicted Wawa. We use the same vendor for 35% of the conveyance there.

We've ordered replacement conveyance parts for two of the conveyors and are hopeful that the near wholesale replacement of conveyance that's been underway at Wawa will not be needed at Atikokan.

We continue to target reaching full capacity at the Atikokan by the end of February 2016, but we still acknowledge that the timing could shift by several months depending on the degree of modifications needed to correct the conveyance issues or anything else that we may see.

Through early November, we've produced 21,000 metric tons of pellets at Wawa. We now have a total of approximately 28,000 tons of pellets in transit or at our storage facility in the Port of Quebec. This represents about 61% of the capacity of the Super Max schedule to ship to Drax early next year.

Wawa is expected to complete a four-week outage this week, whereby we installed equipments to correct our material handling problems. The new log in-feed system is expected to become operational this week. Once it's operational, the chippers would be able to run at greater throughput capacity.

In addition, the new replacement conveyors that were installed during the outage have shown no issues during checkout and are expected to operate with no problems during commissioning later this week.

The truck dump and its new conveyors are expected to be commissioned later this week also. And we are able to operate the plant either with the truck dump or the chippers which enhances our fibre supply options.

Wawa is scheduled to operate intermittently over the coming months as work to correct the remaining conveyance issues continues into the first quarter of next year. We are compressing what was initially conceived as a three-phase remediation process into two phases. We have yet to finalize the fabrication and installation contract for the second phase but anticipate that the costs will fit within our Canadian spending guidance of a $145 million.

We expect to resume the ramp-up of Wawa in the second quarter of the year with the goal of achieving the ability to operate at full capacity in the second half of the year.

The conveyance issues have been costly to us. On the surface, they may have only increased our aggregate spend in Canada to $145 million, from the high-end of our previous guidance of $131 million to $140 million.

However, as I stated last quarter, I want to make sure it's evident that most of the remaining contingency in our project cost estimates has been consumed. In addition, we have had our progress towards operating capacity delayed by a month, and in turn, as previously announced, we have incurred cash penalties from our downstream constituents as well.

The good news is that we are very far along with the construction. The change in conveyance providers and the new engineering team that we have in place gives me confidence that we will fix this issue. Keep in mind that the plant has in fact operated, produced a periodic rates, it's made high quality pellets that have exceeded our specifications, and they have been shipped to our storage facility in the Port of Quebec.

Once the conveyance is fixed, we will then get to see how the remaining components operate in concert with each other at increasingly higher operating levels and for increasingly longer periods of time. We expect these components to perform as they have shown they can in earlier, albeit, less stressful conditions at Wawa and Atikokan.

We're using equipment that is successfully operating in facilities owned by others, in their up and running plants. So we are optimistic that we'll be able to do so as well. Again, my caution here is that we are no longer budgeted for additional meaningful failure of critical equipment.

Fulghum Fibres. As mentioned, Fulghum has performed better than our expectations during the first nine months of the year and should exceed our EBITDA guidance for the full year of $16 million to $17 million of EBITDA. Domestically our efforts to control costs while increasing plan efficiency at the mills, has been showing positive results. Meanwhile in South America, we've been able to increase sales both within South America as well as to Asia.

Revenues for the quarter were slightly higher than last year at $23.4 million. U.S. revenues were essentially flat, while South American revenues were up almost 25%. Gross profit was up 47% compared to the third quarter last year due to lower maintenance and other operating costs. Our 3Q 2015 EBITDA of $5.9 million is up over 50% from the same period a year ago.

New England. Now let's talk about NEWP here for a second. New England Wood Pellets retains its role among the Rentech family as an entity that provides consistent positive results. We expect NEWP to also exceed the higher end of our $9 million to $10 million EBITDA guidance for the year.

Higher average sales prices, favorable manufacturing variances and lower SG&A spend are contributing to better than expected results. Gross profit for the quarter was up nearly 65% from the comparable quarter last year.

3Q 2015 EBITDA of $4.4 million is up over 60% from 3Q 2014. In addition to higher margins, this quarter's results benefited from a full quarter of Allegheny operations.

And I've certainly talked about liquidity, so let me move on to reorganization and cost savings, which are actually separate from that discussion because they were in the works as we talked about last quarter. They are constantly in the works here. But all of that – but they do have a direct impact on that obviously in the longer term. This is an iterative process and must be so to respond the known facts as they present themselves. As such, this cannot be viewed as a one-and-done situation.

On a high level, we have committed that the initial reductions in cost will approximate $10 million to $12 million. The phasing of this reduction has already begun, more specifically includes, closing our Los Angeles headquarters by some time in the second half of next year. It involves relocating a much smaller corporate center to the Washington D.C. area by mid next year, by smaller anticipated job functions before that these offices will ultimately represent about a third of the head count that existed in Los Angeles a year ago.

Concurrent with this move and shrinkage of the headquarters' head count, will come a reduction in the compensation model to more accurately reflect the ultimate size and scope of Rentech's businesses. In addition, cost reductions that have been underway in procurement, professional fees and services, information technology and others will continue to progress – press forward these changes of being driven internally by a small group of people in our organization.

My last comment on the topic at this moment will be to let you know that all of our Los Angeles based employees have been spoken to, each has responded commendably to the task in hand and each person has continued to perform at the high levels we have come to expect. Until such time that the function they oversee is transferred to the field to the East Coast or eliminated. I thank each to them for their professionalism.

As usual, we've given you, our investors, a lot to digest. Our goal is to improve the value of our investment in the wood fibre industry. That remains our top goal. To do so, we must have a business striving to create distributable cash flow among the cleanest metrics of financial soundness of the business.

We have made strides toward this goal during the first nine months of the year. Our business at Fulghum has regained its mojo to a large degree and looks like it will end the year at levels last achieved when we first acquired the business.

NEWP of course, seamlessly rolled up its acquisition of Allegheny and continues to deliver as expected, only a little better. Atikokan is up and running. Not clear of headwinds but for the year will have met all of its contractual obligations with respect to quantity and quality of product.

We also set out the year to rationalize the investment thesis around Rentech Inc. We sought to position our Fertilizer business with a partner that could in concert with our business, build a stronger more diversified platform, upon which to grow and to secure future cash flows, particularly in an industry amidst a transformative period of consolidation that makes single plant companies more vulnerable to competitive pressures. We haven't closed the transaction yet but we intend to, and we believe we have chosen the perfect partner.

In addition, this transaction will enable Rentech to reduce about 75% of our obligations to GSO, all of which are senior to our shareholders, vastly enhancing our financial flexibility. This reduction in debt will have the immediate impact of reducing our cash interest expense which is dollar-for-dollar new distributable cash flow.

To the extent this enables us to more readily restructure our subsidiary level debt facilities to reduce amortizations, our distributable cash generation will be further enhanced.

Our cost containment initiatives are becoming more visible. And each dollar of cash saved in this process is a dollar of distributable cash created as well. Of course, an impediment to achieving our primary long-term financial goals is the uncertainty that still resists around our Wawa facility. As mentioned, we are working hard and confident that we'll be able to fix the conveyance issues we confront. I can assure you that we take no action here without the inherent belief that the success of such action will openly enhance shareholder value.

And now, Dan may discuss the quarter specifically.

Results for the third quarter improved across the operating businesses. At Fulghum Fibres, lower cost in the U.S. and higher sales of chips in South America improved profitability in the third quarter and our outlook for the year.

NEWP's production and sales were up from last year with both product prices and unit costs improving. At East Dubuque, revenue increased with record ammonia production despite lower delivered pricing. Lower natural gas costs improved margins.

At Pasadena, revenues were down slightly as lower volumes were not quite offset by prices that were significantly stronger than last year. Lower ammonia input prices combined with higher product prices drove the raw material margins much higher in Pasadena.

This quarter, we presented the East Dubuque facility as a discontinued operation since we have an agreement in place to sell the business. And as Keith already mentioned, we wrote down the assets in Pasadena by $32.5 million.

Summarizing the P&L results, now keep in mind that the numbers I'm about to mention do not include East Dubuque, which is presented separately as a discontinued operation. But just to have a quick comment on East Dubuque revenues, they were up 2%.

The other revenues in the company were up by 5% with NEWP improving significantly, up 27%, as we added the Allegheny mill, and Fulghum Fibres revenues were up 6%. Pasadena, which is still of course in our consolidated numbers had revenue decline by 2%.

Margins were up across the board with Pasadena improving dramatically from a loss last third quarter to a small profit this year. Fulghum Fibres margins improved from 15% to 21% and NEWP's margins also increased as we saw the price improvement and cost improvement as well. So the total gross profit margin across the company also improved.

SG&A consolidated was down 2%. The only place we saw increases in SG&A would have been due to transaction cost within Rentech Nitrogen, those costs associated with the merger with CVR Partners.

So, consolidated net income, if we take the reported number, declined from last year, a loss of $0.51 in the third quarter of last year dropped to a loss of $1.06 this year, but if we adjust for the asset impairment, the per share number improved to a net income of $0.38 in the quarter.

Looking at some key metrics, we had Fulghum Fibres logs process improved by 3% from last year, so the volume was up from 3.7 million tons to 3.8 million tons. And at New England Wood Pellet, delivered tons increased by 24%, again reflecting the acquisition of the Allegheny mill.

And now, we'll open it up and take some questions on the quarter. [Operator Instructions]

. Our first question comes from Brent Rystrom of Feltl. Please go ahead.

Yes, thank you. Keith, could you remind us on the Atikokan and Wawa, what you view as the capacity and then the utilization of that capacity when these two plants are up full power?

Yes, the capacity to my recollection, Atikokan is a 110,000 metric tons per year, and at Wawa it's 450,000 tons. So utilization would be – if we use metrics of up and running plants, the 500 metric ton plants that Enviva owns operate at 500. So we think we hit those numbers full out.

Okay. And then you had mentioned in your comments that, although you have to test certain things at Wawa, I believe your quote was, earlier under less stressful conditions you were able to stress test some of that equipment. Can you give us a context of what's stress – what less stressful conditions means?

Well, I guess it's really duration right, Brent. I mean, we've run all 12 mills at the same time. We've run three mills all out for three days in a row. We've never run 12 mills at Wawa for a week consecutively because we just haven't had the ability to deliver that volume of product to those mills. So that's just one aspect of it. Now to get to the mills, you have to go through the hammer mills, so the same goes for the hammer mills. I think it's four of those there.

Dan, is there anything you want to enhance on that answer that I gave there?

No, I think Keith you covered it. It's basically like you're saying until we've had a chance to run the rest of the plant at full output, all the components have been run at lesser output. So far none of those have indicated any problems. But we won't know until we're able to run it, so.

All right. Thank you. Keith, can you kind of give us an update. I know in the past you've talked about you'd like to return some growth to Fulghum. Can you give us an update on kind of what your thoughts are on that part of the business?

We're working at it. There are opportunities. I have nothing I can talk about right now but we're evaluating at least two proposals or three proposals for new facilities. There, of course we do have – historically we've had a mechanism to finance that growth separate from whatever the parent company is ultimately doing. So it's not something that we're going to – that we're shutting down.

Those relationships are commercially run at a much more localized level, whereas visits to customers at Wawa involve airplanes and passports. The visits to our customers at Fulghum involves getting in your car, putting in a good CD and/or satellite radio if we reimburse that and drive into the plants. So it's a hands-on effort. I can tell you that I really feel good about the team that we have doing that, but nothing to report right now.

I think the first order of business, so Brent, was if you can't run what you own properly, how can you justify running more of it. And I think what we've seen the team there do in the last 10 to 12 months is to prove that they can run these things as they should be run, and kudos to them.

And when you made the comment about financing, that's pretty much a reference to, from a CapEx perspective, there's different ways to fund it [ph] favorably there (28:41)?

Absolutely.

All right.

Right, absolutely. I mean, it's one of the things that idealistically I want to clear up. But I can clear that up post facto. So if I have to, if it's an opportunity to put a new mill in for $5 million or $6 million to serve this customer for the next five to eight years at a profitable rate and I can establish the same sort of subsidiary level credit to fully fund that construction, I will do that.

Bigger picture, what's incongruous is, I really don't like the subsidiary what I call blocking credits to be in place below the parent company. But prudency may dictate that we continue on that path for a little while longer.

Okay. Any thoughts about – on the previous call I think you mentioned 78 degree weather, wherever you're at right now, Keith. Thinking of the New England Wood Pellets, I'm curious, any thoughts on how the retail channel inventory build might look? I know you've had a good quarter, expect a good fourth quarter, but if this – after two years of very cool, cold falls in the Northeast and Midwest, it looks like we're off to a little bit different pace this year. Did that [ph] changed those details (30:00)?

Well, remember, Brent, we don't sell to Dave in the cabin, we sell to the big boxes, and the big boxes started buying these pellets back in the spring.

I understand that. What I'm worried about, do you have an ability to track the retail sell-through?

Yes, I think we're tracking up a little bit through pricing. I think we'll get some pricing feedback through – none of this happens in a vacuum. So there's already dialog between our guys, our people and Home Depot or Lowes or Tractor Supply. And envisioned on what's going to happen next year.

And if they would report to us that they've had to discount their pellet sales by 10% or 20% in front of their stores, that's going to be pressure that we're receiving back. We have not received that but I think it's premature because I also think that things change, the weather changes fortunately.

My final question, Keith. Timing of the headquarters move. You may have mentioned in the call, I didn't recall, but do you have a sense of when that might happen?

Yes, we have engaged with the help of some of our friends and I mean that business-wise not nepotistically. We've engaged a party to – that's already looking at subletting options for our offices here. And a similar party has been looking for space for us in the DC area. And so there will be actually visits occurring this year to new spaces. I'm saying that second quarter, that's our goal. So I mean, the second half of the year, but it's not going to be in the latter part of the year.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from Matt Niblack of HITE Hedge. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking the question and really nice work on the Fulghum and NEWP. On that topic, how sustainable are the improved results in those two divisions?

Well, I think the issue – let's focus on NEWP. There is this issue that Brent has talked about with weather. We have had good results. We didn't acquire another – there is not an Allegheny to pull out of the woods or out of the sky right now. So there is no step change in revenue.

So the better than expected year we're going to post is – it would require similar tailwinds. And right now, looking at the Farmer's Almanac and all of that, and of course every big customer you have because they are customers are telling you, well, you're not going to get this next year, guys. So we'll see.

So, it's not put it in the bank. But it's generally, that's a $10 million EBITDA business, that's sort of a number we like to – that I would use as a metric of success. And Fulghum was a 20-ish when we acquired it. It's going to exceed $16 million to $17 million this year. I think the pressures on Fulghum are there as well. I mean, you saw that there was one disclosure this quarter about contract with Rainier.

And you saw that they exercised their option to acquire that plant. And that worked out from us on a cash basis because the plant was generating very little cash to us. And we got a meaningful check-in. We were able to reduce debt at Fulghum with those proceeds.

However – and the negative of course is we took a write-down on the physical asset. But you wouldn't want to see that situation perpetuate itself across the spectrum. We – I think it's always – it's challenging to grow that business. There is headwinds in the fibre and container board industry. There is consolidation going on. Consolidations, good/bad, depending on what customer you had that was acquired versus are you on the acquirees' team or on the acquireds' team.

So, I guess what I'm saying, Matt, is we're not taking anything for granted. The pressure is on us. What I am pleased about is it's like your – I'm going to use to kid analogy because I just had parent conferences last Friday.

I'm sitting there listening to my daughter get her lecture from the teacher and myself and we wouldn't be giving her the lecture if we didn't think she had A+ in her. If she was C and she got a C, we'd be patting her on the back. What Fulghum and NEWP show us is that they have a potential. So, when they do B performance, we're upset with them. And I think this year is A performance, and it makes the bar higher for them.

Okay. So with Fulghum, you would expect this to continue, that's your expectation?

I think operationally, I expect the operational performance, not to be a cause of us missing our number, which was a major part of that 13.5 number that we posted in 2014. But I still expect there to be issues around IP looking at a plant here, or GP looking a plant there and saying, hey, this deal is – we're going to shut that plant down, we're going to run half the fiber, we're going to stop making container board, we're just going to make bathroom tissue.

That stuff will happen and it's naïve of any of us to think that that stuff, those pressures aren't there. Countervailing that is we got the people on the ground in the cars, looking for new opportunities where if we lose a paper line in plant, hopefully we pick up a paper line someplace else.

Right, right. Okay. And then you didn't have a ton to say in your remarks, on this call at least, about Pasadena. So what's happening there? I guess, we can read from the filing that the interest there is less than what it was before. You're not sure you can sell it. Is that a correct interpretation and [ph] whether do you see any (0:37:03) options there?

Right. I mean, the additional write-down was a combination of events. For instance, if that asset was going to be held in perpetuity, if it was something that wasn't for sale, we would on a non-discounted basis look at future cash flows and get to count them out for 10-plus years. But because we've put in this other box, we have to discount the cash flows and we have to clip them. We can't look at it for a longer period of time. So this pressure from numerically on how we value that.

And as well as there is input, the reason we haven't said much more about it is because we are in an active process there. There are confidentiality letters, where they can't talk about it. So, I would hate to be – and it doesn't do me any benefit to be the party violating that confidentiality. But I think you're reading of the tea leaves is not something I'm going to say, boy you misread them.

Got it. So if you end up choosing to hang on to it and retain the cash flows, is that something that's on the table there?

That's always been on the table to spin it off. I mean, I think first off, we had to have an option that we control, one where we wouldn't be held hostage by the smaller player looking to acquire Pasadena.

You could just imagine the amount of leverage that would exist if I were to – if we were to have signed a purchase agreement. And a purchase agreement by no means a final document. And then get closer to closing and then have, well, we need escrow for this or we're not going to pay for this or hey you know what, we knocked the working capital adjustment we agreed to, we don't like.

And knowing full well that I had ended the process, shifted the burden of the transaction or the priority of the transaction to the smaller asset and now what position would I be in to stand in front of the much larger, more beneficial events RNF unit-holders.

So, we didn't want to ever be in that position. So we wanted to be able to say, you know what? Enough with you, we're over here and we're out.

Got it. And then, I guess lastly, on the delay or maybe it's not even really a delay but the guidance of the transaction for East Dubuque being pushed into Q1 versus hopes of closing in Q4. What's driving that delay? And is the expectation that it would be closer to the beginning of Q1 or could this be all the way to the end. What kind of color [ph] can we expect (39:55)?

Well, we haven't received the comments back from the SEC yet. So we're being a little cautious there. But for no reason, no indicated reason, we don't think we're doing anything that's out of the normal. But we also wish to – it was to expand the reach of the Pasadena process. And as you know it behooves us to close sooner rather than later. So, we're striving to make that happen on the earlier side rather than the later side.

But isn't the – can't the Pasadena process happen after the sale of RNF?

Yes. No, the Pasadena process cannot happen after the sale. The approval from the SEC could occur. And we could have the unit-holder vote and get that out of the way prior to the sale. But we cannot close with CVR until Pasadena is sold. We're divested from the rest of RNF.

Right. So the idea is that you don't want to absorb the cost of divesting it to RTK?

That's really not the driver Matt. It's really that CVR doesn't want to own Pasadena. They want to have no ownership tray of the Pasadena. It's not a product they are familiar with. It's an internationally marketed product. It's in Pasadena. It's not in their sort of corn wheat belt that they're in.

All right, but you don't want to – but the issue is you don't want to spend the capital to divest it on an interim basis to RTK?

Well, it's that – remember we only own 60% of it. It's that – I mean if you're talking about RTK buying it, that's on it's own set of.

Yes.

it's a hairball. Still possible but not something I really want to chew on.

So the primary hold-up with the RNF transaction is Pasadena with some other minor things?

Well, I mean it's – right now, it's the combination of everything. We do not have the clarity to conduct the vote or anything. So the gating issue will be when we hear back from the SEC what modifications for that document will have to occur before we file a Red Herring. The Red Herring goes out, I don't know what color our cards are going to be but they do typically blue and white and you'll vote.

And when that vote occurs which is between 20 and 30 days after we receive approval from the then, then any delay after that would be related to something. And that something may be Pasadena.

Got it, understood. And then, James is on the line with me as well, if you'll humor us, he would like to ask a question.

Yes, I've got a picture for you guys, I wanted – up in Wawa when I was up there last week, one of the service providers with conveyance had the truck and it was painted on the side, HITE Services. And I want to point out that you're the only investor who is actually putting elbow grease into our – to help remediate the problem.

We're helping anyway we can.

Yes, I appreciate that.

To clarify, we have not taken insider status here. I want to be on the record that that is in fact not our truck.

Okay.

But anyway, James, go ahead.

Yes. You spoke a little bit about the third-party pellets at the Quebec facility or the lack thereof. Are those pellets going to go somewhere else or does it say something about supply?

Yes, right now...

What can we read into that?

That's a good question, James. Right now those are being drawn to the United States because of the exchange rate. So that's where those reasons in there, all kind of intertwined. So you have a more, a better return to those pellet manufacturers by pushing those pellets south and that's where they're headed. So that's an anomaly that didn't exist a year ago.

So, these would be things that might be headed to Europe but instead of going to the United States?

They might be headed to Canadian retail markets. They might be headed to – we were hoping that we would draw them into the Port of Quebec for our – and be stored in our facility and be sold by us, in other words that's being sort of a middleman. We did this for a while with KD pellets. We were buying pellets from a small producer in Ontario at a price and selling them for a higher price to meet the early deliveries to OPG, which was helpful to us because it avoided us incurring penalties there.

For instance, that pellet producer for instance is no longer – at this moment not producing pellets. So there is a supply source that we were probably counting on being around is not there anymore.

And those pellets were going to go through Quebec and then off to Europe or...

Yes, yes, yes.

I see. All right, thank you.

All right.

Thank you. We have no further questions at this time. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.