Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Paul Summers — Chief Financial Officer, Rentech, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech First Quarter 2017 Conference Call. My name is Allie and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I would like to inform all participants this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Julie, you may begin.

Welcome, everyone, to Rentech's first quarter 2017 conference call. During this call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Paul Summers, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risk, uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 11, 2017. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2017 first quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Welcome, and thanks for joining us this morning.

Rentech's consolidated results for the first quarter were affected by continued soft demand for retail wood pellets, lower industrial pellet sales, accruals for estimated rail and transportation penalties in Canada, lower revenues due to a sale of a Fulghum mill last year, and fewer South America export vessels, and asset and goodwill impairments at Fulghum.

Fulghum's first quarter revenues were lower by 27% as compared to Q1 of 2016. U.S. revenues, which were down 8% year-over-year, continued to be negatively impacted by the sale of the mill in April of 2016. South America sales were down 47% in the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the prior year due to significantly fewer ship sails to Asia. We expect these sales to pick up throughout the remainder of this year, but to be lower than in 2016. Lower in-country biomass sales also contributed to the decline in South America revenues.

We wrote down Fulghum's U.S. assets by $7.8 million in Q1 due to the previously announced notice we received in February that a Fulghum customer intends to exercise its purchase option for two chip mills. The same notice also attributed goodwill impairment test in the first quarter for Fulghum U.S. that resulted in a write-down of $13.1 million.

Fulghum completed the sale of the two mills earlier this month, which will result in net proceeds approximately $5 million. Rentech is required to offer the net proceeds as prepayment of its debt to GSO, subject to limitations, if any, in Fulghum's debt covenants.

At NEWP, sales volumes increased in the first quarter as compared to the prior-year period. However, revenues continued to be significantly lower than historical levels. In the first quarter, retail wood pellet demand continued to be negatively impacted by relatively warm weather and continued depressed prices for competing heating fuels, such as heating oil and propane. In addition, sales prices for the first quarter of 2017 were lower than in the prior-year period.

NEWP operated at approximately 43% of capacity during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to 77% of capacity in Q1 of 2016. We will continue to monitor inventory levels and demand and adjust production at the facilities accordingly.

As we previously announced, the Wawa facility has been idled since early March. In January, we shipped approximately 48,000 tons of pellets to Drax. In March, we canceled the next two shipments for 2017 without incurring any penalties to Drax, leaving us with an obligation to deliver approximately 193,000 tons during the remainder of this year. In April, we shipped most of Wawa's remaining inventory of approximately 12,000 tons of pellets to Drax under an amendment to the contract. The shipment does not affect our delivery obligations for 2017. We will most likely have further amendments to delivery schedule as a result of the continued idling of the facility.

In the first quarter, we fulfilled our contractual obligations to OPG with pellets produced at the Atikokan plant, which has been operating at reduced levels since early March. With regard to unallocated corporate SG&A expenses, our cost-saving efforts have reduced consolidated year-over-year comparisons by 30%.

I'd like Paul to take you through the financials in more detail.

Hello, everyone.

Starting with the top line, Rentech revenues for the first quarter of 2017 totaled approximately $32.2 million, which were down 19% versus Q1 in 2016. As Keith mentioned, sales at Fulghum were lower primarily due to the sale of a mill in April of 2016 and lower South American export revenues.

Industrial Wood Pellet revenues in Q1 were also slightly lower than last year due to lower sales volumes. Revenues in NEWP actually increased over the year, but were still below historical levels due to relatively warm weather and continued low prices for competing heating oil.

Our total gross profit for Q1 were down $900,000 compared to the first quarter of last year. Fulghum's gross profit margin for Q1 of 2017 was 11% as compared to 17% in Q1 of 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the sale of mill in the U.S. in April 2016 as well as lower South American export sales.

NEWP's gross margin was 9% in Q1 of 2017 as compared to 16% for the first quarter of last year. The decline was due to lower sales prices and charges related to scaling back production in Q1 of 2017. [indiscernible] (07:03) gross margin improved by 8% primarily due to a $2.7 million reduction in inventory write-downs.

Our total consolidated SG&A expenses were down by 5% in Q1 of this year compared to last year. SG&A expenses would have been down to 26% excluding accrued penalties relating to the idling of the Wawa facility in Q1 of 2017.

Corporate overhead was lower by 30% primarily due to our cost savings effort. These savings were partially offset by the absence of corporate overhead allocations to the Industrial Pellet segment, a practice we discontinued in 2017.

NEWP's SG&A expenses were lower by 11% while increases in Fulghum's personnel costs in South America and employee visits costs in the U.S. drove up SG&A by approximately 21% or $256,000 year-over-year. The increase in personnel cost resulted from a reclassification of operational cost to SG&A and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, we're hopeful that the increased employee benefits costs in the U.S. will normalize over the remainder of the year.

Industrial Pellets SG&A was higher due to the accrual of $1.9 million of estimated future liabilities associated with idling of the Wawa facility. These liabilities represent estimated future obligations under our TrinityRail and CN agreements. In the first quarter, we recorded one-fourth of the estimated CN shortfall penalty for the full year. The accrual for TrinityRail represents our best estimate. Our future liabilities under a railcar lease net up potential income from sub-leasing the cars. These expenses were partially offset by the absence of corporate overhead allocations to the segment in 2017.

Turning to the balance sheet, Rentech's consolidated cash balance as of March 31 was $23.7 million. The pre-tax value of our approximately 7.2 million units of CVR Partners, which serve as collateral for the GSO debt, was approximately $35 million as of yesterday's close.

Our total debt obligations as of March 31 were $116.7 million. This includes $52.3 million of debt owed to GSO, $22.7 million at Fulghum U.S., $14.2 million at Fulghum South America, $14.1 million at NEWP, and $13.5 million related to our capital lease of the port facility in Québec City.

I will now turn the call back to Keith.

Before we open the lines for Q&A, I just want to note that we remain actively engaged in the strategic review process for Wawa and the company as a whole. We're not in a position to answer any specific questions about the process, including timing, participants, et cetera, nor can we guarantee that the process will result at the end of the day in a successful transaction.

I'd like to now have the operator open the floor to questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have no questions at this time. And as we have no more questions, are there any further closing comments or statements?

We're actually done with the call. We appreciate it. If you have any follow-up questions, feel free to reach out to me.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.