Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech, Inc.
Lucas Pipes — Analyst, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC
Pavel Molchanov — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates
Peter S. Park — Managing Member, Park West Asset Management LLC
Anatol Feygin — Vice President - Energy Analyst, Loews Corporation

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Rentech's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. And afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Friday, May 11, 2012.

And I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Dawoodjee.

Thank you. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our company's activities during the quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period and provide comments on Rentech's financial position. We will then open the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question so that we may get to as many of your questions as possible.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable terms.

You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 11, 2012, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We reported solid first quarter results driven by strong fertilizer prices and high sales volume at Rentech Nitrogen. Strong demand for fertilizer was supported by the USDA's expectations of record corn plantings of nearly 96 million acres and tight inventories.

The dry warmer weather we experienced in March enabled farmers in our core market area to acquire ammonia approximately 15 days earlier than the typical start of the spring application window on April 5.

We shipped unusually high volumes of ammonium in March which a shifted significant portion of deliveries into the first quarter. In the second quarter, we'll still recognize revenues from some ammonia deliveries, but the quarter will be primarily composed of spring deliveries of UAN.

For the first quarter, average prices for delivered products were up significantly from last year. Ammonia at $673 per ton was 11% higher than last year, and UAN at $327 per ton was 59% higher than last year. We locked in a significant portion of our spring book in the September-October window last year when pricing for deliveries was on a premium. We sold limited additional tonnage in late December through February when product prices were softer. We later completed the remainder of our spring product sales after prices appreciated as a result of relatively high corn prices and early spring application window and industry supply interruptions.

Results for the quarter also benefited from low natural gas prices which led to gross margins of 59%, up significantly from 43% in the same quarter last year. These positive business fundamentals in the first quarter led a strong cash generation. So our first cash distribution of $1.06 per unit was better than we had forecasted.

Distribution covers cash generated during the period that began upon the close of our IPO on November 9 to March 31, 2012. That period included fall product deliveries and excluded a negative impact of the plant turnaround which took place in the first 15.5 days of October 2011.

The distribution is payable to unitholders of record as of May 8, and will be paid on May 15. The next distribution covering the second quarter will be paid on or about August 14. Today, we're issuing guidance for the calendar year 2012. Our forecast calls for cash available for distribution in the range of $2.86 per unit and EBITDA in the range of $120 million.

So that you can make direct comparisons to the forecast and our IPO perspectives, we're also updating our guidance for the 12 month ending September 30, 2012. We now expect EBITDA of approximately $110 million, up from previous guidance of $97 million, and cash available for distribution at approximately $2.67 per unit, up from $2.28 per unit. Both of these distribution numbers are after debt service.

Looking forward, products for the summer fill are seasonally at lower prices than peak season spring and fall prices. We're beginning to see activity for ammonia and UAN summer sales in the range of $600 to $625 for ammonia and $300 to $330 for UAN. We're also beginning to see activity for fall ammonia application season. Posted prices in our region of the Mid-Corn Belt are in the mid-$600 per ton range. We've already committed a small portion of our fall books in this price range. UAN prices per fill tons in preparation of the 2013 spring season are posted in the low $300s.

The prices we're seeing today for the fall of 2012 are in a range comparable to this average delivered price of products during the fourth quarter last year. That's $684 for ammonia and $307 for UAN. But our natural gas prices have dropped from last year's average of $4.81 per MMBtu. So we're setting up for strong margins this fall.

As of March 31, we've locked in or delivered 38% or 55,000 tons of the ammonia deliveries forecasted for 2012 at an average price of $693 and 34% or 99,000 tons of UAN deliveries forecasted for 2012 at an average price of $361. Keep in mind that this is for the 12 months ending December 31, 2012.

We've already purchased or contracted the fixed prices for 68% of the natural gas required to produce the product already delivered or forecasted to be delivered during the 12 months ending December 31, 2012. Because natural gas prices are relatively low, we locked in approximately 3.1 million MMBtus of natural gas beyond our needs to produce the product we've committed under presales. These contracts go out as far as September at an average price of $2.75 per MMBtu excluding transportation cost.

Both the ammonia and UAN plants ran exceptionally well with onstream factors of 100% during the quarter. Our expense in projects are on schedule and on budget. We're on track to complete the urea, DEF expansion project in the fourth quarter and we've already delivered multiple class loads of DEF that meet product specifications. The DEF is a urea-based chemical reactant composed of the de-ionized water in a high quality urea. The EPA has mandated that all on-road diesel vehicles class1 through class 8 manufactured on or after January 1, 2010 employ an emissions-reducing engine technology which specifically targets hazardous NOx emissions. One technology for NOx emission reduction involves injecting DEF into the exhaust vehicles. The U.S. market for DEF is projected to grow from 50 million gallons today to 1.2 billion gallons in 2019.

The ammonia production and storage capacity project has moved along on schedule. Nearly all major equipment has been ordered and the site civil work package is out for bid. As of the end of March, engineering and procurement for the project was about 20% complete with construction nearly 15% complete.

This fall we expected to include the engineering work on the scoping study to evaluate a further increase in our urea capacity. We believe that the long term fundamentals in the industry are attractive. The low U.S. natural gas prices in addition to increasing global grain consumption which drives fertilizer demand will continue. As an example, the U.S. recently reported the six largest export sale of corn in history, which is believed to be headed to China.

Beyond the organic growth opportunities I described, we are looking at potential acquisition opportunities to expand Rentech Nitrogen. We have an M&A team working on the target list and we are in active discussion with several leases parties.

We expect any opportunity we pursue to be accretive to cash available for distribution per unit. We also continue to explore potential joint development opportunities for projects that could be developed at Rentech and then sold to Rentech Nitrogen. These opportunities are in the very early stage of discussions.

At Rentech, we are focused on growing distributions at the nitrogen fertilizer segment securing partners who can fund the global deployment of our upturn of energy technologies, reducing cost and growing cash flows. We will receive approximately $25 million in our first cash distribution from Rentech Nitrogen on May 15. Rentech's cash balance as of March 31 pro forma for this distribution would have been approximately $200 million. We continue to focus on securing large partners to fund the cost of deploying of alternative energy technologies while limiting the impact on our balance sheet. We're having meaningful discussions with several parties who see attractive global markets for our technologies. We have hired an advisor to help us find additional technology partners.

As I mentioned in the last earnings call, we plan to reduce R&D expenses in 2013. We expect R&D to be less than $10 million next year. We're evaluating deployment and acquisition opportunities that deploy conventional technologies within the energy complex. We believe these projects could qualify for commercial debt financing. Some of these opportunities could also qualify for an MLP structure and would generate cash flows in a shorter timeframe in fuels and power projects utilizing our technologies.

Our technology group continues to work on the IBR project which has taken longer than initially planned due to typical startup issues and minor modifications. We expect the demonstration of the Rentech-ClearFuels project in our Colorado demo facility to be complete this year. With the completion of this demonstration project, all major components of our technology portfolio will have demonstration scale data necessary for commercial application.

In summary, we believe we're well-positioned to execute on our priority of growing Rentech Nitrogen, securing global partners to fund technology deployments and developing an underlying cash generating energy business. I look forward to sharing specifics with you in the near future.

I'll now hand the call over to Dan for additional color on the quarter. Dan?

Thank you, Hunt. Good morning, everyone. Our consolidated results for the quarter include Rentech Nitrogen which reported solid results. Revenues were up 61% at $38.6 million this quarter. That's due to both increases in sales prices and deliveries of product. That led to a gross profit margin of 59% reflecting the benefits of lower gas prices. That 59% margin was up 43% from last year.

Consolidated SG&A has increased so let's break that down. At Rentech, SG&A was up by $1.2 million. Now net cash SG&A expenses actually decreased slightly. So cash SG&A was down and the entire increase was due to non-cash compensation expense. That non-cash compensation expense was almost completely due to a new incentive stock program that vests only if Rentech stocks stayed above $3. Because of the nature of that program the accounting requires a very short amortization period on that program and so we had a relatively significant increase in non-cash comp expense due to that incentive program.

At Rentech Nitrogen, SG&A expenses increased by $1.5 million. That's due to the increase expenses of being a public company and those public company expenses are running in line with the forecast that we had in the prospectus.

R&D expenses declined from $6.4 million last year to $5 million this year and that brings us down to a net loss at Rentech of $0.01 per share which is an improvement compared to the loss of $0.03 in the quarter last year.

At Rentech Nitrogen, deliveries of our key products were up from last year. Ammonia deliveries increased 50% due to the early application windows when UAN deliveries were up 13%. You may notice that CO2 sales volume declined year-over-year, because we decommissioned a CO2 compressor in connection with the ammonia expansion project.

Going forward, you can expect CO2 volumes to be comparable to those of the first quarter. The margins on CO2 sales were quite small and will more than make up for those reduced CO2 sales with the additional capacity coming online from the ammonia expansion. We've also increased the pricing in our CO2 contract so that will improve the relatively small margins that we make on that by-product.

For the quarter, we saw significant increases in our product prices. Average price for ammonia this quarter for delivered tons was $673, that's an 11% increase over last year.

UAN showed a very dramatic increase, 59% over last year. This quarter's number was $327 per ton. The cost of natural gas flowing through our cost of goods sold was $4.46. That's an improvement from $5.02 last year and as we go forward, we should expect to see continued improvement due to the price on the gas that we've locked in.

As we close the quarter, we have consolidated cash of $247 million. $174 million of that was at Rentech, and that does not include approximately $25 million of cash distributions that we'll receive from Rentech Nitrogen on May 15.

Given Rentech Nitrogen's forecast of cash available for distribution in the range of $2.86 per unit and our ownership of 68% of the partnership, Rentech would receive about $67 million in cash distributions based on cash generated during the full year 2012. The payment covering the fourth quarter of 2012 will actually occur in early 2013.

We expect Rentech's cash, operating and capital expenses to be slightly higher than our previous guidance which was $42 million to $44 million for the 12 months ending September 30, 2012. That's due to the expense of minor modifications and delays in the IBR project and the engagement of an advisor to assist us on seeking strategic partners. In 2013, we expect R&D expenses to decline and be less than $10 million.

During the first quarter, Rentech paid $8.1 million in taxes related to the Rentech Nitrogen IPO transaction. We had previously estimated those taxes to be $10 million.

I'm going to turn the call back over to the operator and then Hunt and I'll answer questions.

Absolutely. Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen, and Julie.

Good afternoon.

The first question I have is regarding the advisor that you hired to look for partners. Could you kind of just give us a bit more color on the mandate that you gave that party? And what type of partner you are looking for in particular?

Yeah. This is Hunt. So we've had lots of discussions over the years with folks and those discussions have increased recently. And in these discussions that we're currently having with those partners, we wanted to make sure that there's a good process in place and they know there's a process in place.

Our experience over the years that folks'll come in and take a very long look at what we're doing and take their time. And so we thought it'd be good to bring in a third party to make sure that the process is run appropriately and work with those strategics to make sure that they understand that it's not a long look that they get, that these negotiations and discussions need to happen fairly promptly.

And it's also to increase the global reach. We have a fairly long list of folks that we've engaged with on and off over the years, but we want to put those on a list, but also someone with global reach that can enhance those discussions with others that they have contacts with around the globe. So, it's enhancing the current discussions and keeping us focused and on a time schedule, but also looking at other partners globally that they have contacts with.

That's very helpful. I'm going to jump back into the queue for now. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. First just a small housekeeping item. For SG&A expense at the RTK level going forward, should we continue to assume a number in kind of $10 million, $10.5 million range?

Well, remember what I discussed there is there's a non-cash comp expense that amortizes very quickly. So, this quarter's number is not necessarily the run rate.

Okay. And so we're talking how much of a delta between more of a sustained pace versus what Q1 was?

Well, I think the best – look, we gave guidance and we can't really give a different guidance. But the cash guidance we gave of $42 million to $44 million for our operating expenses and capital expenses, roughly half of that is cash SG&A. So, if you focus on the cash SG&A, that should be about the rate you see going forward. The non-cash comp is obviously not included in that cash number.

Absolutely. And then secondly, any update on the Olympiad Project? I mean I know you had some interesting sort of opportunity there perhaps. Any latest on that?

Yes. The SDTC continues to work with us on looking at technologies and the funding. They have a path forward in Canada as to how they're working with us in a process in place on the $200 million of funding. What I can tell you is it's going well. We haven't heard anything to the contrary. We're not spending a lot of capital on that project right now until we get a view from the Canadian government.

I also said that we have looked at other opportunities to monetize that wood basket prior to utilizing it for potential projects; that's a few years down the road. So it's all going exactly as we described last call.

Okay. And just lastly, is it still the case that you're looking to limit your cash outlay for any individual energy project to $40 million apiece?

At a maximum, yes. I mean, we frankly – we understand what's going on in the industry and we're cautious in the alternative energy sector right now and anything that we look at again is going to have to meet the parameters we've outlined and other capital have to be in place for us to deploy any capital with our technologies going forward. So that's still in place and that would be an absolute maximum with the alternative energy sector with technologies deployed.

Okay. I appreciate it, guys.

Our next question is from the line of [ph] James Sampel with Hyde (24:02). Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just a couple questions. When you're looking at the acquisition market, I mean, what types of things are you considering to acquire and what would make a difference whether they would be acquired at the RNF level or the RTK level?

Yeah. I'm glad you asked the question. I want to clarify one thing that was asked after the prior call this morning. So, any development activity we did when we talk about a dropdown, say if we did a development activity at the Rentech level and drop it down to the fertilizer asset RNF, that would be a fertilizer related business. So, we're not – I just want to make that clear. We would not do -- get involved with alternative energy business and drop that into that MLP. When we mention that we're looking at brownfield opportunities that could be dropped -- built at Rentech and dropped in, that would be fertilizer-related only. So I just want to clarify that one.

Two, as it relates to the acquisitions that we would be looking at in the energy space, let's call it, may not even necessarily be alternative – assets in the alternative energy space would stay RTK and anything related to fertilizer and qualifying income related to fertilizer would go in that asset. So we draw a bright line there.

So, but it is possible you would make acquisitions at the corporate level?

Yes.

And they would be done there at that level why?

To grow the business. If you're talking about fertilizer assets, it's more likely – if we were acquiring a business that generates cash flow and it's fertilizer-related, we would likely acquire that directly by the MLP. If it's a project that requires some development and it doesn't have current cash flow, but it's fertilizer-related, then the logical thing would be to develop that project at Rentech to get it to be cash flowing and then drop it into the MLP. Does that answer your question?

Yeah. And which would be more likely in your view, the one that would require development or the one that could be purchased right by the MLP?

I think that's – time will tell on that. I think we'll let you know as things develop. But I can't speculate which one is more likely.

Okay. And then by the end of the year, you should have north of $200 million in cash, I would guess, on the balance sheet at inc. Is that fair?

Marginally, yes.

So, how do you look at disposition of that cash in terms of buybacks, dividends or you saw for acquisition? How do you weigh those things?

Well, we look at them all and I think whether it's a stock buyback program or acquisitions or growth opportunities for the parent and/or Rentech Nitrogen. So as we look at opportunities as we just described it maybe an acquisition for Rentech Nitrogen or maybe a situation where it is, as Dan just described, maybe early on cash flow in the fertilizer space or need some development work and drop down. So we look at all the above in terms of the return on capital and the type of business we can build. That's why I alluded to early on with this other potential business that could be an MLP business not in the fertilizer space and I want to make that clarification. We said that there's some businesses in the energy complex that we believe could qualify for an MLP and not our existing MLP.

And just we're asking what types of businesses are those?

If I told you then, it will be a little premature right now.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Peter Park with Park West Asset Management. Please go ahead, Mr. Park.

Hi. I just wanted to make a comment and then also to ask a couple of questions. We would – as we've talked about in the past, we would strongly encourage you and your board to buy lots of stock back at the current price and we were very disappointed that you didn't buy any stock back. Secondly, I wanted to just ask and make sure I heard you right as it relates to the R&D and cash SG&A, it sounded like R&D expense and cash G&A would be in the low 30s for 2013, is that right?

Well, we haven't done our budgeting for next year, but if -- we said R&D will be below $10 million, so we're not going to forecast, but certainly our R&D will be below $10 million.

Okay. What is the amortization period of that stock based comp? You said it's short, is it half a year, a year?

It's less than a year.

Okay, very good. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from the line of Anatol Feygin with Loews Corporation. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I will cheat on the one question, but they're short. In the first quarter, the $8 million cash tax payment that's a one-time payment?

Yes. That's correct. That's in association with the IPO transaction, so it's one-time.

Great. So, is my math right that pro forma for not making that payment and the distributions that you will receive for the $1.06 distribution from RNF, you in essence would have had over $200 million of cash at the RTK level?

Yeah. That would be the right math.

Great. And...

So, that's pro forma on March 31. That's right.

Correct. And then the last question is on the share repos. And I apologize I got on late, so I don't know if you've mentioned this, but nothing obviously done in Q1. Can you tell us if you bought back any stock in Q2 to date?

No. We can't. I mean, we'll of course be disclosing that each quarter, but we just can't comment on it as a matter of course during the quarter.

Yeah. Okay. Is there – were there any limitations on you buying back stock Q2 to date?

Well, certainly there are limitations in terms of volume limitations in the program that we have. So there are certain result limitations. But...

But it wasn't like during the quiet period you could not buy back stock until you report it?

Well, yeah, there's that limitation too. In the last quite period was the only time we could – or the last open period was the only that we could have bought back stock. During a closed window, we can't go into the market and buy stock. Now, we actually have put in place a 10b5-1 program during that open window. And so we can say, we do have in place a 10b5-1 program, which just bias operation may result in purchasing stock during a close window.

Great. Can you tell us what the dates were of the restricted window? I'm assuming it ended when you reported earnings last night, but how long prior to that is...

Typically, we will close the window as we lead up to an earnings announcement and open it a few days after the earnings announcement and then close it again as the end of the quarter approaches.

Got it. Terrific. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Chris Brown (32:55) with RSI Capital. Please go ahead, [ph] Mr. Brown (32:57).

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Firstly, I'd like to strongly agree with the comments from Park West. Secondly, what would be the tax implications of spinning the remainder of Rentech Nitrogen to Rentech shareholders?

Well, look, I don't want to try to do a definitive tax analysis, but I can tell you that we have – we are aware that that would be a fully taxable transaction both to Rentech Corporation and to our shareholders when they receive those units. So it's a fully taxable transaction at both levels.

And the NOLs that you currently have -- are those at the level of Rentech Corporation or Rentech Nitrogen?

At Rentech Corp.

Okay. And what is the value of those NOLs currently?

They are right now about 115 to 120.

Thank you.

Operator, if we could try to limit the questions to one or two and we can go offline with any of the questions to Investor Relations afterwards, if that's possible.

Absolutely, yes.

Thank you.

You're welcome. Our next question is from the line of [ph] Alex Lerner (34:16) with Indaba Capital. Please go ahead, Mr. [ph] Lerner (34:18).

Hey, guys.

Good morning.

I was wondering if you guys are planning to implement any kind of dividend.

At Rentech Corporate? No.

Yeah. That's right.

No, not at this time.

Okay. And why hasn't the convertible debt been paid? It doesn't seem like there's much use to debt that's due in less than a year, and just seems like a waste of capital to pay that interest even if it is 4%.

We got the ability to pay that at any time. Obviously, we got the cash to do it, and I think as we have described, we have time to pay that off and we are weighing that and different options we have and how we want to do that as we look at our total capital structure right now with the different things that we're looking at internally, both in terms of Rentech Nitrogen, in terms of Rentech Inc.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you.

And that is all the time we have for questions for today. I will now turn the call back to you, Ms. Dawoodjee. Please proceed with your presentation or closing remarks.

Thank you. We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today. I encourage you to give me a call, if you have any questions about the quarter. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have a great evening everyone.