Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Jeffrey Richard Spain — Chief Financial Officer, Rentech, Inc.
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Joseph Pratt — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Rentech, Inc. First Quarter 2016 Conference Call. My name is Brendan, and I'll be your operator for today. [Operator Instructions] Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform all participants this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech Nitrogen. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech Nitrogen. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech Nitrogen is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended March 31, 2016. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Jeff Spain, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. They will be available for questions at the end of their remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time-to-time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 11, 2016. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2016 first quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Good morning. I didn't get a chance to have a dress rehearsal with Rentech Nitrogen this morning, so you'll have to excuse me if I fumble with my lines here a little bit. Since we last spoke back in March, we've had many developments that have positively transformed the structure and capitalization of the company. The sale of Rentech Nitrogen on April 1 provided us with the opportunity to reposition Rentech and solely focus on our wood fibre businesses.

A condition to the sale of RNF was that we use shares of CVR to retire an agreed amount of outstanding obligations to GSO. We were able to achieve a more favorable outcome than originally agreed from every perspective and are appreciative of the goodwill shown by all participants in this negotiation. The modified terms enabled us to retain approximately 7.2 million units of CVR partners, retire all of the outstanding preferred stock owned by GSO and reduce RTK's remaining debt obligation to GSO to $53 million.

Today, we are in a much better position from a liquidity standpoint, as we have eliminated the preferred dividend, meaningfully reduced our interest payments and have retained cash from the RNF transaction. Lastly, we were also able to avoid a meaningful dilution to our equity value by retiring some portion of our obligations with cash.

At this time, I would have typically spent a few minutes discussing the results of our fertilizer business. But since that will only be represented by a single-line entry of equity and earnings in the future, we will get used to moving directly into a discussion of our wood fibre processing businesses. The quarter was certainly a mixed bag for us.

First, I'll talk about the best performing segment of the three, Fulghum Fibres. Fulghum's EBITDA was 32% higher during the comparable period of last year while gross profit for the period was 26% higher than the first quarter of last year. The increase in EBITDA and gross profit was largely due to a 50% increase in revenues generated in South America and cost reductions implemented at our U.S. mills last year.

South American sales are benefiting from strong demand from China and Japan and increases in Chilean biomass sales. In the U.S., shipping revenues were flat compared to the first quarter of 2015. NEWP did its best to weather the non-existent winter weather that affected it during the first quarter. It generated negligible EBITDA for the quarter, only $29,000, compared with $2.3 million in the comparable quarter last year.

The warm winter weather in the U.S. Northeast along with depressed prices for competitive heating fuels, such as number two heating oil and propane that we mentioned in our last earnings call, persisted through the entire first quarter. As a result, retailers had not sold all of what they had bought from us last year and therefore resisted placing new orders with us in the first quarter. This caused a nearly 80% decline in revenue as compared to the Q1 2015. Gross margins held relatively steady at 16% compared to 18% in the same period last year.

To adjust to this temporary phenomena, NEWP began scaling back production at its plants since February. Looking forward, we expect 2Q revenues to be better than the first quarter, but still considerably less than typical during normal weather conditions. We expect the majority of NEWP's EBITDA for the year to be generated in the second half of 2016, which corresponds to typical winter buying patterns.

While 2016 is shaping up to be weaker than the record results we had last year, the business is fundamentally sound. NEWP is a market leader in supplying pellets to the U.S. Northeast home heating market. NEWP has endured several weather cyclical downturns in the past it has been able to retain its long-term relationships with local retailers and big-box stores because it has been a consistent and reliable supplier of quality pellets for many years.

Our efforts to get our industrial pellet production in Canada to the level it needs to be continue, but the pace at Wawa is not meeting our expectations. Our smaller Atikokan plant has been operating at 80% to 90% of capacity; this level of production capacity is just about in line with our expectations and enables us to more than meet 100% of our contractual obligation to OPG. To achieve our ultimate goal of reaching design capacity, we know we will need to replace some legacy conveyors that are related to the sales systems installed at Wawa.

While we will replace systems this year that are necessary to operate our plant at current levels, we have yet to decide when to replace the systems needed to take the plant to full capacity? The timing will depend in our ability to assure that such incremental investment, which is part of our CapEx budget, will be associated with incremental return. Our expectations [ph] for the Wawa (07:39) would have ramped up to approximately 50% of capacity by now.

While Phase I of replacement conveyors are operating well and the plant has at times operated at daily production rates between 40% and 60% of capacity, it is not operated at these rates on a sustained basis. Wawa is currently operating at 20% to 30% of capacity on a weekly basis. The issues holding us back from operating Wawa at higher rates seem at this point in time to not be related to specific pieces of equipment or to a critical design flaw of the plant.

Our production short-comings appear to be product of limited experience operating the plant at higher levels of throughput and sustained operations as a result of our past conveyor problems. We are now experiencing the operational and production issues that we should have witnessed last year, but for the conveyor problems.

Even with these recent challenges, we are still learning how to respond to or prevent these causes of production disruption that are typical, ramp-up of new pellet mills, such as sparks, jams, plugging, dust, moisture, content, silica content, truck dump outages, hammer mill clogging, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. To help us overcome these challenges, we have taken the initiatives to consult with our industry peers, who have faced these same production issues and who have been collegial and helpful in assessing our challenges.

In addition, we have most recently engaged an engineering firm, who has advised other large pellet plant operators to be onsite to help us work through operating issues and other shortcomings as they arise. While we believe we will ultimately prevail, we will be constantly evaluating the return profile of each expenditure decision around this facility.

The second phase of replacement conveyors at – for Wawa are fabricated and onsite. We currently plan to install the phase two conveyors later this year during an approximately four-week outage. Our desire here is to take the same approach we have taken at Atikokan, that is to get to a point of operational efficiency somewhere near 50%, let's say, where we know that the primary culprit to not achieving our production goals is the conveyors. To this end, our plant in Wawa is now being run by the former manager of our Atikokan facility.

During the quarter, we delivered to Drax approximately 49,000 metric tons of pellets. We expect to make our next scheduled delivery of approximately 48,000 metric tons within the allocated window in the second quarter. Given our performance at Wawa, we are evaluating with Drax the remaining delivery schedule for this year. That being said, we still believe that our goal of operating the plant at capacity will be achieved in 2017. We do not anticipate that any make-haul payments for this year associated with the replacement pellets under contract with Drax would be material given spot market conditions. However, these decisions – these discussions and decisions are, until they are complete, we will not know the full extent of any penalties, if any.

Jeff, could you discuss the financials, please? Thank you.

Sure. Thank you, Keith. As a reminder, the East Dubuque and Pasadena facilities are classified as discontinued operations in our financials, given the sale of the businesses and are excluded from the details I will be taking you through.

Starting with our top line. Revenues for the first quarter totaled approximately $40 million and were up 10% year-over-year. This increase was primarily due to higher sales volume of Fulghum South America and at our Canadian pellet plants, partially offset by a significant decline in volumes at New England Wood Pellet.

While our total gross profits were down $5.4 million compared to Q1 of last year, much of this was due to higher depreciation expense associated with our Wawa and Atikokan plants, which are now online; and the lowered cost from market write-down of inventory also in Canada.

Gross profit or gross loss in this case for our Industrial Wood Pellet segment, which includes Atikokan and Wawa plants, was down $4.6 million. This reflects $2.6 million in higher depreciation expense and a non-cash inventory write-down of $5.1 million as a result of a high-level of fixed operating cost allocated to relatively low produced volumes. In spite of the [ph] LC and (12:19) write-down, our EBITDA loss of $3.3 million for the Industrial Wood Pellet segment actually improved by approximately $600,000 compared to Q1 last year because of significantly higher deliveries in the first quarter of 2016.

With respect to New England Wood Pellet, NEWP's gross profits were down $1.8 million in the first quarter as compared to last year, given low sales volumes caused by the extraordinarily warm winter in the U.S. Northeast. The declines in Canada and NEWP were partially offset by $1 million or 26% increase in gross profit at Fulghum from higher product sales in South America.

SG&A expenses are down across the board at our business units. Fulghum's SG&A expense was down 29% due to a reduction in personnel costs. Industrial Wood Pellet's SG&A expense was down 67%, primarily because the plant and operating expenses moved from SG&A to cost of sales, now that both plants are operational this quarter as opposed to first quarter last year when the facilities were still being commissioned. NEWP's SG&A expense was down 20% due to lower bonus accruals, sales commissions and third-party service fees.

These decreases in business unit SG&A expenses were partially offset by an increase in corporate and unallocated expenses of $1.3 million. Corporate and unallocated expenses were higher this quarter versus last year, primarily because of $600,000 in higher severance costs, $400,000 higher transaction costs related to the restructuring of the debt exchange with GSO and $200,000 higher in contractor expenses. These increases in corporate SG&A expenses were partially offset by $300,000 in lower non-cash compensation expense.

Turning to the balance sheet. Rentech's cash balance as of March 31 was $17 million. Because the CVR merger closed on April 1, this balance does not include the benefit of the sale. We included a pro forma column in the 10-Q reflecting the sale proceeds and debt exchange with GSO. So, on a pro forma basis, our cash balance was $65 million. We received approximately $60 million in cash from the merger and used $10 million in connection with repurchasing preferred stock from GSO.

Our total obligations at Rentech were $279 million as of March 31. These were reduced to $138 million pro forma for the GSO exchange. We eliminated $100 million of preferred stock and approximately $42 million of term debt owed to GSO. This leaves the balance of term debt with GSO now at approximately $53 million, which continues to be secured by units in CVR that we retained from the merger and other assets of the company.

We now own approximately 7.2 million units of CVR Partners. Like any other CVR unitholder, Rentech will be entitled to any cash distributions paid on these units beginning with a $0.27 per unit distribution CVR recently declared for Q1. As a side note, our cost basis in the CVR units that we retained was estimated to be zero at the time of the merger.

We expect to pay $5 million to $15 million in estimated cash taxes related to the RNF merger, GSO exchange and Pasadena sale. This estimate takes into consideration existing net operating loss carry-forwards, which were $196 million as of December 31, 2015 and an estimate of operating losses expected to accrue this year.

With respect to capital expenditures, we are guiding to approximately $5 million for 2016 for Fulghum and NEWP. We estimate the remaining capital expenditures for the Canadian plants as of March 31 will be approximately $19 million.

We will now open the line for...

Oh, no, Jeff, I'm going to – Jeff, let me just finish with some closing remarks here. I just wanted to iterate that we, at Rentech here, the remaining stalwarts at the company, will continue to strive to be better stewards of cash than we have been historically. Our efforts to evaluate and reduce costs will continue even beyond achieving the goals we have set for ourselves last year. Each expenditure of capital will be evaluated in light of its potential return, not some other non-economic metric.

While the recently closed RNF and GSO transactions have granted us a stronger balance sheet and [ph] have a late (17:00) liquidity concerns, we know full well this is not an opportunity to be squandered. We plan to use this new platform to enhance the value of our assets and improve the returns to our owners. I just want to send that messaging loud and clear.

And now, we will turn it over to questions. Thank you.

Thank you. And we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And from Feltl, we have Brent Rystrom. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Brent.

We used to generally see what you reported relative to how moving parts you have, so the – we generally get to see – I have just a few simple questions. The first one, maybe not so simple. But can you walk us with a little more event and timing kind of how you view what needs to happen with Wawa?

Yes. We are about to get our first reports from our independent engineers. And thankfully, it's not like [ph] money situations (18:24) where somebody looks at something for two months and then does a reveal, and you're like, oh, my gosh, you knew that at the first week. We've been in constant contact, so we have a real solid idea of what needs to be happened and it's going to be in the operational management of the plant. And I mean that not from a – it's improving the skill set and the training and the processes that we undertake up there.

So, I do believe that it's not capital intensive, albeit as my good friend Jeff Spain reminds me constantly to the extent that we're not making money every day, it does become an expenditure that we are fully aware of. So, we'll be implementing some of these training concepts once we kind of talk to the whole organization about where we are.

I'd just – anecdotally, Brent, what happens here – it's staggering. But I'll tell you, in the community that we're in, there's sympathy and recognition and acknowledgment that, oh, boy, we had that happened. Yes, everyday, something new happens. But if a spark, for instance, shows up in the dryer, you have fire suppression systems. So, a deluge occurs, which is exactly what you want to have done and then the spark is extinguished. Well, then you have all this product in the dryer. And to get the product out of the dryer, it requires three or four or five people on the shift to grab shovels. And they have to climb into the dryer and they have to scrape this stuff off the walls. And the deluge- and to do that, you also have turned off your furnace, so you stop supplying your furnace.

So, you – when you get all the remnants out of the dryer, then you – everything is clear to go, you start up your furnace and it takes about 8 hours to 12 hours to get that furnace back up to the heat it's required to power the plant. So, the smallest of things [ph] I also have one thing. (20:36) The other day, it was a $150 thing. If once the – once the alarm systems go off and the plant shut down, it's starting [ph] the monster (20:44) back up. And so, something that seems to be trivial at the time actually has a 24-hour impact on us.

The problem is the – we're seeing a lot of this. And at this point, we think that we should be moving further up the learning curve. Although the lack of having full operating conveyance there has inhibited us – I use the example sometimes of a car that's been driving on three wheels and you kind of have that down. And all of a sudden, you're given the fourth wheel and you need to learn how to drive with that fourth wheel. So, we have – the wheels are getting better on our car, but our driving has to get better quickly.

So, if I'm hearing you right, you'll get this report back from the engineers, you've already been part of creating the reports, you know where it's going to lead. So, the working the bug through is kind of a second quarter issue maybe leads into the third quarter. At that point, do you kind of make the decision on Phase II of conveyance?

Yes. I think – as I said, it's on the ground, right? So, the predominant portion of the capital has already been spent. So, in Jeff's number of $19 million remaining, expenditure is a good – that's net of what we've paid for this deal on the ground presumably. So, we will install it. It's just that I want to make sure that we know as much as we can about our operational shortcomings before we spend that money and get as much production at the rates. We have days, Brent, 500 tons, 600 tons that are brilliant, and we have shifts that hit nameplate and then the next shift doesn't hit nameplate. So, it's frustrating.

I wish I could sit here and tell you that there's an answer. I wish for my sake that I had the skill set to actually say I've seen this and done this. But quite honestly, in the whole industry, I think I've met three people that can actually do that. Fortunately, for their current employers, they're all working for them and not – and unfortunately for us, they're not working for us. But there are some really – there's some challenges here, but I think they're surmountable because they haven't had a large price tag on them, albeit the run rate of not getting there is expensive.

Okay. Thank you. That helps a lot. On NEWP, did I hear you right that you would currently look at the business as the second quarter being better than the first, but still down from where it normally would be and then you're anticipating a relatively normal fall in third and fourth quarter? Or did I misinterpret that a little?

No, you didn't. We see that the layout – the market playing field has altered. The – as you know, it's a very fragmented business. It's not far off from saying it's a mom-and-pop business. But many of the retail pellet bagging facilities are small 20,000 tons to 80,000 tons. They operate on sort of – the owner-operator model is in place, and this winter was really tough and many of those companies did not make it through that winter. So, the competitive playing field has gotten a little bit smaller numerically. The big boxes still see a desire to have these pellets, have the brand name on their shelves, so we've had good discussions with the Lowe's and the Tractor Supply type companies.

The small retailers have stayed in there brilliantly. They bought even when they were putting the bags in back sheds for storage, so kudos to them. So, the second quarter has to be better than first because the first was basically breakeven on a cash flow basis. So, we know that that's the case. But we expect right now, assuming that the farmer's almanac or somebody else has to come out and say, hey, next winter is going to be as dreadfully unappealing as last winter, the buying will be there.

Okay. Thank you. On UAN, how should we think about how UAN is both viewed internally and then long term as a potential source of capital? Is this something that there will be judicious opportunities to sell some UAN units at some point? Is there a decision at this point to just retain those and address that at some point in the future? How do we think about the UAN assets?

Well, I mean, thankfully, for the next 4.5 months, I don't have to think about them because I can't sell them. We own a meaningful portion. They are – they service collateral to the GSO loan. I think, simplistically and conservatively, I just look at it as that being awash, even though it's not. We know we're – the positive there is probably $10 million to $14 million right now, but that's not – if I was sitting in your shoes and I don't want to stick my neck out too far to really deal with that, I'd just say, hey, you know this guy is $53 million at L plus 700 and you have 7.178 million units pledged against that and at $8.26, that's a delta that's in excess of that obligation by less than 10%.

So, let's just mark that. And I think this conversation gets a lot more interesting if CVR does what we think it will do as long as commodity price environment stays in there. With the cost-cutting and their excellent management, I think that stock has the potential to be where we thought it would be when we cut the deal, which was in the high-teens. And if that's the case, then we have a new ballgame with respect to what that capital can afford us. It can enable us to do the refi that we've always desired to do on our subsidiaries to make our operations more cash-efficient. It could do quite a bit. It could enable NEWP to accelerate, if the opportunities arise. An acquisition plan, it could cause Fulghum to be more far reaching and – with respect to consolidating its business or to build new facilities for bigger customers. So, it could be...

And then, I have two quick questions, Keith, on the remaining CapEx for the Industrial Wood Pellet. So, of the $19 million for the year, are you implying that most of that's already in the bag in the first quarter?

No, we only – no, go ahead, Jeff. We – there's only $2 million in the first quarter.

Yeah, we spent $2 million in the first quarter, and that $19 million is the cash outlay number, so much of that has been incurred or on our balance sheet.

Okay. And then, any updates on moving the headquarters, timing and other – progress?

It's because we get so many visitors here. I would hate to have somebody on the call show up here and we're not here, but we are moving that – our office – our centralized office now has less than 20 people down from [ph] when I showed up to you (28:33) about high-40s. So, the shift in back-office has been occurring to our office in Jaffrey, New Hampshire, which we've kind of built out some new space in and that's still a target to be late third, fourth quarter type of thing, where we'll talk about where we'll be and see you don't make the wrong trip.

I hope not. Thank you guys.

We have one last question from Stifel. We have Joe Pratt online. Please go ahead.

Hi, Keith. Just a quick question here. Looking at the pro forma cash, post divestiture, does that include the 7 million shares of UAN?

No, no.

Okay. So, your actual liquidity, and I'm summing from the page here, is about $65 million on liquidity plus the market value of those shares, which is about $55 million?

Yes. Once the lockup is done and you have to take -- you got to be a little practical – or a lot of practical with respect to the float of CVR and our ability to exit that. So, it's as liquid as my Rentech stock right now.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for joining. You may now disconnect.