Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications, Rentech, Inc.
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech Nitrogen LLC
Chris Michael Brown — Founder & President, Aristides Capital LLC
Justin A. Orlando — Managing Director, Dolphin Asset Management Corp.
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, November 8, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our company's activities during the quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period and provide comments on Rentech's financial position. We will then open the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question so that we may get to as many of your questions as possible.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of November 8, 2012, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws. In addition, today's presentation includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to such non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2012 third quarter earnings press release that is available on our website.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased to announce we reported strong results for the quarter. We generated consolidated net income of $0.02 per share for the third quarter, resulting from the reduced R&D expenses in the Alternative Energy segment and strong product margins at Rentech Nitrogen.

We've said that we plan to increase shareholder value by reducing R&D spending, commercializing our technologies with partners, investing in energy businesses that have good returns and do not depend on first-of-a-kind technology and by expanding Rentech Nitrogen through growth and acquisitions. We've made good progress in each of these areas this year.

Last week, we announced that Rentech Nitrogen acquired Agrifos' fertilizer production facility in

Pasadena, Texas. The Pasadena plant acquired by Rentech Nitrogen is the largest producer of synthetic granulated ammonium sulfate fertilizer in North America, producing a differentiated premium product in a growing market. The site provides many logistical advantages and expansion possibilities. The acquisition diversifies risk for Rentech Nitrogen providing a hedge for ammonia, as geographic and location diversity, reduces Rentech Nitrogen's product and market concentration and reduces its seasonality.

Our team has identified several near-term growth opportunities of the plant, the first of which is pre-financed on Rentech Nitrogen's new credit facilities. This growth at the Pasadena plant will add to the expansion projects currently underway at Rentech Nitrogen's existing facility, which continue to progress on schedule.

The Pasadena plant acquisition exemplifies the benefits of the relationship between Rentech and Rentech Nitrogen. We utilized the new Rentech M&A team to seek acquisition targets for Rentech Nitrogen. The team drew on the expertise of Rentech's staff, including engineering, environmental, legal and finance, to conduct due diligence in Agrifos and execute the transaction.

Our strong balance sheet affords us the flexibility to assist Rentech Nitrogen in executing its acquisition expansion opportunities. For example, Rentech was able to provide Rentech Nitrogen with a bridge loan late last year to keep its ammonia production capacity expansion project on schedule. Similarly, as we were negotiating the acquisition of Agrifos, we kept sufficient cash on our balance sheet to lend to Rentech Nitrogen in the event there were delays in securing external financing commitments. This certainty of financing allowed us to push forward on the transaction.

Since Rentech Nitrogen was able to fund about 90% of the initial purchase price of Agrifos through debt financing, with a cost of capital that's lower than issuing the units, Rentech's percentage of ownership in Rentech Nitrogen declined only slightly from 60.8% to 59.9%.

The acquisition is expected to be accretive to cash distributions beginning in 2013, and it comes with several growth opportunities. The incremental cash flow this acquisition can provide is very important for Rentech Nitrogen unitholders, especially Rentech, since we own a majority of the common units.

Rentech Nitrogen will be a more diversified and larger company as a result of the acquisition, which we believe will increase the value of our holdings in Rentech Nitrogen and ultimately the value of Rentech. Rentech's balance sheet also plays a significant role in establishing the company as a credible partner for larger, more mature companies that have the resources to help deploy our energy technologies. We've made significant progress on agreements for the licensing and commercialization of certain of our energy technologies. As those discussions progress, we are evaluating alternatives for our technology portfolio with the assistance of advisors.

With respect, the benefits of licensing and commercialization partnership are being assessed in comparison to any incremental costs required by such a partnership and in comparison to the prospective benefits and costs of alternatives for our technology portfolio. We're currently planning for R&D spending of 2013 to be in the range of $10 million. Successful licensing and commercialization agreements may require R&D spending in excess of that amount, if such expense is justified by the estimated benefits. We expect to choose and implement the highest value alternative during the first half of 2013.

Our strong liquidity and expertise have also opened opportunities for us in a new line of business we've indentified for Rentech. The industry, though growing and characterized by unlevered returns in the mid-teens and higher with long-term contracting, is certainly composed of small entities. We believe we can capitalize on these opportunities by growing businesses with our access to resources, including those in logistics, operations, engineering and capital. We are in negotiations with a few opportunities, which have cash flow generation within 24 months or less.

We're aware that not each one of these opportunities will end in a successful transaction, which is why we're pursuing multiple opportunities and focusing on the ones with the best expected returns. These opportunities are well within our resources and would still allow us to keep a comfortable cash position. We would like to create a business platform with strong cash flow generation that potentially qualifies for another MLP structure.

If we make a commitment in this new line of business, we expect our cash SG&A to be comparable to this year's spend. If the valuations and returns do not warrant investment, we would reduce our SG&A appropriately.

Our decisions on capital allocation are carefully though out, so we maintain flexibility in our balance sheet to growth both Rentech and Rentech Nitrogen, pursuing opportunities that create the greatest value for our shareholders.

I'll now spend a few moments discussing the market dynamics for our Nitrogen business. Rentech Nitrogen has commitments for 100% of its forecasted 2012 deliveries and has locked in a substantial portion of its gross margins by contracting at fixed prices for 100% of the natural gas required to produce these products.

Rentech Nitrogen reiterated its guidance for 2012 cash available for distribution to be in excess of a $126 million or $3.30 per unit, and EBITDA to be in excess of a $130 million. This guidance includes the expected impact of business development expenses and SG&A attributed to the Agrifos acquisition, the contribution of the Pasadena's plant to operations, and a five-day outage at the East Dubuque facility that occurred in early November.

The fall harvest in our market area is nearly complete, several weeks earlier than typical. Recent rains, as well as optimal soil temperatures, have set the stage for an early start of fall application. As of October 30, ammonia application was in full stride in the Mid Corn Belt. 2012-2013 ending corn stocks our forecast to be at or near record low levels of 450 million to 650 million bushels as a result of the drought. For this reason, multiple forecasting services are projecting corn planting to exceed 96 million acres next year.

We believe this will continue to drive strong nitrogen demand in 2013. Since we last reported in August, we've sold additional ammonia and UAN tons for spring 2013 delivery. Current spring 2013 posted prices for ammonia and UAN are $810 and $360 per ton, respectively. We expect spring 2013 activity to pick up once again the fall application is completed.

Rentech Nitrogen 2013 distributions should benefit from strong pricing and demand for their nitrogen products, produced at our East Dubuque facility. The additional 19,250 tons in the DEF expansion will come online at the end of this year and provide an incremental increased 2013 distributions. 2013 cash distributions also benefit from the accretive nature of the acquisition in the Pasadena facility. We expect the plant to generate approximately $25 million in EBITDA in 2013, excluding one-time integration and transition costs.

The bi-annual turnaround at the East Dubuque facility is scheduled to take place in the fall of 2013. The turnaround is anticipated to take up to four weeks, which is longer than the typical 18 to 25 days due to the fact that the final tie-ins for the ammonia production capacity expansion will occur during the scheduled turnaround to minimize plant downtime. During this time, the plant's ammonia and UAN units will be offline and, therefore, ammonia and UAN production and sales volume during 2013 are expected to be lower than 2012. Approximately $3 million to $5 million of turnaround expenses are anticipated to be incurred in the cost of sales in the fall of 2013.

In 2014, we expect cash distributions to benefit from the additional 70,000 annual tons of ammonia production in East Dubuque, which should come online by the end of 2013. And the additional 115,000 annual tons of ammonium sulfate production in Pasadena, which should come online in the second half of 2014.

I'll now hand the call over to call to Dan for additional color on the quarter. Dan.

Thank you, Hunt. Good morning, everybody. We reported very solid results this quarter. The Alternative Energy segment benefited from lower R&D expenses and the Nitrogen segment showed higher sales volume and lower natural gas costs. Revenues were up about 56% this quarter, compared to the quarter last year. This was primarily due to higher volumes in our Fertilizer segment. Remember, in the quarter last year, we had a turnaround, which meant that we had less product to sell and we also shifted sales into the fourth quarter, so the third quarter was a relatively weaker quarter. We shifted those sales so we could achieve higher prices in the fourth quarter.

For this quarter, gross profit margin in our Fertilizer segment was 58%, which is up from 33% in the quarter last year. This reflects a higher sales volume, lower natural gas prices, and the fact that last year we had $4.5 million in turnaround expenses that ran through the P&L, excuse me. SG&A is up compared to the quarter last year for several reasons.

Let's focus on the parent Rentech and the Alternative Energy segment first. SG&A increase is actually – looks a lot larger than it really is, if you look at the components. SG&A this quarter was $6.6 million, up from $2.7 million last year, but cash SG&A increased by only $900,000. The rest of that increase is due to a relatively large increase in non-cash compensation and that increase looks larger than it is because in the quarter last year we reversed several accruals, so that quarter last year was lower than normal because of those accrual reversals.

At Rentech Nitrogen, the primary reason for SG&A being up is due to M&A activity and becoming a public company. So, this quarter SG&A was $5.5 million, compared to last year $1.8 million, if you break that down, $1.7 million of that was due to M&A expenses related to the Agrifos acquisition and then we had a $1.1 million increase in non-cash comp that didn't exist there last year, as well as other costs of becoming a public company.

R&D expense, which hits the Alternative Energy segment, was down by 45% year-over-year. That's primarily due to expenses coming down as we finished up the ClearFuels gasifier, net of the reimbursements from the DOE. We also had some benefit from reduced sales and use taxes following through compared to last year.

That brings it down to earnings per share of $0.02 in the quarter this year. Now, if we adjust for last year's unusual items, debt extinguishment and the asset impairments, we had a loss of $0.04 last year, so a $0.02 profit this year, compared to a $0.04 loss last year.

Results for the nine-month period year-to-date showed very similar trends. Revenues are up 24%. That's due to increased sales prices for all the products and increased volumes for ammonia. The margin on our Fertilizer segment was at 61% year-to-date, up from 44% last year. Again, higher sales prices across the board, lower natural gas prices and last year we had that $4.5 million in turnaround expense.

For the year-to-date, very similar explanations on SG&A. In the Alternative Energy segment, we had an increase, but a lot of that increase was due to non-cash items and the reversal of accruals last year. When you net it all out, year-to-date, cash SG&A expenses for the Energy segment increased only $100,000 year-to-date versus last year.

At Rentech Nitrogen, similar explanations as the quarter. We have an increase from $4.4 million up to $12 million, most all of that increase is due to becoming a public company, $2 million of M&A expense and non-cash comp of $2.3 million. R&D for the year-to-date is down about 40% showing the same kind of trends and for the same reasons as the quarter.

If we focus on Rentech Nitrogen the product deliveries were up significantly this quarter, we got a 72% increase in deliveries of ammonia and a 25% increase year-to-date. UAN deliveries this quarter were up 43% year-to-date about flat with last year.

We're getting a big benefit from natural gas. And we've discussed before that there are lags in gas prices actually flowing through into cost of goods sold. But if we look at actual prices for gas that are in our cost of goods sold today, in this quarter, we had $3.14 per million BTU versus the quarter a year ago at $4.74, a big improvement coming through P&L. Year-to-date, similar trends, $3.63 per million BTUs this year versus $4.78 year-to-date last year.

We ended the quarter with consolidated cash of $239 million; $183 million of that at Rentech and $56 million of that at Rentech Nitrogen. On August 14, Rentech received approximately $27 million in second quarter cash distributions paid by Rentech Nitrogen. On November 14, Rentech will receive approximately $20 million in third quarter cash distributions from Rentech Nitrogen. Rentech's cash balance as of September 30, pro forma for the distribution, would have been about $203 million.

Given Rentech Nitrogen's forecast of cash available for distribution in excess of $126 million and our ownership of about 60% in the partnership, Rentech would receive more than $77 million in cash distributions related to the result of 2012. The payment covering the fourth quarter of 2012 will occur on or about February 15.

In the Alternative Energy segment, we expect cash operating and capital expenses to be about $45 million this year, consistent with our previous guidance. We're planning for R&D spending to be about $10 million next year, as we evaluate all alternatives for the energy technology portfolio. We're making great progress on agreements to commercialize the technology and we'll carefully evaluate any incremental spending against the benefits we see in those commercialization agreements.

We're optimistic about the growth opportunities at Rentech Nitrogen's East Dubuque and Pasadena facilities. The expanded credit facilities at Rentech Nitrogen gave the partnership a lot of flexibility to fund its capital program, both at the East Dubuque and at the new Pasadena facility. Rentech Nitrogen will continue to have a $35 million undrawn revolver and a comfortable cash balance. The cost of capital at LIBOR plus 3.75% is significantly lower than issuing new units for the acquisition. The debt is guaranteed by Rentech Nitrogen.

I'll now turn the call over to the operator and then Hunt and I will answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]

. One moment please, for our first question. And the first question comes from the line of Chris Brown, from Aristides Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, Hunt.

Good morning.

In spite of a booming subsidiary, Rentech is barely profitable because you guys are spending tens of millions of dollars for zero revenue. According to Bloomberg, since 2006 you guys have net losses of about $283 million, while you personally have received compensation of at least $8 million. Do shareholders need to sue in order to stop you from wasting their money? Or you're going to do it on your own? And if so when?

Not sure how to address that question, but I haven't looked at my compensation since back then and we think we're on a very good path forward with our business.

Everything that could go right with natural gas is going right. And you guys made $0.02 in this quarter?

We're making great progress and we're very pleased with our progress.

You're spending $40 million a year for zero revenue, how can you possibly justify that?

We are – which is exactly how we just described it. Go back and read the script.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes with Brean Capital LLC. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is [ph] Derek Hernandez (22:22) again for Lucas Pipes. We were wondering with regards to the cash balance that you have today, do you expect to employ that in 2013 in any way returning that to shareholders? And, if so, in which manner?

Could you repeat please?

With the cash balance that you guys have there at Rentech...

Right.

We were wondering if into 2013, do you see returning this to shareholders or – and, if so, in which ways?

As we said the previous couple quarters, we'll look at all alternatives on the balance sheet deployment and I think we played it very intelligently with our balance sheet this year with stock repurchases. We want to keep a cash balance, as I described as we looked at this acquisition. And some of these build-out opportunities that we have at these Pasadena and East Dubuque may require some capital from Rentech, as I described earlier. And that's why when we looked at our business plan going forward, it's strong – it's a good idea to keep a good balance at the parent.

As we have excess cash, we'll look at all alternatives. But you could see now why we wanted to be conservative through this year for the reasons I just described. So we'll continue to look at it, buy shares when appropriate and we will also allocate capital as we see fit, with the new line of business that we're looking at and growing the opportunities in the fertilizer space.

I see, I see. And within the new line of business, is there anymore color you could provide us with regards to maybe the direction you're looking at and possibly the scale of the investment at this point?

Yeah. The only thing that I will say is exactly what I said in the script that these are smaller opportunities and certainly well within our means and will afford us a good balance sheet, even after doing these investments. And so, we're very comfortable with our approach and will keep us with a very conservative balance sheet.

Okay, okay. Well. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Justin Orlando with Dolphin Management. Please go ahead.

Hey, Hunt. [indiscernible]

(24:43)

Maybe I missed it in the Q. Could you give me the NOL at quarter-end? And maybe give us a little bit of a status update on the state NOLs?

Yeah. Justin; it's Dan...

Hi, Dan.

Our NOL balance is around $110 million. And what was the second part of your question?

State NOLs.

Yeah. The state NOLs, are some of them in advance? Have they come off? How is that working?

There are some states – yeah, there are some states where we can't actually apply those NOLs; Illinois being one of them.

But is California back on, or?

California is on. Yes.

Thank you for that. Could you give us just a little bit more color on the statements on the exploration here of these strategic alternatives for the alternative energy portfolio. It sounds to me like you're maybe considering at least two possibilities. One of them is doing this partnership – a partnership or a couple of them and the other is potentially selling the whole product portfolio – the technology portfolio to someone in a transaction. Am I reading that wrong? Or if I am could you just give us a little bit more color?

No. I mean, I think, as we said again in the last couple of quarters, we engaged an advisor and I think the primary goal certainly is to license and partner with somebody with the balance sheet or persons with balance sheets – significant balance sheets and global reach that can take the technology forward; that is absolutely what we're working on. And as I said in my prepared remarks, we're making terrific project – progress there. And I think, on the first if those don't come to fruition, we'll look at the alternatives from there.

Okay. So it – I did misread it a little bit. It's one or another partnerships that you're exploring options to look at, seeing which one is best for the company rather than either a partnership or a sale of the technology portfolio?

No, Justin. I don't think you misread it... [indiscernible]

(26:56) okay...

What we said I think – I think we tried to say clearly in there that we are making really good progress on agreements to commercialize the technology. Those agreements themselves might imply some incremental costs, so we would have to compare the benefit to the costs for those agreements.

Then, in addition to that, we're saying we will look at other alternatives and compare the whole picture, the cost and benefits of other alternatives as well. So, we're not just limiting it to partnerships. We think those commercialization partnerships are going to be very attractive, but we're evaluating the whole picture.

Okay. And then, I just have one quick last one on the R&D, I was surprised to see the $10 million number and you didn't tell us anything different than that, so it's not – but I was expecting it to drop more than it did. Is there going to be more activity at the PDU or is there some other place where the R&D is being spent?

Well, the $10 million has been in the last few calls, Justin, throughout the last six or 10 months, so it's very consistent with what we've said the last few months.

No, I know, you said it was going to be under $10 million and then – and so now you're guiding to $10 million. So, I'm not – I didn't say you're misguiding [indiscernible] (28:20)...

I said it was absolutely $10 million.

Yeah. Okay. So, that's just all at the PDU?

Well, it's everything at the PDU and the folks that are involved in technology.

Okay. Thanks, gentlemen.

Thank you.

And our last question comes from the line of Brent Rystrom with Feltl. Please go ahead.

Yeah, just a quick question on the diesel emissions fluid, how are you going to sell that? Is that going to go out through a distributor or are you going to sell that somewhat direct like you do with your other products from East Dubuque?

Well, the DEF we have disclosed who we're selling that to and that's through Yara.

Okay [indiscernible] (29:04)...

That's contractually obligated to sell through Yara.

And Ms. Cafarella, there are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the conference back to you.

Thank you. We would like to thank everyone who participated on the call today. As we have outlined, our strong cash balance provides us with significant opportunity to grow the parent and Rentech Nitrogen. Growth at both levels will maximize value for Rentech shareholders. Please contact me if you have any questions about the quarter. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask you to please disconnect your lines