Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech, Inc.
Matt Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Pavel Molchanov — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates
Lucas Pipes — Analyst, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC
Jay Traeger — Analyst, Park West Asset Management LLC
Christopher Orski — Analyst, Bow Street LLC
Derek C. Schrier — Founder, Indaba Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Earnings Call for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Friday, March 16, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications for Rentech. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize the company's activities during the quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period and provide comments on Rentech's financial position. We will then open the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question so that we may get to as many of your questions as possible.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable terms.

You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of March 16, 2012, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Thank you, Julie. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. We ended 2011 with strong results at our fertilizer subsidiary, Rentech Nitrogen. On the alternative energy side, we began implementing our cost reduction strategy and ended the year with a strong balance sheet. We've consolidated cash of approximately $237 million of which $193 million was held at Rentech. Rentech Nitrogen's S1 forecast calls for cash available for distribution of $2.34 per unit for the 12 months ending September 30, 2012. As a holder of 23.25 million units of Rentech Nitrogen, our share will be approximately $54 million.

We're committed to maintaining a strong cash position at Rentech, reducing our R&D and development expenses and considerably investing in opportunities with attractive returns. High-return conservative investment opportunities in alternative energy are limited today. So we're looking more broadly and beyond our current technology portfolio. On our December earnings call, I outlined our parameters for investments in energy projects. We're considering projects with projected returns that meet our guidelines. We expect to limit our investments and projects that would use our technologies to a maximum of $40 million in any one opportunity. Before we invest significant capital, the complete financing package for the project must be in place.

We're very mindful of the challenges the alternative energy industry faces as we evaluate potential investment opportunities. But we also see opportunities to invest in potentially undervalued assets. Despite the common impression in the marketplace, we see opportunities that could provide attractive returns and near-term cash flow and do not depend on unproven technologies.

As of today, we have not committed to any investment opportunities and we'll evaluate any investments carefully and patiently. As a general partner of Rentech Nitrogen, we're also evaluating potential brownfield projects and acquisitions that can qualify for the MLP structure. These assets could be acquired directly by Rentech Nitrogen or they could be developed or purchased by Rentech and then sold to Rentech Nitrogen.

We have assets that we can leverage to create value. Our conditional wood allotment of 1.3 million annual tons in Northern Ontario is an extraordinary asset. And we're studying ways to generate cash flow from that wood in the near-term, as we continue our longer term efforts to qualify for the Canadian government's support for a fuels plant.

Similarly, we're also evaluating proposals to use our 450-acre site in Natchez, Mississippi in ways that are not limited to our technologies. As we evaluate opportunities, we weigh each of their risks, returns and time to generate cash flows. We will selectively pursue those that will develop an underlying cash flowing business at Rentech and drive shareholder value in the near and long-term.

Let's talk about R&D and our cost reduction strategy. As I stated in December, we're focused on the operational phase of the integrated bio-refinery demonstration project at our Technology Center in Denver. The IBR project was mechanically complete in November. We expected to complete the DOE-required 2,000 operational hours of the IBR project in early April. However, we've experienced some startup problems that are typical in any new plant, the largest of which related to feedstock handling system. The startup issues have pushed the anticipated completion date of the IBR operational requirement to midsummer. In December, we also indicated that once we completed the IBR operational requirement, we'd then assess the need for any continued operation of the research center.

We believe there's value in continuing the operation of our integrated natural gas and biomass to synthetic fuels plant in Denver, while potential partners are visiting the facility. We, therefore, expect to continue operations at the plant for a period beyond the requirements of the DOE grant. Because our monthly expenses are running below those we previously forecasted, we expect our cash operating and capital spend including continued operation of the facility to be less than previously forecasted to operate through September 2012. We updated the guidance we provided on December 15 to reflect these savings. You can find details in the press release we issued this morning.

In summary, we expect to spend at least $1 million less than previously projected for total expenses including key new operations through the end of September. Our total projected cash spend for operating and capital expenses for the 12 months ending September 30 is now approximately $42 million to $44 million, which is a 34% to 37% reduction in total cash expenses compared to the prior year.

Looking further ahead, in 2013, we plan for R&D spending on our current technologies to come down significantly because we will either have secured a partner to continue to fund new technology development or we will have all the demonstration scale data we need and complete operations of the PDU.

In summary, we recognize the challenges in the alternative energy sector. We are on track to reduce our expenses related to this business segment and we'll continue to drive down our cost structure as we seek the highest value use of our current technologies.

We instituted a share repurchase program to buy back up to $25 million of Rentech common stock. The program is expected to be effective on or about March 20. We believe the repurchase of our common stock at attractive prices is a good investment and highlights our commitment to use our capital to maximize value for our shareholders.

In Rentech Nitrogen, we're focused on safe operations, maximizing margins and maintaining high on-stream times. Growing cash flows to organic growth, accretive acquisitions and development opportunities are also priorities. Any acquisition we pursue at Rentech Nitrogen will be accretive to projected cash distributions per unit.

The two expansions we have underway at the plant are on schedule and within budget. We continue to expect each project to generate returns of greater than 20%. The project increased urea capacity by 17,500 tons annually so the diesel exhaust fluid market is on track to be completed by the end of this calendar year. We intend to market our DEF productions through a major distributor. We will begin seeing this project's contribution of cash in 2013.

The project to expand ammonia capacity production by 17,000 tons annually and to increase onsite storage capacity by 20,000 tons is moving forward within budget with major long lead equipment already on order. The project is on track to be completed by the end of the calendar year 2013.

Rentech Nitrogen recently secured $100 million multiple draw CapEx facility finances project. The plant repaid and terminated the bridge loan provided by Rentech that was put in place to continue the expansion project while the CapEx facility was being finalized.

Due to the work done at the plant during the turnaround September and October 2011 including upgrade work related to the capacity project, we achieved higher production rates and improved efficiency during the past four months compared to historical averages following a turnaround. Our standard policy is to match our natural gas purchases with pre-sales so that we lock-in our product margins.

With natural gas prices at very low levels, we went beyond that and purchased 3.5 million MMBtus of forward commitment at an average price of $3.19 per MMBtu excluding transportation costs. Over half of these forward commitments were purchased below $2.90 per MMBtu. These purchases should help us achieve favorable margins.

Product shipments during these three months ending December 31 were aligned with our expectations. We've a strong product pricing in our spring forward sales book. We believe we probably gauge the market and sold a significant portion of our spring book during the September-October window last year when pricing for spring deliveries was at a premium. We sold limited additional tonnage in late December through February when product prices were softer.

The premium pricing we captured is reflected in the average pre-sold product prices for spring delivery of $741 per ton of ammonium and $386 per ton of UAN, which are well above prices offered during the last December through February timeframe. We've seen product prices strengthened recently, and we anticipate further nitrogen price appreciation as the spring season develops. We see factors such as record forecasted planted acres and high corn prices as positive indicators to support our view. However, it's difficult to predict where prices will peak at this time. We feel it's very reasonable to expect a prolonged and robust application window, doing an early start of nitrogen application because of favorable weather and large corn acreage forecast.

When we report again in May, we should have a better view on where summer ammonia and UAN values will trade. Dan will now provide further details on guidance and the results for the period. Dan?

Good morning, everyone. The results we announced are for the three months ended December 31, 2011. That's a stub period as we transition to a calendar year reporting period from our old fiscal year ending September 30. And the consolidated results include both Rentech Nitrogen and the alternative energy segment.

Revenues hit $63.1 million, which is up 47% from the quarter a year ago. That's due to higher sales prices. The gross profit margin on the product sales is 46%, up from 38% last year. That's a gross profit margin adjusted to reflect product sales only. We exclude the impact of natural gas used during the turnaround, and the effect of gas that we sold from inventory. Those higher margins were due to higher sales prices and then partially offset by lower margins we received on 12,000 tons of purchased ammonia that we sold. We booked $3 million of turnaround expenses during this quarter or as there were none in the last quarter a year ago

Consolidated SG&A was up about $ 2.8 million. If we break that down, at Rentech or the alternative energy segment, the increase was about $900,000. Most of that was due to the change of physical year end and expenses associated with that change, as well as some non-recurring consulting fees. Otherwise, SG&A in the alternative energy segment would have been slightly down.

At Rentech Nitrogen, SG&A was up about $1.9 million. That's almost completely due to the effect of becoming a public company and the change in the fiscal year. And about $1 million of that $1.9 million should be non-recurring. We do expect to see higher SG&A going forward at Rentech Nitrogen as a public company.

On the R&D side, spending dropped about $1.2 million, from the quarter last year to a rate of $4.2 million this year. That reflects our cost reduction strategy, and also the fact that we operated the PDU for 25% fewer days this year. We recorded $10.3 million of expenses due to the loss on extinguishment of our old debt. And that brought us down to a loss per share of $0.04. If we calculate earnings per share before that cost of debt extinguishment, we would have earned a $0.01 this year. So we'd have had a positive $0.01 per share this year without that debt extinguishment.

At Rentech Nitrogen, the delivered tons for our two main products were down slightly year-over-year. That reflected that fact that we had a turnaround. So, total tons of ammonia and UAN were at 120,000 tons in this most recent quarter compared to 123,000 tons last year, and the mix changed. The ammonia tons increased from 44,000 to 55,000. The UAN tons dropped from 79,000 to 65,000.

Prices were up significantly. For ammonia, the price hits $684 for delivered products in this quarter. That's up 34% from the prior year. For UAN, the price for delivered product averaged $307 per ton. That's up 59% from the year ago quarter.

The natural gas that we used in production – and let me emphasize, this is production gas. This is different than the gas expense you would see in our cost of sales. But the gas we actually used in production during this quarter dropped to 2.3 million BTUs or 1 million BTUs. That's down from 2.8 million BTUs and that reflects the effect of the turnaround. The average cost of that gas was $4.71, down from $4.82 in the quarter a year ago. Maintenance CapEx was $2.5 million, slightly down from $2.7 million last year.

We recently upsized the revolving working capital facility of Rentech Nitrogen, up to $35 million from $25 million. We've not drawn on it and we do not project that we will use it this year. But it's fair to provide additional financial flexibility for seasonal working capital needs which can fluctuate quite a bit throughout the year.

Rentech Nitrogen also closed on a $100 million multiple draw term loan to fund all of the expected CapEx for the ammonia and storage capacity expansion project currently underway. That credit facility has an interest rate option of LIBOR plus 375 basis points. That's a very significant improvement over the last term loan that we syndicated before the IPO.

The CapEx facility can be drawn until February 2014 to fund expansion related expenses. It requires amortization payments, which are expected to begin in spring of 2014. In the first two years of amortization, 2.5% per quarter of the principal outstanding on the facility must be repaid. And in the final year, 25% must be repaid.

The revolving facility and the term loan are both at Rentech Nitrogen. They are not guaranteed by Rentech and both of those facilities were arranged and led by GE Capital. Simultaneously, with the closing of those new loans, Rentech Nitrogen terminated the bridge loan facility that had been provided by Rentech. That was put in place in December 2011 to fund the expansion project while the CapEx facility was being negotiated and syndicated.

Rentech Nitrogen has drawn $8.5 million on the CapEx facility to repay all of the outstanding principal under that bridge loan facility and to pay fees associated with the new credit facility. During the 12 months ending September 30, 2012, Rentech Nitrogen expects to have an outstanding balance on that CapEx facility of about $20 million to $22 million and incur interest expense of about $1.3 million.

In the November 3 prospectus, the forecast for cash available for distribution is $2.34 per unit for the 12 months ending September 30, 2012 before any debt service. Rentech Nitrogen expects to pay its first cash distribution to unit holders in mid-May for the period that started when the closing of the IPO. That's November 9, 2011 and that period ends on March 31, 2012.

Rentech, the parent, will receive 60.8% of those distributions. At Rentech, as of December 31, 2011, we have $114 million in net operating loss carry forwards applicable to our federally taxable income, including our share of income from Rentech Nitrogen. This is higher than the estimate of $90 million we had previously provided.

For the alternative energy segment, total cash operating expenses and capital expenditures are projected to be about $42 million to $44 million for the 12 months ending September 30, 2012. Breaking that down, about $20 million of cash SG&A is expected. And note that, that's just cash SG&A.SG&A on the income statement would be higher because that includes non-cash compensation expenses. But for this purpose, we're just focusing on the cash spend.

In addition to the $20 million of SG&A, we expect about $20 million to $22 million in R&D expenses and that assumes that we run the PDU through the end of September. It costs about $2 million in capitalized expenses mainly for information technology systems.

Based on the forecast in Rentech Nitrogen's prospectus, Rentech's share of cash available for distribution for the 12 months ending September 30 would be $54.4 million. And that compares to the $42 million to $44 million of cash operating expense and CapEx that we're projecting. This projection of cash spending excludes any share repurchases, repayment of debt, or tax payments.

I'll now turn it back to the operator and then Hunt and I will answer questions.

Thanks, Dan. Operator, please, thank you. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matt Farwell with Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon.

Hi, Matt.

I'm just wondering if you can update us on your plans to address the convert.

Yeah. I think we said all along, we know it's top of mind that we have over year to deal with it. We have the cash to deal with it and we will continue to look at over next few months.

Okay. Any plans other than just paying it off with the cash that you have or are you potentially looking at refinancing it with another piece of debt?

I think we're looking at everything. That's our job to look at everything and I and Dan and the team are assessing all the above. And over the next few months since we're not in a hurry here – I just saw my speaker flashing, are you hearing me okay? Okay, so the answer is all the above and we're looking at those. And we're not pressed on time, but we're certainly having the conversions internally.

Okay. Well, I think most of my questions were answered on the earlier call. Thank you, very much.

Thanks, Matt.

Our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hey, apologize if you guys covered this earlier, but what percentage of your calendar 2012 gas supply has been hedged at this point or locked-in?

Hi, Pavel. This is Dan Cohrs. We actually have not disclosed that as a percentage of the calendar year. We did disclose at earlier as 84% of the amount we need through September 30. So, that 12-month period ending September 30, which is our old fiscal year, we are 84% hedged. But we just haven't put that out yet for the full calendar year.

Okay, understood. And then on the renewable side, obviously, you're looking at the Canadian project, a few other things, but what are the key criteria before you decide to pull the trigger on one of these?

I think there is a number of criteria that we have outlined as returns. We want to see returns. We want to see cash flow in the near future. We want to see partners at the table. And I think those are criteria that was – it has to have a cash flowing opportunities. It's got to have their feedstock locked down, the typical things you see in development of feedstock, solid uptake, partners at the table and cash returns in the near future.

I think that's exactly how we're approaching it. And there are some opportunities and you're active in this space. And we believe there is some opportunities out there. We have to make sure that, that's all lined up. We don't want to take a lot of risk in this space right now.

When you say near-term cash flow, I guess, what's near-term. It's probably not 2012. That wouldn't be realistic, but is it kind of a 2013 timeframe and if you made up investment decision today?

How did I know you were going to ask that? It would be – I'd say, 24 months or less is the way we're looking at these.

Okay, I understood. How many projects are you currently assessing?

We are looking at quite a few and both – I've to be careful here, both in the segment that we've been focused on and there is something in the periphery on the segment we've been looking at. But all in areas that we have expertise in, but there is fairly active – very, very active internal group now, looking at a number of opportunities in North America.

Very good. I'll leave it there.

Pavel, just to be clear, we're looking at things that do not necessarily use our technologies. We are not just talking about development projects as we had in the past. So we're looking at acquisitions and projects that do not necessarily use our technologies, but that are in areas that we have expertise in.

Okay. Very clear.

That's a good point.

Our next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes with Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good afternoon everyone.

Hi, Lucas.

Hey, could you maybe break down kind of your rough cash balance at the moment?

Yeah. We disclosed that – at the moment, no. As of December 31, we disclosed that the number is...

It was about $237 million consolidated, and about $193 million at the parent.

Okay.

As of December.

Thank you. And then that leaves, of course, plenty of cash even after the convert and the share repurchases. If you had to kind of prioritize your uses of cash, would that be additional share repurchases first and then maybe some M&A or how do you look at that?

It's a great question and I think all those, whether it's share repurchase, whether it is an acquisition, it's all going to be about how we can get the highest return for our shareholders in the near, medium-term and that's exactly how we're looking at everything that we do.

Great. That's helpful. And then maybe to turn to the PDU really quickly, could you maybe provide a little bit more details in regards to how this process is evolving with potential partners, what the interest is looking like at the moment and how long do you expect to run it kind of past September 30?

Right. So, right now, as we indicated that we'll go through September and we do have probably the highest level of activity we've ever had. I think a lot of it has to do with certainly starting up the gasifier and it also has a lot to do with natural gas being at the price that they are. We've been operating gas to liquids plant here for the better part of three years. And what we've seen is this R&D process is not a straight line and we're seeing terrific results on our fuels technology, best the company has ever seen in its history. And with a start up with the gasifier in combination with the natural gas been running there, we've got a high-level of activity and we want to make sure that we play that out.

So, as we stated earlier, we'll run through September. We'll continue to assess the IBR project and how these partnerships play out. Knowing that as we turn the corner toward next fiscal year, as I mentioned in the early part of the call, that this R&D spend expense will continue to come down if we don't see those relationships bear fruit. Either way, it's going to come down. Let me put it that way.

Okay, great. Thank you, very much.

Yeah.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Anatol Feygin with Loews Corporation (0:30:59). Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. Two I guess, one is, why not pay a partial distribution for the balance of calendar Q4? And two, if you can just walk me through the share repurchase, why it will only be effective of March 20 and how you guys plan to implement it?

Yeah. Hi, this is Dan. On the distribution, I'm not quite sure I understand your question. We're paying a distribution that starts on the IPO date and ends at the end of the March 31 quarter. Are you asking why not pay one for the December 31 quarter?

Correct. Right, why not pay out to stop distribution.

Yeah. When we did the IPO, we just made the decision that we would have a full quarter under our belt before we end the distribution. So from the time we filed the IPO, that's been the plan all along. It's really that simple. So we'll be paying that distribution following the first full quarter ending March 31. On the share repurchase, your question was?

Why March 20?

Oh, yeah. It's an open market repurchase program and we need to be in an open window period before we can put anything into effect. And so leading up to this earnings release, of course, we were in a blackout period, so effectively we couldn't do anything. Now that we have fully disclosed, we can open the window period and potentially buy shares, if we like the price.

Great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Jay Traeger with Park West Asset Management. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question.

No problem.

So I was wondering if it will be possible to license partners, sell the demonstration unit or other projects, so that you're not putting more capital into them, because I think our input would be to reduce the level of spend and focus on creating share holder value through proper allocation of capital and not necessarily through acquisitions, or investments on the alternative energy side.

Yes, we agree and that's what we're doing.

Okay. So, is it possible to look into licensing or selling the demonstration unit to someone with a lower cost of capital than you?

I think that's what we said we were doing as I said in the script, and that's what we're doing. What we said we're talking to partners exactly that, that's a license and participate in the operations of the PDU. So folks would have a global reach and a balance sheet.

Okay. So, when you talk about putting no more than $40 million into any one project, is that your equity capital that you would be talking about the $40 million or the total capital that you would expect to need.

That, up to $40 million would be our contribution.

Because that's a pretty meaningful amount of spend. So, I guess, I'm a little confused as to the message, if you say you're focused on reducing level of spend, but also say you'd put up to $40 million. So, it's a pretty meaningful percentage of the cash balance.

Well, the $40 million is not for the PDU. The $40 million would be to grow cash flow opportunities for the business.

Got it. Okay, thanks.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (0:34:51). Please proceed with your question.

Yes. I'm wondering on the distribution. I think your estimate was to get $2.34 per share of RNF that you own. That I believe is on the old fiscal 2012. Are you going to update it to the new fiscal 2012 estimate? Do you have plans to update it for that?

Yeah, I would expect in the future, we will switch over to giving guidance for the full calendar year. Right now, we just wanted to speak in terms of the September 30 period, so it's all apples-to-apples of what's in the prospectus and what we have been saying in the past.

Right, okay. Could that would really give you – because this number we're really looking at is – it's only about seven weeks of the quarter. So it's little short of a year and I think it maybe doesn't give the right impression for your full earnings power. And just one other follow up on – if you could just go through, again, the options for the 2000 and, you said 2013 the R&D to come down, I believe, on the IBR. In other words, either you have a partner, what are the other options?

Well, as we've said, we have a – well, we have a partner that will participate fully in the R&D facility, license – there is a number of opportunities that you could go – licensing, partnering, [indiscernible] (36:22) operated. They could take over operations, partner an operations to reduce spend, license and a combination of that or just reducing it down to a smaller group of folks out there. So there is a very long menu here, and the menu is getting shorter.

Okay, thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (0:36:51). Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentleman. If you look at Rentech Nitrogen as its own independent company, then Rentech has cash and securities of about $750 million. You guys trade with a market cap of about $440 million, so the market is kind of seeing the net present value of all your businesses, ex-Rentech Nitrogen are about negative $310 million. Getting back to the shareholder value question, will you commit to shareholders that there is a certain ceiling on how much money you're willing to lose in the part of the business outside of Rentech Nitrogen, because I think right now the market doesn't have any confidence in how big that number might be?

I think hopefully we're conveying to everybody that we are being very mindful of the spent and very mindful of what we'll do with our cash. And I guess I'll play back the tape. Our stock is up 100% since last summer and we think we've created some pretty good shareholder value over that period of time. Our incentive program that the Board has put in place, the bulk of that is $3 or more. So we're highly incentive. And I think we're proving out over the last six or seven months with a 100% appreciation on the stock. And the way we're articulating, the way we're going to go forward in terms of reducing our spend in R&D and development and being conservative with cash, I think hopefully that message is coming through.

You guys have such a phenomenally high cost of capital right now – I mean, to do anything other than buyback stock with the cash you have, you would have to have one of the most amazing investment opportunities in the history of earth.

Well, it depends on a period of time. We can debate that all day long and it depends on your time horizon versus ours.

All right. Well, thank you for the spin out. That was a good transaction.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Chris Orski with Bow Street. Please go ahead.

Hey guys, thanks for taking my call. I just want to follow up on that last question. Can you give us a sense for what kind return hurdles you're looking at as you evaluate investment projects?

Yeah. Well, we haven't been like specific publically, but I think we can certainly give you a rough guideline for how we think about it. If we're looking at very conservative investments with cash flows in the very near-term like within 12 months or even current, we'd be looking for returns on capital. And I'm talking unlevered returns on capital now, certainly at least in the mid-teens. If we're looking at something that has a little longer time to develop into a cash flow business, it's going to go up from there. And if it is a project that's employing any form new technology at all, we're going to be looking at the mid-20s or higher, just as rough guidelines.

And you sort of mentioned there're not going to be sort of your core technologies. What kind of other stuff – is it going to be other fertilizer type assets or what other stuff are you looking at and what sort of the core competencies you evaluate, non-fertilizer, non kind of Fischer-Tropsch technologies?

Well, I think as we said in the script, we're looking at opportunities in the fertilizer space and around that space and we're also looking at opportunities that don't include our technologies. And I don't think we want to sit here and talk about exactly what those are today. And when and if we do anything, it will hit the criteria that we've outlined.

Okay, thanks.

We have a follow-up question from [ph] Anatol Feygin with Loews Corporation (0:41:26). Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you, just a quick follow-up on the gas hedges. Dan, you said that 84% in the release through September 30. Are there any gas hedges that go out beyond 9/30?

Not at this point today, no I think we are only up to 9/30, within -inside of 9/30.

Great. Thank you, very much.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Alex Hertner (0:41:59) with Indaba Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi. It's actually Derek Schrier. Thank you, guys. It's great to hear about your plans to build shareholder value and return on capital. With regards the stock buyback program now, you didn't implemented 10b5 plan, so that you could buy outside of windows. Is that, or was that something you consider and decided not to do, or is that something you perhaps would consider going forward.

We haven't ruled that out. We simply haven't put it in place and of course we could only put that in place during an open window period.

But that's not ruled out.

Okay. We think it would be a great idea, obviously, to be more opportunistic. Secondly, what should be your expectation in terms of how much of the dividends that you will receive from RNF stock would be returned and pass through to Rentech shareholders.

Well, I think the only direct way those will be passed back in the foreseeable future would be through the share repurchase program, if we purchase any shares in the open market.

It seems like it'd be an important way to turn value to shareholders, to pass through some of that that cash. So we think it's important to – we think about it and it'd be a tremendous demonstration of a value.

We understand and that's why we authorized a share repurchase program, so we completely understand what you're saying.

Okay. At today's value we really hope that that's put to work. So, thanks.

Okay, thanks.

And that was the last question. I am turning the call over to you, sir.

Hi, this is Julie. We would like to thank everyone who participated on the call today. I encourage you to contact me if you have any questions about the quarter. Thank you for joining us.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.