Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Communications & Investor Relations, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Marc E. Wallis — Vice President-Sales & Marketing, Rentech Nitrogen LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
James A. Bardowski — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Matthew Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Robert Wiegand — Portfolio Manager, New Salem Investment Capital LLC
Mark Lewis Kaufman — Analyst, MLK Investment Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations & Communications. Julie, you may begin.

Thank you.

Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended March 31, 2013. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will summarize the company's activities during the quarter and provide a financial outlook. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also in the room with us today is Marc Wallis, SVP of Sales and Marketing for Rentech Nitrogen, who will be available for the question-and-answer session at the end of our prepared remark.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best judgment, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time-to-time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 9, 2013, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws. In addition, today's presentation includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to such non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2013 first quarter earnings press release that is available on our website.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.

Before I discuss the quarter results, I'd like to summarize the major steps we took for the company last week as we entered the wood fibre business through a series of transactions. On May 2, we announced the acquisition of Georgia-based Fulghum Fibres, the leader in the U.S. contract wood chipping business and agreements to acquire two facilities for conversion to the production of wood pellets in Ontario, Canada.

We announced contracts for the sale and transport of more than 4 million metric tons of wood pellets over 10 years. We also signed a joint venture agreement for equity investment, development and construction of pellet projects in the U.S. and Canada. These steps position Rentech to develop a leading wood processing business for production of high-quality wood chips and pellets.

We used cash on hand to fund the Fulghum Fibres acquisition, which was priced at 5.6 times 2013 forecasted EBITDA. The wood fibre business meets the investment parameters we laid out last year, including stable and near-term cash flows, long-term contracting, projected returns on capital in the mid-teens or higher and utilization of commercially available technologies.

As the announcements made clear, we brought together all the pieces for strong entry point into a new line of business, assembling key contracts, expertise and cash flow to succeed in this business. We're now focused on moving quickly with our new partner, Graanul Invest, on the construction of the pellet plants. We're also working on formally presenting these projects for acceptance into the JV.

We expect the integration of Fulghum Fibres to be relatively seamless because we're retaining the existing well-seasoned management team. Based on our first quarter results, our nitrogen business declared a cash distribution of $0.50 per unit. Rentech will receive $11.6 million when the distribution is paid on May 15. Rentech Nitrogen's first quarter results were impacted by the persistent rain, which delayed shipment of approximately 3,000 tons of prepaid ammonia volume in the quarter.

UAN deliveries in the quarter were strong. Much of the products shipped was for orders originally scheduled for delivery in late 2012 that was delayed due to our plant outage in December. On the ammonium sulfate front, we focused on the U.S. where we saw a strong demand with prices north of $300 per ton, but shipments were also delayed due to weather conditions. In the alternative energy segment, we're on track to reduce our spending as we wind down R&D activities and mothball the PDU.

I'll now turn the call over to Dan to discuss our financial results. Dan?

Thank you, Hunt.

Good afternoon, everyone. Results for the first quarter were shaped by our decision to end R&D activities in Denver, which we control and by wet weather that delayed fertilizer application, which we don't. Rentech Nitrogen's ammonia and ammonium sulfate deliveries got off to a slow start this year, but we expect to make up for it with deliveries in May. We posted solid product margins, in line with expectations. We are on track to hit our spending reduction targets for the year at the parent, but we did see some small increases in expense this quarter due to severance and shutdown activities related to alternative energy, as well as cost to support the wood fibre transactions and activities. We also had our first full quarter of results from the Pasadena Facility, which had a big impact on the P&L.

Looking at the quarter, revenues were up significantly from last year. We recorded $59.7 million of revenue this year, up from $38.6 million last year. That's a 55% increase. We recorded revenue from Pasadena for the first time and that contributed $25 million of revenue. So, the increase was entirely due to Pasadena. We had small declines in the rest of the fertilizer business.

Gross profit margin dropped to 38% from 59% last year, but almost all of that drop is due to the mix of Pasadena with East Dubuque. Pasadena normally operates at much lower gross profit margins than does East Dubuque. Focusing on the parent, at Rentech, SG&A increased by $1.1 million. This is comprised of $600,000 of severance expense and $1 million increase in legal and consulting, primarily related to that wood fibre business.

Note that we had no advisory expenses as we completed that acquisition without financial advisors or the cost of financial advisors. We also had an increase of $300,000 for accounting and tax fees, mostly associated with the fibre business and activity around the Pasadena plant. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of about $1 million in equity-based compensation.

Looking at the R&D line, we had an increase of $700,000, compared to last year, we had $5.7 million in the quarter. $700,000 of that increase or the entire increase was due to severance and shutdown activities in the alternative energy business as we closed down the PDU and reduced our workforce. We're on target to record about $10 million for the full year, if we add together R&D expenses and SG&A expenses that were formerly R&D. So we've given guidance of $10 million for the year, on that combination, we are on target to achieve that $10 million, which is a significant reduction from the prior year. And we will see that run rate on R&D drop as we go through the year.

All of that adds up to earnings per share this quarter of a negative $0.02, a slight change from a loss of $0.01 per share last year. We ended the quarter with consolidated cash of $135 million. $85 million of that was at Rentech and $50 million at Rentech Nitrogen.

Looking ahead, next quarter, we'll be consolidating two months of results from Fulghum Fibres, which we expect to produce about $95 million of revenue and $20 million of EBITDA for all of 2013 with very little seasonality. These expectations are very consistent with their history. With the stickiness of their customers and the volume-based pricing in their processing contracts, we expect very consistent results, although the South American business, which includes buying fibre and selling fibre products, can have a little more variability.

We see the potential to expand Fulghum Fibres' EBITDA in the core processing business. We expect normal maintenance CapEx for Fulghum Fibres to be a little more than $2 million, and we expect it to be a little higher in 2013, perhaps as much as double the normal run rate as we integrate and invest in a few upgrades that have been identified. Fulghum's overall CapEx has recently been higher due to the construction of the large mill at Valdosta, which elevated depreciation and amortization.

Fulghum Fibres' debt balance is about $59 million. The debt consists of a series of individual project loans tied to specific mills, with a blended interest rate of less than 8%.

If we were not to refinance any of Fulghum Fibres' debt, amortization would be about $14 million in 2013 and about $10 million in 2014, then decline. However, we expect to refinance some of these loans. We expect interest expense to be about $3 million in May through December 2013, again assuming no refinancing. Pro forma for the acquisition, we expect cash SG&A for Rentech, excluding Rentech Nitrogen, to be at a run rate of approximately $30 million this year, which includes an estimated $5 million of former R&D expenses and $5 million for a full year of Fulghum Fibres' SG&A.

These run rates may go down with the sale of our Natchez site or the PDU. Our cash balance as of March 31 would have been $34 million pro forma for the Fulghum Fibres transaction, initial consideration of about $9 million for the acquisition costs of Wawa and Atikokan, and our first quarter distribution from Rentech Nitrogen of approximately $11.6 million. Also pro forma for all of these transactions, our debt would be $79 million, including the assumption of $59 million of Fulghum Fibres' debt and an estimated $20 million capital lease obligation guaranteed by Rentech, Inc. for the full estimated costs of the facilities to be built at the Port of Quebec.

We estimate that the costs to acquire and convert the Wawa and Atikokan projects will be approximately $70 million, most of which is expected to be spent during 2013. We expect to be able to fund the cost of these projects from cash on hand, distributions from Rentech Nitrogen, cash generated by Fulghum Fibres, and the anticipated joint venture investments from Graanul Invest.

We expect to account for the joint venture under the equity method, so the results and balance sheet of the joint venture will not be consolidated. The first several quarters of the JV's activities will consist primarily of capitalized development spending and are expected to have little impact on Rentech's net income.

The partnership with Graanul is a new agreement, based on a joint venture that already existed between Fulghum Fibres and Graanul. Rentech and Graanul will each own 50% of the equity and share decision making.

The agreement requires cooperation on the development of pellet projects in the U.S. and Canada for up to 1.25 million metric tons of capacity. For any project developed by the JV, Rentech will offer to provide 50% of project cost as a senior secured loan to the project at estimated market rates. If attractive third-party debt is available, then the JV would use outside debt instead. Rentech and Graanul will equally fund the remaining 50% of project cost at the JV level. Then the JV will invest as 100% owner of the project's equity.

Graanul will provide EPC services to projects of the JV, as well as marketing services for any pellets that are not required by long-term off-take contracts. If we're successful at setting up an MLP for the pellet business, we would expect the MLP to purchase operating pellet plants from the JV. Consideration could be cash raised by the MLP or MLP units. The JV would then either redeploy cash into additional projects or distribute the cash or units to Rentech and Graanul, the owners of the JV.

And I'll turn it back to Hunt.

Thanks, Dan.

I'm very excited about our entry into the wood fibre business. We synchronized 10 different transactions and assembled an innovative package, so you can see the entire strategy at once. And we executed those transactions with the same discipline that we applied six months ago to the acquisition of Agrifos by Rentech Nitrogen. We now have a business at the parent that generates significant revenue and EBITDA, a strong position to become a dominant supplier in Eastern Canada in the rapidly-growing pellet business, and a clear path to positive and growing EBITDA for Rentech, in addition to our fertilizer business.

Our nitrogen business reiterated guidance today of cash available for distribution of $2.60 per common unit for the 12 months ending December 31, 2013. The guidance includes the impact of two scheduled outages at its facilities during the year, and the impact of lost revenue due to the unscheduled outage at the East Dubuque facility in December 2012. Excluding the effects of these outages, the forecast for 2013 cash available for distribution would be higher by approximately $0.65 per unit.

Based on our current ownership of Rentech Nitrogen, we received approximately $60 million in cash distributions related to this year's results.

In April, Rentech Nitrogen completed an offering of $320 million of 6.5% second-lien senior secured notes due in 2021, which fully finances the estimated cost of all Rentech Nitrogen's announced expansion and major maintenance projects. The first project is expected to increase cash available for distribution to unitholders beginning in 2014. The new debt also eliminated amortization requirements under the previous credit facilities.

On the alternative energy front, all R&D activities have ceased. The decommissioning of all the PDU equipment has been safely completed, and nearly all the PDU operations and maintenance personnel have left Rentech, with the remaining handful of personnel leaving in a few weeks.

We've now entered into a definitive agreement with the County of Natchez, under which they've agreed to purchase our site for $9 million after the County completes the bond offering for the purchase price. We also have backup offers for the site from other interested buyers.

When we sell the site, not only will we receive cash proceeds, but we'll also save around $800,000 in annual SG&A expenses for maintenance and insurance at that site. We're also trying to sell the PDU, which will save another $2 million to $3 million in site expenses that are now classified in SG&A.

You can see from the series of actions that we continue to be focused on disciplined capital allocation. Fulghum Fibres acquisition is expected to bring an estimated $20 million of annualized EBITDA. Our first two pellet projects are expected to be contributing EBITDA next year, and we expect them to have unlevered returns in the mid-teens with very stable margins. And we have a large site to additional cost reductions with a potential sale of our Natchez site and the PDU.

I'll now turn the call back to the operator for questions. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And Lucas Pipes is online with a question. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon, everyone.

Hi, Lucas.

My first question is on the JV. Could you maybe explain to us again how exactly the structure works, in terms of both the financing for the CapEx, and then future CapEx of projects. What would that differ in terms of the financing?

Dan, why don't you take that one?

Yeah, Lucas. Hi. So, the JV is a 50/50 equity partnership between Rentech and Graanul Invest. If you think about the project, what would happen is we would start the project with development expenses of the JV. And then at the point when construction begins, Rentech would make a senior secured loan to the project. So, that would be secured debt at the level of the project subsidiary of the JV and so that's 50% of project cost. And as – that will be a construction-type loan where draws will be made during construction. Matching the draws on the construction loan would be investments coming down from the JV. So, the JV would own 100% of the project equity. And so, each time Rentech advances $1 under that senior secured project loan, $1 would come down from the JV to fund the other half of the project cost. If you go back up to the JV level that's 50/50 Rentech and Graanul so we would each be putting in funding at the level of the JV before the JV then sends the money down to the project level.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, in terms of – this maybe looking out a little bit too far in the future, but – so you have these two pellet projects currently kind of in view. And then, if we think about like future projects, would they all have to be coming from the JV or could you do other pellet projects individually?

Yeah. The way the agreement is, is for any pellet project in Canada or the U.S. up to 1.25 million tons, then the JV has a right of first refusal on that project. So, for that first 1.25 million tons, most likely, the JV, in other words, Rentech and Graanul will be working together to develop projects. But let's take Wawa and Atikokan as an example. Rentech has already started development on those projects, and so we need to go through a process of formally presenting those projects to the board of the JV. And then the JV will decide it either wants to accept and fund those projects or it might reject the project. If it rejects the projects, then Rentech on its own would presumably go ahead with those projects. So, it's a right of first refusal for the JV up to 1.25 million tons.

That's very helpful. And then if you could circle back to SG&A, how should we think about that going forward, especially kind of for the rest of the year? Any sort of color you could provide us on that that would be very helpful.

I'm sorry, the question on SG&A was color on what part of SG&A?

Essentially, just how we should think about SG&A on a quarterly basis going forward?

Yeah, SG&A is pretty steady on a quarterly basis. I mean, Rentech's SG&A – I'm not including the part of SG&A that we're referring to as former R&D expenses, right? That's a separate $5 million bucket. But if we focused on the $20 million of core SG&A at Rentech and then there's $5 million of SG&A at Fulghum and we're talking cash SG&A, those should be pretty steady, in other words, spread evenly through the year.

That's very helpful. I appreciate all the information. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And Brent Rystrom is online with a question. Please go ahead.

About the savings from the Natchez sale and then also potentially from shutting down the PDUs, when you look at the $30 million of spending kind of SG&A and R&D, so the $20 million core, the $5 million that was formerly R&D and the $5 million that's R&D, if those things happen, the sale of Natchez and then either the closing liquidation, say, of the PDUs or the sale of the PDUs, would the $20 million lose $3 million that you were talking about as far as SG&A and $800,000 or would that come out of the $10 million? Does that make sense?

Yeah. Let me make sure – let me say it and see if it answers your question. Hunt said in his section that if we sold the PDU, we would save about $2 million to $3 million. That's an annual run rate. Okay? That's part of the $5 million that we're calling former R&D expenses. So, I mean, it is SG&A since we shut down R&D activities, but we're calling it former R&D expenses. So, that $2 million to $3 million is part of that.

And so, if you were to close or to liquidate again or sell the PDUs, then the $5 million of former R&D and the $5 million of R&D would both go away?

Yeah.

Yes

Yes.

All right. And then the $800,000 in SG&A maintenance and insurance at Natchez, would that come out of the $20 million, then?

That's correct.

Yes.

All right. Also then real quickly, if there were a liquidation or a sale of the PDUs, how would that impact or would that impact the NOLs?

Well, that – yes. Actually it would, yes.

Actually, it's likely to increase our NOL position, because on the tax books, we would actually be increasing our losses on the tax books upon a sale like that.

All right. And would it be likely in the single millions, low single millions, high single millions? Do you have a sense of that?

We're still looking at the amount. We don't have a quantification to put out today.

All right. Will that be a reasonable range?

It's probably in the double-digit millions.

All right.

To give you a ballpark.

And then from – getting back to the previous person's questions on the forward capital commitment, would I be too simplistic to look at you've committed $70 million or there's $70 million of capital needed to do this first 500,000 tons. For the remaining 700,000 tons, would it be reasonable just to take 1.4 times, 1.5 times that $70 million, and work that math back to get to the similar ratios of your equity and your debt commitment?

I think it will [indiscernible] (25:34) [indiscernible]

(25:36)

But the fact is Atikokan and Wawa are conversion projects, brownfield.

All right.

It's so hard to say. If the next project happened to be a greenfield construction, you would probably see some slightly higher CapEx. [indiscernible]

(25:54) on transport. We may do them closer to the Port of Quebec.

Yeah, yeah. The overall economics would have to fit to get your return, but the CapEx per ton might be higher than you see on these brownfield conversions of facilities.

And then have you got to the point yet where you're willing to talk about what the revenue per ton may look like?

No, and there's a couple of reasons for that. One is the pricing on these contracts, as you can appreciate, is very sensitive to Drax and LPG. And the other reason is that – and this will sound strange, revenue doesn't mean nearly as much as EBITDA here, because you think about a pellet plant, the – what really matters is what you netback at the plant gate and how that translates down into EBITDA, because you can see a lot of variability in a pellet plant on transport cost, logistics, as well as fibre costs and other costs depending on where it's located. And so, that's really why we put out EBITDA guidance on these plants, because in order to clearly see what's going on, you need EBITDA and CapEx. If I told you the revenue, even if I told you, it wouldn't help you that much.

All right. So, essentially, your expertise of Fulghum is really going to also be the similar expertise here that it's really a processing fee and the rest of it is not necessarily irrelevant, but less important than you might think?

Well, not quite. I mean we're not setting up these pellet plants as processing fees. It's a business where we sell a product and then we have cost. Although the way the contractors -

I -

Sorry.

Yeah. I understand that. I understand that. I'm just saying it's from a simplistic perspective, you know what the cost of the resource is and you know how it's going to sell and then there's going to be I'm sure all sorts of caps and collars on it, as far as price changes for various things. And so, basically, you're just trying to manage your part of it to maximize the EBITDA?

That's correct, right.

It's like -

All right.

Each one of those components might be very different depending on where the plant is. But what it boils down to is an EBITDA number for that particular plant, that's correct.

Great. Thank you, guys.

Thank you.

James Bardowski is online with the question. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon, guys.

Good afternoon.

Thanks for taking my questions, most of them were answered, but a couple leftovers here.

Sure.

Regarding the $35 million for the JV, sorry if you already mentioned it, but is it a $35 million loan or are there going to be additional draw-downs to make it possibly more?

Let me clarify what the $35 million. We said these two projects, our total capital cost is $70 million, right?

Right.

Now, we're assuming that those two projects are both accepted by the JV. We have to formally present these and have them accepted by the board of the JV. So assume that happens, now we have to fund the $70 million. Half of that $70 million will be in the form of a senior secured loan to the project entities from Rentech. So, fully funded, Rentech would fund $35 million in the form of senior project loans to those two projects. The other $35 million will come from the JV and the source of that other $35 million will be $17.5 million from Rentech and $17.5 million from Graanul.

Okay.

Does that make sense?

Thanks. Yeah, it does, very much.

Okay.

And for the presentation to the – excuse me. For the presentation to the board of the JV, when now do you expect this to take place?

That will happen very soon. We haven't set a date yet, but it's going to be very soon.

It will be in the next few weeks, for sure.

Okay. Excellent. I guess related to the Stevedoring Quebec ports, that involves a $20 million lease, correct?

Yeah.

And for that $20 million lease, when can we expect that to hit the balance sheet?

I think that will go on our balance sheet right away. Because it's an obligation to make payments to Quebec Stevedoring to construct those facilities.

I mean the cash itself was [ph] allot (30:40) over approximately the next year to build those facilities, and then we'll start making lease payments. But the obligation will hit our balance sheet right away.

Now, keep in mind, that $20 million is an estimate. The actual construction cost of those facilities will determine the final amount of the lease that actually goes on the balance sheet.

Okay, excellent. All right. That's all I have. Thank you.

Thank you.

Okay.

And Matt Farwell with Imperial Capital is online. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon.

Hi, Matt.

Just a question on the existing debt at Fulghum Fibres. You indicated there is some amortization. Can you give us some color on when you look to refinance that debt?

You broke up a little, Matt. You're saying are we going to look at refinancing that debt? [ph]

What's the (31:36) amortization -

Yeah, yeah. I was asking when you look to refinance the debt, given the $14 million in amortization this year?

Yeah. The bulk of that – the heavy amortization is late in the year. So we'll be looking at that over the next couple of months.

Okay. And then another question that wasn't asked in the previous call. Could you just give us an idea of what you're seeing for pricing in Pasadena for ammonium sulfate, FOB the plant?

Mark, do you want to handle that?

Yeah. I think in our press release, we said we were showing netbacks above $300,000, and that's as explicit as I want to be right now.

Okay.

It's in line with our expectations this year.

Okay. Yeah. I see some pricing sources. Just trying to back them into what we're seeing in your results.

Yeah, the upstream pricing is substantially higher. We've taken those values and arrived at netbacks. But the $300,000 is where we'll stand.

Okay. And then one other question, regarding Rentech Nitrogen. Once you complete upgrading the ammonia expansion in the third quarter, will that additional ammonia be sold as ammonia? Or what's your capability to sell that additional capacity and upgrade it to UAN or other products?

We've designed the upgrade to sell ammonia in the marketplace. That's the study we did, and that's the product we intend to sell.

Okay. All right. That's all I have for now. Thanks.

Okay. Thanks, Matt.

Robert Wiegand with New Salem Investment is online. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi.

Most of my questions have been answered. But just not too long ago, you announced another buyback on RTK stock. Can you just review what your plans are with that? And what happened to the previous buyback? Did that just expire?

Yeah. The prior program expired. And at a recent board meeting, we went back to the board to re-up a program to – again, same theory as last time. We just want to look into the market and see what happens to the stock. And from time to time, we'll take a look at it. If it's available to us to buy. And then we'll look at it as a part of our capital-allocation program.

Okay. And then also with the sale of the real estate, when you expect that to possibly close?

I don't think we publicly disclosed it, but I think there is some newspaper articles out there that have talked about it, but I don't think we've talked about potential closing times. But I think it's safe to say over the next few months.

Okay. And is there any way that could be used for buyback or is that just to be used for -

I think we can use it for whatever we want to use it for.

Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, thank you very much.

Great. Thank you.

Congratulations again.

Thank you.

Mark Kaufman with MLK Investment is online. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. I've got a question about RTK Canada. Now, correct me if I'm wrong. That will be the owner of the storage facility with the $20 million capital lease payment. Is that correct?

No. Actually, the Quebec Stevedoring will own those facilities, and we will have an obligation to make certain payments to them for the use of the facilities. That will take the form of a capitalized lease on our balance sheet. That's where the $20 million comes from. But it's not – we don't actually own the facility.

Okay. But RTK Canada is responsible for making the payments, not Rentech/Graanul JV, am I right?

That's correct. Yes. So the JV – well, the JV today is not responsible. However, as those projects move into the JV, then they would be entities owned by the JV, responsible for making those payments. We will have a parent guarantee that backs that up though. So ultimately, Rentech is responsible for those payments.

But this gives you, in my mind, the opportunity – if the JV rejects projects, it gives – it would be RTK Canada or RTK saying, okay, we'll do the project. And then you'll have the opportunity, because you're making the lease payments anyway to the Stevedoring operation?

That's correct.

So in essence, you've set things up already for that opportunity in the future. I guess that's – and – is that right?

Well, I mean, that's our fallback. Certainly the business intention, because of the Graanul's expertise, is to have these move through the JV. But if for some reason -

For certainly the first one – certainly the first $1.2 million?

Right. Exactly. Right. So, we – yeah, exactly. So after the first $1.2 million, we want the option to do these on our own.

Okay. Well, that's nice. That's a nice setup that you've put there. Is there anything else at RTK Canada? And I was wondering how the Crown fibre relationship plays in?

Well, I mean, this originally goes back to the Crown fibre that we received two or three years ago, which we always knew we were going to have early revenue – we'll call it ERP, early revenue projects – before we did the potential fuels project.

And this was in the works for many – right from the get-go, which is why we hired Steve Roberts and others. Because we wanted – we knew we could get a project like this up and going a lot faster and make wood pellets with conventional technology.

So the wood basket played a huge part in this. And the utilities who purchased these pellets or are going to purchase these pellets like it for the reasons we like it – is because it's a 20-year supply, which is very, very difficult to come by, certainly in the U.S. and in other parts of the globe.

So having a 20-year supply of fibre from the Crown was a huge component of the strategy to move forward with these contracts and build these plants.

Thank you. Makes a lot of sense.

Thank you.

And our last question comes from Brent Rystrom with Feltl. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. As we think about layering in Fulghum into the model here in the second quarter, are there any seasonality issues? I know you said they pretty much run year-round, but are there [ph] frosts coming out of the round (39:00) so they can't truck for a few weeks of the year? Are those issues to think about?

Not really. There is very little seasonality, if any. It is a very steady business.

All right. And then in the model, Dan, how should we think about how this will show up on the balance sheet? Will there be two lines classified? Will there be a note to the JV and then divestments in the JV?

I'm sorry. On the JV, how will what show up, Brent?

Will the line that you're extending or the loan that you're giving them and then your equity investment in the JV, will that show up in those two lines? Will there be a note to the JV?

Yeah, yeah, we'll have a – I mean, we'll have an asset. It will be a loan to the project entity. And then -

Yeah.

...we'll have an investment in the JV. And then we will show our share of the net income in the JV, coming in down below operating income.

And then how will the $70 million – your portion of $70 million, how will that progress by quarter? Is that reasonable to straight-line it between now and when the second shipments start?

I'm sure it will be a little lumpier than that. But for now, I would probably straight-line it.

I mean that bulk of that money would be spent this year. I just don't have a precise guidance to give you on how the timing flows out [indiscernible] (40:25).

All right. And last question, would the interest would be immediately payable in cash? Or are you going to do a PIK or something for a while?

On the construction loan?

Yeah. On the loan – yes, the loan you're extending.

It will accrue during construction, and then start paying in cash when the plant flips over into operation. The loan -

All right.

The loan would flip over to a term loan, unless we replace it with outside debt.

Thank you, guys.

Thank you.

And I'll now turn it back over to Julie for some closing remarks.

Thank you. We are very excited about benefits of entering into the wood fibre business with cash flow, long-term revenue contracts structured for stable margins and operating expertise. The stability of margins we expect should reduce our consolidated exposure to agricultural cycles inherent in Rentech Nitrogen's business. We believe that this diversification and pricing stability creates a stronger and more valuable entity at Rentech in the short, medium and long term as we grow Rentech and Rentech Nitrogen. We look forward to continuing to share our successes with you.

We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today and please feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. Speakers, please standby for your post conference.