corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for standing by. And welcome to the


Rentech Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants


are in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, today’s conference is being recorded on Tuesday May 10, 2011.


It’s now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor


Relations at Rentech. Please go ahead.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President-Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you. Welcome to Rentech’s 2011 fiscal second quarter conference call for the period ended


March 31, 2011. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will summarize


our company’s progress during the quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give the


financial review of the fiscal period, and provide comments on Rentech’s financial position. We will


then open the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question, so that we may


get to as many of your questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology, such as “may, will, expect, believe,” and other comparable


terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and


best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance, and


are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and risk factors detailed from time to


time in the company’s periodic reports, and registration statements filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 10, 2011 and Rentech does not


undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is


required to do so under applicable law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This quarter we


announced strong results and some important news about our development of our Biomass


projects. The quarter’s results reflect the strong market fundamentals for nitrogen fertilizer. We are


rerating our recent increase in our projection for the plant’s estimated EBITDA to approximately $75


million for the fiscal year.


Dan and I will discuss RMC’s bullish outlook later during the call, because this market looks so


attractive, we are vaulting an expansion of the plant. The preliminary indication is that the


expansion looks like it could generate very attractive returns on capital.


In 2009, we launched our renewable energy strategy, and we’re seeing tangible progress in this


area of our business. We’ve made significant announcements about our Port St. Joe project


changes and our plan for Rialto, and our selection for the largest conditional award of crown timber


supplies ever made by the province Ontario, and its competitive wood supply process.


We also exercised our option to take ownership of ClearFuels. Together these developments have


brought a lot of momentum to our business development strategy. Our port St. Joe project is a
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


reviewable power project located in the Panhandle region of Florida. It’s designed to use our


Rentech-SilvaGas biomass gasifier to provide synthesis gas to a combined cycle power plant.


We anticipate the plant will produce 55 megawatts of renewable power from about 930 dry tons a


day of woody biomass. We’ve been tracking this project since our acquisition of SilvaGas in 2009.


Now that the project has achieved significant commercial, financing, and permitting milestones,


we’ve decided that the timing was right for us to acquire the project, and takeover as the developer.


We believe that owning and having control this project maximizes its chances of success, and will


have greater value to us than licensing our technology into it.


We expect this project to be the first commercial deployment of our Rentech-SilvaGas biomass


gasifier with a combined cycle power plant for renewable power production. We acquired the


project from Biomass Energy Holdings for no initial consideration. BEH would be eligible to recover


from the project, its development cost and a small carried interest in the project when it reaches


financial close. The Port St. Joe project is now our most advanced stage alternative energy project.


We have a 20 year power-purchase agreement for about 90% of the project power output; the


remaining 10% of the power output will be sold on a merchant basis.


100% of the projects biomass supply is covered under letters of intent from local suppliers. We’ve


signed a detailed term sheet with White Construction for the engineering, procurement, and


construction work for the project. We are currently completing the engineering activities to enable


us to negotiate definitive fixed-price lump-sum turnkey EPC contract based on the commercial


terms defined in the term-sheet.


All preconstruction permit applications have been filed, the draft air permit has been issued for


public comment by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. The documents for the


Federal Environmental review of the project are being written and will soon be ready for submittal.


The project is expected to qualify for federal cash grant equal to 30% of eligible project cost, under


the U.S. Department of Treasury Section 1603 Grant Program for a renewable power projects. This


equates to approximately $65 million of cash that would be received within 90 days of the facilities


in service state in 2013.


The projects total cost is estimated at $225 million based on feasibility engineering. We’ve received


a detailed term sheet from the DOE for Section 1705 Loan Guarantee, which would provide the


majority of the capital for the project. We’re engaged in due diligence in negotiating of terms, and


we’re working with the DOE close on financing before the September 30th deadline. The projects


relatively smaller size and simplicity maximize its chances of success.


The key milestones for Port St. Joe project under 1705 are a follows. Finalize the definitive lump-


sum turnkey EPC contract in July; turn letters of intent for the biomass supply in the long term


definitive supply agreements; begin construction by the end of September. We have a project team


dedicated to this project working to ensure that these deadlines will be met on time.


The Rialto projects application for the loan guarantee program guarantee is in due-diligence review.


With the two projects, Rialto and Port St. Joe in the 1705 due diligence process, we were faced


with two projects that would have been required to start construction by September 30th 2011. We


worked with the loan guarantee office of the DOE on the best path for success for the loan


guarantees for both projects. We determined that the Port St. Joe project is better positioned to


complete the Section 1705 process and begin construction before September 30, 2011, for all the


reasons I discussed earlier. Therefore an agreement with the DoE, our Rialto project loan


guarantee application was moved into the due diligence phase of the Section 1703 program. These


allow us the project to have the opportunity for DoE loan guarantee, but without the constraints of a


deadline to start construction by September 30.