Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Paul Summers — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Rentech, Inc.
Joseph Pratt — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Lin Shen — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc.'s 2016 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call. My name is Cynthia and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I would like to inform all participants that this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks. Welcome, everyone. As you read in our press release today, we reported preliminary, selected, unaudited results for the three months and full year ended December 31, 2016. We are working to finalize accounting impairments related to the Canadian pellet plants and Fulghum Fibres as well as our tax provision. We currently expect to file our Form 10-K with complete financial results for the periods, once we complete our review of the impairments and tax provision.

In the interest of timely disclosure, we elected to disclose the partial results contained in the press release we issued this morning. During this call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activity. Paul Summers, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the periods and discuss the impairments and tax provision review.

They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks. Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, beliefs and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance.

They are subject to known and unknown risk, uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of March 16, 2017. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2016 fourth quarter and full year earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Welcome, and thanks for joining us this morning. I'll first start by addressing the press release we issued a few weeks ago on February 21. We announced then that our board had decided to idle the Wawa facility due to equipment and operational issues that require additional unbudgeted capital expenditures. In addition, there remains uncertainty around profitability of pellets produced at the facility. We believe that the issues we had been experiencing at Wawa can be resolved with additional capital investments, but we do not believe it is economical for us to make those investments or for us to continue to operate the plant at this time.

The decision allows us to reduce our near-term cash needs in Canada and preserve liquidity, while we explore strategic alternatives for the plant and continue ongoing discussions with third parties. We completed idling the plant earlier this month. The majority of the workforce has been placed on a temporary layoff, while we explore options for the facility. A small workforce remains in place to maintain the plant so that it can resume operations with minimal cost and time, if there is interest from a third party to invest in or purchase the facility. We've engaged Wells Fargo to assist in the strategic review process for this facility as well as for the company as a whole.

We delivered approximately 177,000 metric tons of the 188,000 metric tons we were contracted to deliver to Drax in 2016. We did not incur penalties to Drax for the shortfall because the spot market prices for wood pellets were less than our contracted price. We have not made any deliveries against our 2017 commitment to Drax of 336,000 metric tons. Our remaining inventory at port of 12,000 metric tons is not sufficient to fill a vessel to ship to Drax in the near term.

We expect to make amendments to the delivery schedule under the Drax contract based on the facility being idled. At this time, we could not make a determination if any penalties will be associated with anticipated changes to the contract. Rentech, Inc. guarantees certain obligations of our Canadian subsidiary, under the terms of the Drax contract, up to a maximum amount of CAD 20 million, including payments of our subsidiary. Rentech, Inc. also guarantees the capital lease portion of the agreement under the terms of the contract with QSL for use of the Port of Quebec. The remaining amount due under the capital lease is approximately US$13.5 million as of December 31, 2016.

Our Atikokan plant delivered approximately 50,000 tons of pellets to OPG in 2016 with excess production shipped to Drax. Atikokan will no longer be sending pellets to the Port in support of the Drax contract. As a result, the plant has reduced production levels necessary to fulfill the delivery requirements under the OPG contract. We will continue to explore opportunities to sell additional production from Atikokan to increase its utilization.

Now, to Fulghum. Fulghum's 2016 revenues increased slightly from the prior year, primarily because revenues from South America were up 32% year-over-year, which more than offset the 14% decline in U.S. revenue. Despite slightly higher revenues, gross margins were lower by 22%, as sales in South America have lower margins than those in the U.S. U.S. sales were down primarily due to the sale of a mill in April of 2016, as well as lower demand due to an unplanned prolonged outage of one of our customers' mills and the regional flooding of two customer mills early in the year.

In our February press release, we announced that a customer of Fulghum indicated its intents to exercise its option to purchase two wood shipping mills that Fulghum operates for the customer. If the purchase option is exercised, we expect to receive a one-time cash payment of approximately $5.5 million. We expect the loss of these mills to negatively impact operating income and cash flow in the second half of 2017 and going forward. These mills contributed approximately $4 million of EBITDA in 2016.

Fulghum incurred capital expenditures of about $0.5 million for these two mills in 2016. In spite two customers exercising their right to purchase mills within the past year, we do not believe this is a trend. Fulghum's remaining 24 U.S. mills service a diversified customer base, the majority of whom are large pulp, paper and packaging manufacturers. Fulghum continues to explore opportunities with current and new customers to generate additional cash flow to compensate for its lost EBITDA.

New England Wood Pellet's results for 2016 were negatively impacted by warmer weather than in previous years, continued low heating oil and propane prices, and changes in consumer buying patterns. NEWP's 2016 revenues were down nearly 50% as compared to the prior year. Gross margins for 2016 were lower by 63% compared to 2015, due to lower sales prices and lower sales volumes. We expect these trends to continue into the first half of 2017. As we monitor market demand and inventory levels, NEWP is further curtailing production to approximately 45% of its capacity from the 65% it operated at last year. We believe these trends are temporary, and we expect buying patterns and sales to return to historical trends and levels.

On the cost savings front, we now expect to achieve total consolidated annual SG&A expense savings of approximately $20 million, up from our prior guidance of $12 million to $15 million of savings. We have completed restructuring actions that have resulted in approximately $13.6 million of consolidated SG&A expense savings in 2016, excluding approximately $2.6 million of restructuring and transaction costs. We expect to achieve the additional savings of approximately $6.5 million in 2017, excluding transaction costs and reorg costs.

I'm going to turn it over to Paul Summers to walk through the financials in more detail.

Thanks, Keith, and good morning to everyone on the line. As you know, we are delayed in filing our Form 10-K due to our review of accounting impairments and our book tax provision. We expect impairments, which are non-cash items relating to the Canadian pellet plants, of approximately $110 million to $120 million. We are still assessing impairments related to Fulghum. I will note that Fulghum has approximately $30 million of goodwill, which may be substantially impaired. In addition, we expect an asset impairment relating to two mills for which a customer recently indicated its intent to exercise its purchase option. We expect to file our Form 10-K with complete financial results, once we complete our analysis and review of the impairments and the tax provision.

Now, I'll review selected financial results for the year. Starting with the top line, Rentech's revenues for 2016 totaled approximately $150.7 million, down 4% versus 2015. The decrease in revenues was due to significantly lower sales at NEWP, partially offset by an increase in sales at Fulghum and our industrial pellet plants in Canada.

Our total gross profits for the year were down $20.4 million compared to 2015. All three of our business units experienced unfavorable gross profit comparisons for the year. Our gross loss in Canada was higher by $12.8 million in 2016 as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to higher production costs. In 2016, we incurred inventory write-downs totaling $24.8 million throughout the period. In 2015, the write-downs totaled $11.3 million throughout the period.

It is important to note that the comparison of gross loss between the periods in Canada is skewed by the fact that costs were expensed as SG&A in 2015 prior to the plants being put into service. NEWP's gross profits were down $7.6 million in 2016 as compared to last year, as a result of lower sales volumes. As Keith mentioned, NEWP had lower sales volumes due to relatively warmer weather than in previous years, continued availability of low-cost heating oil and propane, and changes in pellet consumer buying patterns.

Fulghum's gross profits declined by $4.1 million in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease reflects primarily lost profits relating to the sale of one of our mills in April of 2016.

Our total consolidated SG&A expense was down by 34% in 2016 compared to 2015. SG&A was lower at each of our business units and for corporate. Industrial pellets' SG&A expense was down by 60%, primarily due to certain expenses recorded as SG&A in 2015 before assets were placed in service, lower penalties, and reduced business development expenses. NEWP's SG&A was lowered by 19% and Fulghum's declined by 6%. With respect to overhead, our cost savings efforts drove a 16% reduction in corporate SG&A expenses, including restructuring and other one-time charges.

Now, turning to the balance sheet. Rentech's consolidated cash balance as of December 31 was $28.3 million. We noted in our prior press release that as of February 17, cash, excluding our foreign subsidiaries, was approximately $20 million. The pre-tax value of our approximately 7.2 million units of CVR Partners, which serve as collateral for the GSO debt, was approximately $32 million as of yesterday's close.

Our total debt obligations as of December 31 were $116.5 million. This includes $52.3 million of debt owed to GSO, $23.6 million at Fulghum U.S., $13.2 million at Fulghum South America, $13.8 million at NEWP, and $13.5 million related to the port facility in Quebec City.

At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity from cash on hand and expected working capital to fund operations and corporate activities through calendar year 2017, but we may have cost associated with idling the Wawa facility and other events could arise that could increase our liquidity needs in 2017.

In addition, we also may need additional liquidity to fund corporate activities through the first quarter of 2018. As a result, management expects to report in its Form 10-K substantial doubt around the ability to continue as a going concern over the next 12 months through March 2018. We also expect the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to disclose the same.

We have implemented plans to address our liquidity needs through a combination of cost reductions, idling Wawa and pursuing strategic alternatives for Wawa and the company as a whole. We expect NEWP and Fulghum to generate positive cash flow and be self-sufficient from a liquidity perspective in 2017; however, I will note that NEWP will likely need to renew its revolving credit facility in May of this year to address seasonal working capital needs.

At this time, we expect the Atikokan facility to generate cash flow in the range of breakeven to slightly positive under the revised operating plan; however, we are monitoring the facility closely. I'll close by reiterating that we remain focused on managing our liquidity situation, including the continued execution of our cost reduction plan, while diligently pursuing opportunities arising from the announced strategic alternatives process.

I will now hand it back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we're standing by for questions. And we have a question from Joe Pratt with Stifel, Nicolaus. You may begin.

Hi. Good morning, Keith.

Hi, Joe.

Hi. A couple of questions. One of the disturbing things is the selling off for $5.5 million, $3.5 million in EBITDA. Are the Fulghum contracts disclosed in any SEC filing? I'm just concerned that there's more of that diminution on the horizon.

Yeah. The contracts are listed there, Joe. I don't think we say – I think we say which facilities are leased, which are owned. We give the tenure, but we'd certainly caution that all of the contracts have provisions that provide for early termination. The contracts have embedded in them – historically, the contracts have embedded in them an operating fee, a profit per ton, but also recovery of capital invested. And the capital invested was typically or predominantly debt.

And this plant, going back in history prior to Rentech owning it, was a levered facility with CIT, had a loan that constructed the plant. That loan was retired prior to maturity. But the amortization component of that loan stayed intact in the contract, as if it was still alive. At some point, when that loan was repaid in reality or theory, then the rate would have dropped to eliminate that recovery of capital.

So, the $5.5 million is essentially a back-end payment of that perceived amortization. So, it's really – we don't get into that level of detail on every one of our contracts, you could imagine with 30-plus plants counting South America, that would be a heck of an exercise to disclose all of those.

And by the way, it would probably put us out of business in three or four weeks because our competitors, all of whom are private, would know something that we don't know about them. So, yes, this is quite a blow, it was – it came out of – we have been notified over a year ago that, hey, these guys were looking at those two plants, plus other plants in their portfolio. And we began discussions around renewing this contract and also expanding our relationship with this customer.

And as it happens at the very – out of nowhere or – as we think things are going well because we're responding to reverse inquiries, the call came in from somebody we don't deal with saying, hey, listen, we're prepared to have us buy this plant back in as part of our strategic policies at this company who's doing very well and has a little bit of cash on their book. So, yes, disappointing, probably doesn't even touch the surface of the emotions around that loss.

Okay. Well, so you're losing $3.5 million approximately [ph] of EBITDA (19:41), A, what's your chance of making that up with some other growth opportunities? And number two, how many more hits could you take like that?

We don't expect to take more hits like that because we're in – we're looking at our book right now and we're seeing who we're negotiating with, and there's one party we're negotiating with, but we have not received any indications. But once again, we didn't receive any indications from the other guys. So, that's just our opinion.

The $3.5 million of EBITDA, I think, you have to look at – always look at the components of EBITDA, the D, the I, the T, and the A and in this case, there was no A because the loan had been prepaid. So, $3.5 million of EBITDA is not going to be replaced in one contract. The average – I'd say the industry standard is about $1 a ton on a revenue perspective, right, Paul?

On a revenue per profitability...

Per profitability perspective, it's about $1 a ton. So, to come up with that, that would be a pretty large plant which would require a capital investment and time. It's not – we do look at deals, I'd say infrequently of that nature. But it's not going to be something that's going to be fixed overnight.

Okay. And then, well, I mean, do you think – have you given guidance for 2017 EBITDA for Fulghum?

No. We haven't given guidance in quite some time. No, we have not.

Okay. And then, have the – has Wells Fargo sent out to interested parties NDAs and packages?

We don't want to comment on the specificity of that process because it's just not appropriate. But, Joe, if you want – if you ask somebody that or would like to engage in that process, we can put you in touch with Wells Fargo.

Okay. Well, then I'd suggest you ask Julie for my comment this morning to her.

Okay.

And then, now on Wawa, given that pellet prices are so low, do you have any liability there? Can't they just replace what you were to deliver them in the open market under the [ph] terms (21:59) of the contract?

Well, Joe, I think that's a surmise on your part, and it's not an – it's certainly not an uneducated surmise. But I think it would be highly inappropriate for me to comment on that on a public call or even a private call.

Okay. Okay. And then, number three, do you have any – you put a fairly strong sense in this and you believe you can – at this – [indiscernible] (22:30) liquidity for a sentence at this time, we have sufficient liquidity, et cetera, you know the rest of the sentence. Do you have any near-term obligations that can be talked about or that the shareholders should know about?

No, I think – but if you – there would be, in Canada, for instance, one party that we haven't paid is pursuing – begun the pursuit of legal recourse to be paid, and that takes time and effort and stuff like that. But, no, we don't have – as you know that our GSO obligations which have provisions that could accelerate that debt are in a position right now where they're not acceleratable, but that could change as well, I mean. So, our relations there remain on solid footing, but nothing's forever.

Right. Right. And then just you've talked about a lot of [ph] S and G&A (23:32). Can you just give us what the SG&A was in, let's say, 2015 and what do you expect it to be in 2017?

Yeah. I mean, big, big picture, the consolidated – eight – what I would consider from my oil and gas days the [ph] eight-eighths (23:44) SG&A of the company was around $42 million. $44 million?

Guidance was $44 million in 2015. So, when we quote the numbers that – we quote reduction numbers, that's the numbers that we are basing the reduction numbers on, $44 million was the guidance in 2015.

Right.

And then you're reducing...

So, $44 million is down to $20 million, yeah.

So, it's down to $20 million?

Yes.

So, you have eliminated $24 million?

Yes.

Well, going to.

Going to, right. It's not in the rearview mirror yet, but it will be by soon.

Okay. Is there any reason why you shouldn't be EBITDA positive in 2017?

77 degree February days in Boston, stuff like that. Yeah, I mean, it's...

Go ahead, Paul.

It's still weather. There's a whole bunch of – hey, I'm just trying to fill in the book for Joe, why there still remain challenges for the business to be cash positive.

Yeah. I mean, I would think about Canada because you idle a plant, that doesn't mean every cost goes away as well, right? So, consider that as well, but in addition NEWP, and production levels that we're expecting for the first half of 2017 and the potential for warm weather.

Okay. And then, in particular on Wawa, is it fact that the distance from the plant to the port is 1,100 train miles?

It's kilometers, I believe.

Kilometers, I believe, yeah. That is correct.

1,100 kilometers?

Give or take, yes.

Okay. Is there anything you want to say about the – is the fiber sourcing there a cost effective or not? Compared to the rest of the industry, is it cheap fiber or expensive fiber?

I don't want to put it in the scope of the rest of the industry. It's a good fiber source. From a quality perspective, it's only [indiscernible] (25:46). But that component, it's not a single – our inability to achieve profitability is multifaceted from the context of the contract, the off-take contract from our fiber costs, from our repair and maintenance, from our electric costs. The full range of components to the economics of that facility were not in sync for us. And so, I don't want to sit here and go, hey, listen, we have this great supply of fiber. What I love about that fiber is the diversity from an eco standpoint, from a green or environmental standpoint.

And I like the – we're not challenging that fiber. There's not competition. There's not pulp and paper mills at which we would disappear. It's an economic boon to that part of Canada. So, we were welcomed, unlike in some other regions of the United States. So, I like the fiber source. It's not the sole reason for good or bad.

Right. I would add to that. We think it's a good fiber source. While it may not be the cheapest, the volatility around the pricing is not as great as some of the other areas, including potentially the Southwest and also from the sustainability perspective, which is very important for all the regulations in Europe, it is a very good quality source.

Well, I talked to one guy around pulp plants and he just said the 1,100 kilometers was very, very long. And he wondered if that made Wawa a stranded asset. And, therefore, Wawa's only value was liquidating the equipment, which might have cost $25 million at fire sale prices.

Well, Joe, I'm not going to speculate on that. But the 1,100 kilometers was always a known. It was known when the original brownfield conversion occurred and I just don't want to go through the list of sort of foul balls that were hit here. But the attraction was a pre-existing warehouse or OSB plant that could be gotten on the cheap with great rail connectivity. And that's where the whole thing started. The port was originally supposed to be in Montreal, which was the basis of the original contract. But then, it was moved further away from the plant to Quebec City to allow for larger draft vessels pursuant to the Drax request with no modification in the revenue component of the contract. And that's just one of – but the list is – if you have five hours, we can go through the whole list.

Right. Okay. Thank you for answering my questions.

All right, Joe.

And we have a question from Lin Shen with HITE Hedge. You may begin.

Hey, good morning. Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So, I just want to clarify a couple of things. First of all, did I hear correctly that your EBITDA – I'm sorry, your SG&A run rate is going to be $20 million or you're going to have a [ph] saving planned, I mean (29:14)?

It's going to be $13 million -

Well, SG&A across the company will be $20 million. That includes cost reductions that we're implementing generally as we speak, right? So, we expect a $20 million run rate in the near future.

Right. [ph] He is right (29:32).

Got it. Got it. And also when I think about 2017 for your New England Pellet and also Fulghum, what kind of like EBITDA run rate should I think about for these two facility?

I don't think we're giving guidance on that at this point, right? So, you can look at our historical. Obviously, we've noted the loss of the contract of Fulghum will be impactful. So, we've noted that loss. So, the only guidance I can give you is what we've achieved historically. And you'll have to take into account some of the qualitative points we've mentioned today.

Yeah. For instance, NEWP is operating at 45% of capacity right now when it was...

I mean, so what was the 2016 EBITDA for these two facility?

2016 EBITDA for – you're asking for Fulghum and NEWP? Sorry. I want to clarify.

Yeah. Yes. That's right.

Right. So, NEWP was about $4.4 million. Fulghum Fibers consolidated about $16.9 million.

Great. And is there any – do you also disclose their, like, interest expenses for these facility also, their maintenance CapEx?

I'm sorry. Repeat that question, please.

No. I think both of them have their own credit facility or loan, yeah. So, what was their...

[ph] Well, they do. They do (30:53).

So, what was their interest expenses for either each of them and also how much like maintenance CapEx [ph] you're going to spend to (31:00)...

We haven't actually gone down to that level in our financial disclosures yet. So, I can't disclose that. But it will be disclosed in our 10-K.

But it's comparable to historical levels.

It's comparable. We do have amortization at Fulghum. So, it should be slightly lower. With regards to NEWP, we also have amortization there. But I would say it's probably comparable to what we've achieved in the past.

It's scheduled in prior Ks.

Okay.

And that schedule includes prospective years. So, it should be there for you.

Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you.

And we have no further questions at this time. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.