Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech, Inc.
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Matt Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
James Bardowski — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call. My name is Eric, I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please not this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella. Julie, you may begin.

Thank you. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize the company's activities for the period and provide our financial outlook. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also, in the room with us today is Sean Ebnet, SVP of Fibre Business Development, who will be available for the question-and-answer session at the end of our prepared remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terminologies such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed, from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of November 7, 2013, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

In addition, today's presentation includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to such non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2013 third quarter earnings press release that is available on our website.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We're now five months into our public launch of our wood fibre business, which includes the acquisition of Fulghum Fibres chipping business and the construction of two announced pellet projects and port terminal and storage facility – port terminal storage facility.

I'm pleased with the operating performance of Fulghum's 32 chipping facilities and with the progress we're making our two pellet projects in Canada. During the quarter, Fulghum generated gross margins of 19%.The business is on track to generate approximately $95 million of revenues and $20 million of EBITDA for the full year of 2013, of which, we would recognize eight months of results since the acquisition.

At the inception of the projects in 2012, we retained two affiliated firms, AgriRecycle and EAD, who together have 27 years of experience designing and building 11 pellet plants, to perform engineering and project design. After the JV with Graanul Invest was formed in May of this year, Graanul reviewed the engineering and project plans. Rentech and Graanul then jointly decided that AgriRecycle and EAD would continue their work. As it did make sense to insert Graanul as the EPC provider in the middle of project.

This also allows the resources of the JV and Graanul to be focused on other projects on our development. Since Graanul would not be providing EPC services, the Wawa and Atikokan projects would not be financed and owned by the JV. Rentech will continue to own the projects outright and be responsible for construction.

The Rentech team includes the former plant manager, wood yard manger and manager of capital projects at the Wawa facility. All of them have worked at the plant when it was operated by Weyerhaeuser as an OSB mill processing nearly 750,000 green metric tons of logs annually. We began construction of the Atikokan and Wawa pellet facilities in August and remain on schedule to begin producing wood pellets from these facilities in 2014.

Demolition work at the sites has been completed within budget. We placed orders and received bids for all major equipment with costs consistent with the budget. We decided to increase capital costs at the Wawa facility by installing two electric, 170-foot radial log trains to be purchased from Fulghum Industries, rather than using diesel-powered mobile equipment to manage the wood yard, offloading and feeding. It's expected that the project cost will increase by approximately $8 million due to this decision. Cranes are typically more reliable, safer, reduce emissions and are significantly less expensive to operate for large capacity facilities such as the Wawa plant.

The use of these cranes should result in annual operating cost savings of at least $1 million with an expected useful life of 20 years or more. The design of the facilities have been further modified to add capacity which will increase capital costs. The expected production of the Wawa plants has increased to approximately 450,000 tonnes. The Wawa plant is now expected to supply the entire 400,000 tonnes of annual pellet deliveries to Drax, with 50,000 tonnes available for sale to Drax or other customers.

The production at the Atikokan facility is now expected to be approximately 100,000 tonnes, which will fulfill the existing contract with OPG from 45,000 tonnes with remaining 55,000 tonnes available for sale to OPG or other customers.

When the increased output anticipated from the design changes and the operating efficiencies anticipated from log cranes are balanced against higher capital costs, the expected return profile of these projects remains unchanged, with stabilized annual EBITDA now projected in the range of $17 million to $20 million.

With Rentech's oversight, QSL began construction of pellet storage and handling facilities at the Port of Quebec, keeping on track with estimated construction costs and timeline. The infrastructure and storage of the port can handle up to 1 million tonnes of pellets annually, providing us additional embedded capacity for growth and aggregation in Eastern Canada as we seek to leverage the exclusive storage and priority access we have at the Port of Quebec. Increased volume at the port will reduce our per tonne handling costs for all of our projects.

Turning our focus to the nitrogen business, the nitrogen market did not recover from the impacts of the delayed wet spring and significant competitively priced offshore urea supply. We saw lower prices for all products relative to last year when demand in prices were fairly robust in anticipation of record corn plantings and lower yields due to the drought as well as the effects to favorable spring weather. Still demand for our products was good and we made a ground from a volume perspective in third quarter against a backdrop of a disappointing spring.

As we moved into the growing and now harvesting periods, the market has been relatively illiquid. We believe most buyers have layered in only a small portion of their needs for 2014, taking a wait and see attitude, deferring additional approaches until the harvest is completed or until the spring application period.

Rentech Nitrogen revised its 2013 guidance on October 28, largely as a result of the commodity-driven and operational performance impacts at the Pasadena facility, and the need to repair the foundation on one of the three existing syngas compressors at the East Dubuque facility. The partnership now anticipates its fourth quarter distribution to be as low as zero.

The turnaround and major tie-ins related to the ammonium capacity expansion at the East Dubuque facility were completed safely. The plant is currently in the commissioning phase and we expect ammonia production this weekend.

The board has approved two new projects at the East Dubuque facility, both of which are expected to generate returns of greater than 20%. One project contemplates increasing urea production and the other smaller project involves generation of additional N2O credits. The project to increase ammonium sulfate production at the Pasadena facility by 20% and the production improvements to increase on-stream rates remain on track to be completed this quarter.

We continue to take steps to wind down our legacy energy technologies business. During the quarter, we sold a site we owned in Natchez, Mississippi for $8.6 million. Our remaining assets in that business are the site we owned in Commerce City, Colorado, our mothballed R&D facility and our technology portfolio. We're actively marketing all of these assets for sale and/or licensing.

I'll now turn it over to Dan for more color on the quarter. Dan?

Thank you, Hunt. Good afternoon, everybody. We're pleased to see Fulghum Fibres' financial performance tracking with the guidance we gave, $95 million of revenue and $20 million of EBITDA on an annual basis. That's what we expected for this business, which has long-term contacts structured to produce very stable margins.

In the legacy technology business, we continue to reduce our costs as we wind down the business, with SG&A expense running in line with our expectations and no R&D activities for the period.

The results for the quarter, looking at revenues, we were up 92% for consolidated revenues year-over-year as we added $42.7 million of revenue from the Pasadena plant at Rentech Nitrogen. We also added $22.4 million of revenue from Fulghum Fibres and we did see revenue down slightly at the East Dubuque plant this year.

The gross profit margin changed significantly from last year. A year ago, in the third quarter, we had only the East Dubuque plant which generated 58% margin. The East Dubuque plant was at 50% this quarter. The new Pasadena plant actually recorded a gross margin loss for the quarter. We recorded 19% margins at Fulghum Fibres, as expected, which consolidated to an 18% consolidated gross profit margin.

Focusing on SG&A, at the consolidated level, SG&A was up by $3.1 million. If we break that down, Rentech Nitrogen saw a decline in SG&A of $1.4 million. As we added Fulghum Fibres, we added $1.3 million of SG&A that wasn't there last year.

In our wood pellet segment, at Rentech, we recorded $2.4 million of SG&A. That was up significantly from the $0.5 million last year and we should not consider that to be a run rate, lot of those expenses were associated with the development of the projects. We do not expect to see a run rate of $2.4 million per quarter in the wood pellet segment.

Energy technology SG&A was $1.8 million. Although that was higher than last year, remember that that segment is eliminating R&D expense and some of those activities that were formerly R&D are now recorded as SG&A since we've eliminated R&D activities. At corporate, the unallocated SG&A was up 8% from the year ago quarter.

Now, let us do a consolidated operating income loss of $20 million. Included in that loss was $30 million goodwill impairment that we took related to the Pasadena plant at Rentech Nitrogen. Fulghum Fibres' operating income was $1.8 million and we had $2.4 million loss at the operating income level in our wood pellet segment.

Energy technology segment recorded $4.5 million profit that was due to the gain on the sale of the Natchez site. If we drop down the net income consolidated for the year, was – sorry, for the quarter, was a loss of $14.6 million, that's a loss of $0.06 per share. If we adjust for the $30 million loss on goodwill impairment, we also adjust for the gain on the sale of Natchez and then two smaller items; an income tax item and a small gain on the change in value of earn out consideration for Pasadena, we adjust for those one-time items, we have an adjusted gain of $0.03 per share at the net income level.

Looking at EBITDA, Fulghum Fibres generated $5.2 million of EBITDA this quarter. Rentech Nitrogen consolidated EBITDA was $16.1 million. We ended the quarter with $180 million of consolidated cash. Of that $85 million is at Rentech nitrogen, $95 million sits at Rentech. And pro forma for the cash distribution that we'll receive on November 14, the Rentech cash balance minus Rentech Nitrogen would be about $101 million.

We have $427 million of debt, that's $320 million of the bonds at Rentech Nitrogen and $107 million of debt at Rentech, consisting of the Fulghum Fibres debt that we assumed at the time of the acquisition as well as $50 million under our new revolving loan facility. Fulghum's balance at the end of the third quarter was $57 million with an average interest rate of 6.8%. We expect to pay $2.6 million in interest on that debt in 2013 for the eight months of the year we will have owned Fulghum.

Total principal amortization of the debt this year is $16.3 million, bringing the debt balance to $46.3 million including $1.4 million of unamortized premium at the end of the year. In September, we arranged a new $100 million revolving loan facility at Rentech. The loan facility has a three-year maturity and interest rate on undrawn balances – on drawn balances equal to LIBOR plus 400 basis points. The facility is secured by $15.4 million of the 23.25 million units of RNF that we own, with the potential for another 4 million shares to be pledged under certain circumstances.

We'll continue to receive all of the cash distributions paid on the collateral units and retain the right to sell units not held as collateral as long as certain conditions outlined in the loan facility are met. We drew down $50 million of the facility upon the close of the transaction with those proceeds to be used for future growth in the wood fibre business.

As the sole equity owner of the Atikokan and Wawa pellet facilities, we were responsible for the full project costs. We expect to fund these capital requirements through a combination of cash on hand, our new loan facility, expected distributions from Rentech Nitrogen and cash generated by Fulghum.

We're reiterating our guidance of total cash operating expenses for Rentech including Fulghum Fibres and excluding the nitrogen products manufacturing business of approximately $34 million for 2013. Recall that the $34 million is made up of $20 million of Rentech corporate cash expenses, including roughly $5 million for wood pellet development, $4 million for eight months of SG&A at Fulghum, $5 million of SG&A from our legacy business and $5 million of R&D expense that was recorded early in the year.

Looking out to 2014, we expect roughly $8 million of combined cash operating expense savings from 2013 level, including $2 million to $3 million from the legacy business, nearly $1 million from corporate due to the sale of the Natchez site and $5 million from the elimination of cash R&D expenses.

The remaining cost structure supports the growth and build out of our fibre business growing it to point where we can potentially take that business public at MLP multiples, further enhancing shareholder value.

I'll turn it back to Hunt, and then we'll go for questions.

Thanks, Dan. In addition to these Canadian projects, we're looking to build a strong position in North America to expand our operating base, both geographically and increase EBITDA through potential acquisitions and new projects already in development with our JV partner, Graanul.

We entered into the fibre processing business to create value by investing in high return projects with stable cash flows and long-term contracts. This business also diversifies Rentech's exposure to the commodity fluctuations in our nitrogen business. We're working on specific growth opportunities in both shipping and pellet operations.

We believe we can further enhance value through an MLP structure, once we have a clear path to a somewhat larger scale, then Fulghum Fibres' current EBITDA run rate and the anticipated EBITDA from the Atikokan and Wawa projects. We anticipate that an MLP of the fibre business could be possible in approximately two years or less, depending on our ability to successfully and timely execute on opportunities we have in the pipeline. While we're not offering any speculation in the size and structure of a potential MLP of the fibre business, the long-term contracts of the business structure to deliver stable margins, fit the characteristics of a traditional MLP with IDRs.

An analysis of MLP IPO transactions points to an EBITDA of approximately $50 million as a reasonable target for an offering, assuming that the IPO markets available at that time. Under the scenario where the fibre business is a public MLP, we anticipate Rentech to play a traditional sponsor role, developing and/or acquiring new and brownfield chipping and pellet projects, and dropping them down into the fibre MLP.

With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have Brent Rystrom on line from Feltl.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of quick questions. On the Fulghum Fibres business, just kind of trying to get some sense from a modeling perspective, as you dug into the business a little bit further, is there a seasonality there that we should we aware of as far as winter logging restrictions or other things that might slow their business at certain times of year?

Yeah. Hey, Brent, it's Dan. There's a little bit of seasonality, but very little, I mean, especially of course since we're using the fertilizer business which has big seasonality. You get a little bit of variance through the year. This year, the southeast was very wet and it can interfere with logging operations and things. You get a little bit of seasonality in Chile with the operations down there. But compared to what we're used to looking at fertilizer business, you hardly even notice seasonality here.

Okay. And then from a simplistic perspective, we'd previously talked about the EBITDA of the new plants. You thought $15 million here, is that correct? Now, you're seeing the two wood pellet plants $17 million to $20 million?

That's correct.

All right. Can you give us a thought of what you've identified there that changed that a little?

Well, as I said in my prepared remarks, we – it's primarily Wawa. We've done some investment in the capital projects up there to increase throughput, one is the cranes that we invested in, and we also higher – then that gives us higher fee rates and we added more pellet mills. Those are the two primary capital projects that we've put in into those and primarily into Wawa.

Okay. And then as a kind of a final question. When you're looking at adding additional potential projects with Graanul or on your own, would it be fair to say that a typical project would be a facility that may have 300,000 tonnes, 400,000 tonnes, 500,000 tonnes of capacity, would be a little bit smaller than that. And then from a timing perspective, do you think you'll have additional stuff wrapped up, say, by the time these two plants go active?

So, first and foremost, the ones that we're anticipating and what we're looking at with Graanul are somewhere between Atikokan and Wawa. So let's call it in the 200,000 tonnes to 400,000 tonnes range. There are certainly pellet facilities out there that are smaller that we can aggregate as a part of our portfolio. But what we're – the plants that we're looking at and working on are larger than Atikokan and smaller than Wawa, safe to say. And what was part two of your question?

Just curious, do you think you will see additional facilities added, between now and the time the two plants that you currently have go active?

They won't be added, but we will certainly – we're certainly working the pipeline and hopeful that you'll certainly hear some news about those projects because as I said a while ago and certainly when we bought Fulghum, they had been working with Graanul on some projects in North America. So you'll certainly – should hear some activity around that over the next few months.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Yeah.

We have Lucas Pipes online from Brean Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, Lucas.

Hi. Good afternoon again. To go back to the pellet business and wood fibre business, you kind of gave a target for what is necessary to consider that for an IPO. Could you maybe elaborate on what type of organic growth you see both on the fibre and on the pellet size – on the pellet side? And then, maybe, also, where you might consider M&A within the existing wood fibre and pellet space or would you also go into other aspects of the wood industry to grow that business?

So I would say on the chipping side, as we said, when we acquired that business, that's basically grows at inflation. And we certainly, we expect to track with that, but we will also – we're also looking at other chipping opportunities and some other opportunities within that complex, both domestically and internationally, so that business will grow.

But I would – the way I think I look at it today, you'll see – I would say, higher growth on the pellet business, both through acquisition and greenfield opportunities over the next 24 months, 36 months. So, I would say, both will grow, both organically because obviously we've got, we've picked the markets Fulghum has in terms of the markets they're pursuing on the fibre board business, on the boxboard business. But you'll also see higher growth, I think, as we pursue the pellet business without putting a number on it. So that's the pipeline as we see it.

That's helpful. And, Dan, as you try to model out the potential benefit from dropdowns of the wood fibre business, any special considerations that we should make for foreign assets? Could you maybe give us a little bit – your quick view on that?

Well, Lucas, foreign – I guess, you're talking about how foreign assets would fit into an MLP. First of all, if it's qualifying income, it's qualifying income no matter where it's located. So the nature of the fibre business is that it's qualifying income. If you put those outsets in Canada or Chile or anywhere else, it's still qualifying income.

So the slightly complicated part is that you'd have to account for foreign taxes and as that – assume that you have a foreign asset already in an MLP, that income is going to flow up out of that foreign jurisdiction, is going to come to U.S. partners, and the foreign taxes that are generated in those flows are creditable generally against U.S. taxes. So if those partners are able to use the credits, it looks just like a U.S. MLP in the sense that it's a pass-through vehicle and partners credit the taxes and it all nets out.

So there is a corporate tax in Canada, but then essentially the U.S. investors get that money back?

That's right.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

We have Matt Farwell online from Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon again.

Noon again.

Quick question on the cash, you have pro forma around $100 million in cash. Does that include the drawdown on the revolving loan that you made, $50 million, or what was that -?

Yeah, that's included, Matt. So there's $50 million of cash that we drew and then $50 million of unused capacity.

Got it. So could you just walk us through in terms of the sort of the total capital expenditure for the pellet business, what has been spent thus far and then what is remains to be spent?

So this year so far we spent $34 million or a little bit lagging on the – what we spent this year and 2013, we spent around $34 million, anticipated to spend of, I think, the total $65 million we expected to spend this year roughly. So there's a lag, the rest – the remainder come in the first quarter probably of 2014.

Got it. And in that were you also spending some SG&A for the year including that in that $34 million?

That's CapEx.

Okay, just $34 million in CapEx has been spent; in addition, there has been some SG&A expense?

Right. Very small.

Okay, good. That's all I have.

Okay. Thank you.

James Bardowski is online from Sidoti & Co. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. How's it going?

Fine.

Just a quick question. For the – I want to make sure I understand this correct, the JV for the Atikokan and Wawa plants, because it's going to be owned outright by Rentech, with the added risk, you will be realizing 100% of the profits then?

Correct. That's right.

Okay. All right. Excellent. Excellent news. And regarding the other individual plans, is anything in the works with Graanul to expand in the pellet business? Or are you going to look for expansion in the processing side?

No, absolutely more plans with Graanul. As I said earlier, they already had some projects under development with Fulghum Fibres. And part of the decision not only was timing of them being introduced to our projects in Canada, it's just why we elected jointly for us to proceed on our own and we also liked the profile of those projects.

But secondarily, this helps us move frankly with more speed because the projects that they had identified in other market areas with Fulghum, this allows our Canada project team to continue on those projects, and grow Graanul with some folks in Fulghum to pick-up and continue with those projects that they had already identified in their marketplace. And so it allow us really to pursue a couple markets simultaneously.

Okay. Okay, excellent. All right. I'll follow-up offline. Thanks guys.

Thank you.

We have no further questions. I'm going to now turn it back over to Julie for closing remarks.

Thank you. We're focused on execution of the two announced pellet projects and four terminal along with building a pipeline of additional pellet and shipping operations to grow the fibre business, with a goal of an MLP of that business in approximately two years or less. We're also focused on growing the fertilizer business and operating at maximum on-street rate. Pricing indicators for the products and inputs are encouraging as we look to position the additional capacity anticipated to come on stream at both plants from the expansion projects. This concludes our call. Please feel free to reach out to me if you have any questions about our results. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.