corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fourth


Quarter and Fiscal 2010 Year-end Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in


a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Wednesday, December 15, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor


Relations for Rentech. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you. Welcome to Rentech’s 2010 Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Year-End Conference Call for


the period ended September 30th, 2010. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of


Rentech, will summarize our company’s progress during the fiscal year. Dan Cohrs, our Chief


Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the fiscal period and provide comments on


Rentech’s financial position. We will then open the lines for questions. We ask that you limit


yourself to one question, so that we may get to as many of your questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology such as; may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms.


You are cautioned that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best


judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are


subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time-to-time in


the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of December 15th, 2010, and Rentech


does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that


it is required to do so, under applicable law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you, for joining us today. This year, we made


significant progress in the Rialto project. We’re preparing to conclude the development efforts on


the project so that we can close on financing in 2011. We’ve achieved significant progress on other


business development efforts, to commercialize our technologies in various regions. We enhanced


our suite of technologies and we demonstrated that our drop-in synthetic fuels performed flawlessly


in real world conditions in commercial aircraft and on-road diesel vehicles.


I’ll start first with our commercial projects. Our Rialto project is designed to deploy our Rentech-


SilvaGas biomass gasification and Fischer-Tropsch technologies. The project would process green


waste diverted from landfills to produce approximately 35 megawatts of renewable base load power


and 640 barrels per day of primarily renewable synthetic RenDiesel fuel. Commercial scale energy


facilities, such as our Rialto project, are complex undertakings and I want to spend some time


walking you through the various dimensions of this project.


This past year, we completed the following milestones on schedule and on budget. We completed


feasibility engineering. Jacobs Engineering provided design work and cost estimates on 90% of the
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


project’s equipments. We completed an initial detailed cost estimate. Larkspur Associates


completed the project’s detailed construction estimate, building on Jacobs feasibility work.


All major permit applications were filed and we are in frequent contact with the major permitting


authorities, including the South Coast Air Quality Management District. The technical impact


studies have been completed along with the initial study report and notice of preparation for the


California Environmental Quality Act. The air permit work and all other permitting activities are on


schedule. We signed option agreements to secure approximately 40 acres of land and easements


needed to build the facility. We’re negotiating additional LOIs with multiple waste haulers, which


would provide 100% of the facility’s feedstock requirements.


We’re currently in exclusive negotiations for a power purchase agreement for all of the project’s


renewable power production. We’re also in discussions for the sale of the remaining 80% of the


project’s synthetic diesel fuel output with fleets, other diesel users as well as refiners and fuel


brokers.


An engineering report from R.W. Beck as the independent engineer validated the individual


technologies we’ll use the project; the integration of all the technologies; the plant’s production


capabilities; and the project’s initial capital cost estimates. Front-end engineering and design or


FEED work is on schedule, nearing completion, and on budget.


Floor has completed about 80% of FEED and all Process Design Packages or PDPs are complete.


The completed PDPs are being integrated into the remaining FEED work relating to the facility


layout, sizing and specifications of all equipment. All drawing reviews are expected to be completed


by early January with equipment specifications and detailed cost estimating to follow.


We’re in active dialogue with the Department of Energy, and we continue to be a candidate for the


DOE Loan Guarantee Program under Section 1705. We are providing updates to the DOE as


progress is made on certain milestones. We are currently finalizing our EPC contract strategy to


enable us to issue a notice to proceed to our selected contractor in the summer of 2011, when we


anticipate construction will commence on the site.


Now, turning to our Natchez Project. Our property in Mississippi continues to be a valuable


development asset. It has access to the Mississippi River for barge transport of feedstock and


product, and it’s close to rail, pipeline and power connections, and it’s close to a CO2 pipeline


owned by Denbury Resources, which provides a ready solution for CO2 sequestration.


We’ve been developing that site for a large coal fed project, which may be possible with the right


combination of partners, government supports, and political and regulatory environment for coal-


based projects. We’re also evaluating some alternative configurations that would make the project


more feasible in the near-term, given the current environment.


We’re reviewing multiple feedstock options using various combinations of biomass, pet coke, coal,


and natural gas. These configurations will have lower lifecycle carbon footprint and be smaller scale


with reduced capital requirements than the original project design of 30,000 barrels per day. We’re


now in detail discussions with large-scale owners of timber, residuals, petroleum coke, and coal,


and also natural gas.


The widespread between the value of natural gas and transportation fuels makes the economics of


a gas-to-liquids plant more attractive now than we’ve ever seen. The large natural gas companies


are interested in converting low cost gas into high value fuels. The size of a reconfigured project


would likely be utmost half the size of the original design. The product mix may also vary from that


of the original design to potentially include renewable power and a fairly high proportion of high


value specialty chemicals and waxes along with synthetic fuels, each of which depend on project


economics, product demand and pricing forecast.