raw transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Rentech Incorporated Fiscal Second Quarter 2007


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call


over to your host, Mr. Mark Koenig, please go ahead, sir.


Mark Koenig, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Rachelle. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2007 fiscal second quarter


conference call. Before we begin our prepared remarks I would like to cover some administrative


aspects of this call. Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will provide opening remarks


highlighting the company’s progress during the quarter, and Merrick Kerr, our Chief Financial


Officer will give a fiscal review of the second quarter and will provide comments on Rentech’s


financial position.


We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit your call to a question and a follow-


up, so that we may get as many questions answered as possible. Please be advised that certain


information discussed on the conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, Section 27A of


the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act


of 1995. The forward-looking statements may relate to financial results and plans of future business


activities and are thus prospective. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks,


uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results


expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


They can be identified by the use of the terminology such as may, will, expect, believe, intend, plan,


estimate, anticipate, should, and other comparable terms or the negative of them. You’re cautioned


that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best judgment based upon


certain and current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to


known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in the


Company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities & Exchange


Commission. Any forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995 and are thus are current only as of the date made. The forward-looking


statements in this call are made as of May 10, 2007, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or


update these forward-looking statements except to the extent they are required to do so under


applicable law.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


Hunt D. Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Director


Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for participating in Rentech’s 2007 fiscal


second quarter conference call for the period ended March 31, 2007. I’m pleased to announce that


operationally we’ve had another strong quarter. In addition, we’ve made substantial progress on our


commercialization initiatives including the construction of our product development unit or PDU in


Commerce City, Colorado. At our annual shareholders meeting, it was my pleasure to present


pictures of the installation of the upgrading unit at our PDU. Since then we’ve continued to receive


and install equipment and look forward to receiving our FT reactor this summer, which will enable


mechanical completion on schedule by the fall of this year.


Upon completion the PDU will be the first fully integrated CTL plant in the United States and marks


a significant milestone in the commercialization of the Rentech process. We continue to make


meaningful progress on the Rentech Energy Midwest Corp or REMC conversion project. During the
raw transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter, we announced that Jo Daviess County in Illinois approved a zoning special use permit


authorizing REMC to convert its ammonia fertilizer plant in East Dubuque into a facility that will


produce ammonia fertilizer and ultra clean fuels. The Counties approval sets the stage for the


initiation of the construction of what we believe will be the first commercial scale plant in the United


States that will produce ultra clean Fischer-Tropsch fuels among ammonia fertilizers and electricity


utilizing clean coal technologies.


We intend to issue purchase orders for long lead equipment, begin detailed engineering and


commence initial site work this summer. We are also in the final stage of selecting our EPC


contractor from a short list. In addition, we continue to hold significant discussions with equity


partners and are optimistic about bringing strategic partners into the project well in advance of the


financial closing which is scheduled for late fall of this year. Mechanical completion of this project is


still scheduled for the end of 2009 and commercial start-up in 2010. We are very pleased with the


performance of REMC in the quarter. We entered the spring planting season in mid-March and


from that time forward generated about 50% of the total revenue for the quarter.


With record acreage going in the corn production this year, the demand for ammonia fertilizer has


remained strong throughout the planting season. REMC recently received the Canadian National


Railways 15th Annual Safe Handling Award for 2006. These awards are among the most coveted


and respected in the industry and are presented to customers that meet strict standards for the safe


handling and shipment of regulated products by rail. This is a tremendous achievement by the


operations team at REMC.


I would like to now give you an update on our development pipeline. Rentech’s joint development


work with Peabody for two potential projects is going well with both projects well into the scoping


and feasibility phases. The feasibility work for our proposed Natchez, Mississippi project continues.


Increased demand for alternative fuels and economies of scale have prompted to us evaluate a


larger site which will enable the project to commence at 25,000 barrels per day with the room to


expand to 100,000 barrels per day.


In Mingo County, West Virginia with the completed due diligence work and our scoping phase is in


progress. This stage is expected to take approximately 190 to 180 days. Work with our licensee


DKRW continues as they enter the front-end engineering design or FEED on their proposed 13,000


barrel per day facility in Medicine Bow, Wyoming. Our commercialization strategy includes


expanding the reach of our technology through licensing of the Rentech process. With the progress


made over the last year, we believe that the time is right now to implement our new licensing


strategy, which we expect will include licensing to both domestic and international projects.


One of the advantages of the Rentech process is the flexibility of our iron catalyst to efficiently


convert SYN gas made from a wide range of feedstocks. We are actively investigating biomass as


a primary feedstock for standalone applications and as a secondary feedstock for CTL projects. In


combination with registration the use of biomass at CTL plant could reduce the carbon footprint of


FT fuels on a wells to wheel basis significantly below that of transportation fuels from crude.


We continue to see government support for CTL and FT. For example, the presence proposed


January State of the Union address calls for the purchase of 35 billion-gallons of alternative fuels by


annually by 2017. A portion of this mandate will be met by ethanol and other biofuels. However, we


believe that CTL and BTL fuels will be required to achieve this ambitious goal. United States Air


Force recently issued a request proposal or RFP or 200,000 gallons of FT, Fischer-Tropsch fuels


by July 2007. We believe this RFP clearly signals the Air Force’s interest in the fuels we will be


producing.


As we state the in the last call, we’re also very encouraged by the introduction of the Coal-to-Liquid


fuel promotion Act of 2007 sponsored by senators Obama and Bunning. This Bill as well as others


being considered will provide several incentives to CTL producers including a separate investment