Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Jeffrey Richard Spain — Chief Financial Officer, Rentech, Inc.
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Joseph Pratt — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc's Second Quarter 2016 Conference Call. My name is Jason, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions] Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform all participants this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relation. Julie, please go ahead.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended June 30, 2016. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Jeff Spain, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time-to-time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of August 10, 2016. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2016 second quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Welcome, everyone and thank you for joining us this morning. We're not on the medal stand yet, but we're through the preliminary rounds and hopefully we'll get there. I'll start by discussing the status of our Canadian pellet facilities, production increased at both Wawa and Atikokan over the past quarter and our production cost per metric ton is improving. I feel that we have a good handle on the remaining issues that need to be resolved in order to further increase production at both plants.

Our total CapEx budget for the plants has remained unchanged at approximately $145 million, which has been our forecast for the past 12 months. Our expectations of timing to reach full capacity at the plants also remains unchanged. Addressing each plant individually, our production at Wawa is improving. The plant has been producing at approximately 40% capacity during the past several weeks.

Average weekly pellet production during the second quarter was approximately 2,500 metric tons, which is a 50% increase as compared to the average weekly production during the first quarter. Wawa has at times produced above 800 metric tons per day and 500 metric tons per shift, which is a 12-hour shift, which shows that the plant can produce at an annual average equivalent of over 70% of our Drax contract requirements, prior to replacing the remaining problematic conveyers.

Most of the increase is attributable to a focus on improving mechanical reliability to achieve higher levels of sustained production. The team is now tackling a number of mechanical improvements identified by the site personnel and the independent engineering firm engaged to assist this during ramp up. We plan to take the plant down, beginning August 15, next Monday for approximately two weeks to four weeks to complete some of these mechanical upgrades to replace the remaining defective conveyors on the dry side of the plant, and to conduct general repairs and maintenance.

These improvements should remove the remaining identified conveyance bottlenecks and enable the plant to resume ramping up with the expectations of reaching 70% of capacity over the next several quarters. During the second quarter, we shipped our third vessel to Drax, for the year, we have delivered 95,000 metric tons of pellets. In light of Wawa's performance in the upcoming shutdown for Phase 2 with the conveyor replacements, we finalized with Drax a reduction in 2016 volumes of a 144,000 tons with no monetary penalties.

Atikokan is now typically producing between 80% and 90% of capacity. Average weekly production increased by 10% during the second quarter as compared to the prior quarter. We continue to fulfill our obligations to OPG from the Atikokan plant [ph] and rail (5:14) excess production to the port for delivery to Drax. We have delivered a total of 46,000 metric tons of pellets this year to OPG and Drax from Atikokan.

We plan to take Atikokan down for approximately one week this fall to replace conveyors to enhance reliability and operational control with the plant. We are still holding off on replacing the [ph] last with (5:37) the conveyors that would allow us to improve production to a 110,000 metric tons annually, and so we see an economic justification that makes the investment.

Our CapEx budget includes the cost of fabricating and replacing these conveyors, which we have not yet sanctioned. I'll close out the Canadian discussion by noting that the loading operations at the port of Quebec are working efficiently, and that the quality of pellets we are producing is meeting the requirements under our customer contracts.

Let me now turn to Fulghum. For the first six months of this year, Fulghum's revenues were flat as compared to the prior year period, largely due to strong South American sales in the first quarter, which offset lower domestic sales revenue to-date.

We also continue to see the benefits of actions we took last year to improve labor productivity and maintenance efficiency, but EBITDA for the first half of the year was down about 6% from the prior year period. The reduction was primarily due to the loss of contribution from a mill we no longer own or operate, and the impacts of flooding on two paper mills of our customers partially offset by slightly lower SG&A costs. We previously disclosed that one of our customers exercised their contractual right to purchase one of our U.S. mills, and the effects of this loss are reflected for the first time in our financial statements.

Fulghum's second quarter EBITDA declined by 36% from the second quarter 2015 due to the exercise of the purchase option in April, and flooding that impacted the two customer mills that I just referenced. In addition, South American sales were lower in the quarter as compared to 2Q 2015.

We are receiving indications from customers in Asia that lead us to believe that we could see a healthy level of South American export activity in the second half of the year. However, we still expect Fulghum's results for the year to be lower than the record performance in 2015 given the previously announced loss of a mill contract.

At NEWP, the effects to this past winter continue to negatively affect results during the second quarter, and unseasonably warm winter caused sales volumes to drop significantly during the first five months of the year until sales begin picking up in June in preparation for the next heating season. In fact half of NEWP's revenues and volumes for the second quarter were earned in June. Most of the $400,000 of EBITDA generated by NEWP in the first half of this year was earned in the second quarter and is in sharp contrast to the $4.8 million in EBITDA for the same period last year.

We continue to believe that the majority of NEWP's EBITDA for the year will be generated in the second half of 2016. After the seasonably warm winter, we anticipate that pellet purchases will revert to historical patterns where most of the buying will take place in the following winter timeframe. And we are encouraged that the big-box stores began buying pellets from NEWP in June.

I'm going to close with an update on our cost savings initiatives, the transition of our corporate offices is nearly complete. We recently exited our Los Angeles office space, and we are sub-leasing the space to a local firm for the remainder of our lease term. We established a small corporate office in the Washington, D.C. area to begin the transition from Los Angeles. We have already moved most of the accounting and back-office functions to New England Wood Pellet's Jaffrey location.

We estimate that our total corporate head count heading into two – heading into 2017 will be 35% lower than 2015 levels. The remaining head count reductions and other actions planned for the third quarter and fourth quarter should enable us to achieve a $12 million to $15 million of annualized SG&A savings by the end of this year, which is in excess of our original $10 million to $12 million target.

One-time costs associated with restructuring actions already taken total approximately $2 million. We expect total one-time cash cost to be approximately $5 million, which is a $1 million less than our previous guidance. We also anticipate incurring $500,000 in one-time non-cash costs. We are currently working on identifying additional areas in which we can streamline systems and related support to further reduce overhead.

I'd like Jeff to take us through our financial results in more detail.

Thank you, Keith. I'll start by mentioning that you may have seen our 12b-25 filing this morning regarding the delayed fine of our 10-Q. We do expect to file the Q within the next handful of days after completing a review of GAAP tax provision allocations between discontinued and continuing operations for the quarter and the six months ended June 30 of last year. We do anticipate that the review will not result in any changes to the financial statements included in our press release issued today.

Turning to our results and starting with the top line, Rentech's revenues for the second quarter totaled $31.8 million, which were down 20% year-over-year. The decrease was due to lower sales at New England Wood Pellet and Fulghum Fibres, partially offset by an increase in pellet sales from our industrial pellet plants in Canada. Our total gross profits were down $5.5 million compared to Q2 of last year, much of this was due to lower product sales volumes at Fulghum and NEWP, with the balance due to higher cost of sales in Canada because of plant operating cost at Wawa moving up the P&L from SG&A in Q2 of 2015 to cost of sales this second quarter.

Wawa was still being commissioned during the second quarter of last year, so the bulk of its costs were accounted for in SG&A versus cost of sales. As a result, in spite of higher sales volumes, gross loss for our Industrial Wood Pellet segment during Q2 of this year was $2.1 million, worse than the second quarter of 2015. Our gross loss in industrial wood pellets reflects high production and depreciation cost per ton at primarily Wawa, while the plant is still ramping up to capacity. We recorded a non-cash inventory write-down of $5.2 million in our Industrial Pellet segment during the second quarter, due to this high level of fixed operating costs relative to produced volumes.

In Q2 of last year, we took a smaller non-cash inventory write-down of $2.5 million, because we had fewer tons in inventory. In spite of the LC and write-down, our EBITDA loss for the Industrial Wood Pellet segment actually improved by approximately $5.2 million compared to Q2 of last year. This is because of the significant higher deliveries and revenues that we booked during the quarter. With respect to New England Wood Pellet, NEWP's gross profit were down $2 million in the second quarter, as compared to last year given low sales volumes due to the continuing effects of the extraordinarily warm and dry winter in the U.S. Northeast.

Fulghum's gross profits also declined in the second quarter, compared to Q2 of last year. The $1.3 million decline reflects the impacts of the recently lost contract, that Keith discussed and we previously disclosed, and due to lower processing volumes at some of our U.S. chipping mills. Moving down the P&L further, consolidated SG&A expenses at our business unit declined by 66% in the second quarter, compared to Q2 of 2015. Industrial Pellet SG&A expense was down 81% primarily due to capitalization of planned operating expenses at Wawa to product inventory, and including the cost of sales, as I mentioned in the gross profit discussion earlier.

In addition, SG&A in the second quarter of last year included delivery penalties to Drax. NEWP's SG&A expense was down 31% due to lower bonus accruals, and reduced work weeks in response to the terrible winter selling season. Fulghum's SG&A expense was essentially flat with last year, adjusting for the reversal of the non-cash expense in the second quarter of 2015. We recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of Rentech Nitrogen of $358.6 million, which was booked in discontinued operations. This gain was comprised of cash proceeds of approximately $60 million and common units of CVR Partners valued at $202 million based on CVR's closing price on March 31. These values were compared to Rentech Nitrogen's net book value excluding Pasadena Holdings, which was a negative $97.6 million.

Turning to the balance sheet, Rentech's cash balance as of June 30 was $47million. Our total debt obligations as of June 30 were $143.8 million. This includes $17.3 million of current portion of long-term debt, $52.3 million of debt owed to GSO, $42.3 million at Fulghum, $17.6 million at NEWP, and $14.3 million of debt related to the Port facility at Quebec City. The pre-tax value of our approximately 7.2 million units of CVR Partners that we still hold, was approximately $49 million as of yesterday. We estimate that remaining capital expenditures for the Canadian plants as of June 30 will be approximately $16.5 million, $5.6 million of which is already recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on our books.

We'll now open the lines for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Rystrom from Feltl & Company.

Good morning.

Hi, Brent.

Can you give us a little more color on Wawa? And thinking in the context of how you spoke in the call and how the press release reported, are you still concerned that the plant won't hit its name plate capacity? Or are you getting more comfortable that it will?

No, we're getting more comfortable it will and that's why I hate to say, when we do a 1,000 tons – if we do a 1,000 tons in a shift that's the ability to do theoretically 365,000 tons. So, that's pretty good knowing full well that we're constrained on the dry side conveyance. So, you have a physical bottleneck and we've been trying to figure out – I don't have an answer to how much that quantifies to. What I will – what I do want to impress upon people is that, why I feel more confident, isn't that the list of things gets shorter every day. We – let's say, we start the week with 25 things to do, we may end the week with 25 things to do but only five of those are carryovers. We've done 20, and then 20 more shortcomings or inefficiencies show up. And this sort of dynamic is common in the industry. And it wasn't common for us because we never got – we never cycled, we never could identify the first 25 much less work – work the list down as readily as we have been now, because the team has been around an operating facility longer.

So, that may sound discomforting, but to me, it's comforting because we seem to have a methodology to get our hands around problems, so when something is amiss, when an alarm goes off or a signal comes to the control room, and says, hey, this is not functioning properly, we immediately have the ability to go, hey, it's one – probably one of these three things. Let's check over here, let's look here and we're back online a lot quicker. So, our low days or our low shifts are higher than they have been. And that trend continues. We need to have the inflection point to change though and I think that – that's why we felt confident going forward with the second phase of conveyance is that, the gradual slope that we've been on, needs to be – needs to gain a little bit more steepness. So I'm hopeful that, when we come out in early September from this, that the angle is better.

And just so I understand, the second phase of conveyance is where?

It's on the dry side.

It is on the dry side.

Right.

So, this should resolve all the conveyance issues once this is done?

Right. It will resolve – right, we still have to commission them and operate them properly, but yes, it will – at least say, at least the conveyance that's able to handle the mass volume and product distribution properly whereas the first set of conveyers were mis-designed and mis-applied or mis-constructed or whatever.

Sounds great. So, are you willing or able to share thoughts about how you're thinking about long-term EBITDA of the three businesses? What's – not thinking in the next quarter or two, but two years out, do you think the $13 million, $17 million EBITDA range for wood pellets is viable due to the lower range now? Where do you view NEWP, and previously that had been viewed as kind of a $11 million a year, $12 million a year business and then Fulghum obviously is kind of considered a $20 million a year, $22 million a year business. How are you thinking about the three businesses right now as far as EBITDA opportunity?

Well, I mean, we've been a little reticent to give guidance, but I think NEWP showed it's [ph] chops (20:11) last year, right? So I think it's up to – right now, it's just – how much of that was due to the – to a pretty good winter? So, let's say that that's probably not a repeatable event every year, so maybe – was it 10% colder or something like that? Fulghum showed it's [ph] chops (20:30), but it also showed a little bit of a sign of – of weakness this year, but that one unique circumstance where it's so far – so to-date has been unique circumstance of a customer deciding to off exercise their purchase option allowing us to pay down debt, but then losing that recurring cash flow going forward.

And then, in the – then in the – in Canada, a lot depends on when you get to capacity and a lot depends on the cost recovery mechanisms in the contracts, but the original potential was there and the C$ exchange rate and all of that. I don't think really those things have changed. I just think that I think probably we need to do – to take a little bit more harder look at some of the components of the macroeconomic components, which we don't have control over like Brent oil prices, which is a tracker through our contract through the Canadian dollar exposure, which we never hedged for obvious reasons and the like. So I'm being a little squishy there Brent. [indiscernible] (21:47)

It directionally helps, so – so in the latest quarter, SG&A was about 77% and segment level SG&A was about $3 million. How will those two kind of look, say over the next year-and-a-half? Do you have a plan to put all the SG&A eventually down with the units since you're no longer primarily a wood fibre business now or will SG&A always have a corporate component?

Brent, it's Jeff. With your – the first question I'll address. We guided to off of a $44 million total SG&A number several quarters ago that our cost savings of $10 million to $12 million would be off of that $44 million. We're now seeing $12 million to $15 million off of that $44 million. That's total SG&A ex-RNF through all the business units plus corporate, and including non-cash comp, so that's a fully gross number.

With respect to second part of your question, it is too early to be definitive, but I anticipate that there will be some layer of corporate SG&A, as we consolidate the business units financials have reporting – public reporting obligations, so some centralized support and activity for accounting and reporting, so some component of corporate SG&A rather than all being pushed down. And I think next quarter, we'll be able to be a little more transparent on where the SG&A fits at the units as well as corporate of that – that refined savings off of $44 million, right?

So, when we talk about having pushed the back office accounting to Jaffrey, that's still a corporate center function, that's just been shifted there. Now there's people that are bifurcated to some extent working on NEWP things but really there were – we have a good team in place there. There is cost advantages and the like, so.

Great. Thank you, guys.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Joe Pratt from Stifel.

Hi, Keith good morning.

Hi, Joe.

Just, could you give me on Wawa and Atikokan, the plate capacities please?

110,000 ton Atikokan, 450,000 ton Wawa.

Okay. And I heard a lot of numbers here, could you just say currently you are at what percentage of that 110,000 ton?

Well, we are running to 80% to 90% and we know what the delta is, we have a very good handle on what the delta is between where we operate and where the nameplate is. It's a more modest size plant less moving parts. A one component of that we have yet decided to spend. So the spend that we are – that's one week we're going to go down in September, we'll probably have that plant consistently operating above 90% of capacity. But it won't...

Yeah.

...allow us to go to a 100%.

Okay. Well, I am not a manufacturing guy and a lot of times some plants never get to a 100%. I mean, how is that...

Well that's a really good point. I mean, you hit it right on the head. I mean how – do we operate 365 days a year, what is our operating efficiency number, we have it in the low 90%s. So you may not see the full number. The key number though – the key number is for us, what are the economics attached to it. So we have 40,000 tons that we need to sell to Drax to get that payment stream and 45,000 tons to OPG. And both of those facilities fit in those capacity numbers no matter how you parse them.

Okay .So, you're ...

If you get your dead on.

Okay. So, your theoretical capacity is free to sell to somebody else, which you haven't done yet, is what number?

Well. At Wawa, it's 415,000 tons. But I'll say it's not only the number of days, there is an assumption of how much each pallet mill can operate at as the manufacturers representation 2.6 tons per hour, 2.58 tons per hour. We've seen some of our mills do 2.85 tons per hour. So if you get number like that the 450,00 tons gets blow through it. But then you might be constrained by dryer, if you start putting...

Yeah.

A rate of 470,000 tons a day. These are rich man's problems and I would love to discuss it, but I'm just focused on getting that plant to deliver the 400,000 tons we owe our customer.

Okay. I got it. You've given me two nominal plans adding up to 560,000 tons.

That's right. That's right.

The two contracts fill up. Let's just say that's a theoretical number, the two contracts fill up, what the two contracts add up to?

445,000 tons.

Okay. That gives me an answer. And then on the 450,000 tons, you're currently [ph] list through the same drill (27:16) you're currently running at approximately 1 percentage your capacity.

Well, we talked about running at a percentage of the – we're running at about 40% now. And we're – but, we've shown movements where we get into the 70%s.

Okay. And for you, as the leader of this company, what percentage would you like to be at by, let's say, December 31 of this year and then year from now?

Well, I mean my words – the words in the press release say everything and our guidance have been the next couple of quarters, so that's the fourth quarter and the first quarter to be at 70%. I mean I'd like to be at that point sooner rather than later. A lots going to be in the first month after this Phase II goes in. So between September something and October something, we're going to really know whether we got back immediately where we left off and are stepping up our gain from that point. So it won't be something where we're sitting here, and the next call we have will be pretty tailwind as to where we'll be.

Yeah. I mean I want to be at point where I'm not cancelling vessels, I want to be delivering eight vessels a year to Drax or nine vessels – yeah, nine vessels, better be delivering nine vessels, if I want to do 400,000 tons. So I want to be doing that and I want to be testing the capacities of my facility up in Quebec or at least the loading capacities.

Okay. Let's just assume you were at 90% for Wawa and you were at 70% to 90% for Atikokan. How do you feel about the sale prices on your contract versus the direct costs such that you have the kind of margin you think you're going to have on this business?

Well, I'm telling you, right now, our math is challenged a little bit on some of the recovery – cost recovery mechanisms that we have, given where Brent and where Canadian diesel are. The C$ weakness, so we translate that in the U.S. dollar SG&A and overhead. So there are things that aren't perfect. I mean the thing has the potential to do whatever it was $12 million to $15 million of EBITDA, but right now $12 million, $15 million, $13 million, $16 million, $14 million, $17 million, whatever, but right now it doesn't really matter because we're not selling enough pellets to see those numbers.

Okay. And then just addressing the balance sheet with the – you have debt to GSO and then on the other side you have the dedicated UAN stock. Are you going to make any moves to pay off GSO or are you just kind of hold the current situation?

Well, I don't think I'm going to do a [ph] tail (30:14) on the call right here, number one, but I mean – I think Jeff updated that price I mean the UAN units have been underperforming since the close...

Yeah.

...for various reasons beyond anybody's control. So I think our lock up ends October 1, but I don't think – and I can't remember what their daily volume is, but I think their float is around $2 million, so if not actually probably a little bit higher, maybe $2.5 million. But, so it's just not – it's not something that could just be cavalier we entered into. [indiscernible]

(30:52) company and well, first of all fertilizer prices are like at seven year or eight year low.

Right.

So, you're fighting that headwind and if any time in those cyclical business, basically these icon companies are very well run and. And abetting them might want to enter the fertilizer business somewhere in here.

That's something ought to bring up [indiscernible] (31:18) I am on the board though.

You are, that's right.

Yeah.

Yeah. Well I understand the quality of the management at those two icon companies, the refinery and the fertilizer is strong?

It is. And that's why I'm saying it's beyond their control to turn the tide unilaterally here.

Yeah. Thank you for your time.

Yeah.

Thank you. And we have Brent Rystrom online with an additional question.

Thanks. Keith, one quick follow-up. At what level of capacity does – do you expect Wawa to go EBITDA positive?

That's a good question. I'm thinking and it's north of 70%, right. But it's got so many moving parts once again. If Brent oil is $40 and Canadian crudes, I mean diesels where it is right now, it's a higher number. But this would track the positive movements in our EBITDA margin, albeit they're still negative 5 point whatever. I think we'll be eradicated when that thing gets above 70%.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you. And we have no further questions. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.