corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fiscal 2010


First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-


only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As


a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Wednesday, February 10, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President, Investor Relations


for Rentech. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2010 fiscal first quarter conference call


for the period ended December 31, 2009. Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to


cover some administrative aspects of this conference call.


During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will provide opening remarks


highlighting our company’s progress during the fiscal quarter and Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial


Officer, will give a financial review of the first quarter and provide comments on Rentech’s financial


position. We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit yourself to one question so


that we may get to as many questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminologies such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable


terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and


best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and


are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to


time in the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of February 10, 2010, and Rentech does


not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is


required to do so under applicable law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. We remain focused


on commercial development activities. Over the last year, we’ve added experienced licensing


personnel, project developers, and related financial support staff to drive near-term development


and commercial opportunities for renewable power and fuels projects worldwide.


We’re in the early development stage of several biomass to fuels, power projects and license


opportunities in countries that strongly support renewable energy and have ample supplies of


biomass that could serve as feedstock. We anticipate sharing more details as these projects,


opportunities further develop.


We’re also working with several resource holders to assess the feasibility of potential projects using


their fossil or biomass feedstocks with our technologies for synthetic fuels and/or power production.


Many of these potential projects are located internationally in countries whose governments or
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


regulatory regimes have moved quickly, and provide incentives for alternative fuels and power


production.


We’re also aggressively pursuing project opportunities within the United States, in areas where


we’ve seen support from local and state governments. These states have incentives in place that


can enhance project economics such as renewable power and fuel mandates in California.


Our Rialto project in California is expected to be the first United States commercial scale facility for


the co-production of renewable fuels and power. I’m pleased to say that we continue to track well


against our timeline for this project.


We have submitted our part one application for a DOE loan guarantee for up to 80% of total project


costs. We expect to hear back from the Department of Energy within the next several weeks


regarding whether we can proceed to the second stage of this process. We’ve begun working on


part two of the application in anticipation of part one approval.


We are confident that our Rialto renewable fuels and power project is a strong candidate for the


loan guarantee program, as it meets the requirement that eligible projects must use technologies


with operating histories of at least six months and 1,000 hours of operation and performance data.


These technologies must be used to produce transportation fuels that substantially reduce the life


cycle of greenhouse gas emissions or other transportation fuels. These projects must also create or


retain U.S. jobs.


Our [inaudible] RenDiesel can have a carbon footprint of near zero and our project will employ at


least 70 full-time positions, once operational, can be replicated. The operating histories of our


technologies strengthen our loan guarantee application, as we exceed the operating requirements


of the program. The Rentech-SilvaGas biomass gasifier has operated for approximately 1,200


hours at a DOE sponsored project at the McNeil power station in Burlington, Vermont, and has


operated for over 20,000 hours in [inaudible].


Our synthetic fuels technology has operated for nearly 2,500 hours at our product demonstration


unit in Colorado, which has been online for a year and half. Prior to that, the technology operated


for over 12,000 hours and our previous demo and pilot projects including a DOE sponsored project


in Laporte, Texas for Texaco Energy Systems.


This experience is important, as it differentiates us from other alternative energy technologies,


which have not yet been demonstrated. The operating history of our technologies is also important


because it’s validated the operating and design criteria for commercial deployment.


Commercial viability of our technologies is confirmed with the success of each project phase in


Rialto. For example, the engineering feasibility study completed by Jacobs and the project cost


estimating conducted by Larkspur Associate validated that the commercial application of our


technologies can generate commercial economic returns.


To drive this project forward, we’ve retained a firm to act as our owners engineer provide full


service planning, engineering and design services. We’ve begun working with this company on


optimizing the project design in preparation for the next phase of front-end engineering and design


or FEED. This week, our owners engineer issued our fee for FEED contractors for the project. We


intend to select the contractor and begin FEED during the first half of this calendar year.


We have been participating in pre-application meetings with various permitting agencies in


anticipation of filing major air and water permits for the Rialto project during the first half of this


calendar year. So far, we’re pleased with the state and community reception we’re receiving for this


important project.