Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Communications & Investor Relations, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Marc E. Wallis — Vice President-Sales & Marketing, Rentech Nitrogen LLC
Sean Ebnet — Senior Vice President-Wood Fibre, Rentech, Inc.
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Matt Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Lin Shen — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC
Richard Leigh Haydon — Founder & Managing Member, Tipp Hill Capital Management LLC
Andrew J. Goffe — President & Chief Executive Officer, Overbrook Management Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech and Company Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call. My name is Larissa, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. I'd like to inform all participants, this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted, property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information, in whole or in part of, without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Julie Cafarella. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2014. During today's call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activity. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also in the room with us today is Sean Ebnet, Senior Vice President of our Wood Fiber Business. The team will be available for questions at the end of our prepared remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of November 6, 2014. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable law.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2014 third quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now I'll turn the call over to Hunt.

There's a lot of activity in our fiber business, particularly in Canada. Last week, we announced that we've reached an important milestone at the Atikokan pellet facility. We are in final commissioning and startup mode, the last phases before the plant begins producing pellets in coming weeks.

I'd like to take a moment to discuss how these projects have evolved over time. The Atikokan and Wawa plants are the first two pellet plants we're constructing. We managed to stay on a very tight schedule despite some early geotech challenges, combined with performing civil construction during one of the harshest Canadian winters on record.

By August, we were still tracking to complete the projects on time and on budget. However, we had used up a lot of our contingencies at that time. So most everything else had to fall perfectly into place. This did not occur and, as a result of delays in the delivery of equipment, our schedule slipped, and we had to increase both the mechanical and electrical construction costs in order to complete the projects within original timeframe.

There are always issues inherent with construction, especially brownfield conversions. Our challenges were magnified by simultaneously constructing two plants in Canada, which increased the amount of engineering required, placed more stress on some of our smaller vendors and created problems with getting timely delivery of equipment across the border.

Going forward, for future projects, we expect to better communicate when we're consuming timeline and budget contingencies. We'll also have the benefit of our operations team at the start of any future project developments. We've dedicated more back office support to the fiber business and implemented new enterprise accounting systems across the business that will facilitate equipment purchasing and tracking functions within that business. I believe these steps will help ensure that we continue to be successful as we expand our fiber business.

We feel very good about the quality of work being done at our Wawa facility, as we approach final commissioning and startup of that plant. All major equipment is in place, and certain critical items, including the drying system, bark furnace and both log cranes, have already been commissioned and are operational today.

Final commissioning will run through the end of the year, and we expect to begin producing pellets in early 2015. Based on our estimated ramp-up schedule for these plants, our first shipment of pellets to Drax is currently expected to occur in the second quarter of 2015, in coordination with Drax's shift schedule.

We'll continue to supply third-party pellets to OPG this year as the Atikokan plant ramps up. We also have the option to ship pellets from Atikokan to the port to supplement production from Wawa to make up the first shipment of pellets to Drax expected in the second quarter. The quality of pellets we'll need to ship from Atikokan to Quebec will depend on how quickly the Wawa plant ramps up.

Now turning to the retail side of our business, NEWP had another solid quarter. EBITDA was $2.7 million for the three months. Strong Northeast demand for wood pellets following this past winter contributed to early customer sales with production through December already spoken for. It's still early, but this business is proving to be the terrific addition to our wood fiber platform that we expected it to be, and I look forward to expanding this business.

Fulghum generated $4.3 million in EBITDA during the quarter. Fulghum's typically steady business has seen reduced profits this year due to some events that are unusual, and we don't expect to recur. The fire at the mill in Woodland, Maine in the first quarter added significant costs and lowered processing volumes for this year. We've been operating with temporary chipping equipment during the reconstruction of the permanent chipping lines and building. This has resulted in higher labor and other operating costs. Throughput of the mill has also continued to be low during this reconstruction. We expect to be back in normal operations by the end of this year. As part of the reconstruction of the Woodland mill, we've added a new soft wood chipping line that will help us increase our volumes to meet the customers' growing demand.

Several of our customers' paper mills have had extended downtime this year, which has caused our chipping mills to take more downtime as well. The Fulghum team has managed to keep overall processing volumes at expected levels in spite of the increased downtime. We take advantage of such outages to perform maintenance and repairs in our chipping mills, so Fulghum's overall maintenance costs have been higher this year than is typical.

We also invested to enhance safety at the mills. We've significantly improved Fulghum's safety record since we acquired the business last year, and we'll continue to make safety a priority going forward.

South America's typically about 20% of Fulghum's EBITDA. We tend to see more fluctuations in South American business than our U.S. operations. The South American export chip sales and in-country bark sales are less predictable than the revenue from chipping services. Fulghum's chipping services business in South America is ahead of our EBITDA expectations for the year, due to strong demand from our customers. However, we have had fewer exports sales of chips to Japan this year than we had in our budget, which was based on indications from customers. As a result, EBITDA for South America is lower than we projected.

We started construction on the new PAC mill at Fulghum Fibres Chile to support a new 5-year contract with Mitsubishi Corporation. We expect to begin commercial operations at the plant in the first quarter of 2015.

At Fulghum U.S., we are renewing 100% of the expiring contracts this year. Overall, Fulghum remains a strong foundation for our wood processing business. We expect to see improved EBITDA at Fulghum next year as the new chipping line ramps up in Woodland and the new PAC mill in Chile as it begins operations.

I'm pleased to say that earlier this week, we closed the sale of our alternative energy technology assets to Kaidi. We received a cash payment of $14.4 million, which in addition to the $0.5 million cash payments previously received, by monetizing these noncore assets, we've improved our balance sheet, and we'll be realizing significant annual cost savings in the range of almost $6 million going forward.

The finance committee of the board initiated a comprehensive review of our Rentech's cost structure after the investment by Blackstone GSO. A lot of work has gone into this review, spearheaded by an independent consulting firm. We're very focused on identifying areas of improvement that can help drive shareholder value. We'll announce the results of the review once the work is concluded, and we've integrated that into our budget for 2015.

Now turning to our fertilizer business, Rentech Nitrogen generated EBITDA of $8.7 million in the quarter. We expect a seasonal lift in EBITDA and cash distribution in the fourth quarter. We've delivered or locked in prices on most of our forecasted deliveries for the year. During the Rentech Nitrogen call, just this afternoon, we updated 2014 EBITDA guidance for both plants to approximately $85 million and $75 million, including partnership expenses. Looking forward, the outlook for the first half of 2015 is very encouraging for all nitrogen products.

And I'll now turn it over to Dan for more detail.

The results for the quarter reflect the business updates that Hunt just gave you, seasonally low results at Rentech Nitrogen, the impact of delays on our Ontario projects and the effects of unusual events at Fulghum Fibres. New England Wood Pellet is on target.

For the quarter, consolidated revenues were up 8% since last year even though revenues at Rentech Nitrogen were down by 10%. Fulghum Fibres revenues were up 13% to $25 million this quarter. We have $13.9 million of revenue from New England Wood Pellet, which we didn't have last year. And we also recorded our first revenue in Canada as we delivered pellets to OPG that we had acquired from a third party in advance of starting up that plant.

Fulghum's gross profit margin declined somewhat from last year due to the factors that Hunt mentioned. We did have lower processing volumes. We had increased maintenance cost, and we have the effects of that fire at the Maine mill.

NEWP's gross profit margin came in right as expected at about 18% for this quarter. SG&A was flat at Rentech Nitrogen, flat at Fulghum, and up somewhat at corporate. We had a corporate increase due to software and system upgrades and also the expenses of the consultants who were conducting the cost studies that Hunt mentioned.

We recorded a net loss of $0.05 for the quarter, $0.05 per share for the quarter. It's a slight improvement from the $0.08 loss of the third quarter from last year. We updated guidance for Rentech, excluding Rentech Nitrogen today. You can find the details in our press release, but I'll summarize the changes for you. We expect our corporate cash SG&A to be about $17 million for 2014, excluding one-time expenses and transaction costs.

Consulting services, including the comprehensive review of our cost structure led by the finance committee, will increase our corporate SG&A by $1 million from our prior guidance. The later startup of the Canadian pellet plants reduced our expected EBITDA for the industrial wood pellets business by $4 million. Startup costs, the cost of delivering and leasing railcars, and the delay in the first shipment to Drax are the main drivers for that change. The later startup means that we have a longer period for a number of expenses to hit SG&A rather than cost of goods sold, which is where they'll show up after we start the plants.

We expect Fulghum Fibres EBITDA to be $2 million below our previous guidance. That's due to the effects of the fire at Woodland, Maine, higher maintenance costs at other U.S. mills during customer outages, and the lower chip exports to Japan from Fulghum Fibres' South American business.

Fulghum has faced some unusual challenges this year. We expect to see improved EBITDA for the business next year. New England Wood Pellet is performing very well and is on target to hit our guidance. Demand for heating pellets is very strong in the Northeast this year as it was last year.

In September, we told you that CapEx for the Canadian pellet plants had increased from our previous guidance. Since September, we've seen additional delays on deliveries of key pieces of equipment.

In some cases, we even had to modify equipment on site after it was delivered. These additional delays have affected the startup schedules for the projects, as well as the estimated cost to complete construction. In order to minimize the effects of these equipment delays, we mobilized additional resources from our contractors to get the projects running as soon as possible. This implies additional cost as we make every effort to keep as close as possible to that schedule. A portion of the increased cost is also due to scope changes to enable us to use lower-cost feedstocks. With the projects nearly complete, we now expect the total cost of acquisition and conversion for these two projects to be approximately $105 million. This would make our installed cost about $190 per ton of capacity, which is very good by industry standards.

We plan to update guidance for the EBITDA we expect from these plants once we have them operating and we see how the production ramp-up is going. We still expect these projects to generate attractive returns, and we'll also update our guidance on that as we prove out the operating costs.

In our press release on October 28, we said that Atikokan has begun startup and will be producing pellets in the coming weeks. We also said we expect Wawa to start up and begin commissioning in November. Now, we'll take your questions.

Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Brent Rystrom from Feltl and Company. [ph] Brent? (17:20)

Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you. A couple of quick questions for you. From the perspective of RNF, I missed that call, so I just wanted to see if you have a little more clarity. When you look at some of the numbers you're talking about in the fourth quarter and then kind of imply those in the first half of next year, does it imply the return of EBITDA that gets you back into distribution in the $1.50 to $2 range?

So, we're not giving out guidance for next year yet, Brent. And sorry, we missed you on the first call, but what we can tell you that between the restructuring plan that we put in place, as I said earlier today, we expect ammonia, our input cost to roll off going into next year. We like the stability of our pricing in the marketplace for the product out of Pasadena, and we believe our input costs are going to come down. We've reduced our expenses down there, so I think Pasadena's well-positioned, and certainly, as you well know, East Dubuque, is positioned in this high ammonia price to roll into the first half of next year in a very positive fashion. So I think if we take them together, it should lead to some higher distributions.

And, from a simplistic perspective, maybe a different way to ask – I'm sorry, kind of the same thing, but maybe a little more focused. How should we think about what your hopes are next year for Pasadena? Is it to get it back to breakeven? Is it for it to make money?

No. Our plan, rather than our hope, is that we would be positive EBITDA next year based on the numbers that we put forth. I think it was about a few weeks ago when we announced the restructuring plan. And again, if ammonia rolls off as we expect it to, we will be positive, and we're encouraged by what we see right now.

Would you anticipate it becoming positive EBITDA kind of middle part of the year?

Yeah, as you know, the first half of the year is generally soft in that business, and it really starts to – we'll look towards the middle to the second half of the year for that to start. But look, we'll know the trends in the business in the first half of the year. We'll know where this is trending based on what we see in the market going forward, so we'll know exactly where we're going.

And if the trends are good, obviously, you'll let it run. If the trends aren't good, what's the next step?

We won't let it run.

Okay. Also then, did you provide any color on the RNF call about the recent announcements regarding the merchant sale of ammonia to an entity that's going to build on some of your land there?

We talked a little bit about – you're talking about the TKI? We can give you 30 seconds on that. Marc's in the room here. Marc, I don't know if you're going to give quick update on that.

Sure, sure, Brent. Per the press release, we've reached a long-term agreement to supply ammonia to TKI via pipeline into their facility at a ratable base per quarter, and then we've got a ramp-up plan in place, and we think it's a good move for both entities. I'm kind of excited about it.

Have you any range that you can give us, like how many – is there a range of tons you think this will go to eventually per year?

The best is not to get into that right now, but maybe at a later date we can discuss it further.

All right. Would it be safe to assume that this would be at significantly lower margins, given that it's really more of a merchant's ammonia contract?

Yeah. I think in our script or press release, we've indicated this is a – what I'm going to classify as a modest discount to our agricultural prices, so again we're really pleased with the whole structure of the offtake and the prices associated with it.

I just want to make sure I heard that right. Did you say a modest discount?

Modest.

All right. Thank you. I have one final question then, from a timing perspective, did you give any update on [ph] terminalling products (21:57) in Pasadena?

We did. We said that we're ongoing discussions. We'll choose a partner, probably latter half of this year – well, we are in the latter half of this year – in the fourth quarter of this year. In the first quarter of next year, we should be moving down the road with a partner on that project.

All right. I'm going to jump back in the queue and let somebody else go.

Okay.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Matt Farwell from Imperial Capital.

Hey. Good afternoon.

Hi, Matt.

Would you – I actually missed a part of that call as well. Did you provide any guidance as to the construction cost of the ammonia converter that was discussed?

We did. It's approximately $26 million to about $30 million.

And that's to – will you begin that construction during the fall turnaround next year?

No, this will be in 2016.

So you'll commence in 2016? I see.

Correct. And we also said that it was based on what we see today. It's over 20% return project.

Okay. Regarding the construction costs and some of the inflation of CapEx, you have, I think, around $25 million at RTK corporate. So are you in the position to finance the completion of those projects based on that cash balance?

Yeah. So, with $25 million plus pro forma for Kaidi, you're just over $40 million today, so we're in okay shape.

Okay. And I guess you're talking about $105 million. Is this – I mean, do you – based on what you know now, do you have a better idea of what projects might cost you going forward? I mean, is this a number that is out of the ordinary or is this more in line with what we should expect?

No. As Dan said in his remarks, that it's still on installed basis, $100 per ton. It's – These projects, they're still in good shape. Obviously, you've learned a lot when you build your first project and certainly, building two simultaneously. There's some approaches we're going to take differently on a go-forward basis in terms of project management and how we approach it with our contractors and so forth. But we'll certainly take a different approach because you do learn things when you build projects for the first time. So, we've learned some lessons, and I will still believe these projects on a per ton basis are very attractive, but we'll certainly take these lessons going forward, and we'll learn from them.

And then just any color across the pond in terms of views on biomass? I know that given the Ukraine situation, there's definitely going to be some turmoil around energy. This coming winter seems like it could bode well for the biomass business. Have you any updates there?

My view and I guess if you've read any industry stats, it's all over the place in terms of what people think the ton is going to be from now, but I think from my perspective, and our perspective as a company, we think there's certainly more demand than the few larger suppliers in North America can supply over the next three years to five years, and maybe longer. So, collectively, we see not only Drax, but other utilities coming on stream and buying pellets, and our view that the platforms that are out there today will be challenged. And I think that's pretty consistent when we talk to our peers filling that demand and, Sean, I don't know if you have anything else you want to add to that.

Yeah. Hi, Matt. The answer is it's growing. It's growing in the industrial side, but it's also growing in the home heating market of Europe as well. And some of that could be driven by some of the issues that you're seeing politically, but I think there's natural growth and demand to this product in a number of Union states.

That's great. Well, it seems like you're close to the finish line. So, I'm going to wish you good luck and we'll look forward to the next conference call.

Great. Thank you, Matt.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Lucas Pipes from Brean Capital.

Hey. Good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

Maybe just a quick update on kind of the M&A landscape that you're seeing out there across the wood chip, wood pellet value chain. You've been pretty active in the past, so I was curious on how you see things today?

I would say like on the industrial side, there are certainly smaller, medium, and larger platforms that are growing out there that we certainly as we grow and get a public currency, we would like to buy and add to our portfolio in North America. On the retail side, as we said, when we bought New England Wood Pellets, we liked the position – by buying the leader in that business, we liked the position that that company is in. They have identified growth opportunities, and they will pursue those growth opportunities over the next few months.

So there are rollouts that can occur in that business and with the management team. And the demand for that product in that Northeast Corridor, just an article I recently read, they're already out of pellets all the way down to Maryland. So the demand is significant, and we'll continue to buy assets there, and we'll continue to look for assets to buy in the chipping business, so all three segments we're pursuing.

I appreciate that. That's helpful. And then maybe to shift to your Canadian projects. What do you think are the risks for Wawa in terms of getting everything ready before Q2. Maybe let's start with that.

Okay, I'll kick it off, and then I'll send it over to Sean here. But there's certainly risks in any of these projects. But [ph] I'd say that (28:48) what's unique about Wawa is that it's indoors. And as now we head to the winter months, it's important to be indoors while you're finishing construction. And the major components have already been – some of the major components have already been commissioned. And so, that's very positive from that perspective.

I think from my perspective, the risks are the fact that we've got a lot of electricians in the building working around the clock to get the project done, so there's certainly risk there. But, the fact that we've started up some major components already, and we've got good management on site, I feel good about it. And, Sean, I don't if you want to give more color?

I mean there's a bit of mechanical being wrapped up. There's a lot of electrical to be finished up. That was the impact of the equipment delays as we couldn't open up those work fronts until we got all of the parts on site. But now that all the major equipment is installed – and one of the real big benefits we had with the acquisition of that facility was the entire energy system that already preexisted there.

So, that's your bark burning, your dryer, your furnace and all of that system has been commissioned, and that's the heart of the pellet plant. So, I think going in to wrap up and as we move into commissioning here shortly, we're going to be in a pretty good position to meet our timelines. So, the second quarter delivery is not something we're concerned about meeting. We expect it at that.

Okay. That's it for now. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Lin Shen from HITE Hedge Asset Management.

Okay. Thank you. Previously, you gave the guidance that you're targeting $55 million EBITDA for your wood chips and the pellet business at end of 2015. Given the delay of your project, how should we think about this timing of your end of 2015 guidance?

Yeah. We'll give better guidance certainly as the plants come up, so we're not going to give guidance today on the plants because certainly as they ramp up, we can give firmer guidance. But in that $55 million, we all [ph] would state there had (31:01) to be other project or an acquisition that will be dropped in for that run rate. We haven't announced anything yet, but we're certainly have enough backlog that we have the ability to drop that in to hit that $55 million.

Okay. And also, in your press release, you said that a portion of their increasing costs because the scope change to enable Wawa facility used lower-cost feedstocks. I'm just wondering can you give us a little bit color about if you are using lower cost feedback (sic) [feedstock] (31:40), what kind of like revenue or margin improvement we should expect?

Yeah.

Go ahead, Sean.

Basically, it's increasing the flexibility of the plant to take in a variety of feedstocks. So, we have our Crown license allocation. That's the main wood that's going to be feeding this pellet station, but just increasing the flexibility opens us up to be opportunistic in the market. So if we see more tops and limbs or bush material, that harvest residuals that we can source or some are residuals from other producers, this is what that allows us to capitalize on. So it's too early to predict what the blended rate will do to our feedstock cost, but it will improve it going forward.

Great. And I just want to clarify one more time, talking about the cost increased from $70 million to $105 million, so you did mention that there is a potential risk for the continual construction. As you already finished the most part of your commitment, so I'm just learning maybe the $105 million should be a very accurate number for your cost estimate?

Well, I mean, the $105 million is the forecast from today, but I will tell you that all major equipment is on site. So what you're down to is the labor component and the electrical from now to the end of the year. So in terms of major equipment and the installation of that, that's there. So obviously, that's a big part of the capital. So no risk there, and it's just working through the labor components, which we think we've identified pretty well.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

The other thing, too, I think, maybe answer on that question is, you mentioned $70 million. We changed our construction estimate on these projects to $90 million a long time ago. That $70 million goes way, way back to very early-design stages of the project. We had a number of scope changes and changes in the economics, then we changed the guidance to $90 million. And so, I don't think it's a fair comparison to say $70 million up to $105 million, but the $90 million up to $105 million, with some scope changes that Sean addressed, is a more apples-to-apples comparison.

Great. I might have missed the news release for the [ph] something like (34:14) $90 million change, so if that's the case, I will recheck the press release. Thank you.

Okay. Fair enough.

Thank you. The next question is from Richard Haydon from Tipp Hill Capital.

My question has been asked and answered. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Brent Rystrom from Feltl and Company.

I just got two follow-up questions, quick ones. Sean, I'm guessing really what you're talking about what the scope is you're going to be able to do more whole-tree deliveries versus cut-to-link type stuff.

Well, actually the plan was already designed to take whole-tree deliveries. It's more the other way. We're increasing the amount of the flexibility of the plant to take more residuals, and we're starting to see more of that product available in the market that will be accessible to us. That's why we made some scope changes at the plant to be able to accommodate that.

So smaller diameter type stuff?

It's residuals from other operations, so chips, sawdust, saw mill residuals, as well as some more harvesting residuals out in the forest floor.

All right. So when I think of residuals, I'm thinking of tree tops and stuff like that. So generally...

Yeah, that's part of that also. So it's saw mill residuals and harvest residuals, which is the tops and limbs that you're referring to.

All right. Thank you. I got one other quick question. When are you thinking the next turnaround on East Dubuque?

We haven't disclosed when that turnaround would be, and we'll update that in the first quarter.

Would it be unreasonable to think that it might slip to 2016?

It wouldn't be unreasonable.

All right. Thanks, guys.

Okay.

Thank you. Our last question comes from Andrew Goffe from Overbrook Management.

Hi. What's the current thinking on the timing of the MLP?

As we said each call, we're still looking to file in 2015.

Okay, any sense of which quarter or...?

No. I think, as we said earlier, we want to watch how the plants come up and how any other potential projects or acquisitions may drop in.

Okay. And, the other thing is can you give a sense of how much value could be created via the terminalling opportunity at Pasadena?

I don't want to put out numbers today because it depends on what partner and what the dynamics in each partner looks like, and that's really the discussion today that's going on, what are the economics of each potential partner in Pasadena, and that's what we're working through with our advisors today.

All right. Is there any color you could give though on just relative to the purchase price of Pasadena, like what you're expecting between terminalling and [indiscernible] (37:18)?

Yeah. It's really premature to try to put real numbers on this, but I can tell you this. The interest in terminalling down there is very high. There is the opportunity for partners to invest significant amounts of capital on that site, and we're trying to structure this as a joint venture where we would get a share of that cash flow. I guess the only way we can size this for you is to say the opportunity is for significant investment, and we would be a partner in that investment. But, we would likely put in very small amounts of capital, if any.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.