Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Jeffrey Richard Spain — Chief Financial Officer, Rentech, Inc.
Lin Shen — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc. Fourth Quarter and Year-End Conference Call. My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. I would like to inform all participants, this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us, everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2015. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our activities. Jeff Spain, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the year. Also on the line with us today are the members of the fibre and fertilizer management teams. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance.

They are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic report and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of March 16, 2016. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable law.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2015 fourth quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Good morning and happy St. Patrick's Eve, and no songs for you because this story will continue here. Before I discuss our results for the year, I would like to review the two announcements we made this week. First, we closed on the sale of Rentech Nitrogen's Pasadena facility. Under the terms of this sale, RNF unitholders will receive an initial cash payment of $5 million, net of transaction fees currently estimated to be $600,000. RNF unitholders will also receive a cash working capital adjustment which is expected to be approximately $6 million after confirmation of the amount within approximately 90 days.

In summary, RTK will receive about $6.2 million of these proceeds. RNF unitholders, including Rentech, will retain an interest in the Pasadena entity that will entitle us to our pro rata share of an earnout. The earnout is equal to 50% of the facility's cumulative EBITDA in excess of $8 million earned over the next two years.

The plant was sold to IOC, Pasadena's long-time distributor of ammonium sulphate. We believe IOC will be good stewards of this asset going forward from every perspective, not the least of which will be maximizing the value of our profits interest. The sale of Pasadena removes Rentech's remaining condition to closing Rentech Nitrogen's merger with CVR Partners. We are moving towards an expected closing of the merger on or about March 31.

Secondly, we amended our agreements with GSO to address issues with the previously agreed to terms on which we are to retire some of our obligations with them upon the RNF-CVR merger and provide us with a safety net of liquidity should the merger take longer than expected to close.

The GSO amendment reduces dilution to RTK shareholders. We have eliminated Rentech's obligation to retire $10 million of debt using $10 million of newly issued common shares to GSO at a 15% discount, essentially avoiding a potential 20% dilution. The modifications to the GSO agreement also enable the CVR merger to close without regard to whether Rentech receives sufficient units in CVR to repay a fixed amount of preferred stock and debt held by GSO.

We will be required to deliver the lesser of the value of CVR units we receive and $140 million. Any unretired amounts would remain as obligations to GSO. GSO has also provided us with a new $6 million term loan that would be available to us to draw on until the earlier of the merger closing or May 31. We do not expect to draw on this facility but it is available as a cushion.

I'll now turn to the financial results for the year. Rentech Nitrogen delivered solid results, as discussed on the call today. The results, improved EBITDA, earnings, and the like, were – are the result of higher operating rates, cost controls at Pasadena and lower input costs at East Dubuque. The benefits of the restructuring we implemented at Pasadena in late 2014 helped contribute to our first year of positive EBITDA for the plant. However, we took an additional asset impairment charge at the Pasadena facility in the fourth quarter of $26 million, dictated by the final sale price of the asset to IOC.

A word about the market, our Midwest trade zone experienced a shortened fall application season due to weather, so we expect a strong spring application season. In fact, ammonia is already being applied in parts of our trade zone. Our prepaid book for East Dubuque was light going into 2016, but has picked up pace since late February and now looks to be about historical levels. We are encouraged by the seasonal uplift in nitrogen prices. At Pasadena, domestic demand for AS continues to be relatively light, but we are expecting it to pick up once we get closer to spring application. Meanwhile, we are shipping tons to Brazil as we speak to keep product moving.

Now moving on to our non-fertilizer businesses, or a.k.a., continuing operations. Fulghum, we are pleased with Fulghum's turnaround in 2015. Fulghum generated record EBITDA of $21.6 million during the year versus EBITDA last year of $13.4 million. Revenues for 2015 were essentially flat while gross profit increased nearly 50% from the prior year due to enhanced focus on maintenance scheduling and maintenance expenditures, as well as decreased insurance costs.

In 2015, Fulghum recorded asset impairments totaling $11.3 million related to three of our 32 mills. Let me take a moment to discuss the impairments. At one mill, our customer is undergoing a product line conversion at its facility that will result in lower wood fibre consumption than expected. We wrote down the value of that mill to its estimated fair value based on the lower throughput levels.

The remaining impairment relates to two of our customers exercising their contractual rights to purchase their respective mills. One of the sales occurred in 2015 and the other sale is expected to occur this year. Fulghum would continue to operate one of the mills under a continuing operating services agreement. The customer will be taking over operations of the other mill.

Our goal for Fulghum is a model that targets long-term EBITDA in the range of $20 million, driven by continued operational efficiency, contract renewals and new contracts to offset potential margin compression on existing contracts and to offset any contracts we may lose. We see potential for new business and we balance this optimism with the fact that our U.S. chipping business relies on wood product demand that is dependent upon continued U.S. economic expansion.

Our South America business relies heavily on the export chipping market. Demand has been strong so far this year. We have shipped 2.5 vessels to date and we are expecting to ship another vessel this week. Those vessels, by the way, are all shipped to Asia, predominantly Japan.

On to New England Wood Pellets, despite warmer than normal weather in November and December, NEWP delivered strong results for 2015, generating record EBITDA of $12.4 million. Gross profit nearly doubled for the year. Higher average sales prices, favorable manufacturing variances and lower SG&A spend contributed to a better than expected results. The year also benefited from the addition of the Allegheny plant acquired in the first quarter of the year.

A little bit of foreshadowing, however, the warm temperatures have continued into 2016 along with depressed prices for heating oil and propane, which are competitive fuels to wood pellets. The net result is that we are expecting lower sales volumes in Q1 as NEWP's customers are still carrying inventory purchased last year due to slow buying by retail customers. As a result of these factors, starting in February this year, three of NEWP's facilities scaled back production from seven days a week to five days a week and one facility scaled its production to four days a week.

Now let's turn our focus to Canada. The capital expenditure estimate for the Atikokan and Wawa plants of approximately $145 million remains unchanged, with approximately $21 million remaining to be spent as of the end of 2015. I want to remind everyone that the capital expenditure forecast for the plants does not include contingencies for any additional problems that could be identified during the continued ramp-up of the facilities.

In the first quarter of 2016, we made two shipments of wood pellets to Drax totaling approximately 48,000 metric tons produced from both our Wawa and Atikokan facilities. Our ability to continue to fulfill the volume requirements under the Drax contract will largely depend on the success of the next phase of conveyor replacements at the plant and there being no new significant issues during ramp-up. We shipped a total of almost 66,000 metric tons of wood pellets to Ontario Power Group, OPG, since Atikokan began producing, which has satisfied fully our contractual obligations to OPG.

All of the truck dump hopper modifications at Atikokan have been completed and it is performing as expected. The first group of faulty conveyors at Atikokan was replaced at the end of 2015 and the conveyors' performance is currently being evaluated as part of the plant's operations. The remaining work to address problems with Atikokan's conveyor systems is expected to continue through mid-2016. The Atikokan Facility is expected to reach full capacity this year once the conveyor work is completed and the ramp-up resumes unimpeded.

All of the equipment at the Wawa Facility has been commissioned and the plant has been producing an increasing quantity of wood pellets. The modifications of the front-end system and the first phase of modifications of the plant's conveyance systems were completed in late 2015. The remaining work to the conveyor systems is scheduled to be completed by mid this year.

In light of the setbacks we've experienced at Wawa and the opportunity – at the time, opportunity to actually look at all this stuff while the plant's ramping up, we are evaluating the production capacity of the plant. We are investigating whether there are potential design shortcomings similar to those that surfaced with the plant's wood infeed and conveyance systems that might limit or inhibit it ever reaching its full capacity. We are evaluating uptime and operating efficiency rates achievable for full capacity.

Our discussions with other pellet producers and engineering firms over the past year have shown that there is a wide disparity in these rates across established industrial pellet manufacturing plants in North America. We believe it is premature to revise Wawa's capacity until such time that we have fully tested the design assumptions of the major processes of the plant, remediated all of the material handling issues, and completed ramp-up.

However, if we apply a range of assumed operating efficiencies typical for the industry, Wawa's annual production capacity could be between 400,000 metric tons and 450,000 metric tons. The low end of this capacity range would still allow us to fulfill our annual contractual obligations to Drax and to generate positive cash flow.

We have also observed that within the industry, ramping up to full design capacities takes considerable time, in some cases several years. Taking into account the amount of time required to complete the repair and modification of the conveyance systems and to ramp up to design operating efficiency rates, we do not expect Wawa to reach full capacity until 2017.

We estimate that Atikokan and Wawa would generate stabilized annual EBITDA in the range of CAD 13 million to CAD 16 million using the production range of 400,000 annual tons to 450,000 annual tons and based on today's economic variables, including the cost of diesel fuel, reimbursements in our contracts and the like and exchange rates. The EBITDA estimate does not include revenues from possible opportunities to aggregate pellets for resale, which we have done on a historical basis from time to time.

I'll now give you an update on our reorganization and cost savings efforts. The actions we have taken thus far should result in annualized savings of about $5 million, which is about half the targeted savings we outlined last year. So, we're a little bit ahead of schedule. We still expect to complete the remainder of the restructuring actions by the end of the third quarter of this year.

Some of the key actions taken include eliminating executive positions and transferring some corporate accounting and back office functions to a small corporate group at our existing Jaffrey, New Hampshire facility. These functions include AP/AR, payroll and fixed asset accounting. We have accrued $1.9 million through the end of last year in one-time charges associated with these actions. We expect total one-time cost to be approximately $6 million. Our actions in total should still result in annualized consolidated SG&A savings of approximately $10 million to $12 million as we exit this year.

Jeff will take you through some more detail on the financial stuff.

Thank you, Keith. I will start with a reminder that the East Dubuque facility is classified as discontinued operations in our financials, given the agreed-upon merger with CVR Partners. The Pasadena facility however is in continuing operations since we did not have a deal to sell it as of 12/31/15.

As Keith mentioned, we wrote down Pasadena's assets by $26 million in the quarter and by $161 million for the full year. We also wrote down three of Fulghum's mills by $10.6 million in the quarter or $11.3 million for the full year.

I'll now review a number of financial details for the year that Keith did not address. While our financial statements do report East Dubuque in discontinued operations, most of the financial highlights I will be giving you include East Dubuque since we owned and operated it for all of 2015.

Starting with the top line, revenues for Rentech including East Dubuque totaled $497 million, which was up 7% year-over-year. This was primarily driven by higher sales volumes at East Dubuque, Atikokan and New England Wood Pellet. Revenue contributions from NEWP also increased given our full year of ownership during 2015 and from the acquisition of the Allegheny mill early in 2015.

Looking at all of our wood fibre processing segments combined, so effectively Rentech excluding the fertilizer business, revenues were $156 million in 2015, which is an increase of $26 million or 19% versus 2014.

Our total gross profits, again including East Dubuque, increased almost 50% for 2015 to $119 million as compared to $80 million in 2014. This significant improvement for 2015 reflects a handful of items. First, higher ammonia sales and lower natural gas costs at East Dubuque; secondly, the benefits of our new operating plan that we put in place at Pasadena in late 2014, which resulted in a swing in gross profits of $19 million; third, our cost management efforts at Fulghum ; and finally, the inclusion of NEWP and Allegheny in 2015 versus the partial year results in 2014.

These year-over-year increases were partially offset by gross losses in our industrial wood pellet segment of $12.3 million in 2015, as compared to a gross profit of $700,000 in 2014. The losses were generally a result of operating in ramp-up phase. More specifically, we incurred high operating cost relative to revenues at Atikokan and Wawa during commissioning and ramp-up in 2015. This gave rise to a lower of cost or market write-down of inventory in the amount of $11.3 million as we were storing inventory at the port in preparation for our first shipment to Drax in January.

In addition, the operating cost at both plants were materially lower in 2014 and largely recorded to SG&A instead of cost of sales pre-startup. While delays have certainly cost us dearly, operating losses are to be expected during ramp-up when production and revenues are low relative to fixed operating costs.

Gross profits for our wood fibre processing segment combined totaled $18 million in 2015, compared to $19 million in 2014. The overall slight decline was due to the higher cost of sales incurred during ramp-up phase as I mentioned for our Canadian plants.

With respect to SG&A, our total wood fibre processing business incurred $27.7 million of SG&A in 2015, which was $6.8 million higher than 2014 due to a number of factors; $5.9 million in total penalties paid to Drax and CN Rail stemming from our delayed ramp-up; $4.4 million in higher corporate allocations; and a $2.3 million loss on disposable of faulty material handling equipment as we replaced conveyance systems. These increases in SG&A were partially offset by reductions at Fulghum and costs in Canada moving up the P&L to cost of sales during 2015 after the startup of our plants.

Unallocated corporate SG&A was $18 million in 2015, compared to $28 million in 2014. Adjusting for the $4.4 million in increased allocations to the wood fibre processing business, unallocated corporate SG&A was $5.6 million lower in 2015 versus 2014. These SG&A figures include non-cash costs of $3.4 million in 2015 and $5.5 million in 2014.

Turning to EBITDA, we generated $88 million in EBITDA in 2015, including East Dubuque but excluding impairments. This compares to $36 million in 2014. $40 million of the total increase was at RNF, our fertilizer business, and the remaining $12 million increase was due to improved results at Fulghum and New England Wood Pellet and the absence of our energy technologies business, all of which was partially offset by increased losses in industrial wood pellets.

With respect to the bottom line, Rentech's consolidated reported net loss which in this case does exclude East Dubuque was a loss of $0.56 per share versus a loss of $1.64 per share last year, adjusting for impairments in both years. Turning to the balance sheet, Rentech's cash balance excluding RNF was $33 million, and our debt excluding RNF was $176 million as of the end of 2015. To close, our NOLs increased to $196 million as of 12/31/15. Keith?

Excuse me. I did cover myself though, so you won't catch anything. I'd like to conclude by spending a few minutes talking about the post-fertilizer Rentech. Upon completion of Rentech Nitrogen's merger with CVR Partners, Rentech will be a pure play wood fibre processing company with three core businesses. As a result of the fertilizer divesture, Rentech will be a much smaller company with a less leveraged capital structure and lower cash interest expense.

As we continue to implement our organizational restructuring plan, the company will have lower SG&A expenses. Our expectation is to operate our remaining businesses to generate more cash than we consume. Our immediate goals are to strengthen our current industry positions within the outsourced wood chipping industry through our Fulghum Fibres business and in the domestic heating pellet business through our New England Wood Pellet subsidiary. We are focused on ramping up our two Canadian wood pellet plants to full capacity, all while doing this with safety in mind.

Throughout its 25-year history, Fulghum has served its customers and grown its contract wood handling and chip processing business through the addition of both owned mills and operated mills. Today, Fulghum continues to focus on serving its existing customers and to pursue new business. We see opportunities to grow as pulp and paper companies consider outsourcing more of their wood chipping needs, as outsourced chipping contracts with competitors expire, and as new facilities requiring chipping services are developed. We believe our long-standing reputation as the preferred outsourcing choice for cost-effective, quality and efficient on-time – efficient on-demand chipping services positions us to benefit from these opportunities as they arise.

If the construction of a new chip mill is required to meet our customer demand and fits our investment criteria, we believe Fulghum would be able to finance the construction at the operating level, as it has done historically. We also see opportunities to secure operating contracts for existing chipping facilities, which would require minimal capital outlays.

NEWP is the market leader for providing wood pellets to the heating market in the Northeast. The business has historically grown through acquisitions and productivity improvements in the acquired businesses. The bagged pellet industry is fragmented with numerous small independently owned producers, and we believe that NEWP is well positioned given its scale and strength of management to be the natural leader to consolidate supply for the market.

Our goals for NEWP – Our goal for NEWP is to acquire additional pellet facilities. However, there is no certainty that acquisitions can be completed with any regularity. We believe that NEWP will retain its demonstrated ability to fund its growth acquisitions at the operating level using debt financing.

Developing industrial wood pellet facilities, such as our Atikokan and Wawa plants, requires sufficient capital – significant sufficient capital, lead times to arrange offtake, supply and construction contracts, and time to construct and ramp-up production to design capacities. So it's a major commitment. We are fully aware of the challenges and believe we have gained valuable institutional knowledge from our experience developing, constructing and now operating the Atikokan and Wawa facilities, all of which would serve us well should we decide to embark on additional pellet plant development projects.

Based on third party studies, we believe that the long-term demand for quality pellets for the industrial market will continue to exceed supply for a number of years. We believe that we are situated amidst North America's most attractive wood basket from the perspective of sustainability, quality and Canadian dollar valuation. We believe that opportunities exist for new development in this region. Our facility at the port of Quebec presents ideal access to the European markets and is readily scalable for increased volumes.

We also believe that as the industry evolves, the production of wood pellets will become commoditized and projects with long-term contracts should be able to attract project debt, making wholly equity-financed plants a phenomena of the past. Rentech could be a credible participant in such an environment.

As other companies in the industry are nearing completion and/or ramping up their respective plants, we believe a realignment of the industry is underway. Many industry participants are single plant operators, and as such, we believe there may be consolidation in the industry, combining asset and operational expertise and diversifying wood baskets and customers.

As we assess the new dynamics within the industrial wood pellet industry, we will determine an appropriate role for our company. We believe that our diverse portfolio of wood fibre businesses can provide the basis for growing cash flow and significant value creation.

However, our immediate focus is on ramping up our existing industrial pellet facilities in Canada and streamlining our organization to better and more cost effectively support a Rentech solely focused on wood fibre processing industry. You can also be assured that we remain committed to making decisions with respect to capital allocation, corporate organization, corporate costs, et cetera, that position us to be successful throughout a wide range of strategic outcomes.

I will now take some questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from Lin Shen from HITE Hedge. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you for taking my question. I just want to clarify that, [indiscernible] (28:34) are you going to deliver the lesser of the $140 million cash or the discounted [indiscernible] (28:41) of the UAN units you're going to receive, to GSO? I believe the discounted rate is 15%. And also what price are you going to use to determine which one's lesser?

Well, right now the contract is a 60-day VWAP, so looking back from the date of close or right the day before, you look back 60 days, what's the weighted average closing trading prices of the UAN and then discount that by 15%, and that would be the math. That's the way [indiscernible] (29:19).

Got it. And if [indiscernible] (29:23) you will pay cash to GSO, so is the plan going to sell the UAN units in the market or what's the plan?

Well, there are cash proceeds that come with the conversion of our units, $2.57 per unit, which is, and I think that Jeff – in our case, it's allocated mostly to pay taxes.

Got it.

Some of it will be. It will ultimately depend on the final CVR price...

Right.

...and the ultimate exchange.

Yes. These are hard questions to answer prospectively because there's still trading days in front of us and other things afoot, but we will be exchanging units for some of the preferred and debt...

Right.

...directly.

Yes.

So we will not sell CVR units and deliver cash proceeds.

Right.

The arrangement is that we would deliver those, a portion or some portion of those units to GSO directly.

Right.

Got it. Thank you very much.

This concludes the Q&A session. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.

What happened?