corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 15, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Rentech’s Fiscal


Full Year 2009 Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-


only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As


a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Tuesday, December 15, 2009.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Julie Dawoodjee, VP of Investor Relations. Please


go ahead.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you Frank. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2009 fiscal fourth quarter


conference call for the period ended September 30th, 2009. Before we begin our prepared


remarks, I would like to cover some administrative aspects of this conference call.


During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will provide opening remarks


highlighting our company’s progress during the fiscal quarter and Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial


Officer, will give a financial review of the fourth quarter and full year, provide comments on


Rentech’s financial position and discuss initial project economics for our proposed Rialto


Renewable Energy project. We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit yourself


to one question so that we may get through as many questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms.


You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best


judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are


subject to known and unknown risk and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in


the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of December 15th, 2009, and Rentech


does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it


is required to do so under applicable law.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Julie. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. This year’s financial


results are the strongest in our company’s history. We generated consolidated positive net income


and consolidated positive EBITDA of approximately 24 million. This was a result of several factors


including record EBITDA of 66 million in our nitrogen fertilizer facility REMC and disciplined cost


management. These results were reduced by six million of accounting corrections that we’ll talk


about more later on the call.


Before those corrections, we would have significantly exceeded our guidance for the year. Dan will


walk you through those accounting changes later on. I just want to say upfront that those changes


had no impact on cash flow and affected only the timing of expense recognition in our P&L. The


one single reason we had to use the words like restatement in our SEC filings yesterday was due to


an issue about the proper technical accounting treatment of forward purchases of gas at REMC.
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 15, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Dan will talk about this, as well as the projected returns in our Rialto Project, which we expect to


provide attractive returns to our investors.


Fortunately for us with cash flows generated from internal resources in the support of our lenders


and investors, we had the financial means to execute our business plan this year resulting in


significant commercial progress. We also accessed the capital markets by raising 41 million of


equity to continue to build our balance sheet, which we believe is a strategic advantage for us.


Customer agreements. Today, we took a significant step towards fuel purchase agreement in our


Natchez Project, which is a proposed large-scale synthetic fuels and power project in Mississippi.


As we announced in our press release today, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding or MOU


with 13 passenger and cargo carriers, establishing a framework for possible definitive purchased


agreement by these carriers for the project’s entire synthetic jet fuel production of approximately


250 million gallons per year. These 13 international and domestic carriers including American


Airlines, FedEx Express, JetBlue Airways, Lufthansa German Airlines, United Airlines, UPS Airlines


and U.S. Airways have expressed to us their commitment to negotiate the definitive purchase


agreement for our jet fuel.


This MOU for the Natchez Project follows the multi-year agreement we signed with eight carriers to


supply them with up to 1.5 million gallons per year of renewable synthetic diesel from our


renewable energy projects in Rialto, California. The diesel with the use for ground equipment,


operations at Los Angeles International Airport, this definitive fuel purchased agreement to provide


multiple domestic airlines with renewable synthetic fuels is the first of its kind.


Product and market demand. With these customer agreements, it’s clear that there is considerable


market demand for fuels produced from the Rentech Process. Our proven technologies produced


certified drop-in synthetic jet and diesel fuel that work in existing distribution infrastructure and


engines, and lower regulated emissions than petroleum-derived fuels. We can supply products to


the commercial aviation industry and the Department of Defense. In addition, we can supply base


load renewable power, which we believe has significant global demand due to its low carbon


profile.


This year, synthetic jet fuel, including our RenJet fuel were certified in commercial aviation. We’re


currently the only U.S. producer of certified synthetic jet fuel for the aviation industry. Our jet fuel is


also certified by the U.S. Air Force. We sold jet fuel to the Air Force and sold our diesel fuel for use


in the military vehicle to demonstrate the viability of synthetic fuels for the United States Military.


Technology. We enhanced our technology portfolio this year with investments in biomass


gasification technologies and developed our own patent pending syngas conditioning technology.


We acquired 100% of SilvaGas Corporation and is commercially proven biomass gasification


technology.


Prior to our acquisition, SilvaGas had invested approximately 100 million in the development of this


technology from sources including private investors, the United States Department of Energy.


SilvaGas gasifier built in partnership with the Department of Energy in Burlington, Vermont


commercially demonstrated this process.


SilvaGas’ technology converts a variety of biomass feedstocks such as wood, way streams and


energy crops in the syngas, which can be used to produce synthetic fuels and renewable electric


power or the natural gas substitute.


SilvaGas’ biomass gasification technology can be integrated with Rentech’s patent pending syngas


conditioning and Fischer-Tropsch technology to offer the only integrated package. We know that


can produce certified synthetic fuels from biomass. We planned to deploy, this unmatched