Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Communications & Investor Relations, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — Chief Executive Officer, President and Director, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP
Sean Ebnet — Senior Vice President-Business Development, Rentech, Inc.
Matt Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Brent R. Rystrom — Analyst, Feltl & Co.
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Matt Niblack — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Rentech First Quarter 2014 Conference Call. My name is Eric. I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Julie, you may begin.

Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended March 31, 2014. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize the company's activities. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also in the room with us today is Sean Ebnet, Senior Vice President of Wood Fibre Business Development. The team will be available for questions at the end of our prepared remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You're cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgments, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance. They're subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 13, 2014. Rentech does not revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it's required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our 2014 first quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I will turn the call over to Hunt.

Thank you, Julie. We've made tremendous progress since unveiling our wood fibre strategy just one year ago. Last year, we acquired Fulghum Fibres because they're a leading provider of contract wood chipping services. This acquisition marked our entry into the growing wood fibre industry. At the same time, we announced the construction of our first two wood pellet facilities in Eastern Canada, with long term contracts to Ontario Power and Drax Power.

We've strengthened our fibre business. We secured $150 million investment from Blackstone's GSO. This investment is a vote of confidence of our business platform. Part of their investment funded our recent acquisition of New England Wood Pellet, the largest producer of pellets for the home-heating market – for the U.S. heating market.

Before I discuss these recent developments in more detail, I'll provide an update on our business. Fulghum is performing as we expected. During the quarter, Fulghum generated revenues of $28.6 million and EBITDA of $4.5 million. We anticipate the business will meet our 2014 guidance of revenues of $95 million and EBITDA of $20 million.

Our Canadian pellet projects in Atikokan and Wawa are progressing on schedule and on budget. We're targeting the first delivery of pellets from the Atikokan facility to Ontario Power this summer. The first shipment of pellets from our Wawa facility is scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year.

We're building wood inventories in anticipation of production at both sites currently. The experienced team we've assembled in Canada did a great job through a very, very tough winter to keep these projects moving for our customers and our shareholders. Overall, the projects in Canada are progressing very well.

QSL will also be ready to begin receiving pellets at the port this summer. We received a substantial number of dedicated rail cars at the Wawa facility. The remaining cars will arrive later this summer to transport pallets to the port in the fourth quarter.

Now, our recent acquisition of New England Wood Pellet, or NEWP, is an important step strengthening and expanding our wood fibre business. NEWP broadens our product offerings, increases our customer base and opens up new geographic markets. NEWP's known for its high quality products and has about a 15% market share heating pellets in the Northeast. It's the largest domestic market for pellets in the U.S. The company is a leading supplier of pellets to major retailers including Home Depot, Lowe's, Tractor Supply and Wal-Mart.

Pellets are burned in modern heating appliances. They're convenient and economical source of heating. They're cost competitive with delivered retail natural gas in the Northeast. Low population density in NEWP's markets makes the distribution of natural gas inefficient and expensive. So people rely on pellets for heating in the market. Pellets are also more economical than heating oil, propane or electricity in the region and prices have been more stable than those of heating oil or natural gas.

About 1.5 million tons of pellets are consumed annually in the Northeast and demand is expected to grow by 7% through 2018. So we see some very nice growth embedded in the business. NEWP brings additional cash flow, diversification, profitability and growth opportunities to our expanding wood fibre business.

Now, GSO's recent investment in Rentech finance the cash portion of the purchase price, the remaining funds are available for an additional near term fibre opportunities. They invested in us after performing significant due diligence on our assets, our business plan and pipeline of opportunities. They bring access to capital, other potential investment opportunities in fibre and in nitrogen. We'll also benefit from the expertise of our new board members.

We've access to the economies of scale in purchasing that Blackstone offers to all of its portfolio companies. As we execute the plan for growth that we see in the fibre business, we'll benefit from resources brought to bear by GSO in order to maximize our organizational effectiveness and benchmark our cost structure.

So now, we're going to turn our focus to the nitrogen business. I'm pleased to report that Rentech Nitrogen first quarter financial and operating performance have improved significantly over the fourth quarter of 2013. During the quarter, both facilities operated very, very well, producing at or above our new nameplate production rates.

The ammonium plant at East Dubuque facility operated at 100% and the UAN plant ran at 98%. This compares to 35% for ammonium and 39% for UAN in the fourth quarter of last year. The team did a fantastic job getting the plant running after the fourth quarter. On-stream rates at the Pasadena facility improved 81% for ammonium sulfate, 98% for the sulfuric acid plant. This is up from 60% and 78% in the fourth quarter of last year. We're on track to achieve close to 90% on-stream rates at the sulfate plant and that's by midyear. And this is the targeted maximum rate for the plant.

Rentech Nitrogen generated earnings of $0.08 per unit in the quarter. Results for the quarter were seasonally low, although we expect very much improved second quarter. First quarter results were impacted by lower product prices and higher natural gas prices compared to last year. In addition, last year, we had an unusually high volume of UAN sales in the first quarter of 2013.

Very cold and prolonged winter pushed natural gas prices higher, but our natural gas committee made some smart moves in the quarter keeping our gas costs relatively low despite regionally higher prices. These decisions netted gross profit margins of $3.1 million on gas sales. These transactions contributed to better than expected results for the quarter. Overall, we've made some very good progress this quarter.

Dan?

For Rentech Nitrogen, we're now seeing a lot activity and we're looking for a good second quarter. The first quarter did not show good comparisons to last year's strong first quarter as the application season got off to a late start. The wood fibre business picked up contributions from Fulghum Fibres, which we didn't own in the first quarter of last year, and expenses for the pellet business and corporate were in line with our expectations.

Looking at the results for the quarter, consolidated revenues were up 42% from last year at about $85 million that consisted of Rentech Nitrogen revenues, which were slightly down off about 6% from last year as prices were down across the board for all the nitrogen products, although ammonia sulfate and urea volumes were up.

Fulghum Fibres contributed $28.6 million of revenue for the quarter and, of course, that's compared to zero for last year before we owned the company. Gross profit margins in Rentech Nitrogen suffered this quarter as we saw margin compression both in the ammonia business with higher natural gas prices and in the ammonium sulfate business as we saw pressure on international ammonium sulfate prices, as well as higher input cost as we had ammonia supply interruptions coming out of the Ukraine crisis, which drove ammonia prices up and put margin pressure on our ammonium sulfate business.

We generated net income loss of $5.6 million for the year, which was $0.02 per share fully diluted for continuing operations, and then we had another $0.01 loss in the Energy Technology segment, which, of course, now has been classified as discontinued operations.

EBITDA showed somewhat similar trends. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA was $6 million this quarter, slightly up from $5.7 million last year. Rentech Nitrogen EBITDA was down from last year. We had $11.5 million of EBITDA this quarter versus $20.6 million last year. And we picked up $4.5 million of EBITDA from Fulghum Fibres versus no contribution last year.

SG&A expenses were up slightly for Rentech Nitrogen due to personnel and severance costs mainly at Pasadena. Fulghum Fibres SG&A was $1.4 million versus zero last year before we owned it. Wood pellet SGA was up about $1 million, but that's really project expenses that we had to book as SG&A, project and startup costs.

Corporate expenses were flat, despite the transaction costs for the NEWP acquisition that we absorbed in the most recent quarter. During the quarter, Fulghum processed 3.8 million metric green tons of logs, which, of course, was no comparison from last year because we didn't own it last year.

Looking at the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $81 million of cash for the consolidated balance sheet. And if we take that pro forma for both GSO financing and the acquisition of NEWP, we would have $141 million of cash that would break down to $104 million for Rentech and $37 million for Rentech Nitrogen, again, those are both pro forma for the GSO financing and the NEWP acquisition.

On the debt side of the balance sheet, we reported $421 million of debt as of March 31. Again, pro forma for both GSO and the NEWP acquisition, we would show $434 million as we added $13 million of debt when we acquired NEWP and $50 million of debt in the GSO financing was offset by paying down $50 million of debt that we previously had.

As Hunt mentioned, the investment in Rentech by GSO funded our acquisition of New England Wood Pellet. We still have capital for that investment for our next step in the fibre business. We haven't had a chance to discuss that financing with you. Let me highlight some of the key terms.

The $100 million of convertible preferred stock has a conversion price of $2.22. That was a 23% premium over the closing price of Rentech's common stock on the day before we closed the transaction. That $2.22, the preferred is convertible into about 45 million shares, which would be 16.5% of Rentech common stock, assuming full conversion of the preferred. The preferred carries a cash dividend of 4.5% and it's optionally redeemable in seven years.

We may force conversion if the price of Rentech's common stock remains above $4.44 for 30 consecutive trading days. The $100 million of redemption value is backstopped by about 5.5 million common units of Rentech Nitrogen, which are owned by Rentech. The number of units is fixed and no covenants are affected by any change in the unit price.

These units will be released if the price of Rentech's common stock is above $4.44 for 90 consecutive trading days if choose to substitute cash for the units, or if the preferred shares are converted. We'll continue to receive all the cash distributions paid on these units and no hedging transactions of any kind are permitted unless Rentech's common stock price is at least $4.44, and no short-selling is permitted at any time regardless of the stock price.

The $50 million senior term loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 700 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1% and has a bullet maturity of five years. The only collateral for the loan is approximately 2.8 million common units of Rentech Nitrogen, owned by Rentech. The number of units provided as collateral is fixed and no covenants are affected by any change in the unit price. We can substitute cash for unit at our option.

Rentech will also continue to receive all cash distributions paid on these units. We can prepay the loan without penalty after the first year or at any time from proceeds of an IPO of the wood fibre processing business or from certain asset sales. And the loan can be expanded with an accordion feature to increase the term loan by up to $75 million. Both of these securities were issued at 98% of par. We used proceeds from the convertible preferred stock to repay the $50 million balance on the revolving margin loan that was backed by units of Rentech Nitrogen and we terminated that facility.

The GSO debt facility is easily expandable to provide additional financing for new growth in the fibre business. Although, we are also free to finance our growth through the capital markets. We're looking forward to working closely with GSO. They've been fantastic business partners for us, not just suppliers of capital.

Today, in our press release, we provided some updated guidance for Rentech, excluding Rentech Nitrogen, so that our outlook would be up-to-date for the acquisition of New England Wood Pellet.

For 2014, we project revenue for the wood fibre business of $146 million. That consists of $95 million from Fulghum Fibres, $20 million from the new pellet plants in Ontarioas as they begin planned deliveries, and $31 million from New England Wood Pellet for the eight months following the acquisition.

For Rentech, again, excluding Rentech Nitrogen, we project EBITDA of $7 million in 2014. This consists of $37 million of contributions from our various businesses. $20 million from Fulghum Fibres, $2 million from our pellet plants in Ontario with the first delivery to Drax in December, $5 million from NEWP for eight months and $10 million from the former Energy Technology's segment, which is the expected gain on the sale to Sunshine Kaidi.

We expect these EBITDA contributions to be partially offset by $5 million in business development expenses, as we develop the pipeline of growth for our wood pellet business, $19 million of corporate and transaction related expenses and $6 million of non-cash compensation expense.

Our forecast of corporate cash expenses increased by $4 million since our last guidance. This increase is mainly due to the transaction costs of acquiring New England Wood Pellet and the significant costs of advisors that we needed in order to evaluate and respond to proposals from shareholders and to reach a settlement agreement with shareholders.

We expect to capitalize the expenses related to the GSO financing, so those are not included in the $4 million estimate. We have projects and capital in place to add significant profits to our fibre business over the coming quarters. And we expect the second quarter for Rentech Nitrogen to be much stronger than the first quarter.

Hunt will wrap up, and then we'll answer questions.

Thanks, Dan. I'm really pleased with the progress we've made in the fibre and nitrogen businesses over the quarter in the last few months. Our nitrogen facilities saw improved financial and operating performance in the quarter. In fibre, we grew our portfolio and secured investments, which means continued growth in that business.

And now, with the NEWP acquisition, we expect the annual EBITDA run rate for our wood fibre business to be in the $43 million to $46 million run rate in 2015. We're well on our way to a possible IPO in the fibre business as an MLP in 2015.

And with that, I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt Farwell with Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon, guys.

Hi, Matt.

On the New England Wood Pellet transaction, could you provide some more illustration on how pricing is determined for wood pellets in the Northeast? And then, how you would go about growing capacity for that business to keep up with market demand?

So I'll go after the issue of market demand in that area. We knew we got a terrific platform and a great company up there. And as we stated that the demand exceeds supply in that marketplace. So there is capacity out there with other suppliers in the marketplace. And quite honestly, we're looking to this acquisition as a platform company to buy some other companies that have capacity available in them. And that's the goal is to take this management team, utilize what they've built, and it's got a terrific asset, and look to buy some other assets in that region that possibly could be underutilized.

Go ahead, Sean.

Hi, Matt. This is Sean. I think to the question about pricing, it's really more about what is the alternative fuel costs in that market. And to that end, certainly, electricity, propane, oil and even natural gas is that comes at a higher cost on a heat basis than wood pellets within the New England market. And so that combined with feedstock costs are also known before product pricing are set for the year.

Okay, great. Looks interesting. When you look at other M&A opportunities, clearly, you've talked about in the past reaching the $55 million mark. Would you characterize the next leg as something that will be related to this type of business, retail, or would it be more in line with developing new pellet plant projects or else just rolling up fuel supply in and around the areas where you're developing the business today?

I think what I can say, Matt, is that we're looking at all the above. And I think it's going to be a matter of what hits first. The return profiles on the development versus the acquisition. And we'll continue to look at that as it works through our pipeline and hits our criteria and, quite honestly, which one comes first, but most important is going to be the return profile.

Okay. And there were some news that came out in the last month or two regarding Drax and losing eligibility for contact for different funding related to one of the units. How does this affect the work that you do with Drax? I know it increases their reliance on the RO, the Rock markets going forward, but at the same time other projects were approved for CFD in the UK market. So has this at all affected how Drax is looking at the contracting?

First, the point I'll make is certainly our Wawa contract is unaffected as you know and Drax is committed to converting three of its stations and is evaluating a fourth. So I think they are still pressing ahead. We know they're still pressing ahead and we're in discussions with Drax and other utilities for additional pellet contracts both in UK and other markets. And I don't know, Sean, if you want to add anything else to that.

I think that actually sums it up pretty well.

Okay.

There is another CFD application process that's taking place later this summer and I suspect Drax will be looking very seriously at that regarding any additional units they might pursue. But as you correctly stated, Matt, the RO scheme is also available for them as a fallback.

And is there is any back story as to why that unit was denied? Was it just in order to include other projects in the funding scheme?

I think it's probably a question that's really we're not in the best position to answer. I think probably direct towards Drax or others could give you more insight to that than we can.

Okay. And then with regard to the relationship with GSO, you've indicated that they can be a business partner and available – a potential source of capital raise. Could you just help us understand how that's going to work given that you do have sources of third-party capital that are not related to GSO? How will that work with looking for financing elsewhere? And would you look to – if you were to raise capital from them, would you do something similar to issuing preferred stock or would you consider debt or equity?

Yeah. I'll start off and then hand it to Dan. But I think there's – as you know, there are substantial organization with different pockets of capital and there is debt available. There is – we probably would not approach the equity component, but there's opportunities that we're looking at both in nitrogen and on the fibre side. And that would probably most likely be debt. But [ph] although (26:20) Dan said, the close relationship over the last few months, and I don't know if you want to add to that, Dan.

Yeah, Matt, we have no restrictions on financing in the market. So we can do really whatever we want, but the benefit is we've got a very close relationship with GSO. They know our business very well. And we can – we designed that term loan to be easily expandable. And so all the indications we have is that that's a very good source of capital for us at market terms to expand the business and take us towards that IPO. We're also getting a lot of really interesting business ideas. You can tap into an organization like Blackstone and there's just a lot of interesting stuff that you get access to that you may not have had access before in terms of both investment ideas, financing ideas as well as other ways to improve our business.

Sounds really interesting. Well, that's it from me and congratulations on getting that transaction done as well as the acquisition.

All right. Thanks, Matt.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Brent Rystrom with Feltl. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Maybe for Sean, any particular redundancy built into the Wawa and Atikokan facilities? Are there multiple lines for making pellets or is each facility a single line?

I think that was for you, Sean.

Yeah. Hi, Brent. There are several lines at Wawa. There is a single line at Atikokan.

Okay. And from a redundancy perspective, if something were to happen at Atikokan, do you keep for some period excess capacity available at Wawa to make-up for that? And the reason I'm asking, Sean, I'm looking at recently somebody had a fire in one of their dryers. There are things that happen in this business somewhat similar to fertilizer, where there are unplanned downtime. And I'm just curious how you guys are kind of looking at thinking about that?

Well, first of all, regarding the Atikokan plant, that plant is designed at 90,000 tons plus. Our contract commitment today is 45,000 tons. We already have redundancy in that plant to meet any shortfall if one of the pellet mills seems to go down for maintenance, for example. And I should also clarify not all pellet mills go down, so meaning they're on a same line, we can take one off. And so we have some capacity redundancy at the plant. Wawa also has additional capacity that we could fill the contracted position should we need to. And then, the third option is that we do have third-party aggregation volumes that we have contracted that we could use – tap into should we need it.

Okay. Could you guys give us a quick update what happened with the Fulghum Fibres contract that was referenced in Maine as having an issue?

Yeah. The maintenance shop fire, [ph] they thought they (29:28) just put it out, some of the sparks have gotten inside the wall and they've lost the building and quite a bit of equipment, but the team up there has done a phenomenal job getting that plant back on line. In fact, we've got – we're at full – all three lines are now processing the chips for the customer and at no point did the customer mill ever suffered from outage as a result of us. We did all the temporary mobile equipment we needed to, to maintain their commitment to them while we've rebuilt and got that shipment back on line.

Okay. Thank you. And then two quick – not two quick, two [ph] being (30:01) as far as long-term positioning and thinking about the wood fibre business. In the year, since you guys have announced your entry into this business, any particular thoughts on how EBITDA margins on contracts that you're looking at now have changed or stayed the same since that time point? That's the first question. The second question – well, go ahead. I'll ask the second when you're done.

Yeah. This is Hunt. We've not seen margin pressure on the contracts that we're currently working on or looking out in the future. And I think, frankly, I think it's a good relationship with these buyers and related suppliers going forward. So we're not seeing any difference in contract relationships.

And I would just add, Brent, what we see there is very good returns on capital, especially for the low-risk profile of that business. So I completely agree what Hunt said, but we are more focused on return on capital than we would be just on EBITDA margin.

And do you have – when you look at return on capital, are you looking at a set parameter, say, you want earn your capital back in five years or something like that. Have you a target in that [ph] regard (31:18)?

We've been pretty consistent about saying, in this business, we're looking for after-tax returns in the mid-teens, IRRs in the mid-teens and plus or minus depending on how we assess the risk of the business, the chip mill contracts tend to be very low risks. So we might be willing to go a little bit lower just because of the risk structure is very tragic.

Then my final question is, maybe a little complicated, but it's from a thematic perspective over time I would assume that you're wood pellet business in the industrial side. So [ph] now looking (32:01) at the consumer acquisition of NEWP, but just on the industrial side I would assume the wood pellet business is going to be sourcing out of not just Canada, but also the United States and other markets. How do you think about or how would you tell us to think about that going forward? A year from now, two years from now, three years from now, how will Canada evolve as a percent of your sourcing?

Well, I think it's hard to put a percentage on it today, but I would tell you that we want to have a fairly aggressive approach in Canada. We got a terrific development team up there that works well together. We've got great operating team up there. And as you know, there's plenty of wood available for us and supply up there and it's done in a very sustainable manner. We like that. Our customers like that. So, we want to leverage the ports. We want to leverage the team up there and we want to leverage the opportunities on the fibre up there for the reasons I articulated. So we'll be as aggressive as we possibly can in Eastern Canada, but you will see us working out in the Southeast also.

And one final question, I'm sorry just thought of this. Thank you. Sean, real quickly. From a European regulatory perspective or European buyer perspective, what is the forest recertification standard they're most concerned with? Are they looking to adapt this here, are they looking at PEFC or are they looking at SFI?

I don't know if I have an answer to – a direct answer to the question. But I think that in general, they will look at those certifications plus more. There are certain requirements that European utilities like a Drax. So we'll look for that goes a little bit beyond just the FSC or SFI or those certifications, such as carbon footprint associated with from field to furnace and transport. So – but I think they will look at all of those as certainly recognizing them, but they really try to have sustainability in the number of social economic and environmental impacts beyond just existing certifications.

Thank you.

Thanks, Brent.

The next question comes from Lucas Pipes with Brean Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

I had a quick question on the New England Wood Pellet acquisition. I just wondered if you could maybe quantify the opportunity set for similar acquisitions over the coming 12 to 24 months?

So what I can say from our perspective is we – as we said, we bought a market leader. There are opportunities to aggregate more businesses in that. Our development team is doing a fantastic job of looking for opportunities, betting opportunities and we'll continue to build that business. We have seen some other private equity firms now enter that marketplace, but we think we're advantaged because we are strategic and we have a great operating team with the platform we've bought. So we've got a fairly good pipeline going and we'll look at these on an individual basis and look at the return profile and would love to bolt them onto our existing business up there and other places.

That's helpful. I appreciate that. And then a quick follow up question, as it relates to the relationship with Drax. Are you having discussions about maybe upsizing the contract volumes or at what point in time do you think you're going to start having those conversations about potential growth with that customer? Thank you.

Yeah. I'm going to turn it over to Sean.

I can't get into details on who we're discussions with, but it is safe to say, we're having a number of conversations with utilities in European market about what additional opportunities they would like us to pursue, what opportunities we've identified that we could bring to them, and Drax is one of those companies.

Okay. Good luck and good Job.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And our last question comes from Matt Niblack with HITE Hedge. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just a couple of questions, first, on the wood pellets strategies. Number one, when you look at other acquisitions in the pipeline, are they similar to the one in sort of size, the one you just completed, or are they smaller or larger? And secondly, how would you handicap the probability of closing at least one more acquisition in the wood product space in 2014?

I would prefer to stay away from the size discussion. I mean, I think it's safe to say, we're looking at smaller and larger acquisitions. That's our job to look at everything that's out there in the marketplace. And I think there's fairly good chance you'll see something more happening in 2014.

Great. And then more on the GSO relationship, they have a lot of expertise, and I would expect in cost cutting, operational efficiency, these kinds of topics.

Yeah.

Do you feel like there is more opportunity in any of the business elements apparent or the wood products or at RNF to take advantage of their expertise and potentially reduce the cost structure?

We don't know. I mean, as you know, we're in a growth mode. And so it's a delicate balance when you're growing a business and then forming a third public company potentially in the next year or so, and we're certainly open to it. It started doing due diligence with them and it'll continue through the finance committee and we're certainly open to it, as we always have been. And if there's ways to be more efficient in any of the businesses we certainly would do that. As Dan mentioned and I think I mentioned that there is leverage possibly through their purchasing organization and we're looking into that. So we're looking into all the benefits that they could bring. And it's a delicate balance, as I said, as you're growing your business when you're looking at SG&A. But we're certainly going to do that and we look forward to the results.

Great. And then lastly more on the recent acquisition. [ph] And of course, with due (38:53) diligence, were you able to look at data and could you share with us around both the market share in the Northeast that you have, as well as the net demand growth recently or projected into the next couple of years.

Yeah. So their share in the market – in the Northeast market is approximately 15% and we think we can grow it grow from there.

Great. And then, just in terms of the volume...

And by the way, you're up from the Northeast, so you should be buying pellets by the way.

I am as it turns out. I will...

I know you are.

And then in terms of the demand growth, I understand that this is a highly cost competitive way to [indiscernible] (39:38). Are you seeing demand growth in the market?

Yes. There's about a 7% growth in the marketplace today, which is one of the reasons this business is still attractive to us. I mean no running flat-out and we think we can buy some other companies that might have some available capacity to fill that demand because there's product now being brought in from outside that marketplace today and we'd like to be the person to fill that.

Okay. Thank you and congratulations on the clean execution of the strategy.

Thank you. Operator?

We have no further questions at this time.

All right. Okay. Thanks, everybody.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.