corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fiscal 2010


Third Quarter Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode.


Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded, Tuesday, August 10, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Rentech Vice President of Investor


Relations. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications


Welcome to Rentech’s 2010 fiscal third quarter conference call for the period ended June 30, 2010.


During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our company’s


progress during the fiscal quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial


review of the third quarter and provide comments on Rentech’s financial position. We will then open


the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question so that we may get to as


many of your questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms.


You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best


judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are


subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in


the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of August 10, 2010, and Rentech does not


undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is


required to do so under applicable law.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. I’ll start with an


update on our Rialto project. Since our last earnings call in May, we’ve filed all major permit


applications and signed a contract with Fluor to perform front-end engineering and design for the


project. We also completed some important milestones in support of our ongoing work with the


Department of Energy in connection with our application for a loan guarantee.


The engineering work done during the FEED phase establishes the facility layout, sizing,


specifications of all equipment, sets critical operating parameters and determines the technology


performance requirements for the optimal size of the plant. Upon completion of the FEED phase,


we’ll have a definitive cost estimate that will serve as the basis of the construction contract. A large


component of FEED is the generation of the FEED process design packages.


The PDP has defined all major design parameters for the technology units. There are currently five


PDPs underway both within Rentech and with outside licensors, including UOP. All the PDPs are


progressing on schedule and within budget.
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


The gasification and syngas conditioning PDPs are nearly complete. Fluor is fully engaged in the


FEED process. Their role as FEED contractor is to integrate the technology packages and provide


the design of all of the supporting facilities. Fluor’s work to date has been focused on the feedstock


handling and processing, syngas clean up and power generation areas of the plant.


We’ve secured options on all the land required to construct the facility and are completing site


surveys and preliminary geotechnical work. The preliminary layout of the facility has been


completed, identifying the locations of all major process equipment, roads, and buildings. Our work


in the FEED phase is on schedule and the cost is trending less than the guidance we gave of


significantly less than 20 million.


We believe the Rialto project is a strong candidate for the DOE loan guarantee under Section 1705.


We’re still in the process and we have completed all the steps required to date. We obtained a


report from R.W. Beck as the independent engineer which evaluated the technology and


assumptions used in the financial forecast we submitted to the DOE.


R.W. Beck’s report validated the combination of technologies that we’ll use in the project, including


the Rentech-SilvaGas gasifier, our Rentech process for synthetic fuels, and the integration of all the


technologies. R.W. Beck is – also evaluated the production capabilities of the plant and the capital


cost estimates. The report’s conclusions support both the technology and the financial assumptions


in the application we submitted to the Department of Energy.


R.W. Beck’s report is a critical achievement on the path to getting financing for this project and


marks the first time we’ve received this level of validation from an independent engineer. We also


have obtained preliminary credit assessment for the project from a nationally recognized rating


agency to support our loan guarantee application.


Now, on to our Natchez project. We’re making good progress in adding biomass feedstock. We


have advanced our feedstock negotiations with a large company with access to timber harvest


residuals, such as tree limbs and treetops. We believe that enough of this material is available to


make biomass a significant part of our feedstock for the project. We’re also negotiating a long-term


– with a long-term supplier of large volumes of petroleum coke.


These discussions about feedstock prompted us to engage Fluor to evaluate alternative


configurations for the plant that would use more of these environmentally friendly feedstocks. We


believe we can further improve the project’s environmental footprint by combining biomass and pet


coke feedstocks with our solution for carbon capture and sequestration.


We engaged lifecycle associates to assess the benefits of this feedstock combination. Preliminary


results indicate significant improvement in the lifecycle carbon footprint compared to the marginal


barrel of crude oil. Potentially greener project resonates well with our project partners, including the


airlines. We’re continuing to work with them towards a definitive agreement for the purchase of jet


fuel to be produced by the plant.


It is just over a year since we launched our bio-energy strategy with acquisitions of SilvaGas and


interest in ClearFuels. The positive response we’re receiving from the global marketplace


underscores the importance of biomass in today’s low-carbon world. When we combined our


Rentech process for synthetic fuels with the gasification technology we acquired – we created an


unmatched technology portfolio. The appeal of this technology package has resulted in the most


robust project development pipeline in our company’s history.


We’ll announce projects from our pipeline when we’ve achieved appropriate development


milestones and we feel confident in the economics of each project. The projects in our pipeline


other than Rialto and Natchez are in the scoping and pre-feasibility phases. We have a lot of