corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fiscal 2010


Second Quarter Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode.


Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded, Friday, May 7, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor


Relations. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2010 fiscal second quarter conference


call for the period ended March 31, 2010. Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to


cover some administrative aspects of this conference call.


During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will provide opening remarks


highlighting our company’s progress during the fiscal quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial


Officer, will give a financial review of the second quarter and provide comments on Rentech’s


financial position. We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit yourself to one


question so that we may get to as many questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminologies such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable


terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and


best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and


are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to


time in the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of May 7, 2010, and Rentech does not


undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the extent that it is


required to do so under applicable law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President & Director


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Last Friday,


Rentech made history, when United Airlines flew the first commercial flight in the United States on


synthetic fuel produced by Rentech, which is certified for commercial aviation. This was the


culmination of years of hard work by our employees. It was a real thrill to see our fuels in use.


I was honored to be on that flight, and I could tell you firsthand that both the Rentech and United


passengers on the flight were equally excited to see a U.S. commercial aircraft take off on clean


synthetic jet fuel. Synthetic fuels, including RenJet, are the only alternative fuel type certified for use


in commercial aviation. Our flight was fueled with a 40/60 blend of RenJet and traditional Jet A and


confirmed that our fuel performs on a commercial aircraft as well as traditional jet fuel. United


Airlines and other commercial carriers have been strong proponents of a domestic alternative fuels


industry with a lower carbon footprint.
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In August of last year, eight airlines signed an unprecedented multi-year agreement with Rentech


for up to 1.5 million gallons per year of renewable synthetic diesel from our Rialto project. The fuel


will power ground service equipment at Los Angeles International Airport.


In December 2009 13 carriers signed an MOU that is serving as a framework for a definitive supply


agreement for approximately 250 million gallons per year of certified synthetic jet fuel from our


Natchez Project. The customer agreements we’re pursuing with the airlines validate the


considerable market demand for synthetic fuels produced by the Rentech process.


There is significant market opportunity for our technologies, in the 28 states with renewable power


requirements and in some of the 45 countries, with feed and tariff programs to stimulate renewable


power production. There’s also many states and countries with low carbon or renewable fuel


requirements that should allow us to sell our low carbon fuels at a premium.


In addition, we are promoting our technology for products -- projects in locations with underutilized


fossil resources to replace imported oil. The renewable power produced from our Rentech-SilvaGas


gasifier is base-load, 24/7 renewable power, requires no backup power generation, and can be


placed close to existing transmission lines. Because of this, our projects compare favorably to wind


and solar as sources of renewable power.


The synthetic fuels produced using the Rentech process are ready for commercialization; they are


drop-in high-value jet and diesel fuels that can be produced economically and at large scale, the


only alternative fuel type certified for commercial aviation and also the United States military. These


low cost feedstocks that do not compete with food and have a lower carbon -- have a lower


regulated emissions and carbon footprints than petroleum based fuels.


Since the acquisition of SilvaGas, we’ve developed four distinct product offerings for project


development in North America and licensing worldwide. Product number one, what we call


repowering boilers. Our Rentech-SilvaGas gasifier can replace the coal input at existing coal-fired


boilers to produce renewable power, helping producers meet their renewable mandates and reduce


emissions. Product number two, standalone biomass-to-power. Our Rentech-SilvaGas gasifier


combined with a gas turbine can produce renewable power at brownfield and greenfield sites, this


technology offering efficiently uses biomass and reduces emissions. Product number three,


biomass-to-fuels and power. Our Rentech-SilvaGas gasifier and the Rentech Fischer-Tropsch


process integrated with our Proprietary Gas Cleanup Technology can produce low-carbon,


synthetic jet or diesel fuel and base load renewable power. Our Rialto project in California is a great


example of product number three.


Product number four: fossil and biomass-to-fuels and power. Using commercially available coal or


petrol gasification with our Rentech’s SilvaGas and Fischer-Tropsch technologies, we can produce


ultra-clean jet or diesel fuels on a large-scale from combination of fossil and biomass resources.


With carbon capture and sequestration, our fuels have a carbon footprint significantly better than


petroleum.


Our Natchez project is an example of product number four. We are in discussions regarding several


potential repowering and standalone renewable power opportunities, which may result in equipment


sales and licenses. These products can have a shorter path to the market than integrated fuels and


power plants and could bring in nearer term revenues through equipment sales.


Our two publicly announced development projects are the leading examples of products number


three and four. Our Rialto renewable fuels and power projects continues to track well against our


project timeline and budget. We submitted our part one application in February for DOE loan


guarantee for up to 80% of total project costs. We are still in the process. The DOE has made it


clear that we are not allowed to publicly disclose the status of our application at this time. It may be