corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fiscal 2009


Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-


only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As


a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, August 11, 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor


Relations for Rentech. Please go ahead.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications


Thank you. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2009 fiscal third quarter conference call


for the period ended June 30, 2009. Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to cover


some administrative aspects of this conference call. This call will be briefed, as we had a business


update call at the end of June.


During this call Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will provide remarks highlighting


our company’s progress during the fiscal quarter and Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer will


give a financial review of the fiscal quarter and will provide comments on Rentech’s financial


position. We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit yourself to one question,


so that we may get to as many questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable terms.


You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and best


judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are


subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in


the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of August 11, 2009 and


Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements except to the


extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. We’ve had some


significant exciting news over the last week. We announced our first profitable quarter ever and


project positive consolidated net income for the full year, which Dan will discuss later on the call.


We also announced that our jet fuel has been certified for commercial aviation. ASTM International,


the standards organization, approved a modification to commercial aviation jet fuel specification to


include up to a 50/50 blend of synthetic Fischer-Tropsch jet fuel.


The FAA relies on ASTM specifications, so no further action is required by the FAA to certify the


use of synthetic jet fuel for commercial flights. This certification process took about two years and


Rentech was the only U.S. based-producer of Fischer-Tropsch fuel that participated in the process.


This is a very important point to note, as it reveals the limited number of technology providers who


can actually produce the synthetic fuel certified for commercial aircraft use.


We supply guidance, data and our jet fuel during the development of the specification. It’s also


important to note that we’re currently the only U.S. producer of synthetic jet fuel that qualifies under
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the new specification for commercial aviation. We can make these fuels today at our PDU in


Colorado.


With this approval, the commercial aviation market is open to us, in addition to the markets for


green power and diesel and fuels for the Department of Defense. We own demonstrated core


technologies required for the production of products for these markets and are applying them at our


commercial scale projects. Our Natchez Project is currently our largest plant project, designed to


produce approximately 30,000 barrels per day of synthetic fuels.


In anticipation of last week’s certification of synthetic jet fuel for aviation, we’ve been working for


sometime with a group of commercial carriers for long-term off-take agreements for the jet fuel,


anticipated to be produced at our Natchez Project. We’re also having discussions with potential


feedstock suppliers and strategic equity partners. In addition, we’re on track to complete our permit


applications for filing this fall.


Our Rialto Project is our first major step in implementing our bio-energy strategy. We view this as


the fastest and potentially the most profitable route to generate cash flows from our synthetic fuels


business through the project development and licensing. Recently, we made two investments in


biomass gasification companies to advance our Renewable Energy strategy. We acquired SilvaGas


Corporation and we made a strategic investment in ClearFuels, a biomass gasification and project


development company, whose gasifier is optimized to efficiently convert finely ground biomass


feedstock, such as sugarcane bagasse and wood waste into syngas.


SilvaGas’ commercially proven biomass gasification technology creates syngas from a wider range


of biomass feedstocks, including wood, wood residues, straw, switch grass, municipal solid waste,


energy crops and agricultural residues.


The Rentech SilvaGas gasifier can be deployed today at commercial scale for biomass to power


and synthetic fuels production. We are applying gas conditioning technology to integrate this


gasifier with our Fischer-Tropsch process to optimize fuel production at our Rialto Project.


The Rialto Project is continuing to progress on schedule. We expect to complete the feasibility


study this fall and then move into permitting and detailed designs. The results of the feasibility study


being done by Jacobs Engineering will provide us with a much of the data necessary to complete


our permit applications and cost estimates.


We’ve recently engaged ENVIRON International to act as our consultant and contractor for the


permitting process for the project. ENVIRON is assisting us in preparing applications for permits


necessary to construct and operate the Rialto Project, and is also performing technical studies and


preparing environmental documents.


ENVIRON has been involved in the issuance of major air permits by the agency that Rialto Project


is subject to. We’ve already begun some of the permitting work required and expect to file for


permits around year-end.


In addition, we are commencing the selection process for the engineering and construction firm that


will perform the front-end engineering and design or FEED work for the Rialto Project. We continue


to progress in our commercial discussions with green waste haulers for the project’s feedstock and


we’ll be submitting a response to the Southern California Edison’s 2009 RFP for renewable power.


The package of data prepared for the Edison bid will be used in response to other RFPs for


renewable power. The project – the process from bid submission to selection by the utilities can


take many months.