corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech Fiscal 2009


First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-


only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, February 10. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome all of you to Rentech’s 2009 fiscal first quarter conference call


for the period ended December 31, 2008.


Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to cover some administrative aspects of this


conference call. Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech will provide opening remarks,


highlighting our company’s progress during the fiscal quarter; John Diesch, Senior Vice President


of Operations will discuss our nitrogen fertilizer business; and Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial


Officer, will give a financial review of the first quarter and will provide comments on Rentech’s


financial position. We will then open the lines for questions and ask that you limit yourself to one


question, so that we may get to as many questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminologies, such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable


terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and


best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and


are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time-to-


time in the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of February 10,


2009, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements


except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. This morning, we will


review developments since our recent call in December and spend time focusing on the role of our


nitrogen fertilizer business, Rentech Energy Midwest Corporation or REMC, and then wrap up with


a financial overview.


We intend to periodically introduce you to key members of our senior team and focus on special


topics, so today we’ll spend time on REMC. REMC helps to differentiate us from other emerging


alternative energy companies. Most importantly, we expect REMC to provide us with sufficient cash


flows to enable us to continue developing our synthetic fuels business in this fiscal year, without the


need to raise additional capital in this difficult market.


We believe we have the funds necessary to continue our development activities in a disciplined


manner, having significantly reduced our overhead spending. REMC also provides us with


significant operating and technical expertise that can be directly applied to our synthetic fuels


operations.
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our Product Demonstration Unit or PDU in Commerce City, Colorado, provides us with a distinct


competitive advantage over other companies in our sector. To our knowledge, the PDU is the only


operating synthetic transportation fuels facility in United States.


We have produced thousands of gallons of ultra-clean synthetic fuels and other products at the


PDU, enabling us to be the only US-based company that is capable of producing, and providing


these types of products to potential customers including the United States Air Force.


We’ve previously announced that the Air Force conducted laboratory testing on small samples of


our synthetic jet fuel. Their testing confirms that the quality and characteristics of our RenJet fuel


meet the Air Force’s specifications for these fuels.


As a result, the Air Force recently purchased additional quantities of RenJet for performance and


emissions testing in a turbine engine. The Air Force’s fuel purchased after preliminary testing marks


an important milestone for Rentech as it represents the first sale of our synthetic jet fuel, validating


the demand for fuels produced from the Rentech process. The successful operation the PDU also


positions us well to focus on the commercial deployment of the Rentech process.


We are pursuing both renewable and fossil-based development activities. Renewable facilities


typically would be smaller in scale and require less capital to build than fossil facilities. The smaller,


economic scale for these plants was driven by both their simpler design and by feedstock costs,


which can be much lower for waste materials than for fossil feedstocks.


In fact, biomass can even have a negative feedstock cost when tipping fees are included. The


demand for renewable fuels and energy has been on the rise due to their environmental benefits.


We’re moving forward with our preliminary engineering work for potential renewable facilities on


acquiring sites at which to locate these facilities and on securing feedstock sources and


technologies for these projects. We have made significant progress toward identifying biomass


gasifiers that can be commercially viable and can produce syngas levels that are compatible with


our requirements.


We continue to move forward with low cost, but high impact development activities on our proposed


Natchez project. During this challenging macroeconomic environment, we are committed to


prudently moving the project forward while seeking partners. We recently selected an engineering


firm who will serve as our environmental consultant to assist us with the permitting process for the


Natchez project. By engaging our consultants now, we expect to be able to prepare all necessary


air, water, and construction permit applications for the Natchez project and submit them to the


Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality this summer. We currently expect to receive the


permits in 2010.


We expect the new stimulus package and other government programs to provide financial support


of about $30 billion in direct funding of new energy projects. The federal government should be able


to leverage that amount many times over in the form of federal loans, loan guarantees for energy


projects. We are actively engaged in seeking some of this assistance for our projects. Our synthetic


fuels plants will help promote energy independence, create American jobs and produce fuels that


are cleaner than petroleum fuels.


Converting biomass to clean fuel has obvious environmental benefits. We recently reported on two


separate studies, which show that fuels from Fischer-Tropsch plants using coal or petroleum coke


as feedstock that have lower carbon footprints than comparable petroleum-based fuels when CO2


sequestration is used. We recently announced the results of a Rentech commissioned and


independently reviewed life cycle assessment of greenhouse gas emissions from our proposed


Natchez facility assuming petroleum coke as the feedstock.