Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
Keith B. Forman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Jeffrey Richard Spain — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Rentech, Inc.
Matt Niblack — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC
Joseph Pratt — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Rentech, Inc.'s 2016 Third Quarter 2016 Conference Call. My name is Cory and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I would like to inform all participants this call is being recorded at the request of Rentech. This broadcast is copyrighted property of Rentech. Any rebroadcast of this information in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Rentech is prohibited.

I will now turn the call over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Julie, you may begin.

Thanks for joining us everyone. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months ended September 30, 2016. During today's call, Keith Forman, President and CEO of Rentech will summarize our activities; Jeff Spain, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. They will be available for questions at the end of our remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe, and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, beliefs and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance.

They are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and risk factors. We detail these factors from time-to-time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of November 10, 2016. Rentech does not revise or update these [audio gap] (01:39) except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

Today's presentation also includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2016 third quarter earnings press release. You can find the release on our website.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Keith.

Good morning. Let me start by giving you an update on our Canadian plants. In September, we completed the previously announced replacement of problematic conveyors and conducted other maintenance and repairs at both plants. Atikokan is now consistently averaging daily operating rates of just under 90% of capacity following the planned seven day outage that included replacing two conveyors.

We now consider Atikokan to be fully operational and expect it to continue to operate at approximately 90% of capacity or at approximately 100,000 metric tons of annualized production until such time that we have an economic justification to replace the last remaining bottleneck conveyors.

We have met our annual contractual obligation to OPG for this year, having delivered approximately 46,000 tons of pellets produced from the Atikokan plant. Additional production from now until the end of the year will be used to meet our contractual obligation to Drax.

With respect to Wawa, we completed startup and commissioning of the new conveyors at the facility last month, following an approximately five-and-a-half week shutdown, that also included performing maintenance and repair work. The plant is currently achieving operating rates that annualize to approximately 150,000 metric tons of production, which is essentially the level achieved prior to the conveyor project.

The new conveyors are functioning as expected, but we are working to resolve other equipment and operating challenges that have manifested themselves post turnaround. Throughout the ramp-up, we are focused on ensuring that Wawa is able to sustain incrementally higher production rates with all of the new conveyors and equipment.

The plant personnel gain experience operating at higher rates in an orderly progression and the feedstock suppliers can ramp up their harvesting and delivering activities in order to meet our higher fiber feedstock needs. While we expect Wawa to achieve consistent improvements in operating efficiency, we continue to be vigilant in monitoring the plant's various processes to identify any potential bottlenecks in a timely manner and address them prior to any bottleneck having a significant impact on production.

We expect the plant to reach approximately 60% of production capacity within the next couple quarters and anticipate reaching full capacity in the range of 400,000 metric tons to 450,000 metric tons late in the year.

At an annual production rate capacity of 400,000 metric tons, we would be able to fulfill our yearly obligations under the Drax contract and generate positive cash flow at Wawa based on today's economic variables. We are currently evaluating our stabilized EBITDA outlook as Wawa continues ramping up production given that operating costs of Wawa have been higher than expected and may continue to be so going forward, which will negatively impact profitability under our contract with Drax.

In addition, oil prices, which drive indexation of our prices in our Drax contract have declined more than Canadian diesel prices, a material component of our fiber supply costs, which is also negatively impacting margins on deliveries to Drax.

In October, we revised our delivery schedule with Drax for 2016 and 2017 to be consistent with our ramp up expectations for Wawa at that time. We agreed to deliver 188,000 tons to Drax in 2016, which includes 95,000 metric tons delivered through the end of September and approximately 93,000 tons to be delivered during the remainder of this year. For 2017 we agreed to deliver approximately 336,000 metric tons during the calendar year.

We will not incur any monetary penalties to Drax if we meet the revised delivery schedules for 2016 and 2017, but the schedule may be subject to further change including penalties if Wawa does not ramp up as expected. I'll close out the discussion of Canada by noting that we are pleased with how well Atikokan is performing. We have identified and deployed additional engineering, technical and operating resources for Wawa, we believe, will be able to help us overcome any operating challenges and remaining bottlenecks at the plant that may arise as we ramp up to full capacity.

Let me shift gears into Fulghum. For the first nine months of the year Fulghum's revenues were up 4% as compared to the prior year period due to strong South American sales that offset lower domestic processing revenues. The same trends drove Fulghum's third quarter revenues 12% higher than in 3Q 2015.

South American sales rose by 27% during the first nine months of this year as compared to the prior year period. We had higher biomass product sales in South America and chip sales to Asia in the third quarter, which resulted in South American sales that were 68% above 3Q 2015 levels.

U.S. sales, which were down 10% year-to-date as compared to the prior year period continued to be impacted by the previously disclosed sale of one of the mills. In addition, one of our customer mills experienced considerable unplanned downtime in Q3 this year, which resulted in lower chip demand. These two factors were the primary reasons why U.S. sales declined 15% in the third quarter as compared to 3Q 2015.

Fulghum generated EBITDA of $13.4 million for the first nine months of this year. For the full year, we anticipate that Fulghum will generate EBITDA in the range of $16 million to $17 million.

At NEWP year-to-date revenues were down 60% compared to last year while third quarter revenues were down 47% versus 3Q 2015. Results for the first half of the year were impacted by the abnormally warm temperatures in the Northeast during the most recent winter.

In addition, depressed prices for competitive heating fuel such as a heating oil and propane has affected consumer demand. There has also been a change in the trend we've seen over the last few years of consumers buying pellets in the spring and summer for the upcoming heating season, instead they seem to be waiting till the fall and winter.

Big-box stores began buying pellets in June; however, the very warm summer and lack of any cool nights prompt customers to begin thinking about the upcoming fall and winter [indiscernible] (09:05) purchases from big-box stores.

They've pushed the majority of their pellet shipments that were planned for the last half of August through October to the remainder of the fourth quarter and the first quarter of 2017. As cold weather is starting to arrive, we are beginning to move more product to big-box stores. We continue to operate at reduced production rates at three mills of our four mills, but we are prepared to ramp up production if demand exceeds our current expectations.

Year-to-date NEWP generated $2.1 million of EBITDA. We anticipate that for the full-year NEWP will generate between $5 million and $6 million of EBITDA. Our EBITDA projection this year is significantly lower than what we expect the business to generate in an environment with normalized weather patterns.

I'll close with an update on our cost savings initiatives. To date, we have completed restructuring actions that will provide an annual consolidated SG&A expense savings of approximately $11 million, and we continue to press forward towards a target range of $12 million to $15 million, which I fully expect to be near the top end of that range.

Jeff, would you address some more details for us?

Sure. Thank you, Keith. Starting with the topline, Rentech's revenues for the third quarter totaled approximate $38.6 million, which is down 10% versus the third quarter of 2015.

The decrease in revenues was due to significantly lower sales at New England Wood Pellet, partially offset by an increase in sales at Fulghum and at our industrial pellet plants in Canada. Our total gross profits in the third quarter were down $6.5 million compared to Q3 of last year. All three of our business units experienced unfavorable gross profit comparisons for the quarter.

Beginning with Canada, our gross loss was higher by $2.9 million in the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the third quarter of 2015, which reflects a write-down of inventory by $6.2 million and slightly lower average sales prices. The inventory write-down was driven in large part by higher costs this quarter because of our planned outages for conveyer fixes and other repairs and maintenance at both Atikokan and Wawa.

With respect to New England Wood Pellet, NEWP's gross profits were down $2.6 million in the third quarter as compared to last year as a result of lower sales volumes. As Keith mentioned, NEWP's largest customers, notably the big-box stores, delayed pellet purchases this third quarter unlike in recent years until closer to the heating season.

Fulghum's gross profits declined by $1.1 million in the third quarter compared to Q3 of 2015. The decrease reflects primarily lost profits due to the sale of one of our mills in April of this year. Fulghum's lower U.S. results were partially offset by higher South American sales.

On a positive note, our total consolidated SG&A expense was down by 23% in the third quarter compared to the third quarter of last year. SG&A was lower at each of our business units as well as for corporate.

Industrial pellet's SG&A expense was down 29% primarily due to lower personnel costs and lower railcar delivery lease expenses. NEWP's SG&A was lower by 12% and Fulghum's declined by 6%. With respect overhead, our cost savings efforts drove a 23% reduction in corporate S&GA.

Turning to the balance sheet, Rentech's cash balance as of September 30 was $39.7 million. Our total debt obligations as of September 30 were $121 million. This includes $52.3 million of debt owed to GSO, $38.5 million at Fulghum, $16.3 million of debt at NEWP, and $14 million of debt related to the port facility in Québec City.

The pre-tax value of our approximately 7.2 million units of CVR partners was nearly $38 million as of September 30. We estimate that remaining capital expenditures for the Canadian plants as of September 30 will be approximately $14.5 million, which includes approximately $5 million for potential additional conveyor replacements at Atikokan and other potential improvements that are on hold until such time that the investment can be justified.

$6.6 million of the remaining $14.5 million cash spend is recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. We still expect to utilize all of our federal NOL carry-forwards, R&D credits and AMT credit carry-forwards due to the gain on the sale of Rentech Nitrogen in April 2016.

We now estimate that our cash taxes for 2016 will be $5 million to $7.5 million, which is lower than our previous estimated range of $5 million to $15 million.

Before we open the lines for questions, I would like to acknowledge that today is my last day at Rentech. While the last five years have certainly had its challenges, I've enjoyed speaking with our investors and very much being a part of the team here at Rentech. I've worked closely with Paul Summers over the years and know him to be highly intelligent, confident and tenacious. I'm very confident in his abilities to serve you as CFO of Rentech going forward.

Thank you and we're now ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from [ph] Jeff Everly. Jeff, (15:37) your line is open.

Hey, guys. How are you doing?

Good.

Jeff, thanks for your service to the company and good luck in your future endeavors.

Thank you.

I have a question about the industrial side. What is the level of production at Wawa for this – for the division to be EBITDA breakeven? [ph]

Jeff (16:08) that's a question that we can't answer. We have a whole range of estimates depending on the costs. So if you go back to the paradigm where diesel was, where it was in relationship to Brent two years ago and what the operating costs we expected to see without knowing how the plant was going to be, that number was probably in the 300,000 ton range. But we're seeing first up that disconnect with the fuel was occurred and that's variable, changes every month or every day quite honestly, but the way our indexing works, I think it's done on a quarterly retrospective basis.

But the thing that's really changed and made it less certain is the operating paradigm and we still are yet to operate anywhere near capacity. So we are seeing signs as we are operating more consistently that our costs as the way we operate now are not in line with being as profitable as we had hoped.

So I would – I want to defer giving that a hard answer until I see how we can – as we operate at higher rates, how do we better manage – repairs and maintenance being one of the largest ones, parts and spares being another. So somewhat logistics, somewhat turnaround times and some of it's fiber costs.

We are – our mix of fiber, I think, we were looking at a lower cost basis than we're seeing right now. We need to change our mix. Clearly, the most advantageous fiber source for that facility as it is for NEWP facilities is dry fines that come from sawmills. We have to apply less energy and effort to make them – to get that into a pellet.

So that's, not to be evasive, but that's sort of the book we're looking at. And as a run forward company, that is the number one priority that we have, we have to make what we do profitable. And as you can imagine that we only talked about one side of this equation there are other sides of this equation that could be addressed as well, but not on a phone call.

Okay. Maybe I'll ask it a different way, which is, Q3 industrial segment lost money, had negative EBITDA, and you've talked about when Wawa does get to full capacity, you've talked about what the range would be and I understand that that number might be influx, but it was a significantly positive number, mid-teens Canadian EBITDA is my memory.

So the picture you're painting is that that plant will ramp over the next 12 months. So at some point, you cross over from losses into breakeven and then you crossover into making money. How far away are we from that division breaking even and not being a drag on EBITDA?

I don't have a date. I don't want to make anybody on this side of the phone call sound ignorant, but if certain factors change sooner, that date moves way towards us; and if certain factors don't change, that date is out there and also provides – also introduces other issues relative to, is this a sustainable goal to strive for. I mean, do you go three or four or five more quarters in negative cash flow land before you get to, "nirvana number."

So I think that's the equation that we're pursuing here and we're working hard. We've reorganized up north bringing in some external, briefing up our external bench, more empowering the plant level folks eliminating some of the overhead there, but most importantly, I think, bringing into our shop aspects of our operations that were previously contracted for. So we've lowered the cost, made these functions part of our team. And I'm hopeful that that will work out. And as I said, there are other aspects of our cost structure and revenue side that have yet to be resolved. And if some of those push points have favorable outcomes from discussions we may or may not have, but hopefully will have that that dynamic can change meaningful.

We still are – at Atikokan, our plant is profitable. It's actually pretty darn close to where the numbers were originally set up a couple years ago. The plants – I lost my train of thought here, but the – we do have – still have access to, even in this market, a very favorable cost of product. So I guess what I'm indicating is that there's headroom on what the value of what we make can be sold for in the pellet world longer-term.

Okay. One other item that would be helpful to get some clarity on is the inventory write-down. So just looking at your press release, you have adjusted EBITDA for the quarter of negative $7.5 million, but in the text you talk about a $6 million, $6 plus million inventory write-down in Canada. Is that from inventory that was produced in prior periods that you just had to write down at the end of this quarter, such that your adjusted EBITDA was really much better than negative $7.5 million.

Yeah. That's correct. It's pulling forward the loss on the sale of those pellets even though they've not been sold and they were produced primarily during – it implies inventory produced prior to the outage. Our costs were higher during the quarter because of the outages. So spreading that across the inventory on hand does create an abnormal LCM write-down for the third quarter and was about $6.2 million.

Okay. And so it would seem to me that even if the plant is not operating at full capacity, you don't have any planned downtime for Q4. So unless you have significant planned downtime, doesn't seem like you should have further inventory write-downs in the future; am I understanding that correctly?

Until we get closer to capacity, our per ton cost would continue to be perhaps below selling price and it touches on the breakeven inflection point that you're asking about in that – you reach that breakeven and you no longer experience LCM. So would expect to experience them until we get closer to that breakeven point.

Okay. I think I understand that. Okay, that's all I have for now. Thank you.

And our next question comes from James Jampel from HITE Hedge. James your line is open.

That's you, Matt.

Hi. This is Matt Niblack from HITE. Just on the Wawa plant, on the last call you said you still expect that to get much closer to its original nameplate capacity. I know you've still got a range in there, but has anything about the sort of ongoing ramps there dissuaded you from the view that you can – you still got a great chance to get at or close to the original nameplate?

No, what's happened, Matt, is that we've operated that consistently – more consistently. I don't want to say consistently higher numbers, but – because we're back to the set 30%, 35%, 40% of capacity, but the consistency has, it's basically moved the clog further down the pipe. But what we're seeing is, what – we use the somewhat vague term, equipment and operations, because it is a list of items that we've seen to-date that don't have capital – they don't have major costs associated with them. It's really fixing [ph] green screen's (25:47) aspiration on pallets, shoots, the log in-feed system, that's on the equipment side. On the operating side, it's using the proper fuels in the furnaces, it's making sure that certain types of feedstock come in with certain moisture levels, that – maybe we're putting in too dry on the fine side and too moist on the chip side.

It's the chemistry of the plant, but it's more important. It's being exposed to us more because what the plants actually – hey, look, those five pellet mills have been operating now for 48 consecutive hours or 90 consecutive hours.

What we haven't done is press our foot to the pedal and run all 12 pellet mills at once. And I've used the analogy here that, it'd be like taking the Tesla on the autopilot and setting it's speed for 120, and it hits the tree and there is the wreck. And what caused it? Probably it was really pressing the pedal to 120 and all the other little factors that went wrong would be unknown. So we want to know what all the little factors are before we press the pedal.

Got it. That makes sense. Secondly, given that you've had a lot of success in getting these plants up and running, the global pellet market seems to be doing quite well and you're only pure play public competitor, their share prices kind of to the moon here to the moon here over the course of the past year. Is there a certain point when – in this process of getting these plants up and running when you start a process of thinking about strategic alternatives for the business.

You know what, Matt, I think we think about that we don't – we shouldn't be in our jobs, we think about that all the time. And I was around in some of the moments post the Enron situation in the midstream oil space and if you were wounded by that by the shrapnel from that implosion, what saddened me was the inability to take advantage of what the longer-term value proposition in that space. And companies that have thrived today, energy transfer enterprise and the like, they were able to take advantage of that longer-term growth prospects while bigger companies that were wounded were not. And I think that's kind of where we were. We were first-mover in this space. We had really good PR and PowerPoint presentations we made some strategic errors with respect to processes and the way we went about executing on our plan, and that may – that enables us to – that disables us to take advantage of some of the things that are happening right now.

We've really been holding the line on things in our control. We've reduced the amount of senior capital, senior to our shareholders by almost over $150 million in the last nine months. We've reduced our run rate expenses by $11 million and on its way to $15 million and on its way further beyond that number.

But all of those have consequences, we haven't increased our capital expenditure number by $1 since February of 2015. So working in that environment is not exactly conducive to flying over to Europe and say, hey, we are ready to jump in and build the plant for you.

That being said, is it impossible? I still think we have access and connections and contacts in the greatest wood basket in North America. It's favorable on environmental and political and also cost basis. So I don't want to say never, but certainly that's a long answer to your question. But, yes, we're thinking of everything.

Got it. Thank you.

And our last question comes from Joe Pratt from Stifel. Joe your line is open.

Yes. What's the price – Keith approximately what's the market value of the UAN stock you own?

Around $38 million as of September 30, but they're a little lower now.

And what's the obligation to Blackstone?

We have a debt security that has a maturity of, what 2019? I think correct.

Yes.

Yes, 2019. $52,250,000 at a 3.25% with no amortization. So that's part of the collateral package. Obviously, the entire – every lock stock and barrel piece of stock and equipment around here is poised in – that's not poised to lenders that are structurally senior to them such as the lenders at Fulghum and New England Wood Pellets and Fulghum South America.

Okay. That answers my question. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.