Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Julie Dawoodjee Cafarella — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, Rentech, Inc.
D. Hunt Ramsbottom — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rentech, Inc.
Dan J. Cohrs — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Rentech, Inc.
Sean Ebnet — Senior Vice President-Business Development, Rentech, Inc.
Matt Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
James Bardowski — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Jonathan S. Vyorst — Portfolio Manager, Paradigm Capital Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Rentech Inc. 2013 Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions and comments following the presentation.

At this time, it is my pleasure to turn the floor over to Julie Cafarella, Vice President of Investor Relations. Ma'am, the floor is yours.

Thank you. Welcome to Rentech's conference call for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2013. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize the company's activities during the period and provide our financial outlook. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial review of the period. Also in the room with us today is Sean Ebnet, SVP of Fibre Business Development, who will be available for the question-and-answer segment at the end of our prepared remarks.

Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements. They can be identified by the use of terminologies such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms. You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best judgment, based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in the company's periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of August 8, 2013, and Rentech does not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is required to do so under applicable laws.

In addition, today's presentation includes various non-GAAP financial measures. The disclosures related to such non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, are included in our 2013 second quarter earnings press release that is available on our website.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our financial results for the quarter demonstrates the dramatic transformation we've undertaken at Rentech. Our new business at the parent, which is now wood fibre processing, generates positive EBITDA.

Additionally, consistent with our previous statements, we had no R&D expenses this quarter, with our focus now on opportunities with attractive returns within the wood fibre processing and nitrogen fertilizer segments. Demand for nitrogen remains healthy, although our results for the quarter in that business were affected by the delayed and abbreviated spring application period and softer nitrogen prices.

The integration of Fulghum has been smooth and is on schedule, largely due to the continuity of the senior management team there. Employees and customers within Fulghum have been very supportive and enthusiastic of our acquisition of the business. Since owning Fulghum for the past few months, we've confirmed there are good growth opportunities for chipping in North and South America.

At our pellet business, Graanul Invest, our JV partner, is fully engaged in the engineering, procurement and construction oversight functions in the Atikokan and Wawa pellet projects, applying their years of experience in proven design and vendor relationships. We've begun purchasing long lead time equipment for the facilities and expect equipment deliveries to begin in the fourth quarter. The projects will be presented to the JV board for formal approval once the final engineering and site designs are completed this fall.

Turning to our fertilizer business, results at both facilities were impacted by the delayed and shortened spring season caused by wet weather. Additionally, significant offshore urea at very aggressive prices lowered nitrogen prices across the board and also prompted some late-season switching from UAN to urea due to the relative prices of the two fertilizers.

The expansion projects underway at East Dubuque and Pasadena Facilities are progressing within budget, with both projects scheduled to come online by the end of the year. The additional tons will contribute to incremental per unit cash distributions beginning in 2014.

For our energy technology segment, which is our legacy business, R&D costs were zero this quarter, consistent with our previous statements. We're making good progress on disposition of assets in this business. We expect to close on the $9 million sale of the Natchez site in this quarter. We're also having good discussions with potential parties interested in acquiring our site in Commerce City, Colorado and our technologies, as well as deploying our technologies at no cost to Rentech.

I'll now turn the call over to Dan for further detail.

Thank you, Hunt. Good afternoon, everyone. This is our first quarterly report since we repositioned the company with our entry into the wood fibre processing business, and we've changed our segment reporting significantly.

Now we report five business segments, reflecting operations at each business. Fulghum Fibres, which is our wood chipping business; wood pellets, which includes wood pellet projects owned by Rentech and wood pellet development costs; Rentech Nitrogen's East Dubuque and Pasadena Facilities, each of which is a segment; and energy technologies, which includes expenses related to our technologies and other assets in this segment, such as our sites in Natchez, Mississippi and Commerce City, Colorado.

We also separately report corporate expenses that are not allocated to any of the segments. The unallocated expenses at Rentech include compensation expense for executives and staff, who work on the fibre business and corporate matters; accounting, tax and legal fees; equity-based compensation; board expenses; and certain insurance costs.

We expect to continue to reduce the SG&A costs related to our technology business and to ensure that SG&A is at appropriate levels for our other segments. Our benchmarking against our peer companies supports our view that our SG&A is reasonable, whether we look at Rentech Nitrogen, Rentech, Inc. or Rentech consolidated.

Let's look at the results for the second quarter for Rentech consolidated. Revenues were up 70% from the second quarter a year ago. That's largely because of the acquisitions. Fulghum Fibres contributed $16 million of revenue in this quarter for the two months that we owned them, and revenues at Rentech Nitrogen were up by $33 million because of a $42 million contribution from the Pasadena Facility that we acquired also since that second quarter a year ago.

The gross profit margin for consolidated Rentech dropped from 65% to 36%, that's largely because we acquired two businesses that tend to operate at lower margins. If we look at the East Dubuque plant within Rentech Nitrogen, margins were up only slightly, but we added a significant amount of revenue from the Pasadena plant that operates at a lower margin and also from Fulghum Fibres, which operates at a gross margin of about 15% in this quarter.

Consolidated SG&A was up by $4.1 million. And if we break that down, again, it's mostly due to the acquisitions. Rentech Nitrogen's SG&A was up by $1 million, all because of the addition of Pasadena. SG&A at the East Dubuque plant actually dropped from the prior-year quarter.

We had $0.9 million of SG&A from Fulghum Fibres and we did have increased SG&A in our wood pellet business as we increased our development activities surrounding those wood pellet projects. Energy technologies' SG&A also increased, but that was really because of the re-categorization of expenses. SG&A itself would have dropped, but we re-categorized $2 million of R&D expenses into SG&A in this quarter.

Rentech's unallocated corporate SG&A was flat, $6.2 million last year versus $6.3 million this year. Net income from the quarter on a consolidated basis was $32.8 million or $0.14 per share. We provided adjustment for some one-time items to make it comparable to last year's quarter.

The adjustments bring us down to $0.04 per share, which is the same as the net income per share recorded last year in the quarter. Those adjustments were $25.1 million due to a tax benefit, $4.8 million due to a change in earn-out contingent consideration at Rentech Nitrogen and $6 million loss on the extinguishment of debt also at Rentech Nitrogen.

In the two months that we own them since the acquisition, Fulghum Fibres processed 2.2 million tons of logs and manufactured 2.1 million tons of wood chips and residual fuels, all of which were sold to customers.

EBITDA for the quarter was $3.1 million at Fulghum Fibres, Rentech Nitrogen's consolidated EBITDA was $38.4 million and Rentech consolidated reported EBITDA of $31.9 million. We ended the quarter with $138 million of consolidated cash, $113 million of that at Rentech Nitrogen, $25 million at Rentech, the parent. Pro forma for the distributions coming out of Rentech Nitrogen, Rentech Nitrogen would have had $80 million and Rentech would have had $54 million once those distributions are received.

I'd like to provide some clarity on the amortization schedule in debt payments for Rentech, Inc. We assumed Fulghum's debt of $59 million, when we acquired the business in May. The average interest rate on the debt is about 6.7%. We expect to pay $2.6 million in interest in 2013 for the eight months of the year that we will have owned Fulghum. Total principal amortization of the debt this year is $14 million, bringing the debt balance to $45 million at the end of the year. Principal payments next year will be $10 million with a declining schedule thereafter.

We expect to have an estimated $20 million capital lease obligation for the full estimated cost of the storage and handling facilities to be built at the Port of Québec once they are completed. The capital lease, which should be fully on our books at the end of the year, will be amortized over the duration of our terminaling contract 15 years to 20 years.

The amortization, which is derived based on the volume of pellets handled at the port, is built into our cost structure for the projects, meaning our forecasted steady-state EBITDA projection of $15 million for the Wawa and Atikokan projects includes the amortization cost for the capital lease.

We continue to expect to be able to fund the total estimated capital requirements of $70 million for the Atikokan and Wawa facilities from a combination of cash on hand, anticipated distributions from Rentech Nitrogen, cash generated by Fulghum and contributions from our JV partner. We would need additional capital, which would most likely be debt, if we invested in new growth opportunities for the chipping business or to provide more cushion in our liquidity forecast.

As Hunt mentioned, we expect to close the sale of the Natchez site this quarter for $9 million and those funds will be directly applied to our fibre business.

And I'll turn the call back to Hunt.

Thanks, Dan. Fulghum Fibres employees and customers recognize the value that Rentech brings to help Fulghum grow. In fact, several customers have approached Fulghum with collaborative ideas, growth ideas since Rentech's purchase. We see good potential for growth with existing and new customers operating their mills and wood yards and developing new greenfield chip mills.

On the pellet side, we're building our pipeline by working on additional brownfield development opportunities. Our public entry into this sector has gained attention with fibre owners and customers. We are balancing the resources between pursuing these development opportunities and executing on the two previously announced pellet projects in Canada.

We're on track for cash expenses at Rentech including Fulghum Fibres and excluding Rentech Nitrogen to be approximately $34 million this year. As I've mentioned before, of that amount, approximately $8 million of expenses will be eliminated next year related to the energy technologies and Natchez site maintenance costs. There may be additional opportunities for cost savings based on the timing of additional disposition of assets in the technologies segment.

We believe the long-term nitrogen fundamentals remain strong for our fertilizer business. Several factors, including favorable natural gas costs, continued population growth and farmer affordability of nitrogen, contribute to a healthy outlook for nitrogen. Additionally, despite anticipated ending cornstalks well above 1 billion bushel mark, forecasters continue to believe that 90-plus-million acres of corn are expected to be planted across the nation in the coming years, supporting good nitrogen demand.

Even with healthy expectations, the market has been experiencing pricing weakness. Significant offshore urea, offered at very aggressive prices, compared to recent history, have been driving down nitrogen prices across the board. Higher than anticipated producer inventory levels due to lower nitrogen demand during the excessive wet spring is also placing additional pressure on prices.

As a result of this pricing environment and similar to its peers, Rentech Nitrogen has updated its guidance of cash available for distribution to a range of $2.05 to $2.20 per common unit for the 12 months ending December 31, 2013. Based on this forecast and our current ownership of 23.25 million units, we'd receive between $48 million and $50 million in cash distributions for 2013.

I'll close by reiterating what the team has accomplished over the last 15 months to transform Rentech. We expanded our nitrogen business with the addition of the Pasadena Facility and commencement of our expansion projects. We stopped all alternative energy project development and R&D work, and we identified and entered into the wood fibre business, which has strong, long-term growth prospects and relatively stable cash flows. Overall, I'm very pleased with the direction of the company and the growth prospects of both our businesses.

I'll now turn it over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Okay. And our first question comes from Matt Farwell from Imperial Capital. Please state your question.

Hey, good afternoon, again.

Hi, Matt.

Just looking at just some questions I have broadly about the wood fibre business and the pellet business. I guess, first, have you negotiated the EPC terms with Graanul for the construction and operation of the brownfield pellet plant or is that to be determined?

Essentially, we have negotiated those terms because it was part of the JV agreement going in. So we knew exactly what his role is in the project and our role in the projects on a go-forward basis and his contribution frankly is providing EPC for the projects going forward for part of his equity contribution. So, I don't know, Sean, if you want to add any further commentary on that or not?

No. That's all right, Hunt. I think the one thing I would add to that is, right now, Graanul has really spent a lot of time going through their project and looking for where they can apply their expertise and knowledge to improve the economics, whether it be on a CapEx or from a productivity standpoint of the plants, so that work is ongoing right now. That's part of their EPC scope.

Is the contract, is it a fixed price contract or does it include any performance guarantees?

On the EPC of the buildup?

Yes, EPC and then also on the O&M?

Well, we – Rentech will be operating the plants. Graanul will be assisting us through the commissioning of those plants. But as far as the contract, it is not a fixed price EPC contract. We didn't think there was enough value in justifying that, particularly given the expertise and the proven knowledge and skills that – of the design that Graanul is bringing into these plants.

Okay. And separately on the Crown fibre sort of the long-term supply agreement. Can – you've probably covered this some other – in other conference calls, but is this – are there price adjustments in this contract or is it a – is it sort of a guaranteed price that you receive? Can you give us some more color on that?

Yes, we can. And it's essentially – the agreement is a 20-year supply agreement, and it's really the cost of aggregating and transporting the feedstock out of the forest. The timber itself comes in at, I think – go ahead, Sean.

That's right. The stumpage component, which is the value of the tree and stump is pretty much fixed within – by government on Crown land. The variable cost of the harvesting does flow through to us on the cost per ton, but then that is shared within the indexation of our off-take agreement with the – with Drax.

Got it. Okay. Okay. And then, just a last question, you're looking at selling Natchez, how is that going to be accounted for? Is it just going to be something that will hit the balance sheet or will there be an income statement impact?

We expect to have a gain on that sale. We haven't probably disclosed the exact amount, but there will be a gain on that sale.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from James Bardowski with Sidoti & Company. Please state your question.

Hey, how are you guys?

Good [ph] again (20:07).

So I just have a couple of brief questions surrounding the pellet business. Have you guys announced the max capacity that both of these plants are expected to have? I know you've disclosed the minimum contracts that – and the minimum volumes involved, but how about the total capacity?

We have not announced the total capacity of these plants. Again, you hit it right. We've announced what the contracts are stated and that's all we've announced today.

That's right.

Okay, okay. Great. And obviously, I just want to reiterate and ensure that initial plans as far as setting up the MLP is still in the works, and if so, how is that going to be treated with regard to this new division among segments? Is the MLP going to include both the wood chip as well as the – or the wood fibre as well as the wood pellet?

It is – we are still proceeding and it will include all the fibre businesses. It will be pellets with the base – on top of the base of the Fulghum Fibres business.

Okay. Great, great. And is there any type of – I know it's very early and I don't mean to stress the question too much, but is there any type of indication of when we could expect to see MLP status or to see an IPO?

Well, the way we're looking at it today is, I think, before we entered into the business or when we entered the business, we said it would be in a two to three year timeframe. I will say that since we have acquired Fulghum, we've been pleased with the opportunities to grow, as I stated, with our existing customer base and some acquisition opportunities, within the chipping business itself. So we've spent the last couple of months, since we've owned it, going through the growth plans in South America, going through the growth plans in North America.

So there are – I think it's safe to say more opportunities there than what we anticipated going in. We thought they were there, but we just confirmed those over the last couple of months. And then, of course, looking through the pellet pipeline too as we develop that. So I'm going to stick for today with our timeline and if we can accelerate it, we will absolutely do so.

Excellent, excellent. Now regarding contracts for the wood pellet business, specifically the Drax contract. I understand Drax is in the position of converting even more of their feedstock to wood pellets. That said, is there any type of optimism going forward, if you will, any type of optimism as far as securing additional Drax contracts, or do you see more opportunity elsewhere?

I think the answer to that is yes on both accounts. Certainly, as long as we execute as we intend to under the contract we have with Drax. The relationship between both companies is to look at how do we grow that into more volume. And we do see additional opportunities with other off-takes in the market as well.

Excellent. And I guess one remaining question. Aside from the potential JV loan and the $20 million cap lease regarding the port contract, can we expect to see any additional costs related to starting up the wood pellet operations such as and including this – the $800,000 that was disclosed this morning?

We will continue to see costs of the pellet operations. We will start to incur construction costs. And at that time, we expect that those projects will be put into the joint venture, that's not done yet. But if and when they are put into the joint venture, then we would expect those to be unconsolidated. The joint venture will be off the balance sheet. So we would expect the costs for those projects to then appear in the joint venture, which would become one line of – in our P&L.

Okay. And is this – is the $800,000 typical of what should we expect, or is this just a number and we really have no idea yet?

The $800,000 in this quarter is really SG&A in our wood pellet business. That's really not construction expense.

Okay. All right, great. That's all I have. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our final question comes from Jonathan Vyorst from Paradigm. Please state your question.

Hi. So how much capital will you be putting into – or how much in expenses plus capital are you putting into the wood pellet business?

We've announced $70 million as our estimate of construction cost for the two projects, Wawa and Atikokan.

Thanks. And could you maybe just explain to me just briefly what the economics are with the contract that you have? And if you could just walk through that a little bit, that would be helpful?

Yes. Here's what we've disclosed. So the construction cost we've estimated is $70 million. That covers both projects. And we said combined, stabilized EBITDA $15 million. So once those plants are up and running, fully stabilized, we're projecting $15 million of EBITDA.

Right. Okay. And how much – okay. And then, just looking at your SG&A, I wanted to make sure I understood you. So you have total SG&A of $15.5 million for the quarter. And then, at the corporate level, I guess, it's $8.7 million, and then energy was $2.7 million. How much of that energy is going away?

We expect – what we've said about that is, this year, our combination of R&D and SG&A in our energy segment will be about $10 million. Now we stopped booking anything as R&D. We stopped our R&D activities.

Correct.

So it's – to make sure we – it's really clear, we avoid any double counting or confusion. Let's just talk about the $10 million in total.

Sure.

That's the estimated spend for this year. And then, going forward after this year, we expect either the bulk of that expense will go away or we will have it funded by a third party. The only uncertainty in all of that is the site expenses for the PDU. We have some expenses for just site maintenance and insurance and the time at which we stop incurring those costs will be tied to the sale of that site, which is a little uncertain.

Okay. So next year, how much SG&A do you expect to have just on the corporate level?

Just on the corporate level, we haven't really broken that out or given guidance, but we don't expect any big changes from this year other than that technology line.

Right. Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Okay. Q&A is now over. I would like to hand the floor back over to Julie.

Thank you. We were pleased with the performance of the quarter considering the challenges within the commodity markets. It's for this very reason that our wood fibre processing business provides a nice balance, with long-term customer contracts, structured as tolling arrangements and stable EBITDA. We believe the growth in the wood fibre business and the organic growth underway in the nitrogen business will set us up nicely for the future.

We'd like to thank everyone who participated on the call today. Please contact me if you have any questions. This concludes our call. Operator, this concludes our call.

Thank you. This does conclude today's webinar. We thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.

Thank you.

Thank you.