corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Rentech First Quarter


2011 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode.


Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded, Thursday, February 10, 2011.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President of Investor


Relations. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Julie Dawoodjee, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications


Welcome to Rentech’s 2011 fiscal first quarter conference call for the period ended December 31,


2010. During this call, Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech, will summarize our


company’s progress during the quarter. Dan Cohrs, our Chief Financial Officer, will give a financial


review of the fiscal period and provide comments on Rentech’s financial position. We will then open


the lines for questions. We ask that you limit yourself to one question, so that we may get to as


many of your questions as possible.


Please be advised that certain information discussed on this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They can be


identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expect, believe and other comparable terms.


You are cautioned that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith, belief and best


judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are


subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and risk factors detailed from time to time in


the company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


The forward-looking statements in this call are made as of February 10, 2011, and Rentech does


not undertake to revise or update these forward-looking statements, except to the extent that it is


required to do so under applicable law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Hunt Ramsbottom, President and CEO of Rentech.


D. Hunt Ramsbottom, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We’re pleased to


announce that we reported a significant improvement in first quarter results from a year ago. The


quarter’s results reflect an exceptionally strong rebound in the nitrogen fertilizer market, which is


expected to continue. I’ll talk more about this robust outlook for REMC later in the call.


As we announced this morning, we are encouraged to be entering into the due diligence phase of


the DoE loan guarantee process for the Rialto project. This is an important step forward because it


opens the dialog with the loan guarantee program office for detailed due diligence which could lead


to negotiation of terms and conditions of a potential loan guarantee. The DoE specified in its letter


inviting us into the diligence that they expect a more conservative capital structure than we hoped


including less leverage and a significant higher requirement for project equity.


It seems the more conservative terms reflect the requirements of not just the DoE, but of other


government entities that are involved in the approval process for loan guarantees. We believe that


any terms we’re offered will have some flexibility and that continued progress on reducing the


commercial risk in the project through the finalizing contracts could lead to the negotiation of loan


guarantee terms that are more favorable.
corrected transcript


Rentech, Inc.
 
RTK
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We’ve made great strides in the commercial aspects of this project. We are in term sheet


discussions with fuel distributors including integrated oil companies for the Rialto project’s


remaining, renewable RenDiesel output that’s not already contracted with ASIG and the 8 airlines


at LAX. We are also in exclusive negotiations for a fixed price long-term power purchase


agreement for the project’s renewable power output. The next step after finalizing a PPA is to


pursue approvals with the California Public Utilities Commission.


The air permit work and all other pre-construction permit activities are on schedule. We expect the


environmental impact report required by the California Environmental Quality Act to be ready for


comment in mid-March. The air permit final design updates are nearly complete and will be


submitted to the permitting agency within the next couple of weeks. The documents for the federal


environmental review of the project are being written and will soon be ready for submittal now that


the DoE is engaged.


Front-end engineering and design or FEED for the project is about 95% complete. All piping and


instrumentation diagram reviews as well as site model have been completed. Floor is currently


preparing a cost estimate and assembling its final report, which will include drawings, equipment


data sheets and specifications, process descriptions, and heat and material balances. We expect


all FEED work to be completed on schedule within the next few weeks.


We’re also evaluating alternative forms of financing including municipal bonds for financing our


waste processing facilities and potential USDA loan guarantees. Alternative financing would not


require us to stay on the same tight schedule required by the American Reinvestment and


Recovery Act that authorize the loan guarantee program. Setting our own deadlines would allow us


to spend more time optimizing engineering and reducing the project cost.


With respect to Natchez, we continue to work on configurations of a smaller scale project, which we


expect to develop at the site. We’re having detailed discussions with large-scale resource owners


who would provide feedstock for the potential project.


We’re pleased with the significant headway we’re making in securing feedstock for other North


American projects. We continue additional development and licensing activities including biomass


to power projects in several other countries. These activities have not yet matured to the point of


announcements, but we have several promising opportunities under development, some with


potential partners. We are seeing positive momentum with government officials and potential off-


take customers and feedstock suppliers outside our borders.


Detailed engineering and procurement is underway for our joint bio-refinery project with ClearFuels


to demonstrate their technology integrated in our PDU. On-site construction activities are expected


to begin within the next 60 days with all equipment to be delivered to the PDU during the second


half of this year. We anticipate to begin producing renewable synthetic jet and diesel fuels from


biomass at the end of the calendar year in 2011.


The nitrogen fertilizer segment of our business is doing extremely well. We continue to expect fiscal


year 2011 EBITDA to be at least $60 million. Robust global grain demand, low grain inventory


levels and strong crop economics have fostered a significantly improved environment for nitrogen


fertilizer demand and prices since the recent lows of the cycle.


Many in the industry believe that this positive environment for global agriculture will support strong


prices for nitrogen fertilizer products in the years ahead. With natural gas prices predicted to remain


low, margins are expected to be very attractive as they are now. In fact, we are seeing


uncharacteristically strong demand for our products having already signed some pre-sale contracts


of delivery in the fall of 2011. We typically see this activity for fall deliveries in the summer, not this


early in the year. Considering the positive trends and high margins for nitrogen fertilizer, we’ve