Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James Daniel Westcott — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Legacy Reserves, Inc.
Paul T. Horne — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Legacy Reserves LP
Kyle M. Hammond — Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President, Legacy Reserves LP
Claire Ye — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Patrick Sun — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
Rehan A. Rashid — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Dan Kelsh — High Yield Credit Research, UBS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter 2018 Legacy Reserves, Inc. Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Westcott, Legacy's President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you Andrew. Good morning everyone. We appreciate you dialing in to Legacy's third quarter conference call. We'd like to remind you that during the course of this call, Legacy management will make certain statements that will be forward-looking statements as defined by securities laws. These reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed. This morning we'll be making references to the press releases we posted last night and we encourage you to read through all of our SEC filings for important disclosures

With that let me turn the call over to Paul Horne, Legacy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Paul?

Thanks, Dan, and welcome everyone to this morning's conference call. We will discuss the quarter, including some great accomplishments in a minute; but I first want to touch on the recently announced changes to the management team. To recap, on March 1, 2019, I will retire as CEO and Dan Westcott, our current President and Chief Financial Officer will become CEO. Kyle Hammond, our current Executive Vice President and COO will assume the role of President and COO. I will remain on the Legacy team as non-executive chairman of the board. On December 31, 2018, Kyle McGraw will retire from his role as Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer.

Also, on December 31st, Bert Ferrara will assume the role of General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and Dan LeRoy will be stepping back to assume the role of Senior Legal Advisor. Bert previously served as Deputy General Counsel and was instrumental in setting up and modifying our joint development agreement with TSSP and he played the lead legal role in our recent corporate transition.

Finally, Cory Elliott will be promoted to Chief Information Officer. Cory previously served as VP of IT. Cory has been a valuable member of the Legacy team for five years and his role and responsibility have increased consistently since he's been here. We intend to place an increasing emphasis on the use of technology going forward and plan to lean heavily on Cory to lead that effort.

I encourage you to read the press release from last night. I want to say I'm incredibly grateful for the influence and impact that Kyle McGraw and Dan LeRoy have made on Legacy and me personally. This team has navigated some difficult waters and I'm proud of where we stand today with our upcoming management teams' eye on the future.

Now, I'll turn to our quarterly results. We completed our C-Corp transition on September 20th. This distances us from our past MLP brethren, aligns our corporate structure with our business model, enhances shareholder rights and allows for greater access to the capital markets.

Our corporate team put forth tremendous effort to make this happen and I'm really proud of their work. We now stand better positioned to continue to execute on our growth program. We validated our theory of greater access to the capital markets with the post close issuance of our $130 million convertible notes that provide a clear pathway to lower debt levels.

In a minute, Kyle Hammond will give more insight into our operations, but I am proud to report that we achieved record oil production of nearly 19,000 barrels per day for the quarter. The team continues to high-grade our asset base by divesting non-core assets with high well counts, marginal cash flow, limited growth potential, and a large plugging liability. We completed $22 million of asset sales since the end of Q2, bringing total sales to $52 million year-to-date at a very attractive 5.9 times EBITDA multiple. We saw a reduction in our total debt to EBITDA ratio from 4.7 times to 4.5 times or 4.3 times on an LQA basis. We're proud of the progress we've made since we posted a yearend 2016 total debt to EBITDA ratio of 7.6, as our horizontal development grew EBITDA and we simultaneously reduced our total debt.

Our land and BD teams continue to work tirelessly to increase our backlog of potential trades. We are currently working on several of those and we have made significant progress on the Central Basin platform and Northwest Shelf. This work dramatically increases our horizontal acreage trade inventory position. We're excited to get in front of you with more trades as we look to increase our resource base in our core operating areas by extending lateral lengths and adding drilling locations with little or no cash flow.

I'll now turn the call to Kyle Hammond, Legacy's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to talk in more detail about our results of operations. Kyle?

Thanks, Paul. We're proud to deliver record daily oil production this quarter. We brought online seven new wells during Q3, many of which achieved their peak rate during the quarter. This represents 83 new wells brought online since commencement of our horizontal program three years ago. We continue to achieve strong well results. The wells brought online year-to-date 2018, on average have achieved peak rates in line or in excess of prior estimates. Based on our current operations, we expect to drill 26 wells this year. This is lower than our original target, and there are several reasons for the change.

On the positive side, we've been drilling longer laterals than expected due to the BD team's (00:06:42) execution on land trades. Longer laterals take more time, but they enhance our economics. We also took the opportunity this quarter to change out the [ph] Lea (00:06:51) unit drilling rig to a larger rig, better suited to drill Wolfcamp wells, and we changed out the Midland Basin rig for a myriad of reasons, mainly cost and performance. Both of these changes will enhance performance going forward but reduce planned lateral feet drilled during the quarter.

We just finished drilling the Wolfcamp B four well pad in Martin County. This zone has some extremely good offset results, and we're excited about completing these wells and getting them on to production. Wells took longer to drill than anticipated, and this is the pad where we changed out the Midland Basin rig. The slowdown on this pad is going to result in bringing these wells on later in the fourth quarter rather than earlier in the quarter as planned, resulting in fewer total barrels contributed in the fourth quarter. We encountered less wellbore interference quarter-over-quarter as we fracked fewer wells, offsetting our densely developed leasehold, and that certainly increased our oil production.

LOE increased during the quarter driven by well service costs, primarily electric submersible pumps and disposal costs for new wells that produced more water than we expected. We had agreements in place to handle those peak volumes with a third-party in the area, but it adds LOE when we get away from our own disposal system. We expect those numbers to come back in line in the coming quarters. LOE is generally running higher than guidance, and higher than I'd like and that's driven by some macro issues. We are seeing higher rate of failure on our pumps with shorter run times. Based on our conversations with vendors and operators, this is a basin wide problem due to the Permian's success.

I expect the manufacturing issues and short supply to be fixed, no different than the other issues we've seen over the last 24 months. There are pressure pumping shortages and then coil tubing shortages and mud motor shortages and the service side of our business fixes these problems. In the meantime, we are working through solutions including adding Legacy-employed technical help in the field to troubleshoot and repair issues that we used to rely on the service industry for. This has worked out very well. We are also looking at using gas lift in some new areas where it makes sense with the reservoir, which should reduce electricity charges and hopefully improve uptime.

There was a notable increase in processing cost for our Piceance asset during the quarter as gas plant operators drove peak ethane recovery in Q3 while ethane prices reached very attractive levels during the quarter. The increase in processing cost during periods of high ethane recovery is generally met by a greater increase in revenues relative to leaving those volumes in the gas stream. Through the remainder of the year, we expect ethane recovery to abate as pipelines have reach capacity, so that should normalize LOE for the area.

We're excited to have started development in Northern Delaware Wolfcamp. We spud the first Wolfcamp B well in our Lea unit and will follow with the Wolfcamp A well, both of which should contribute to first quarter volumes. We've been watching strong production results from nearby operators in those horizons for a couple of years and are ready to tap the substantial resource in our own backyard.

Lastly, I'm thankful and excited for the opportunity to serve as President and COO of Legacy. I look forward to working with the team as we continue to maximize the value of our substantial asset base.

With that I'll now turn the call back to Dan to talk more about our financial results and broader corporate efforts. Dan.

Thank you. Kyle. EBITDA grew 9% during the quarter to $78 million driven by a 6% quarter-over- quarter and 31% year-over-year increase in our oil production as we brought on our 36th horizontal Permian well of the year, our 83rd well since commencement of our two-rig horizontal program.

NYMEX prices increased by 2% this quarter, but after adjusting for the Mid-Cush differential, Midland Oil price realizations were down 9% relative to Q2. As a result, oil revenues declined 1% despite the increase in volumes. While the widening Midland-to-Cushing spread was painful, we are happy that that differential has improved as pipeline operators accelerated several projects into late 2018 and early 2019 to satisfy a growing supply of Permian barrels.

We waited patiently during the quarter and executed additional Mid-Cush differential hedges, adding about 7,000 barrels a day at $3.95 for the first half of next year and 9,000 barrels a day at $3.82 for the second half. This increase brings us to 9,000 barrels a day in the first half and 11,000 barrels a day in the second half of 2019. Mid-Cush hedges are a little over half of our current oil production. Our strong Mid-Cush hedge book certainly helped us weather the storm in 2018 and we now stand strongly positioned for next year.

NYMEX gas prices increased during the quarter as well. But similarly, the WAHA differential offset those gains. You'll notice however that our realized gas price increased during the quarter and that's due to growth in wet gas volumes out of the Permian. We sell NGLs in that gas stream, so we receive an uplift in gas price for the increased BTU content. CIG bases also improved in Q3, which improved gas realizations out of the Piceance Basin.

Development capital for the quarter was $31 million, bringing our year-to-date total to $172 million nearly all of which has been spent on horizontal Permian development. We've brought online 36 wells and drilled 20 wells this year and expect to land close to our previously announced $225 million capital budget with 43 wells being brought online and 26 wells being drilled.

Looking at 2019, we're currently in our planning process and anticipate releasing 2019 guidance along with our Q4 2018 results. Finally, to circle back to Paul's initial comments. I'm grateful to be able to begin serving as CEO in March. Legacy has transformed itself over the past three years. And I look forward to working with this great team to deliver future success and long term shareholder value.

With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Irene Haas of Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, this is Claire Ye on behalf of Irene. So first question is that, now you have completed the corporate transition, so can you help us recalibrate your guidance especially from the cost perspective and help us to isolate some one-time items related to this transition?

Sure. Claire, this is Dan Westcott. I appreciate the question. So, for the quarter we look at LOE excluding sub-taxes and ad val and see we're about $49.5 million for the quarter. We have not updated guidance here, but again we've pointed to sub-pump failures this quarter. I had a rash of those and feel like they're – that we're kind of arm-in-arm with E&P operators in the area kind of battling this issue.

We anticipate just given the cycle of our operations that we're not going to be experiencing as many of those in the go forward future. And so, again, without providing updated guidance, we expect our Q4 numbers on LOE to come back down. Part of that's fewer failures and part of that's less processing in the Piceance.

Okay. Thank you. And one follow-up question is, can you give us an updated view of achieving cash flow neutrality? Thank you.

Yeah, so we were quite positive for the quarter. I think we had over $20 million of free cash flow. If you just look at EBITDA minus interest, minus CapEx, I think we were at $22 million, was the number we were looking at. So, very – and that excludes kind of corporate transition costs. So, very pleased with that result. I think, again, we're looking at 2019 planning right now and we'll be out with that. But you should not expect us to kind of blindly close our eyes and way outspend cash flow; to the contrary, given our current position we feel like that's a good healthy governor for our future plans. And obviously if we can you know raise some capital and otherwise reduce our interest expense, then we can amp up our capital further. We certainly believe that we have a lot of good, high quality inventory, and as we've mentioned before, looking at ways to accelerate that development pace.

And was there a follow-up, Ms. Haas?

I have no further questions.

Thank you. The next question comes from Patrick Sun of Seaport Global Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning guys. Congrats on the quarter. Just had a question on the JV agreement. So, in your press release you talk about the – you have a restatement of the agreement which [ph] comps (00:17:29) up your working interest. Can you give a little bit more detail on what was the agreement and what's the new deal, and what has been changed? Thanks.

Sure, Patrick. This is Dan. I appreciate the question. So, in August of last year we made an acceleration payment to TPG that caused – basically gave them the money to cause the reversion to occur. And so, I think the reference you're seeing is relative to last year's Q3 and not this year's Q3. We haven't made any amendments here recently.

Okay, got it. All right. A follow-up question on the – I mean for Kyle. On the seven new wells online this quarter, can you provide any detail IP rate, like 30-day rate or 60-day rate on those wells?

Yeah, Patrick. We generally don't disclose individual IP rates for the production of these wells. But I can give you an idea. I mean, depending on whether you're talking about the Midland Basin or the Delaware, we just got through completing our last First Bone spring well and it's been sitting at or above 1,400 barrels oil a day for the last 25 days. So, it's going to have a great 30-day IP. We completed some wells in our RTF area in Howard County, turned on just at the beginning of the quarter, and some of those wells averaged well over a 1,000 barrels a day, some of them between – depending on whether you are talking Sprayberry or Wolfcamp in the 800 barrel a day range. And so very much on average, we're really pleased with the wells we turned on.

Great. Thanks.

Thanks, Patrick.

The next question comes from Rehan Rashid of B Riley FBR. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Dan and the team. Congrats on the new roles. Excited for the team and Legacy's shareholders. Two quick questions; one, on the Permian side, with the continued trades and extending lateral land, could you kind of give more color as to where we stand in terms of average lateral land. Kind of what is the kind of – maybe a quantification of how much more could you do on this front in terms of adding lateral land and then adding to inventory? And then I've got a follow up question on Haynesville.

Yeah. So, if you're talking about our kind of small tracks effort, we disclosed last quarter that we had 15,000 net acres across the Midland and Delaware based on our latest count of what we would consider kind of small track positions that we're not going to operate just given the size of the position, so we can either join in with others and do non-op or our preference would be to trade those to the adjacent owners and be able to enhance the lateral- our near-term lateral positions. We're actively working on a number of those currently. I'll tell you, I was hopeful that we'd be able to put one or two of those in a release this quarter, but timing slipped. And I think that's indicative of kind of what's going on right now here in Midland, right. We – I think every operator is focused on this. And that makes a conducive environment to get those deals done.

Over the quarter we've also been working quite diligently at quantifying our Northwest Shelf and Central Basin platform positions in a similar fashion. And those numbers are quite large at early count, dwarfing our current total and we're further diligencing those – that effort before we come out and say anything publicly there. But real pleased with the optionality we have. If you think back of Legacy and its history, right, we've made over 160 acquisitions and that gives us exposure to the entirety of the basin. We've got a near-term – internally we've got a near-term development plan and certain areas we want to go to next and that's going to be the key focus for us.

Our results in Q2 – that we announced in Q2 as far as expansion of lateral lengths were quite impressive. And 50% extensions on footage and that's certainly going to enhance our position. We're not going to be looking to be groundbreaking in lateral length, but I think there's a lot of work that remains to be done and we're actively doing it.

Got it.

Rehan, this is Paul Horne. I heard – part of your question is what are the current lateral lengths we're drilling and...

Sure.

I mean, we have drilled 5,000 foot wells, we've drilled 7,500 foot wells, we've drilled 10,000 foot wells, the majority in the 7,500 foot and 10,000 range during the quarter. Although I don't have the average number, my guess is we – our quarter average lateral length was in the 8,500 foot range would be my general guess. We drilled a group of 10,000 footers and a group of 7,500 footers. So, we're not currently looking at trying to extend past 10,000 feet. We're not close-minded to that, but again as Dan mentioned, we'll let other operators pioneer that and when we feel like it is a viable solution, both from drilling the well to effective completions, we'll consider it at that time, but love the work that's been done to increase our 5,000 foot laterals to either 7,500 foot or 10,000 foot and are continuing that as Dan mentioned full speed ahead.

Got it.

Yeah. Rehan, this is Kyle. I would throw in – if I was going to tell you how we're concentrating on that, we're really making an effort to take the 5,000 foot to the 7,500 foot and then in all the laterals we're trying to use some of those small tracks to increase our working interest so that we get more bang for the buck out of the team when we're drilling.

Got it. Got it. As you guys think about kind of the portfolio of assets you want to shape, reshape in the next one, two, three years call it, what role does Haynesville have within that and even kind of some of the other kind of assets, Rocky's area, I mean what does that – how should we think about kind of the further evolution of your portfolio?

Rehan, this is Kyle. Shelby is going to play a greater role going forward. We have filed and received three permits and we expect a couple more from the BLM. And we are currently working on our 2019 budget and highly considering starting that work this year. In our Shelby position, in and around, offset operator XTO Energy is currently drilling and we actually enjoy a non-opposition in a couple of those wells, and we have seen some really good results, some fairly short payouts and high returns. And so we're getting excited about putting the bit in the ground in East Texas.

Have you – kind of what was the last time you guys did on the [ph] Haynes (00:26:07) – on the Shelby kind of area. And from a geological standpoint, have you firmed up a couple of locations? Is that what you just said, and kind of are you comfortable with where the geology is heading, given what the neighbors are doing or...?

Yes. We are I would say very excited about it. We participated in a core study, and we have gotten seismic on some of our acreage position. We do enjoy the fact that we've got some very close offsets drilled by XTO that we've been able to model, and really like our position. It's a position that we inherited in 2016 – 2015 when we acquired some production there. So, all of our acreage is HBP or like 97% percent of it. So, we're not in a hurry, but we are looking to enjoy some of those economics.

Okay. Good. Okay. Thank you.

The next question comes from Dan Kelsh of UBS. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you for taking my question.

Go ahead, Dan.

I was wondering if I could just ask from the – a couple of questions from the balance sheet perspective is, is there any kind of comments or updates you guys can make on discussions with your ABL lenders and where that might shake out in the coming months? And then also any prospects that's kind of a broader refinancing that might just improve the cost of debt capital that you have in your balance sheet?

Sure, Dan. This is Dan Westcott. So, appreciate the question there. As we mentioned on our press release, we just got our borrowing base reaffirmed at $575 million. That process went well. We're going to need to get back in front of the bank group and work on extending our facility, and so would expect to head down that path here in the near future. You may have also noticed that we did file a registration statement here recently. And so, I think our approach is, we need to kind of be ready for it all. We are – we recognize we still have too much debt and we're taking a multi-faceted approach like we have over the last two years or three years in addressing that situation. I think we've proven that we're willing to work hard and take a number of approaches to reposition this company and we certainly don't feel like – we feel like we've got more work to do and we're happy to put our heads down and go do it.

Great. And obviously, kudos to you guys for being creative and just sort of managing your balance sheet to this point and getting to the other side of what's gone on in the commodity price environment. But just in kind of relation to that too, is there any comment you can make to about the filing that came out I guess in October about somebody from GSO leaving the board of directors. And didn't know if that might signal anything else that might come up with the balance sheet.

Yeah, let me handle that. Dan, this is Paul Horne. That had absolutely nothing to do with the relationship between Legacy and GSO; the relationship is very strong, has been greatly appreciated on the Legacy side. And I think if you read Dwight's quote, the same is true from the GSO side. That actually was a situation where GSO had required that board seat when they entered into the second lien because they wanted to make sure that management, the board and the company in general were taking the right steps and doing the right things to ultimately fix the company. And that should have signaled very strongly that GSO feels like we have absolutely done that and are going to continue to do that and have a great deal of confidence in both management and the board. So that's what that was about and it wasn't signaling anything else in the future or any other plans. It was just, GSO was really comfortable with us and felt like they could spend their efforts better focused in other places.

Sure. And one other question if I could just ask – and sorry to take up so much time here with you. I appreciate you being so generous. Is there just any target you guys have in mind as you think going forward of sort of total leverage target, something like that that might be something you consider to be run rate stable to the company just going forward?

Yeah. This is Dan. We think we made great progress thus far, right, in reducing leverage three turns. Again, still feel like we've got more work to do there. I think our ambitions are more kind of time-limited or time-framed than anything else. We'd like to get leverage down. We recognize the issues there. I think from a – I just share, we look at leverage – and we'll obviously point to kind of total debt to EBITDA because that's what everybody can kind of easily reference. I think one of the things that's unique about us is, is that in addition to our large portfolio of growth opportunities, we've got this really stable base of production. And so, if you were to kind of compare that to a brand new company with only brand new wells, their EBITDA is a lot less stable than ours because of that low decline base production. And so, we're cognizant of that. We think that is a little bit different for us in the stability of our asset base and the opportunity that Legacy provides. That being said, we want to get below 3 turns and when we do that we're going to want to go lower. So I guess that's how I'd answer that one.

Thank you very much, Dan. And congrats again for the recent announcements on your behalf.

We appreciate it. Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to the company for any closing remarks

We'd like to thank you again for dialing in to our call today. If you have any additional follow up questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to me or Dan. Thank you.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.