Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Siobhan Anderson — Chief Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller & Treasurer, Revlon, Inc.
Lorenzo Delpani — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Revlon, Inc.
Roberto Simon — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Revlon, Inc.
Kevin L. Ziets — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Grant Jordan — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Carla M. Casella — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Arthur Roulac — Partner, Three Court, LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Revlon's 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At the request of Revlon, today's conference call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Siobhan Anderson, Revlon's Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. You may begin, Ms. Anderson.

Thank you, Jennifer. Good morning, everyone, thanks for joining today's call. Earlier today, we released our financial results for the year ended December 31st, 2015. If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release, you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.

On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani, Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo, I would like to remind everyone of a few things. First, our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings, including our 2015 Form 10-K which we filed earlier this morning. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws.

Next, our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures. The company has identified certain unusual items impacting the comparability of the company's period-over-period results. As a result of these unusual items, the definition of adjusted EBITDA has changed from that used in prior periods. The adjusted measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release. Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.

Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.

Overall 2015 ended with a very successful fourth quarter, for both our consumer and professional segments. Net sales were up $521.9 million in Q4 2015, a growth of 4.2% or 9.8% on an XFX basis. On a full year basis, the net sales were $1.91 billion in 2015, a decline of 1.4%, yet a growth of 4.9% on an XFX basis.

Adjusted EBITDA was $125.6 million in Q4, 2015, a growth of 16.4% or 21.8% on an XFX basis. On a full year basis, adjusted EBITDA was $377.5 million in 2015, a growth of 3.4% or 7% on an XFX basis.

As reported net income was $24.8 million in Q4 2015, including the impact of $37.5 million of non-operating item net of taxes. On a full year basis, as reported net income was $56.1 million in 2015, including the impact of $47.3 million of non-operating items, net of taxes. The non-operating item for both periods included a pension lump-sum settlement charge of $20.7 million, and a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $9.7 million, which was $6 million after taxes. Importantly, excluding these non-operating items, adjusted net income was $61.3 million in Q4 2015, an increase of $56 million and was $103 million in 2015 total year, an increase of $43 million or 71.5%.

During 2015, the company has reinvigorated its key brands and increased our profitability. At the same time, we successfully integrated Colomer business into the combined company and reduced our cost structure. The company has built strong momentum. We are in a more competitive position and we have more resources to invest in our brands.

I will now turn the call over to Roberto.

Thank you, Lorenzo, and good morning, everyone. We will now review our segment results. In 2015, Consumer segment net sales were $1.41 billion. On an XFX basis and excluding Venezuela, Consumer net sales increased by 4.4% in 2015. This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales for Revlon color cosmetics, Mitchum, Revlon ColorSilk and Kuteks partially offset by lower net sales of Almay.

Consumer segment profit was $360.2 million in 2015. On an XFX basis and excluding Venezuela, Consumer segment profit increased by 11.1% in 2015. The increase is mainly due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales, partially offset by $8.7 million of higher brand support for the company's consumer brands.

In the Professional segment, 2015 net sales were $471.1 million. On an XFX basis, Professional segment net sales increased 2.4%. This increase is primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew, Revlon Professional products and Creme of Nature, partially offset by lower net sales of CND.

Professional segment profit was $103.9 million in 2015. On an XFX basis, Professional segment profit increased 2.7%. The increase is mainly due to the increasing gross profit as a result of higher net sales, partially offset by $5.1 million of higher brand support for the company's professional brands.

Affecting the comparison, 2014 included a favorable adjustment of $3.4 million related to a decrease in the inventory obsolescence reserve. Excluding these, on an XFX basis, Professional segment profit would have increased by 6.1% in 2015. Moving on to net sales by geography. In 2015, net sales in the U.S. were $1.04 billion or 2.1% higher than in 2014.

U.S. net sales increased $33.4 million in the Consumer segment, primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics, Mitchum and Revlon ColorSilk, partially offset by lower net sales of Almay. U.S. net sales decreased $11.6 million in the professional segment, primarily due to lower net sales of CND nail products.

Moving on to international results, in 2015, International net sales were $870.6 million. On an XFX basis, net sales were up 7.9%. International net sales increased $20.6 million in the consumer segment, primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Mitchum. International net sales also increased $23.7 million in the professional segment, primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional. From a geographical perspective, the increase in the consumer on Professional segment was throughout most of the company's international regions.

Additionally, the Other segment had net sales of $28.4 million in 2015 with no comparable net sales in 2014. Excluding Venezuela, International net sales increased 9% on an XFX basis.

Moving to total company results, on an XFX basis, adjusted EBITDA increased $25.4 million or 7%. This increase was primarily due to higher gross profit in both the Consumer and Professional segments, partially offset by $16.2 million of higher brand support expenses as well as higher general and administrative expenses, driving the increase in general and administrative expenses was $14.7 million of severance costs.

Adjusted net income increased $43.1 million or 71.5%. This increase was primarily due to the growth in adjusted EBITDA as well as a $24.2 million decrease in the provision for income taxes in 2015. The income tax provision decrease is mainly due to a net reduction of valuation allowance in certain foreign jurisdictions in 2015 compared to the establishment of such valuation allowance in 2014.

Taking our local liquidity, as of December 31st, 2015, our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $473.6 million. This was made up of available cash of $307.4 million and available borrowing on our revolver of $166.2 million.

Now, I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.

Thank you, Roberto. As a final remark, I also want to announce that I've informed the Board of my intention to step down as President and CEO effective March 1st. I do this for personal reasons. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to lead this extraordinary company during a period of transformation and growth. It has been my mission to continue Revlon industry leading commitment to quality and innovation and it is the Revlon team's relentless drive toward those goals that has paved the way for our current and future success.

I want also to thank all my good friends and colleagues at Revlon and MacAndrews and Forbes for their hard work and support. I'm pleased that to be staying on with organization as a member of Revlon Board and as an advisor.

I also want to congratulate my good friend, Gianni Pieraccioni on his well-deserved promotion to Revlon's Chief Operating Officer. I look forward to continuing my partnership with Revlon to grow the company.

I will now turn over the call to Siobhan.

Thank you, Lorenzo. This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions. Operator, please prompt the participants for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Kevin Ziets, Citigroup.

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. I guess I wanted to start off by wishing Lorenzo good luck, and congratulations on all of that you achieved in the years that you're at Revlon.

Thank you.

Of course, I guess along those lines, I was curious if there are – what are the plans to fill the CEO position at this point? And will you be assisting in that effort and whether you could say if there is anything related to the MacAndrews and Forbes filing regarding exploring strategic options that maybe prompted this decision?

Okay. So I'm going to start breaking it down into first of all, I'm leaving for personal reasons, and it has nothing to do with the announcement that MacAndrews and Forbes has made. And essentially, I've been working in a workaholic fashion since I started when I was 21, non-stop. I've gone through a very intense turnaround in the Colomer Group and then moved on, integrating the company here, and we have done a successful job, both on integrating and rebuilding momentum in Revlon. And I think I've completed this cycle and I want to take a break and focus on myself and my family and essentially engage new challenges in the future. That's the reason why I'm leaving. Now, as far as concerned the new CEO, the company expect to have an announcement soon and that's basically where we stand.

Okay. Can you talk about the process at all in terms of the strategic – exploring strategic options and what kinds of things are being evaluated?

No. We don't comment on an announcement that we have not made, and if we would have had anything material to release, we would have, and there is nothing material that Revlon needs to release at this stage. And the announcement is MacAndrews announcement and we won't comment on that.

Okay. Fair enough. Just diving into the business, I noticed in the fourth quarter, international sales were up quite significantly. Is there something regarding timing, product launch or maybe distribution gains that you could speak to that's may be driving that?

Yes. So, the question reflects a little bit of a misperception that is probably out there in the market that we are kind of – it says that we are flat in sales and indeed on an as reported basis, the company has been kind of flattish in the past quarters. But on an XFX, we have been growing quarter-after-quarter for quite some time now and you can go and track it back in all the announcement.

We have a strong – we built strong momentum thanks to the strategy value creation. Namely, we have increased prices, we have increased margin, and increased margin also for cost of goods improvement. And then, we obtained more resources, which we reinvested back into the business. In fact, the brand support levels that which we support the business now are competitive, we deem them to be competitive. That was not the case in 2013. In 2013, they were insufficient.

The strategy value creation, creative resources that we invested in the brand. Investing behind our brands, we have a focused strategy behind fewer, bigger innovation has yielded improvement in the result and that's – we have good results in I would say around – it's difficult to give a number in specifics, but approximately 80% of our business unit are – are clearly up, and some double digit versus the past thanks to this renewed investment and focus.

So, what's driving that? In the consumer business, it's driven by these, let's say essentially investment increase and investment focus. Because it's not just the increase, it's the fact that we have launched less innovation and yet yielded more sales. That may sound counterintuitive but I want to re-clarify that's the reason of the fewer, bigger, strategy is that we were launching so many things that it was difficult to focus on any of them. So, we select our best, we focus on that, on fewer initiative, and by doing so we get better results. So, that's essentially what's driving the consumer – the consumer business.

As far as is concerned the Professional, Professional had in 2015, on a like-for-like basis, okay, excluding the XFX impact, if this would be a company reporting in euro, we wouldn't have these strange misperception and storytelling. So, on a like-for-like basis, the Professional business has done its best year ever internationally because Revlon Professional has built strong momentum behind the launch of successful innovation like the Revlonissimo hair color, and American Crew has also posted double-digit growth internationally. It's due to increased investment and a sharper positioning.

Now to complete the picture. Also CND internationally has performed well, even if domestically CND has struggled a bit in the value market. So, all in all, and I know it sounds like a long story and – but all in all, the bottom-line is on a like-for-like basis, we have done – we have posted, very, very significant growth and that's not the first quarter we do so. It's been a while.

Unfortunately, we faced FX impact that was totally unprecedented and totally significant and that has basically offset the perception we talked about.

I appreciate all that color. I should state there that...

For example this year – this year the net sales FX impact is $121 million, so you can appreciate that. If we are substantially flat but we have offset $121 million of FX impact and in EBITDA we are actually growing that the underlying fundamentals of the company are very solid.

Absolutely and I appreciate all that color. I was – I should have been clear in just – the fourth quarter excluding FX international sales grew 20% and that seemed to be a little bit higher. Maybe I can ask the question a little bit differently, do you think that your sell through rates are consistent with either the level of sales that you've reported on an XFX basis or is there any kind of timing between your distributions and what's happening at the point of sale?

No. There is no – there is no, there is absolutely nothing to report in the sense. In that sense I want to address indirectly, it seems like you're asking if there has been any sort of loading practices, loading is forbidden in our operational practices, we actually punish it and if someone does loading, we actually fire them. And we build business and for us business is sell out and not sell in. And I'm very comfortable that there is no – there has not been any distribution or trade loading of any sort.

Right. I wasn't suggesting that, I...

To the best...

I wasn't suggesting that, I was just curious if there was any like product launch driven types of timing differences not any loading issues.

The only thing that – it is more detail but for a sake for transparency that we need to call out, but is material is in Australia because we launched SAP rollout, we have anticipated a little bit of sales of – approximately amount of sale. But that's just Australia and it's very minor.

Appreciate that. If I could ask one last question. It sounded like you were comfortable with the level of advertising and brand support that going forward that it will be roughly equal to 2015 levels. Is there any timing on that? I seem to recall the first half of this year being a little bit heavier than the second half on a year-over-year basis, didn't know if there was anything timing wise we should expect in terms of 2016?

So basically – let's say that our level of investment is now deemed to be competitive. And we are going to be in more or less in-line with last year. As far as timing, I don't want to disclose that, because it's competitive – sensitive for competitive reason.

Okay. And my very last housekeeping item is just, do you have the restricted payments capacity limitations [ph] Andy (21:45) with regards to either the bank debt or the bonds?

No.

If not, I can follow up.

Yes. We can follow up.

You can follow up.

Okay. Thank you, guys. Good luck.

Thank you.

Thank you. And we'll go next to Grant Jordan from Wells Fargo.

Great. Thanks for taking the questions. I would also like to say job well done, as you're leaving Lorenzo. On – I just wanted to follow up a little bit on Kevin's question on the international sales that was being grown all year but particular strength here in the fourth quarter at almost 20%. Was that mainly taking share within existing markets or did you have new distribution or new geographies you went into?

Okay. So, on a broad stroke basis, we – I would say, we need to separate the story between consumer and pro. So, on consumer we have, I would say, generally we've been taking share but as well as expanded distribution. So, your question is, we've done both. And in some cases, we have – by expanding distribution, we expanded share. So, for example in Japan and Korea, we have expanded distribution, hence business and share.

So, part of the strategy – value creation pillars is the rollout of our key categories in all the geographies. And last year, we have initiated the rollout for example of ColorSilk. ColorSilk, it's our hair color business. And we launched it in various markets and it had very, very encouraging initial results. And as well as reinvigorating, as I mentioned before the support between our core category color cosmetics which has gone from let's say been a little bit underinvested to being properly invested and this has generated consumption pick up.

So, and as far as – and also worth mentioning another dimension, we have grouped the distributor management business behind one person and not by – in a regional way, we centralized it and also our distributor business is – because we now focus the business on building the sell out and not building the sell in has been reactivated with plan and investments and is showing very good momentum. So, that's for consumer.

And as far as concerned pro, Revlon Professional, I would say is essentially driven by innovation that worked. We have done some very important re-launches like the re-launch of Revlonissimo hair color that has been very successful. And American Crew by marketing plans and marketing focus and distribution also, expansion and CND has performed a bit better because of the investment level at least internationally.

So, you can appreciate that, we did focus a lot on the international market, hence with tireless trips and travels. And the reason is because we had to offset the FX. As I mentioned before and just to give you some perspective, versus 2003 when I started the euro is down 20%, the Canadian dollar 22%, Australian dollar 20%, South African 30%, Mexican peso 20%, Argentinean peso 40% plus. I mean these are approximate numbers, okay, but since we bought Colomer, since Revlon integrated with Colomer, the footprint was no longer a U.S. footprint, right. Revlon was already international, but it became even more global and therefore unfortunately more exposed to the FX impact. And I would have loved to be like some other French company reporting in euro, so that we wouldn't have this misperception out there, because we would have had – instead of headwinds we would have had tailwinds in a very big way.

But nevertheless, we created our own tailwinds creating momentum for the business and therefore offsetting – largely offsetting in sales, not completely, but largely offsetting these headwinds. And in the process, improving the fundamentals of our brands, of our business, and we improve those to our profitability. So, the headwinds could have caused also the client profitability, instead, there our work has been able to more than offset that and that's why we are more profitable.

Okay. No, that's helpful. And certainly FX has been a very high hurdle for a number of years. Obviously, we don't know which way currencies are going to go this year, but based on current rates, do you expect FX to be a headwind for Revlon in 2016?

So, as you know, without this this being a forward-looking statement, because I don't control the FX, right. If we would control the FX, we would have another job and without doing that, we expect at this rate, if the current rate remains the same, the headwind to be minor very, very minor. So, maybe in the range of – a little bit in Q1 and half of Q2 max, but we deemed it to be minor, okay? Yeah, that's basically – the problem is that the volatility of the exchange rate is significant and we can't really bank it.

Yes. No question. Okay. My last question – that's a very helpful response, but can you help us think through the gross margin rate change in Q4? It was down 300 basis points, I think your commentary indicated that gross profit was up ex-FX for both. If you could just tell us how much FX curved the gross margin rate in Q4 that would be helpful to think through that?

Yes. One sec. There are two impacts in the...

Okay.

Okay. Yes, we have two impacts in the quarter, one is the gross to net activity that during the first nine months of the year was much lower than 2014 and in the Q4 we had a significant increase in the gross to net allowances. It was just a timing issue and the second one is the commented FX transaction that had impacted in the Q4 significantly, those are the two main drivers.

Okay. So, just so I can make sure I understand that the gross-to-net...

Yes.

You're saying that the true up through the first three quarters, was underestimated and so the fourth quarter, there was a catch-up for the...

No. No.

So, okay.

So, the timing of the activities on the gross-to-net activities on the trade in the consumer business were lower than 2014 during the first three quarters of this year, and in the Q4 2015 were higher than last year. So a matter of activity at a trade level?

Yes. To give you some color. We launched last year in quarter four 2014, we launched the LOVE IS ON campaign. So we focused quite a bit resources in brand support, and we were a bit I guess lower than usual in gross to net support, which is trade activity, FSI, coupons and the likes.

And this year instead we had lower level of brand support below the line, and a higher level of gross to net. And that is because we among other things, we've been promotionally more active during the holiday period with special kits and gifts that as a business that as you probably know, if you don't, I'll give you some color, the beauty category in general becomes very, very seasonal, and during – there is a period of four weeks, five weeks, where it almost double. And so in general, the beauty category in the holiday period. And traditionally, we were not very active, and this year we've been active, and we've been active and that's also one of the reason we gained share, during this period and we have now a reasonably good share momentum.

Great. Okay. Yes. That – that piece of information is very helpful as we think about the margins. Thank you.

But there was also a transactional impact on COGS.

We have almost $3 million of FX in the quarter...

For the quarter.

In the quarter, almost $3 million...

And almost $12 million of gross to net activity.

Okay. Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go next to Carla Casella from JPMorgan.

Hi. Most of my questions have been answered. But, did you say we should look for permanent display spending to stay similar to this year in the year ahead or how are you looking at spending behind the brands either between permanent display versus consumer advertising?

So, we expect the investment brand support and in display to be comparable with the one that we add this year and that is an expectation to make this statement. In reality, also we are trying to become more efficient, so what we would like to do as a company is to create the same impact spending less. And in fact, we have projects in place to become more efficient especially on the permanent display. You ask permanent display, there are a lot of that it comes from procuring them and from third parties.

So, we have projects in place to – we actually recruited even a specific person on that. So that ideally we create the same in market pressure, but hopefully we'll save some money. But that's more a qualitative indication. On a quantitative indication, I'll say to you that there will be comparable because that's a cat and that has not been skinned yet. I didn't mean to imply that we normally skin cats here, but hopefully that, I will get a pass for it, because...

Okay. That's great. And are you seeing much competition on that front. Are your competitors changing the way they support brands either between permanent display spending or consumer advertising print or media?

There's nothing material really to report on this front right now. It would be too long of an answer and I would need to go in the detail for our competitors and we don't do that.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. And we'll go now next to Arthur Roulac from the Three Court.

Hi. Good morning, and congratulations on some fine work this year, gentlemen. My first question is in – an easy one in the third quarter Q, you guys called out sort of a new restructuring plan, and I was wondering what the potential cost saving from that restructuring plan might be in 2016?

So, internally we refer to this project as [ph] both (34:25) global efficiency, which was launched as you just referred in Q3, 2015 and we continue to through the end of 2017. The project is aimed at reducing head count across several markets in an effort to drive organizational efficiencies.

We expect a total of approximately $10 million in one-time cost, and we expect to achieve a total of approximately $10 million to $15 million of core reduction, fully implemented by the end of 2018.

Got it. And in the release you've called out, I guess in the fourth quarter there is a higher cash compensation expense year-over-year. Can you say what that was just from a comparability perspective for us?

Can you repeat the question, please?

Sure. I think in the press release, I was reading out today that the cash compensation expense was higher, I guess you were accruing for maybe more management bonuses in the fourth quarter of this year versus last year's fourth quarter. And I was wondering, how much higher that was, so we can have some comparability?

It just pure timing, in 2014, we had a higher increase on the bonuses in the Q3 of 2014, and this year it happened in the Q4 2015. So, it's purely a timing issue, comparing Q4 last year with Q4 this year. And it's immaterial, it's an immaterial amount.

Got it. And then, I know I think you called out severance expense being higher in the fourth quarter and I know that's not added back to EBITDA and I believe there was fairly significant severance expense for the entire year of 2015. Can you let us know, how much cash severance expense there was that sort of wasn't added back to EBITDA in 2015?

Yes. It was significant and it was $14.7 million. Now, you can appreciate that every company has a turnover people that is somewhat physiological and there is always severances, okay. But this year in 2015, we started early on in the year, executing what we call a Renova project, Renova and that Renova means an upgrade of talent.

So, we have gone starting from the top two layers down, trying to replace underperformer with better performers. And this exercise has been systematic and across all geography, all sanctions. And this led to an incremental $14.7 million of severances that at this stage, I cannot make a statement for 2016 especially in light of the management changes that are coming. You never know what the new position would be taken by the new management, but as far as we are concerned with the existing visibility, we can say that, that amount was unusual impossibly, possibly not recurrent. Said that, you appreciate that I – I'm not making a forward-looking statement, because things can change with as with the new management.

So, the $14.7 million has impacted our as reported results, and it's one of those unusual item that we correct, when we talked about adjusted EBITDA. It's not your typical restructuring, it's not your typical restructuring because your typical restructuring drives us saving, and this one doesn't drive a saving. It's just a cost, it's just cost and payback is an upgraded talent pool. So, you want to say something Roberto?

No, it's fine.

Okay.

And then, my next final question with the – I guess the pension, you bought out some people out, and I haven't had a chance to look at your 10-K that just came out. But, how much is that reducing I guess, cash pension costs going forward?

It doesn't have an impact on the cash pension payment going forward.

And then, obviously, I guess there's going to be some sort of an announcement coming up and there's a lot of moving parts, but obviously the company, Lorenzo, you've done a great job so, congratulations sorry to see you go but there is CFOs moving on as well. You have COO running the business. I guess, the idea is at some point fairly soon, there is going to be some sort of announcement with regard to what's going on in C suite of the company?

Yes. Okay. As I mentioned before, and we expect to have an announcement soon on the CEO and subsequently the search of the CFO was well in advance stage and we've identified several candidates, which I believe that now will be assessed by the new management. So all-in-all without giving specific data, I believe that we'll soon and I say soon address these announcements and in the meanwhile the organization is well covered.

We have [ph] Johnny (40:14), which is an extremely capable and talented manager running all the operation, Siobhan leading all the accounting and finance at Interim, plus the very-very strong Financial Controller, we have for the Professional and Consumer Division, and this is a matter of soon okay. I don't want to make it specific statement, because I don't control it. So we are – we realize that the timing is a little bit what it is, but we think that this matter will be addressed shortly and therefore I wouldn't – I wouldn't see that as a concern.

Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. So, thanks for the questions, and with this we conclude our call today. Thanks a lot.

That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.