corrected transcript


Revlon, Inc.
 
REV
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Revlon’s Second Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. At the request of Revlon, today's conference call is being recorded. If


you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.


I would now like to introduce your host leading today's meeting, Ms. Maria Sceppaguercio, Senior


Vice President, Investor Relations.


Maria A. Sceppaguercio, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Lisa and good morning everyone.


Earlier this morning, we released our results for the second quarter of 2005. Included in that


release was a news that we expected to launch two strategic initiatives in the fourth quarter of this


year that are designed to accelerate our growth and further build our position in the mass-market


color cosmetics category. In the event, you haven’t received a copy of the release you can get one


on our website at www.revloninc.com.


The call this morning will focus on our results of the quarter and provide some context for you


regarding the initiatives. Our intention in discussing the initiatives is to help you understand the


magnitude of what we are planning and how we expect our actions over the upcoming quarters to


impact our financial results for the balance of the year and into next year. We won't, however, get


into very specific elements of the initiative or strategy for obvious competitive reasons at this stage.


We will update you on our progress and provide more detail as the year unfolds.


In making the announcement this morning, we indicated our plan to issue $185 million of equity,


reflecting an increase to our previously-communicated plan to issue $110 million of equity by March


31, 2006. We also announced a debt financing to raise $75 million, the timing of which is expected


in the third quarter of 2005. Under Securities Laws, we cannot comment further on the debt


financing. We will issue a press release in this regard at the appropriate time.


As we have indicated previously, proceeds from $110 million of the $185 million equity issuance


would be used to pay-down debt. The balance of the proceeds from the issuance would be


available for general corporate purposes. MacAndrews & Forbes, the principal shareholder has


agreed to increase its back-stop commitment to ensure we issue the full $185 million. In addition,


MacAndrews & Forbes have also agreed to extend the term of our existing line of credit with them,


which now stands at $87 million of availability through the planned equity issuance to be


consummated by March 31, 2006.


Turning now to marketplace performance, as usual, unless otherwise noted, our discussion this


morning of market share and retail consumption is of the US mass market, according to AC Nielsen


which excludes Wal-Mart and regional mass volume retailers. The data is an aggregate of the drug


channel, Target, Kmart and food and combo stores, and represents approximately two-thirds of the


company's US mass market volume.


The color cosmetics category, according to Nielsen, was up 2.8% in the quarter. We achieved


consumption growth for the quarter of 5.3%, which was essentially twice that of the category. This


performance drove our overall market share versus a year ago, up 50 basis points to 22.3%.


Almay drove this strong performance with consumption up 18% in the quarter. This drove share for


Almay up almost a full share point to 6.6%.
corrected transcript


Revlon, Inc.
 
REV
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The Revlon brand also grew consumption in the quarter, up 1% versus year ago, which was


somewhat below the growth of the overall category, resulting in a market share decline of about 30


basis points to 15.7. Importantly, where we have taken specific action on the Revlon brand to re-


stage what were very important, but declining franchises, in some cases the first such action in


many years, we are getting very good results.


Specifically, our restaged Age Defying with Botafirm, restaged Super Lustrous Lipstick and our


restaged core nail enamel are all doing quite well in the market. Age Defying for example achieved


consumption growth versus a year ago of 34% in the quarter and Super Lustrous was up 11%. We


continue to take action to strengthen the Revlon franchise and bring innovation to this business.


And, we will update you on our actions in this regard as we move forward.


We have also made significant progress in other areas of our portfolio, including Revlon hair color,


Revlon beauty tools and Mitchum antiperspirants and deodorants each of which achieved market


share growth in the quarter.


Before I turn the call over to Jack Stahl, Revlon President and CEO; and Tom McGuire, Revlon


Executive Vice President and CFO, I would like to remind you that our discussion this morning may


include forward-looking statements, which are subject to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Information on potential factors that could affect the


company's results from time to time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking


statements is set forth in the company's filings with the SEC, including the company's 2004 annual


report on Form 10-K/A, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of


2005, the latter which we expect to file next week and other SEC filed documents and press


releases including the release issued today.


And, finally, as a reminder, our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded. With that,


I'll hand it over to Jack.


Jack L. Stahl, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Maria, and good morning everyone. And, as always, thank you for participating.


As you recall and as we've talked about in the past, our strategy to strengthen our company has


been focused on, number one, strengthening our brands and their connection to our consumers


through better and improved brand positioning and brand imagery across every one of our


marketing drivers; our second core focus has been on building strong customer relationships


through strength and execution and fact-based selling to our retailers; and third, strengthening the


Revlon organization to build the capabilities we need to drive our long-term growth in the future.


Having put a number of necessary building blocks in place over the past couple of years, for us,


this becomes as you might imagine a very exciting time for our company. Why? Because, we are


now able to broaden our focus to accelerating growth and value creation.


The two initiatives that we announced this morning are really two great examples and important


components of that effort and they underscore the real progress that we have made to strengthen


our brands and our organization and to build strong partnerships with retail customers. As we think


about that, I do understand that you will have a lot of questions regarding some specific elements of


these two initiatives, and we will do our absolute best to help you. However, I must say, we'd love


to share much more detail of what we are planning, but I hope you understand that we got to be


careful about really not giving away the store from a competitive standpoint at this point in time.


So, certainly, as details unfold, we will be sharing them with you. We will try to be absolutely as


helpful as we can today about these important initiatives.