corrected transcript


Revlon, Inc.
 
REV
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Revlon’s Third Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. At the request of Revlon, today's conference call is being recorded. If


you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.


I would now like to introduce your host leading to today's meeting, Ms. Maria Sceppaguercio,


Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Ma’am you may begin.


Maria A. Sceppaguercio, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Lisa, and good morning everyone.


Earlier this morning, we released our results for the third quarter, 2005. In that release we provided


an update on our new major brand initiative and our outlook for the balance of this year. If you


haven’t received a copy of the release you can get one on our website at www.revloninc.com.


By way of background, one of the initiatives involves a complete re-launch of our important Almay


brand. The strategy is centered around meeting her needs for simplicity, healthy beauty and


personalization and creating a totally new in-store experience for her. In effect, we tested certain


elements of this strategy this year with our Almay Intense i-Color launch, which has been a


runaway success.


The second initiative is designed to play right into key demographic trends, with the aging of the


senior population and the current lack of products formulated to meet her changing needs. We


have developed under a new brand name, a complete line of products that we believe will work for


her changing skin and bring her back into segments of the color cosmetics category that she once


enjoyed and participated in.


Jack will provide more insight on these initiatives and the related success we have achieved for the


upcoming sell-in for 2006. I am also pleased to tell you that in a next couple of months as retailers


begin their resets we plan to share with you our new [inaudible] and product lines and to give you a


first hand look at just how significant and exciting these initiatives are.


Turning to marketplace performance as usual, unless otherwise noted, our discussion this morning


of market share and retail consumption is of the US mass-market according to ACNielsen, which


excludes Wal-Mart and regional mass volume retailers. This data is an aggregate of the drugs


channel, Target, Kmart, and food and combo stores and represents approximately two-thirds of the


Company's U.S. mass-market dollar volume.


The color cosmetics category was up 2.9% versus year ago in the quarter. Our consumption growth


of 4.5% in the quarter significantly outpaced that of the category, resulting in our gaining 30 basis


points of market share to 21.6%.


Almay drove this strong performance with consumption up 11% in the quarter, and share growth of


50 basis points versus year ago to 6.3%. The Revlon brand also grew consumption in this quarter,


up 2% versus year ago, but below the category, resulting in a market share decline of about 10


basis points to 15.3%.


Our new and restaged products continued to perform well in the market. Specifically, each of our


restaged products namely Age Defying with Botafirm, Super Lustrous Lipstick, and our restaged


core nail enamel, each of which had been in decline achieved double-digit consumption growth in
corrected transcript


Revlon, Inc.
 
REV
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the quarter. Age Defying, for example, has achieved a 28% increase in retail consumption in the


first nine months of this year.


Our totally new products namely Fabulash Mascara, ColorStay 12-Hour Eye Shadow, Almay


Intense i-Color and Almay Truly Lasting Lip Color also posted strong results in the quarter.


Importantly, we will continue to take actions to strengthen the Revlon franchise and bring


excitement and innovation to this important business. Jack will be sharing some specifics with you


regarding our plans in this area for 2006.


In other areas of our portfolio we also achieved share growth, including Revlon hair color, which


was up 20 basis points versus year ago in the quarter, to 8.4%, and Revlon beauty tools, which


was up 70 basis points to 25.3%. In antiperspirants and deodorants we held share at 6.1%.


Finally, in October we filed the shelf registration statement with the SEC to register up to $250


million of equity securities. This filing will provide the company with the flexibility to tap into the


equity market on an as-needed basis.


Before I turn the call over to Jack Stahl, Revlon President and CEO; and Tom McGuire, Revlon


Executive Vice President and CFO, I would like to remind you that our discussion this morning may


include forward-looking statements, which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Information on potential factors that could affect the Company's results from time-to-time and cause


them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the Company's filings


with the SEC, including the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, our quarterly reports


on Form 10-Q for 2005, including the third quarter 10-Q, which we expect to file next week, 8-Ks


and other SEC files and furnished documents during 2005, and press releases including today's


release.


And, lastly, as a reminder, our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded. With that,


I'll hand it over to Jack.


Jack Stahl, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Maria, and good morning everyone. And as always, thanks for your participation on the


call.


Today, I would like to begin my discussion with a quick snapshot of our overall business, including


our outlook for our two major new brand initiatives, and what we expect to see for our overall


business.


With me today in addition to Tom and Maria, are Stephanie Peponis, our Chief Marketing Officer;


Paul Murphy, who has responsibility for North America Sales and Customer Marketing; Carl


Kooyoomjian, who has Worldwide Manufacturing and R&D responsibility; and, David Kennedy, who


as you know, heads up our International Business. And, each of these people are playing important


roles and helping to lead our progress. And, to the extent that there is an opportunity, I am sure


they will help fill in details around our progress today.


First, let me say that, as Maria, indicated we are making significant progress in the US marketplace


across all of our key categories. And, importantly, in color cosmetics, our progress is helping to


create growth for the entire category, which is a change from where the category was about a year


ago. In addition, retailers have responded to our major new brand initiatives, Vital Radiance, and


Almay, with significant merchandizing support for 2006.