Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Siobhan Anderson — Chief Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller & Treasurer, Revlon, Inc.
Lorenzo Delpani — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Revlon, Inc.
Roberto Simon — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Revlon, Inc.
Carla M. Casella — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Kevin L. Ziets — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Karru Martinson — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Arthur Roulac — Partner, Three Court, LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Revlon's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At the request of Revlon, today's conference call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Siobhan Anderson, Revlon's Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. You may begin, Ms. Anderson.

Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining today's call. Earlier today, we released our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2015. If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release, you can obtain one on our web site at revloninc.com.

On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani, Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo, I would like to remind everyone of a few things. First, our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings, including our third quarter 2015 Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws.

Next, our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Beginning in the second quarter of 2015, the company has identified certain unusual items impacting the comparability of the company's period-over-period results as seen through the eyes of management. As a result of these unusual items, the definition of adjusted EBITDA has changed from that used in prior periods. The adjusted measures are defined in our earnings release and also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release. Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.

Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today. This quarter results were very strong and in fact adjusted net sales grew 6.8% and adjusted EBITDA grew 8.7% measured on an XFX basis. The 8.7% adjusted EBITDA growth was achieved despite an incremental $4.7 million of brand support investment in the quarter.

In the first nine months of 2015, we have been in investment mode with an incremental $35.8 million of brand support versus prior year. This investment as well as the continued execution of our strategy value creation led to significant growth in the Consumer segment net sales and segment profit, both in the U.S. and internationally. Specifically, we've seen very strong growth in our distributor market.

The Professional segment was substantially flat. However, this is the results of strong performance across most of our professional assets being offset by CND domestic which has experienced some decline, particularly in the value segments. As for CBB, within our Other segment, we are in advance discussion for new opportunities and we will update you on the progress as appropriate in the future.

Overall, we are broadly pleased with the return that we are seeing on our investment. In other news, in late September 2015, we launched Revlon LOVE IS ON Million Dollar Challenge. The challenge participant raised $2.8 million for women's health charities and Revlon is donating an additional $1.4 million to the winning charities. In total, the challenge achieved over $4 million in donation to women's health charities, including those that tackle women cancer, heart disease and diabetes.

In addition, as part of the Revlon LOVE IS ON campaign, we also launched the Love Test Video which has had over 25 million views in less than two weeks. We believe that both the Revlon LOVE IS ON Million Dollar Challenge and the Revlon LOVE IS ON Campaign have had positive impact on the Revlon brand equity attributes.

On an administrative matter, as you may have read in the Form 10-Q that we filed with the SEC this morning, Roberto Simon has tendered his resignation as our CFO. Roberto has agreed to postpone his departure date until late February 2016, plus he is starting effectively transitioning our finance, accounting and treasury functions and overseeing the close of our 2015 fiscal year end and filing our Form 10-K with the SEC.

We thank Roberto for his commitment and especially the commitment to remain with us as we close out our annual financial cycle and for the professional relationship that we have had over the many years that has been with us. Notably, we have already started the recruitment process to hire a new CFO. I will now turn over the call to Roberto.

Thank you, Lorenzo, and good morning, everyone. Here are the financial results for Q3 2015 on a GAAP reported basis, which include the impact of certain non-operating and unusual items in both periods.

Net sales were $471.5 million versus $472.3 million in Q3 2014. Operating income was $55 million compared to $54.2 million in Q3 2014

Net income was $6.2 million or $0.12 of diluted EPS, compared to $14.6 million of net income or $0.28 of diluted EPS in Q3 2014. The decrease in net income was likely due to higher tax expense as a result of the following tax items: Higher pre-tax income, certain favorable discrete items in 2014 that didn't repeat in 2015, and an increasing devaluation allowance related to certain assets in the U.S. as a result of a change in law.

Moving now on to our segment results. In Q3 2015, Consumer segment net sales were $348.1 million. On an XFX basis, Consumer segment net sales increased 5.9%. This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales for Revlon color cosmetics, Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum products, partially offset by lower net sales of Almay. Consumer segment profit was $86 million in Q3 2015. On an XFX basis, Consumer segment profit increased 17.6%. The increase is mainly due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales, partially offset by $2.8 million of higher brand support for the company's consumer brands.

In the Professional segment, Q3 2015 net sales were $114.5 million. On an XFX basis, Professional segment net sales increased 1%. This increase is mainly due to higher net sales of Creme of Nature, American Crew and Revlon Professional, partially offset by lower net sales of CND in the U.S. Professional segment profit was $23.4 million in Q3 2015. On an XFX basis, Professional segment was essentially flat.

Moving on to net sales by geography, in Q3 2015, net sales in the U.S. were $255 million or 4.6% higher than in Q3 2014. This increase was driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics, Revlon ColorSilk and Creme of Nature, partially offset by lower net sales of Almay and CND.

Moving on to International results, in Q3 2015, International net sales were $216.5 million. On an XFX basis, net sales were up 8.6%. International net sales increased in the Consumer segment primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics, Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum. In the Professional segment, International net sales increased mainly due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional. From a geographical perspective, the increase was primarily driven by certain distributor markets.

Moving to total company results, adjusted EBITDA was $87.6 million in Q3 2015 compared to $85.4 million in Q3 2014. On an XFX basis, adjusted EBITDA increased $7.4 million or 8.7%. This increase was mainly driven by higher gross profit in the Consumer segment, partially offset by $4.7 million of higher brand support expenses in Q3 2015. The 8.7% increases on adjusted EBITDA also included incremental severance for 2015, as we have been investing more in upgrading our people and talent following our strategy of value creation.

Taking a look at liquidity, as of September 30, 2015, our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $345 million. This was made up of available cash of $178.8 million and available borrowing on our revolver of $166.2 million.

Now, I will turn the call over to Siobhan.

Thank you, Roberto. This concludes our prepared remarks. And we would now like to open up the call for your questions. Operator, please prompt the participants for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go first to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.

Hi, thanks for taking the question. You talked about the $4.5 million of additional brand support in the quarter. Can you give us just some details of what types of programs you're running there, and also do we expect the same for fourth quarter?

Okay. It's way too long to articulate in detail where it goes, but broadly speaking you need to get – I'm to go on overall concept. On overall, we have since the end of 2013 when we started the new strategy, we have significantly ramped our investments across the board, because we needed to be more competitive and the way you're competitive in the market is investing to achieve an higher share of voice when it comes down to media, a higher share of activity when it comes down to trade activity and supporting merchandizing investment as well.

So broadly speaking, the buckets where the money has gone and continues to go are media, in-store activation and in-store promotion of our products and merchandizing. In addition, we use – we have worked hard to expand our geographical presence. So in some cases, the increase is not so much in the existing geography, but is in new geography. In fact, we're progressing at very high rate internationally, even if unfortunately it's offsetted by the XFX and that growth comes from incremental investment, like for example in Japan, in Australia or other countries.

So this incremental investment in geographies where we are launching new brands, for example, the rollout of Revlon ColorSilk requires incremental investment. And so broadly speaking, I would say that I don't have the exact math, but the majority of the investment has taken place in existing markets and the minority but significant portion of it has gone to just feed the geographical new market development, new brand rollouts and therefore require this investment.

We have been very aggressive in ramping the investment in the past two years and I think that we reached a level that I would consider competitive. As far as concerned Q4, as we indicated before, this year we have somewhat the phasing of the initiative and the phasing of the investment has been EBITDA heavier in Q1, Q2 and a little bit in Q3. We expect Q4 to be much more moderate and therefore the quarter Q4 is likely to have lower amount of brand support.

For the future, as far as concerned the future, we will I think as I said we reached a competitive level as a percentage of sales but, as we grow our sales and as we plan to do so, part of that plan we may grow the absolute amount of investment. But in terms of investment as a percentage of sales, I think we have reached a reasonable competitive level.

That's great. That's really helpful. Thank you and then one other. The permanent display spending, do you still target $50 million for the year? And is that a good number going forward as well?

That is a good estimate of our investment for the year and we are going to seek opportunities to become more efficient in this investment and that would acquire a harmonization of asset across the world. That's a significant investment for the color cosmetics business. We have different businesses and this permanent display primarily affects the color cosmetics, is a significant investment as I said that is an important cash item. And for the future, we will try to become more efficient and harmonizing design and sourcing across the world. Said that, this is not an indication that we will achieve such endeavor but it's an area of definitely focus for us.

Okay, great, thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Kevin Ziets with Citi.

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. My first question was on Almay. It sounds like it didn't have as strong a quarter as maybe you were hoping for. I am just curious how you are evaluating the brand support that you are putting behind that in light of the kind of fewer, bigger, better strategy?

Well, okay. So basically Almay – first of all, we normally don't give details. But, to give you a feeling, in terms of our share position in the last four weeks, we have substantially held in the same position as we had last year. As much as – I am talking last four weeks versus last year four weeks. So more or less we are in the same gain and the same level. This by itself is somewhat an achievement because Almay has been on a declining trend for a long time. And so to say that we're keeping at least for this phase one the brand somewhat stable.

Now, said that, clearly because of the incremental investment we put behind the brand, it's an area where the return investment is not the one we expected. But we will continue to feed this investment for the foreseeable future and because we believe in the possibility of Almay to turnaround. It's a big asset in terms of revenue. As you can imagine, we don't have brand P&L, we don't share them, but is not so big in terms of profit. So ultimately, as we don't have that many asset, we can definitely take the Almay challenge on and continue with it.

And it's not a liability for us to continue to support Almay and is not even representing sort of the focus. So we will continue to fight and which has become very competitive, not just for Almay, in general become very competitive because, as I mentioned before, the color cosmetics market particularly in the United States is very much affected by development of many value brands and many private labels. So, Almay is increasingly challenged, but it's somewhat encouraging that we are holding position despite the significantly stronger competitive atmosphere offsetting.

Okay, I appreciate that. I guess along those lines, you mentioned I think at the outset that you might be investing alongside the CBB acquisition, and I was just curious if you could elaborate on that, or maybe talk about the M&A environment in general given that – how important the scale might be given what's going on competitively?

Okay, I am not going to comment on CBB, there is no need of doing so because there is nothing material to share yet. We are obviously working on, as I mentioned before, on acquiring new licenses and we like to follow a balanced portfolio, so we are seeking both luxury brands as well as lifestyle and celebrity. So as I said in my previous note, when I have something to share, I will and as you can imagine disclosing my plans can actually interfere with them.

Of course.

And therefore, sorry for not sharing. Now, as far as concerned the broader M&A, that makes the world more challenging. But as I said last time, we are ready, we are competitive, we have a strong pipeline, and we are ready to fight it. And as far as concern our M&A projects, we won't disclose that either. And I regret that, but it's appropriate for us not to do so.

Of course, no, I just meant in general, if you felt like you needed, as a broader strategical goal, to attain greater scale given that some of your competitors are scaling up?

Well, the scale and this is my view at least. This scale is in general, you appreciate is important, but it's also a liability because it creates tremendous complexity, slowdown the organization, makes them less entrepreneurial, and et cetera, et cetera. I can go on and on.

In fact, arguably for example, P&G that recently sold their assets, they had scale, they had the asset, they invested on it for years and years and years. And yet, now they decided to divest it. So, that's an example indeed that scale is not everything and is also a matter of strategic focus and deciding where to play, how to play, et cetera, et cetera.

Now in the specifics, I believe that the fight in the business happens at brand level – and category and brand level. So, what we need to have is scale at category and brand level. And I very much believe in the concept of fewer, bigger, better which for us means that we have certain assets that are global priorities, other that are on maintain mode, other that are on the privatize mode.

And if and when one day we buy an asset or we buy something, I will look at it like that; I will look at a category and brand level because that's where the rubber hits the road. Buying agglomerates of brands just for the sake of getting scale and then leaving – the following two years, just managing how to integrate them, how do dispose them, how to – it's not necessarily a winning move.

Now as far as I am concerned, we have already the challenge of rationalize our portfolio that in terms of relative – it's quite complex in relative terms to others. And therefore, I am not eager to add fragmentation and complexity. I more like the idea of adding fewer, bigger, better assets. And I just mentioned this as a general conversation, okay.

So I'm not trying to imply anything nor I am making any forward-looking statements. You ask me to broadly comment what's going on in the industry and I did so. Now, I want to say that some companies that do these big acquisitions are very good at doing so. So good luck to them and we don't hope anything but the best to everybody.

Appreciate that. If I can get one more question in, I'm just curious how you're thinking about sort of sell-in for the coming year or the coming sort of new planogram sets, and how you are feeling about your shelf space in general, and maybe if you had any commentary about sort of changing supplier relationships from one of your largest U.S. retailers?

Look, there is not much I can comment on this. You are asking me forward-looking statement of my shelf, let's say that I don't see anything dramatic or radical coming my way. And as far as concern the big supplier, if you refer to – what do you refer to? You refer to the consolidation of Walgreens-Rite Aid or what are you referring to?

I guess, specifically I was thinking about Wal-Mart and changes that they're asking from their suppliers, if that would impact sort of the timing or any shelf space at Wal-Mart?

Well, at this stage, I really have nothing material to report on that, so...

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.

Good morning. Just a kind of follow-up on that question. In terms of the Rite Aid-Walgreens merger, I realize it's early, but is there any material difference between your shelf space and positioning at the two retail chains?

We don't want to comment on that. It's early for different reasons. So I just want to try and to clarify the question, but not necessarily to answer it. And so basically, we are in reasonable strong standing with both retailers and I don't judge the difference of standing between the two retailers to be a liability for us. But obviously, I don't know the plans of Walgreens-Rite Aid and therefore that is an element outside of our control. But our priority based on our standing, it's reasonably comparable and a lot to do with what they intend to do with the space and how they intend to rationalize it.

Okay. And when we look at the growth of value and private label brands, the other factor we've been hearing a lot about is kind of smaller niche brands on the margin taking share. Do you see that as a challenge for the Almay brand, or is that more of a competitor threat to the core Revlon?

It's not – okay, so in general, it's not necessarily a challenge. From a consumer standpoint, it's not necessarily a challenge to the Almay brand because Almay doesn't have a value positioning as a positioning of high-quality product and I'm going to skip the marketing speech on Almay. But, from a consumer standpoint, it's not a brand that is in immediate price tradeoff. So, it's not more threat than Revlon and in that sense, is as threat as Revlon, it's not to say that there is not a threat because an increasing amount of consumer are focusing on niche value brands.

On the retailer side, when the retailer needs space, obviously when the retailer needs space, they can always take a view, they need to take the space for brand A and take it from brand B. And in that sense, Almay is possibly more challenged than Revlon, but I don't think see anything material coming our way on as far as concern shelf space reduction and not at least in the short term. Our continued investment and effort behind Almay will help us minimize that risk that exists and is there, i.e., to lose space to other brands, and not so much because they're in consumer tradeoff. It's more because the trade reallocate the space by planogram – by redefining the planograms.

As far as concerned these value brands and value niche, well, they're growing because they offer value, and they grow and they offer value, and I guess there are consumers that appreciate value above other elements, above performance primary and secondary above convenience factor, above the trust and the intangible that is built behind the brand. And that is unfortunate because we make a tremendous effort to ensure the quality of our product, to follow rules, law, regulations. We manufacture, specifically Almay, largely in the United States and very soon we will be able to announce something interesting about it. We have done a lot of effort to bring manufacturing in-house in North Carolina and to really rely on local manufacturing. And that comes with paying minimum wages, that comes from following rules, regulations that some of our competitor are not – don't have to follow.

So, the playing field is not level in this sense and we hope that people will appreciate that not all products are created equal. And we will continue with this resolve to produce high-quality product that respond to consumer needs. And yes, it is definitely a challenge and something that – in some cases, also we would need the retailer to have a category management view to the business meaning the old fashion – I know it's old fashioned – but, old fashioned category management was designed to develop the value of a category in front of a limited amount of consumer and consumption opportunities. The development of value brands doesn't necessarily do so. But that's not our choice and we have to live with it.

So, this last comment was more like to give you industry color and not so much a statement for our brands.

I appreciate it, thank you very much guys.

And we'll take our next question from Arthur Roulac with Three Court.

Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question and congratulations on two years of very good work in turning the business around; it has been very impressive.

My first question would be on advertising and promotion. I know you said you're happy with the level it's at today. In the fourth quarter, next year, all else being equal, should we sort of expect the same level of promotion in the fourth quarter versus last year and then going forward, or would we expect a more incremental spend?

So, we noted in our second quarter of 2015 earnings call that we expect the brand support for the second half of 2015 to be in line with 2014 level. As the brand support was up in the third quarter, consequently we expect Q4 brand support investment to be lower versus last year because the statement we released previously remains accurate. The reason why we invest in a different timeline is because of phasing of initiative and also because last year in Q4, we launched the LOVE IS ON repositioning campaign that took, let's say, an unusual seasonality in the typical investment flow that we follow.

So to say that Q4 is likely to be more moderate versus last year. And I didn't say I am happy with the level of investment, I said that it's competitive and happiness is a different story and for me will be very desirable personal level to have dominating level of investment. But that's something that we eventually would get there sooner or later.

But for the time being, we have to carefully play our bets and our investment focusing on that return because we are a leveraged organization that requires us to focus on cash flow and free cash flow. And therefore, we are reasonably conservative in these incremental efforts.

Now, the XFX has been a disrupting factor for us and I say has been because hopefully the storm is behind us. But, as you can imagine, I don't want to make that statement because we don't control the exchange rate. But if they stay more or less as they are right now, the storm should be kind of behind. And it's kind of a pity because it doesn't allow to see the real progress we've done. In XFX basis versus 2013, we have invested significantly more behind the brand, more than $50 million more actually on a comparable basis – comparable XFX basis, and yet we paid back that investment by delivering incremental comparable growth and not only we did that, we generated incremental comparable profit.

So, the plot has worked well from an operational standpoint. Then when it comes down to transaction effect and translation effect, due to XFX that unfortunately doesn't show. But you can see that better when you see that our competitors that have a strong international presence, they have declined and instead we are still making progress.

So, all-in-all, you are right in saying that we have done progress. It's not so visible because of this XFX part. Hopefully, the exchange rates will remain at the current level or eventually improve, and we will be able at that point, if that happens, to fuel more the growth rapidly and to fuel the growth even more, and that's it.

And my next question would be from more of a capital structure and sort of prioritization of cash, you are producing a lot of free cash flow on all the investments in the business, is there plans to – I guess what will be the priority, is it repaying debt, is it bolt-on acquisitions, or is it TBD?

Roberto, take this.

We are continuously identifying and evaluating ways to create value for the company. And as you can imagine, with this evaluation process, we consider many different courses of action, including potential business combination, debt repayment, debt refinancing and reimbursement into the company's existing brands, okay?

Fair enough, thank you.

Okay, thank you.

We will go next to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.

Okay.

Hi, I had a follow-up. The inventory level was higher than it typically is in this quarter and I am wondering if that was a timing issue, or if it's just given the new make-up of the business?

It's accurate and we have a higher level of inventory than usual in the last quarter and that's driven by a couple of factors. One, definitely we have more assets because of the CBB assets, that are fairly seasonal and they sell a lot in Q4 season normally and therefore we have a buildup of assets. So, there's definitely a CBB component. And second driver of inventory increase is the increased sales performance. I want to remind you that in Consumer business, we have increased our performance and due to the fragmentation of the portfolio that leads to increased inventory.

And last but not least, we wanted to make sure to keep good service level across our activity, intense activity period. And we've taken a conservative position in the level of inventory. And we will hopefully balance that in the year to go and I expect to reduce the inventory in Q4.

Okay, great. And then, can you just talk about how you view inventory in the channel now?

Well, in what sense?

I guess, how is inventory at the drug stores and the mass merchants today? Or even in the professional channel, is it – are we heavy on the inventory side because that's inhibiting any of the sell-in as you go into the fourth quarter, or is inventory generally clean?

Well, we have – generally I have nothing special to report on that point. We, as a philosophy of the company and it's even introduced in our clear spelt out operating principle. We really don't do loading and actually, in the company we have a philosophy that if people load and that's not considered business results and we don't reward it. And eventually if loading practices happen, we even go as far as terminating the people that drive them.

So in general, I don't expect and I don't see an issue of having unusual level of inventory. Now said that, the level of inventory in some of our categories is high and is high structurally, because they're categories with low velocity, particularly color cosmetics, and therefore even when you have a limited amount of SKU shelf, on an aggregate level, multiplying all SKU by all stores, it does represent a meaningful level of inventory.

Now, it's a relative situation as opposed to an absolute in the sense that it doesn't – to the best of my understanding, it does not increase in any meaningful way and definitely not in a way that deserve to be a concern for us right now.

Great. Thank you.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back to Lorenzo Delpani for any additional or closing remarks.

Well, thank you for the call today and I will see you next quarter.

This does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.