Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Siobhan Anderson — Vice President-Financial Reporting & Analysis, Revlon, Inc.
Lorenzo Delpani — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Revlon, Inc.
Roberto Simon — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Revlon, Inc.
Kevin L. Ziets — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Grant Jordan — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Revlon's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At the request of Revlon, today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Siobhan Anderson, Revlon's Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. You may begin, Ms. Anderson.

Thank you, Doug. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today's call. Earlier today, we released our financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release, you can obtain one on our website at Revloninc.com.

On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani, Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo, I would like to remind everyone of a few things. First, our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings, including our first quarter 2015 Form10-Q, which we filed earlier this morning. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws.

Next, our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures to enhance the comparability of our results. These measures are defined in our earnings release and also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release. Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.

Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today. On a XFX basis in this quarter, we were essentially flat in sales and down 13.3% or $11.7 million in adjusted EBITDA. These results were affected by different phasing of initiatives versus Q1 2014 and significant incremental brand support in the quarter. We incurred an additional $16.6 million in brand support as we continued to invest more competitively behind the relaunch of our key brands.

The remainder of the year brand support investment is expected to be more in line with 2014 level. Additionally, on an as reported basis, the first quarter of 2015 was significantly impacted by foreign currency exposure from our international markets, resulting in a reduction in our as reported net sales by $31 million and adjusted EBITDA by only $1.8 million.

FX in the quarter impacted our P&L from a translation and transaction standpoint. The impact of FX was partially mitigated by price increases, mix of sales and cost of good savings. If the current rates continue as they were in Q1 2015, we expect unfavorable foreign currency variances, at least in Q2 and part of Q3.

In summary, this was a solid quarter where we continued to work hard to implement and deploy our strategy of value creation and to invest for growth.

I will now turn the call over to Roberto.

Thank you, Lorenzo, and good morning, everyone. Here are the financial results for Q1 2015.

On a GAAP reported basis, Q1 2015 net sales were $438.5 million versus $469.8 million in Q1 2014. Operating income was $45.2 million, a 5.6% increase compared to $42.8 million in Q1 2014. Net loss was $900,000 or $0.02 of loss per diluted share compared to $5.5 million of net income or $0.11 of diluted earnings per share. This includes the impact of certain non-recurring items in both periods.

As I just mentioned, total company net sales in Q1 2015 were $438.5 million, a decrease of 6.7% on a net reported basis. However on an XFX basis, net sales were essentially flat compared to Q1 2014.

Moving on to the segments, in Q1 2015, Consumer segment net sales were $324.3 million. On an XFX basis, Consumer net sales increased 1.4%. This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Mitchum products, partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics.

Additionally, net sales in Q1 2014 included a $6.3 million favorable returns reserve adjustment in the U.S. that didn't recur in Q1 2015.

Consumer segment profit was $62.2 million in Q1 2015. On an XFX basis, Consumer segment profit decreased 10.6%. The decrease was mainly due to $11.5 million of higher brand support for the company's consumer brands, partially offset by higher gross profit as a result of the increases in net sales as well as price increases, favorable sales mix, and cost reductions within cost of sales.

In the Professional segment, Q1 205 net sales were $114.2 million. On an XFX basis, Professional segment net sales decreased 3.8%. This decrease includes lower net sales of CND nail products, partially offset by higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional products.

Professional segment profit was $29.2 million in Q1 2015. On an XFX basis, Professional segment profit decreased 7.8%. This decrease was mostly driven by $5.1 million of higher brand support expenses for the company's Professional brands and lower gross profit due to the decrease in net sales, partially offset by favorable sales mix and cost reductions within cost of sales.

Moving on to net sales by geography, in Q1 2015, net sales in the U.S. were $244.4 million or 2.3% lower than Q1 2014. The U.S. delivered lower net sales on CND nail products and Almay color cosmetics, mostly offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics, Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum products.

Moving onto International results, in Q1 2015, International net sales were $194.1 million. On an XFX basis, net sales increased 2.5%. The company had higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and American Crew throughout most of the International region and Revlon Professional products in Spain, partially offset by lower net sales of Revlon ColorSilk.

Moving to total company results, adjusted operating income in Q1 2015 decreased 23.9% on an XFX basis to $47.1 million. Adjusted EBITDA decreased 13.3% on an XFX basis to $74.3 million. Both adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA on an XFX basis were mainly impacted by $16.6 million of higher brand support expenses and higher general and administrative expenses, primarily due to the higher severance costs, incentive compensation expenses and legal fees, partially offset by higher gross profit in the Consumer segment as discussed earlier.

Taking a look at liquidity, as of March 31, 2015, our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $366.9 million. It was made up of available cash of $200.7 million and available borrowing on our revolver of $166.2 million.

Now, I will turn the call over to Siobhan.

Thank you, Roberto. This concludes our prepared remarks. And we would now like to open up the call for your questions. Operator, please prompt the participants for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Carla Casella.

Hi, this is [ph] May (9:59) dialing for Carla. Thanks for taking my question. Can you remind us of the timing of when you put in place your price increases on the Consumer side, and whether you've seen any push back? And did you increase across all channels of retail or only select, and over which product?

We have increased prices we started in the second half of last year. And we have increasing optimizing pricing opportunity, which generally means an increase, but not always, is part of our strategy of value creation. We do that and we intend to do that regularly on a yearly basis. The increase that we strive to do are pretty much in line with inflation. That's what we aim and occasionally, like it happened last year, we had a price increase that, in the United States for example, that was higher than inflation because we was aware that we were not resorting to systematic price increases.

Increasing prices is part of the way to generate value and but it's also part of the way in the case of the Revlon brand, for example, to realign the different price level, seeking consistency by segment and by – in line with our, let's say, brand positioning. All right, so we do it geographically – we try to do it in as many geographies as possible. Obviously, these philosophical price increase sometimes is a counter – receive the consideration that for competitive reason we may not do that in given geographies.

Okay, thank you. And just another quick question. Have you seen any changes in cost in a competitive stand from P&G given that it is selling CoverGirl?

I prefer not to respond to this question, is it would be a speculative answer. Let's say that on a broad basis, the only thing I can say that the market of color cosmetic is very, very, very competitive and continues to be very, very, very competitive. There is entries of new players, there is existing players that are investing more, quite a few value player sponsored by the retailers, especially in United States that are making inroads. We don't notice at all any flex of intensity from our competitors.

Okay. Thank you so much. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Kevin Ziets with Citi.

Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess, I first wanted to touch on the CBBeauty acquisition and just understand your strategy with fragrance going forward?

Okay, so as you probably appreciate, we operate in primarily two segments, one we call it the Consumer segment, one we call it the Professional segment. Our Consumer segment is primarily color cosmetics, so that's the biggest part of it, even if we have more, let's say, typical personal care play in the Consumer segment as well. In seeking opportunity for growth in the future, we are obviously keen to diversify our options for growth and also to diversify our risk.

And therefore, after deep investigation, we consider that being active in the fragrance segment is an opportunity for us. The fragrance business is showing organic growth, is very, very, very fragmented. Many players in it are doing a job that we believe is improvable and therefore, we investigated a platform for growth.

And we bought the CBBeauty, which is indeed a small company, but CBBeauty for us is indeed that platform. And CBBeauty has an incredibly talented pool of people that have long-standing experience in the fragrance business.

And, as you know, they are a UK-based company, so primarily they manage fragrance licenses, but we also bought, in this specific case, we acquired the UK distributor which is called SAS. Now, the primary move for us is the one of entering the fragrance license business. We believe that we have a competitive advantage in doing so and that is, in the fact, that for the Revlon group, the fragrance segment will be a priority.

We will focus on it in the future and because we start from a very low base, we will be also very selective on the type of fragrances and licenses that we will pursue and develop. So, with the logic of fewer, better fragrances and that's the strategy behind acquisition.

Okay, and they have the rights to One Direction. Is the celebrity fragrance, is that the area you think you will be targeting or could it be other types of brands as well? And also just wanted to understand the distribution strategy, I think if I'm not mistaken, they use Elizabeth Arden to distribute, at least in North America.

It's a bit more complex than that and it's premature for us to give you distribution detail. However, let's say that we are not going to focus on celebrities like only, okay. And we foresee again a diversification between luxury brand celebrities [indiscernible] (17:30) and others.

So once we will be more advanced and once we will have executed it, we will notify you in details. Because at this stage, we don't want to provide a forward-looking expectation. And any other distribution, CBBeauty enjoys a significant distribution network. They have it already and that's primarily through distributors, and we'll review that as a method of operational businesses and we will consider any option available.

Okay, great. And then just in general, with respect to acquisitions, can you articulate sort of your comfort level with using the balance sheet and taking leverage higher? I guess, if there is a maximum leverage you wouldn't go beyond for an acquisition?

I don't expect – I think whatever we are going to do – we are going to be in a situation where we have a safe level of leverage and a level of leverage that will allow us to continue to be flexible in our operational workflow. And in a sense, I know you appreciate that, that we are a company that use leverage for acquisition and growth, and that could continue and there is no specific statement or announcement that's there to make on this front at this stage.

Okay, great, I'll get back in queue. Thank you.

We will now take a question from Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo.

Good morning. Just one from me. Can you talk about the increased level of advertising, I believe you said you spent in the quarter, was that behind new product launches, was it a change in strategy? Just give us a little more color on that.

Yes. So, we determined that the investment level at Revlon as per last year were, let's say including 2014, and before 2014 to 2015, were required to be amped to be more competitive and that's through both in quantity and quality. So that's what we started to do last year. Last year, we have increased as you know brand support significantly and we have announced that in the year end result.

And last year, we managed to payback the incremental investment within the year. And this year, we continue to invest more in brand support. We have a certain level of investment in mind that we want to reach and we are getting there, okay. And we are very much in a phase and that's why I define this quarter a solid quarter because it's performing in line with what we were expecting at this stage.

We are – first you seed, then you water, then you harvest, okay. So we are right now – we put seeds and we are watering the soil, and we see the primary destination of this investment is indeed the Consumer business and specifically the Revlon asset and the Almay asset. The bulk of the Q1 investment was up behind the brand repositioning.

So for Revlon, it's Love Is On and for Almay, it's the Simply American platform. And as we spoke before, we are determined to relaunch this brand and create an emotional connection with our own consumer, so to make them a bit less transactional and to have a more emotional equity and personality. And the bulk of the investment of Q1 is somehow directed to these equity revitalization.

In the balance of the year, I foresee that the bulk of our investment will be a bit more product related and initiative related. But, there is always a mix and what we are doing right now.

Okay. And just to confirm, you said that the balance of the year should be fairly similar in terms of the level to last year?

Yes, directionally yes. But, we reserve the right -- we reserve the right pending market condition, share revolution, competitive dynamics to change that.

Yes, okay, thank you.

And we'll now take a follow-up question from Kevin Ziets with Citi.

Hi, I just wanted to ask about your ability to mitigate FX. Is that something that you see being able – you obviously did a great job this quarter and I'm curious if that's something you think you'll be able to do in the – I think you said the next couple of quarters might still see some of that FX impact?

So, while I won't comment on what is my expectation on future quarter, because also we don't know the exchange rate in the future quarter and the two things are correlated, I will deflect your questions likely, but answer it by saying that we have in place in the company as part of the strategy of value creation, various programs that are designed to increase the gross margin. Among those, price increase doesn't generate a permanent gross margin improvement because, occasionally it's not necessarily a continuous program, but clearly we still rely for this year on price increase opportunities.

Second, we have a very robust cost of goods improvement programs in place that are a start of our new focus on what we call the [ph] squeeze (24:40) project and it's not our new focus. It has always a focus in Revlon, but, for us, is a project that is delivering synergies and is delivering cost savings. And we invested last year and we are investing now in CapEx to drive operational efficiency. Then, last but not least, we are managing the mix of countries, brands, and this is also a factor that could help expand further our gross margin.

Now, all these programs are in place. As you have seen, they have delivered last year, they have delivered in Q1. I cannot confirm that they will continue to deliver in the future. But, let's say that these are active projects and active programs that are in place.

Thank you very much. And I guess I just wanted to explore the returns line for a little bit. I know I think the last several quarters or few quarters last year, you took – you had the expectation that returns would come in lower given the shift in strategy to fewer, bigger, better and I'm curious if that has, in fact, been the case or if there is enough data to judge it at this point?

So, yes, the rate, as we call them, is getting lower. And so, consistently with our reserve adjustment that last year created in the quarter important one-off. If you remember, in this quarter last year, Almay took a $6.3 million adjustment. So comparing this quarter with last quarter, indeed, we have that gap. And so our essential flat sales are comparing with a quarter with that adjustment in place.

However, those adjustments are done because we expect lower returns, and we are seeing a lower level of returns. The math doesn't equalize on a quarter basis because the lower level of returns is proportional to the number of new introductions, so we have basically two key moments of the year where these things comes in and one was indeed at the beginning of the year and we're going to have another reset of the world. And now, let me pass a second, Roberto, that may give you a bit more detail on this.

Thank you.

Yes, we mentioned in prior earnings call, the change in this strategy of fewer, bigger, better innovation generated in the past favorability in our expected return reserve, as our historical rates of returns and margins were no longer indicative of our current business model. And, as Lorenzo just mentioned, we are continuing to monitoring the level of the returns with changes in the plan of ours.

Okay, thank you for that. Last question was just on inflation, in general, is that part of the – is that a significant benefit for you with maybe some packaging and oil-based commodities coming down?

We won't provide that detail, but you said it and clearly we have a, let's say, while we have a headwind on exchange rate, we have tailwinds on price of commodity. So, we buy them in dollar though, so in depending what plant we buy them for, the effects kind of offset each other.

Right.

Somehow, somehow.

Okay. Sure, sure. Are you making strides in sort of more balancing the productions, so that you can buy more locally or produce more locally?

We are trying, but the reallocating production is a complex operational process that takes time. And the measure for which we don't need CapEx to do so, we are trying to do that a little bit, but if you need CapEx, we are not doing it because we don't bet on currency, because if I would know what the future level of currency and I don't and we don't – it's an uncertainty. If we would know, we could plan that, but we don't know and so we can't make any investment against an uncertainty, or we don't believe we should. So, unfortunately, these are wins that we are frankly need to get as much as we can, but we don't play on currencies, that's not our business. We play in the beauty business.

And this concludes today's question-and-answer session. I'd now like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional remarks.

Okay. So, thank you very much for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking to you on our Q2 2015 call. Thanks a lot.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation.