corrected transcript


Rite-Aid Corp.
 
RAD
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 12, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Deshonda and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Rite Aid’s fourth quarter conference call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there


will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Mr. Twomey, you may begin your


conference.


Kevin Twomey, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Deshonda, and good morning everyone. We welcome you to our fourth quarter


conference call, which was scheduled two hours earlier than our previous conference calls. Future


conference calls will also begin at 8:30. In case you are not aware of it, we post the dates and


times of our announcements on our website months in advance of the announcement.


Mary Sammons, our President and CEO and Jim Mastrian, our Chief Operating Officer, are also on


the call with me. Our agenda for today’s call is busy and it will be as follows. Mary will give an


overview of our fourth quarter and a brief update on our expected timing for the Brooks Eckerd’s


acquisition closing and our integration plans. I will then review the fourth quarter financial results


and cover guidance, which includes the acquired Brooks/Eckerd’s operations. Mary will then have


a few summary closing comments, and then we will take questions.


Before we start, I would like to remind you that today’s conference call includes certain forward-


looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made in the context of certain risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ. Also, we will be using a non-GAAP financial


measure. The risks, uncertainties and definition of the non-GAAP financial measure, along with a


reconciliation to the GAAP measure, are described in more detail in our SEC filings.


With that in mind, let’s get started. Mary?


Mary Sammons, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Kevin. Good morning everybody, and thank you for joining us today. With our fourth


quarter and year-end results and the upcoming acquisition of Brooks/Eckerd, we have a lot to talk


about.


We had a profitable fourth quarter and are pleased with the results. Despite a weak cold and flu


season and some severe East Coast weather, we increased adjusted EBITDA by about 11% over


the prior fourth quarter, which is almost a 21% increase if you exclude last year’s extra week from


the comparison.


We saw solid increases in both pharmacy sales and prescription count growth, just as we did in the


previous three quarters, and our team again did a great job of controlling expenses, as they did all


year. These improvements, along with increased dispensing of higher-margin generic drugs,


contributed to adjusted EBITDA of 201 million for the quarter and 696.9 million for the year.


During the quarter, we moved closer to completing our acquisition of approximately 1,850 stores


and six distribution centers in the Brooks/Eckerd chain. As you saw from this morning’s press


release, we now expect the transaction to close by the end of May and have reached an agreement


with the FTC staff to divest 24 stores, pending final approval by the FTC Commission. We have


finished a very detailed and extensive integration plan and are eager to get started. I will say more


about our plan later in my remarks.
corrected transcript


Rite-Aid Corp.
 
RAD
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 12, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Same store sales for the fourth quarter increased 3%, with pharmacy sales up 4.1% and


prescription counts growing by 1.5%. Our increased pharmacy supervision, improved customer


satisfaction scores, expanded managed care relationships, tactical and strategic marketing


initiatives, and emphasis on health and wellness programs all contributed to the increases as they


did throughout the year.


We also continued to successfully target senior customers with enrolment in our Living More senior


loyalty program, climbing to more than 2.5 million members, members who spend twice as much at


Rite Aid pharmacies than our other senior customers.


Generics once again contributed to improving our pharmacy margin rate, as we continue to lead the


industry with a generic dispense rate of 63.8% for the quarter, reaching 64% at the end of the year.


We expect the new generic wave to continue with as much as another 10 billion of branded drugs


set to come off patent in 2007. But we also expect the overall generic opportunity to be tampered


by the withdrawal of several significant generics currently on the market.


As for the front end, same store sales increased 1.2% for the quarter, negatively impacted by the


severe snowstorms that played havoc with Valentine’s Day sales on the entire East Coast. OTC


was solid even with weak cough, cold and flu; consumables had strong gains; and vitamins,


especially our GNC department, finished with their strongest performance of the year. We will


continue to add more GNC departments to our stores where appropriate, including in select stores


we acquire.


Private brand growth was excellent during the quarter, leading to an all-time high of 12.6% of front-


end sales for the year. Our goal for next year is to add more than 200 new SKUs and we expect


Rite Aid private brand to help drive the front-end productivity of the Brooks and Eckerd stores.


Our photo trends continue to be negative, but the stores that have received our new equipment are


out-performing the total group. We should see sales and margins start to improve as we complete


the rollout of new equipment that will give our stores the ability to handle more digital services,


increase efficiency and lower costs.


As I said at the start of the call, our team did a great job of controlling expenses during the quarter,


including labor, despite minimum wage increases in ten states. We will continue our focus on


managing expenses in this fiscal year too through our ongoing spend management initiatives.


Our focus on operational execution is paying off, both on the bottom line and the shopping


experience, as overall customer satisfaction scores once again improved over the year before.


As for store growth, we finished the year with 108 new and relocated stores and are targeting


opening another 125 new and relocated stores this fiscal year. Because of the acquisition, we are


reviewing our store development plan beyond this year to take into account new geographic areas


to make sure we invest in locations with the best return.


During the quarter, we continued to look for acquisitions and file buys that made strategic sense,


with last week’s announcement about our agreement to exchange Rite Aid stores in Nevada for


long stores and file buys in Washington, Oregon, and California are good examples.


While we did not meet our overall prescription file-buy goal this year, the good news is that our


overall retention rate and return on investment is higher. Our acquisition team spent much of the


fourth quarter filling the pipeline, and we are confident this year will be a stronger one for file buys.


I will now walk you through more details of our integration plan. As I said earlier, we have


completed an extensive detailed plan and we are ready to go. We are using a phased approach


designed to maintain continuity of the business throughout the process. We are almost finished