raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the CEDC Second Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn


the call over to Director of investor relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead sir.


James Archbold, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to CEDC second quarter earnings conference


call. You may also access this call on the internet at www.cedc.com.pl. Please note that the content


of this webcast contains time sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date of live


broadcast, August 3, 2006. The online replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of the


call. You may also view a copy of yesterday’s press release on our website.


Joining me this morning are William Carey, President, CEO and Chairman of CEDC, and Chris


Biedermann, Vice president, Chief Financial Officer.


Please note that statements made during the conference call other than those related to historical


information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Without limiting the foregoing discussions, the forecasts, estimates,


targets, plans, beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended to identify forward-looking


statements. These forward-looking statements, which are based on management’s current beliefs


and assumptions and current information known to management, involve known and unknown risks


and uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to


differ materially from those predicted.


Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued yesterday, as well as


the 2006 second quarter Form 10-Q that will be filed with the Securities Exchange Commission.


CEDC is under no duty and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements


made in this call.


With that I’ll turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?


William V. Carey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, thank you Jim. I want to welcome everyone to our second quarter earnings call. A little bit of


itinerary today. First, we are going to get into the Polish economy; second we will be discussing the


second quarter results, I’ll lead you down to operating profits. Then, I’ll turn it over to Chris


Biedermann, our CFO who will take you through the number of financial ratios. And then I will get


into a market overview as well as the management objective that we are currently working on as


well as, I will end the call with our guidance that we see for the rest of the year.


First off, we look at the Polish economy continues to be very, very strong. We had 4 to 5% GDP


growth. Inflation is a record down to 0.7% down from 2.9% a year earlier. Interest rates continue to


hold at 4.25%. Most of the financial institutions are predicting that the government is going to hold


these rates for the rest of the year at 4.25%. And unemployment has dropped slightly from


beginning of the year to 16 to 17% but it’s really not moving down much, mainly again coming from
raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
2


the outer-lying regions, and again seeing strong employment in the major cities especially Warsaw


where you have low single-digit unemployment.


If you take a look at the second quarter we had underlying performance of very, very strong in the


quarter. If you take a look at sales, we had $164 million to $222 million, a 35% increase for the


quarter. Keeping in mind that the currency appreciated 4% over a year earlier but actually when


you back out – back out 4% out of that number, actually ex-currency you have 31% growth of sales.


We have a direct growth of 8% stripping out the currency we have 4% organic growth for the


quarter. If you look at the last five quarters we are flat to 2% for the last five quarters. This is


certainly a very strong performance or the organic growth of 4%.


The imports continue to perform very, very strong. Again with the strong GDP, strong economy, we


are up 70% on the import, again really led by the beer and wine, I am sorry about the wine and


spirits business. And exports we had a fantastic quarter of exports, up 49% on the Polmos


Bialystok and up 12% on the Bols business. But keep in mind on the Polmos Bialystok business is


a bit inflated because of the raise of prices that we had on July 1. We put new prices for the export


markets. So there was a bit I think of filling periods, some of these importers a little bit of extra but,


overall very solid quarter across the board on there, on exports.


If we look at the growth margin, we have 12.7% from a year earlier to 20.67% this quarter, and


again you can’t really compare the two because you had fair distribution a year ago to combine with


production this quarter. If you look at more like-for-like compare the first quarter to the second


quarter we are up from 19.7% in the first quarter to 20.6%, almost a 4 percentage point increase,


excuse me which is mainly led by the import and the export business, strong sales as well as


CEDC market share, direct market share of our two distilleries of Bols and Bialystok.


If we are looking at the three quarters on the Bols business we increased from 36%, 37% in the


current quarter to 41% of direct distribution of the Bols business, and on the state distillery Polmos


Bialystok in the last three quarters is again 37%, 39% first quarter and jumping to 42% in the


second quarter. So again our objective of increasing our direct share of our own products continued


to perform very well in this area.


The other part of the operating profit, the SG&A, if we look at first year-on-year period, 9.7%


second quarter ‘05 to 10.7% of sales in the second quarter ‘06, an increase of 1% but again it’s not


really comparing like-for-like as distribution to production. If you look at the first quarter, we had 12


percentage of sales which we were able to drop that to 10.7% in the second quarter. And I will get


into a little bit later on some of the cost cutting measures that we are working on to continue to


benefit the SG&A.


Both of these measures of the gross margin SG&A led to a very healthy operating profit which


upped from 4.6% to 9.9% for the year-on-year, like again comparing more like-on-like we had 7.7 %


operating profit to 9.9% in the second quarter which is consistent with the EBITDA going from 9.4%


in the first quarter to 11.6% in the second quarter. So, all in all we had a very solid top to bottom


line in terms of operating performance. And I’ll now turn it over to Chris Biedermann who will take


you through some of the financial measures.


Christopher Biedermann, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks. Looking at our P&L below the operating profit line, into a non-operating income expense,


the two significant items there, first of all is our net interest expense. Net interest expense of 7.8


million is made up of three items. First is a bond interest at 8.3 million which is in line with


particularly interest on the 312 million euro notes, as well we have 900,000 of interest income and