raw transcript


Central European Dist.
 
CEDC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator:


Good day and welcome to the CEDC Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Earnings Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded, at this time for opening remarks and introduction lets turn the call


over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead, Sir.


James Archbold, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to the CEDC’s fourth quarter and full year 2004


earnings conference call. You may also access this call on the internet at www.ced-c.com. Please


note that the conference of this webcast contains time sensitive information that is accurate only as


of the date of the live broadcast the March 15, 2005. The online replay will be available shortly after


the conclusion of the call. You may also view a copy of today’s press release on our website. And


joining me this morning are William Carey, President, CEO and Chairman of CEDC and Chris


Biedermann, Chief Financial Officer. Please note that statements may be made during this


conference call other that those related to historical information constitute forward looking


statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995 without


limiting the foregoing discussion of the forecast, estimates, target plans, beliefs, expectations and


the like are intended to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements


which are based on management current beliefs and assumptions and current information known to


management involve known and unknown risk and uncertainties and other factors that may cause


actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those predicted.


Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued today, as well as the


2004 annual report on Form 10-K dated March 15, 2005 and filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission, including but not limited to the section of that document titled risk factors. CEDC is of


course under no duty and undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements made


in this call. I would like to remind our listeners that I will be available after the call for questions at


610-660-7817. With that I will turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive


Officer.


William Carey, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jim. I want to welcome everyone to our 2004 CEDC earnings call. and with us today I’d


like to certainly to welcome Chris Biedermann, our new CFO who came in to this year generally to


replace Neil and I'll have Chris speak later about the balance sheet that did about that – as we go


over to date. First, I'll start of with the economy, what happened to 2004 and a bit what's happening


today in the economy here in Poland. Second, some highlights of 2004, touch a bit on the P&L and


balance sheet and give an outlook for 2005.


As we start of first with the economy, post economy formed very well in 2004, as certainly evident


from its strong currency. The currency appreciated 9% during the year, the GDP 5.3% for the year,


inflation steady around 3.5%, but it’s actually declining currently, and unemployment steady at 19%


which the government is expecting to start to follow this year. Also as most of you know that


Poland, joined the European Union in May 1 of 2004 which was, – and what that meant for us was


a drop of import duties, which was very key for us, for many of our import products and we saw 30-


40% increases in second half of the year for these high margins products and not only a good deal


jump in the sales of these product, but also with the strong currency we're able to keep some extra
raw transcript


Central European Dist.
 
CEDC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


margins as well, as most of the parts are imported in Euro and Dollar and the local currency


appreciated to both of these currencies.


If we look a little about the highlights of 2004, certainly start of with as one of our key goals for the


year was to do a consolidation of our branch network which we have been doing the last few years,


which we will continue to do in 2005. We consolidate our 15 branches in 2004. We brought three


new companies with over 200 new employees, but the year-end head-count was roughly the same


as the way the year before, so overall with the consolidation we are able to keep the headcount


almost at the same level. We also did a roll out of our software to a lot of our new acquisitions in


2003 and 2004, which will probably try to complete in 2005, and also those of you who are here we


also had the items such as Sarbanes-Oxley which was introduced in 2004 which really took a lot of


time here within the company and we are very pleased with a very clean audit of the Sarbanes


audit from Price Waterhouse and really, that when we look back at it, not only was it hard work but


we really feel its going to make us a much better company longer term. We opened two new


distribution centers, we had a plan to open six distribution centers over three year period, we


opened two, one in mid year down the South East part of Poland. We opened another one January


1, 2005; the one in the South we own and rest will be leasing and another one when the scheduled


are open in April 1 of this year, more than in the center of Poland and on track to open the six


distribution centers. Again we are able to consolidate different branches into these more


professional distribution centers. We also did a major fleet overhaul for 2004, mainly for lot of our


new acquisitions that we acquired over the last four years, it was probably it was long overdue and


we did a major fleet overhaul mainly on the truck fleet which we feel will get us through probably to


next 3-4 years before we have to make any additional overhaul with our truck fleet.


At the same time we bought three companies which was our plan to buy the $ 80 – $90 million of


acquisition of company in Poland, again three solid companies and strategically located across


Poland, pretty much as we planned beginning of the year. If you look a bit to the numbers now the


P&L again we had a very strong year, not only from top line but all the way to bottom-line.


Executing all the way down, we grew sales from 35% from 429 million to 580 million, it was a 14%


growth organically and was in that 14%,again adjusted for the 9% currency increase, the organic


increase came out around 5% which we would touch on little bit alter. The import sales that I


mentioned before, our import beer is a bit flat mainly due to the strong competitive nature of the


market, plus the fact that the summer in Poland was quite poor, but in the second half of the year


we grow imports 30-40% and also we were able to increase our margins of these products over


40%, so overall for the import sales a very solid year.


Moving into this growth margin, we came in at the high end of forecast mainly really for two


reasons, one gain that the better margins on import due to the strength of the local currency in the


fourth quarter, and also in the fourth quarter we had additional supplier support in terms of the local


market suppliers which really helped us out and we really helped them out in terms of pushing


sales for them for what they needed in terms of getting additional support in the fourth quarter


which totally translates into a higher than expected growth margin. And we touched on the SG&A,


the SG&A dropped slightly from 2003 8% as a percentage of sales to 7.9, and this is mainly for a


few reasons. This overall was positive but it was slightly higher than we had anticipated mainly for


the depreciation, one was the vehicle replacement program, second the continued software


estimate, and of course the third is the new warehouse we opened in the mid part of the year, and


that’s why depreciation went up from 0.4% to 0.5% as a percentage sales from ’03 – ’04. And some


other factors that affected SG&A a little bit on the down side with a higher gasoline cost as low as


the extra [indiscernible] cost. But on the other side we had kept bad debt at a very respectful level


0.1% of sales, which is a very key for our team in terms of driving cash flow and making sure that


we sell to quality customers.


The operating profit 4.9% which turned out versus a internal projection of 5% and this is slightly


lower mainly for the SG&A that we have mentioned above, but also the fact that to keep you aware


of the new acquisitions that we acquired typically run that low 4% level and it took us some time to