raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to the CEDC First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call


over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead, sir.


James Archbold, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to CEDC’s First Quarter 2007 Earnings


Conference Call. Joining me this morning are William Carey, our President, CEO, and Chairman,


and Chris Biedermann, our Chief Financial Officer. Please note that the content of this call contains


time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date of the live broadcast, May 3, 2007.


The online replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of the call. You may also view a copy


of yesterday’s press release on our website.


Please also note that statements made during this conference call other than those related to


historical information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995. Without limiting the foregoing discussions of


forecasts, estimates, targets, schedules, plans, beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended to


identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements which are based on


management’s current beliefs and assumptions and current information known to management,


involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results,


performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance, or


achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.


Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued yesterday in the Form


10-Q to be filed by May 10th with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CEDC is under no


duty and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this call.


With that, I will turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill.


William V. Carey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, thank you Jim. I want to welcome everyone to our first quarter 2007 earnings call. We had a


very good quarter and just to give you a certain preliminary overview of what we want to discuss


today is first to go with the strong economic data coming out of Poland, then we will get into the


P&L and balance sheet of the first quarter. Chris Biedermann will take you through the low


operations as well as through the balance sheet. I will give you a brief market overview and an


outlook for 2007.


If we first start on the strong economic data put out in our press release, Poland had a record


quarter of GDP growth of 7.8%, projected for the year is about 7% GDP growth. It could be higher


than that with the current trends continuing through the first quarter, inflation has remained fairly


steady in the first quarter at 2%. The outlook for the year is 2, 2.5% with those items it bodes well


for a very strong currency which we’ve seen already a 4% appreciation in the month of April which


certainly bodes well for CEDC as a net importer certainly would bode well for the second quarter in


terms of margins, while unemployment at 14.4%. This is down from 19% three years ago projected


at the end of ‘07 is 12%. You could see from the strong GDP growth, the unemployment is rapidly


moving down.
raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As we look at also our recent announcements in Poland, Poland was awarded the EuroCup. For


those of you who know European Football, this is a very big event much like Superball in the US.


It’s a biggest sporting event in Europe. Our EuroCup-2012, Poland has put out estimates that they


must invest $50 billion in infrastructure over the next four-and-a-half years which analysts have


estimated that will add about 1% annually to the GDP growth of Poland. So, again very good news


for the overall development of the economy which is certainly driving consumer demand as you can


see from our import numbers and some of our organic growth certainly bodes well for the consumer


trading out into more branded products with certainly CEDC is well-positioned to take advantage of


those current economic trends that are coming out in Poland.


If we get into the P&L we had a strong quarter with 20% increase in top-line really led from the


hard, you know a lot of the hard work we did last year of integrating the sales force as previously


mentioned, we are the second largest sales force in consumer, products in Poland second to Coca


Cola and we will be getting the sales force focused on driving sales of products we produce,


products we import, very higher margin products and then the hard work we did last year it’s going


to come through with the very strong organic number of 15% growth in first quarter, as a result it’s


strong in all categories. We had not only growth of our own brands which were up double-digits of


our key master brands, led by Seplitzo [ph] which was the fastest growing market brand in 2006.


In terms of volume and again we saw a 65% increase in volume in the first quarter of Seplitzo [ph]


versus first quarter 2006. The imported numbers which are extremely strong considering the fact


that CEDC is the largest importer at Poland in consumer in direct spirits and wines. A 74% increase


in imports which now account for more than 10% of our total sales. So, again with the strong growth


of imports which accounted for a bigger portion of our overall CEDC sales, and that was led across


the Board for Rum Whisky, Brandy’s Bourbon’s, Wines, I’ll call it a Rocky, the wine brand from


Gallo was up 85% and this now has obtained the #1 wine brand in Poland in the modern trade, the


hyper markets the Tesco’s and these type of accounts which represents about 30% of the wine


market in Poland, which have a retail account. They will call it Rocky, it is the #1 wine brand now in


Poland, which we are now able to get larger marketing partners that it was going on television with


certain campaigns that we are doing behind the Colorossi [ph] brands. And also it’s a little hard


here to work, integration work that we are seeing new distribution gains from the distribution part of


the business. We are seeing new gains, the distribution of our own products as well as gaining new


accounts. They did leveraging having the largest product portfolio of largest imports and leveraging


that in this side of getting new distribution gain, so all in all very, very strong quarter on sales.


On the margins side, we are able to increase the margin from 19.7 to 20.3% and again this is for


reasons described above growing the more profitable brands, as well as we see continued margin


improvement especially in the import sector as the net importer we see the continued strong margin


program, import as well as our own brand -- as our own brands take a bigger percent over overall


piece of the pie of our sales.


The margin was fairly offset in the first quarter compared to the first quarter ‘06 which we will get to


look at later on, the share pricing in our like for like basis. We lost over $2 million on the share


pricing in the first quarter comparing to a year ago, but for the budget numbers which I will discuss


a little bit later, we are seeing very positive dynamics in terms of our budget for 2007 of decreasing


in this spirit pricing from December, which I will touch in just a minute.


On the SG&A side, 12 percentage of sales which was the same as 2006, and we should starting to


see reduction on percentage of sale as key cost timing initiatives that we put in place in ‘06, in the


first quarter ‘07 we will start to come through now within the next three quarters. All this bodes well


for a very good operating profit of 30% increase really for the reasons described above.


I will now turn it over to Chris Biedermann who will take you through the financial interest and cost


as well as the balance sheet. Chris?