raw transcript


Central European Dist.
 
CEDC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the CEDC First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call.


Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to


turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead sir.


James Archbold, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to CEDC's First Quarter 2005 Earnings


conference call. You may also access this call on the Internet at www.ced-c.com. Please note that


the content of this webcast contains time sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date of


the live broadcast May 10, 2005. The online replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of


the call. You may also view a copy of today's press release on our website.


Joining me this morning are William Carey, President, CEO and Chairman of CEDC and Chris,


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note that the statements made during this


conference call other than those related to historical information constitute forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995.


Without limiting the forgoing discussions, the forecasts, estimates, targets, plans, beliefs,


expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-


looking statements, which are based on management's current beliefs and assumptions and


current information known to management, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and


other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from


those predicted. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued today,


as well as the 2005 first quarter Form 10-Q dated May 10, 2005 filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. CEDC is, of course, under no duty and undertakes no obligation to update


any forward-looking statements made in this call.


With that, I'll turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?


William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jim. We welcome everyone to our 2005 first quarter conference call. First off I would


like to talk a little bit about the Polish economy before we get into the P&L and balance sheet. Chris


Biedermann, our CFO will talk a little bit about the balance sheet and then I will discuss a little bit


about the new developments within the Bols acquisition that we announced back in April as well as


the Delikates acquisition and a little bit about what's happening with Polmos Bialystok.


But to start off with we look at the Polish economy. It's still going quite strong. If we look at the


projections for 2005 you are looking at GDP growth in the mid 4% range. Inflation is looking like –


they are projected coming down to 2.1%, unemployment coming down to 18% from 19%. And the


currency, if you look at what's happened in the currency since December year-end, the currency


has depreciated 5.4% from end of December till the end of March, and if we look at the year-over-


year from the first quarter 2004 to the first quarter 2005, we actually saw a appreciation on the local


currency of 17%, 18% which is inline with the high real interest rate that the government's been


keeping.


Also what we saw during the first quarter, the government – because the inflation number is coming


down, the government is taking a aggressive stance on reducing interest rates and they have
raw transcript


Central European Dist.
 
CEDC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


reduced 75 basis points in the local interest rate which should help certainly starting second quarter


which should surely help our interest expense.


We start off a little bit into the P&L, we saw another very strong quarter from topline to bottomline,


we saw sales growth 36%. We saw bottomline growth 42% in terms of EPS, and if we look at sales


what transpired in sales, it certainly was our expanded client base that we had over last year. It was


our imports growth of 41%, continued to show very strong growth, spirits 61%, wine 47%, another


very strong quarter for import and of course as I mentioned before the appreciation of the local


currency.


If we look at the margin, we had a very good quarter with the margin which I explained in the last


call was that we bought a lot of extra inventory at the end of the year because of the excise change


and many producers raised their price on January 1. Now CEDC took the management decision to


also raise our prices from January 1, even though many of competitors kept their pricing the same,


which certainly hurt a bit our sales growth but certain we helped our margin growth as we raised


prices in line with January 1, that’s why we saw the increase from 12.5% to 13.1%. Also of coarse


is the higher margin on the imports that we had the nice closing [ph] imports which certainly also


accelerated the margin pickups. So, we actually saw a nice 43% jump in our margin quarter-over-


quarter.


We also had another very strong quarter on SG&A. We decreased 8.7% to 8.6% year-over-year in


terms of percentage of sales. This is pretty much in line with sales growth. We also opened two DC


centers which we talked about in the last call. Opened one in January up in Cadence [ph], opened


one in Tonne [ph] in the beginning of April. And of course we continue to restructure our branch


network as it is an ongoing quarter-by-quarter phenomenon that we merge small branches in to


larger branches and this is ongoing work.


If we look at the operating profit, we saw a 64% jump year-over-year, mainly for the reasons


discussed, that the higher margin-lower costs.


Moving to the interest expense, we saw almost a doubling of the interest expense, mainly from the


fact that we had to carry the extra inventory during the quarter, from the extra inventory that we


bought from the excise as well as some producers who did not change prices from January 1,


some were changing during the quarter, so we continued to buy extra products as the rest of the


producers increased their prices during the quarter which certainly affected not only our cash flow


but it did our interest expense. As well as the Polish government did raise interest rates last year


approximately 100 to 125 basis points during the year even though they have started to decrease


from February, but we have we certainly compare quarter-over-quarter we are operating on much


higher interest rates.


If we move into the tax rate, I will turn it over to Chris for a minute who will expand a little bit on the


tax rate.


Christopher Biedermann, Chief Financial Officer


If you look at our quarter our effected tax rate was 19.6% that’s higher than the local rate here,


basically we reviewed our differed tax asset in the end of Q1 and we started taking some additional


one of our provision. So we forwardly expected rates to normalize back between the 18% to 19%


range which is inline with the effective rate here in Poland.