corrected transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please stand by. Good day everyone, welcome to the CEDC’s Second Quarter 2007


Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]


For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor


Relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead, sir.


James Archbold, Vice President, Secretary and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to CEDC’s second quarter 2007 earnings


conference call. Joining me this morning are William Carey, our President, CEO and Chairman,


and Chris Biedermann, our Chief Financial Officer. Please note that the contents of this call


contain time sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date of the live broadcast, August


1, 2007. The online replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of the call. You may also


view a copy of yesterday’s press release on our website.


Please also note that statements made during this conference call other than those related to


historical information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995. Without limiting the foregoing discussions, the


“forecasts,” “estimates,” “targets,” “schedules,” “plans,” “beliefs,” “expectations,” and the like are


intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements which are


based on management’s current beliefs and assumptions and current information known to


management involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors including, but


not limited to, CEDC’s ability to successfully consumate acquisitions and integrate acquired


businesses into CEDC’s existing businesses that may cause actual results, performance or


achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements, expressed


or implied by forward-looking statements.


Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued yesterday in the Form


10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CEDC is under no duty and undertakes


no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?


William V. Carey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, thank you, Jim. I want to welcome everyone to our 2007 second quarter earnings call. Just


to briefly summarize, we had another great quarter really from top down to top to bottom line, with


continued strong fundamentals, a lot of what I said really on the first quarter call, strong


fundamentals of the Polish economy with GDP growth around 6%, and continued strong double-


digit growth of our core vodka and import brands.


I’ll just give you the overview of our discussion today. First, I will get into as usual the Polish


economics, what’s going on within the region. Then we’ll get into the P&L and balance sheet.


Chris Biedermann, our CFO, will take you through the balance sheet and operating ratios. Then,


we’ll get a little bit of an overview of the market and then other new developments that we’ve been


looking at, and then get a little bit of color on our recent Russian announcement that we made a


few ago.
corrected transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So, first off, we start on the economic front that the unemployment has continued to show rapid


decreasing trend. If we just look at three years ago, we were an 18%, we’re at second quarter at


12.9%, and the prediction for year end is 10.9 with ‘08 even dropping into single-digits. So, very


very rapid decreasing trends on unemployment, which is certainly driving the good GDP growth


coming out of the second quarter as well with 6% growth, and the forecast for the year is still at


6.5%.


The inflation number was 2.4% and the trend still is into the year at 2.2, within a range really of 2 to


2.5 is sort of the -- most banks are estimating a range of 2, 2.5 on inflation. And again, with the


strong underlying fundamentals you are seeing a strong currency. Again, the currency appreciated


3% for the second quarter compared to the first quarter. And further development of that is that


there has been a large construction boom going on in Poland and as well with the big infrastructure


development which I mentioned on the first quarter call with speeding up the infrastructure


development of roads and other infrastructure development they need for the Euro Cup 2012, the


government has relaxed some of the work visas needed from people coming in from Ukraine and


some other countries in the East. So, there is a three to six months visa, sort of a pre-visa, a work


visa for three to six months. So, they are estimating anywhere up to 500,000 new workers to take


up some of the construction work in Poland will be coming in the next few years, which certainly


bodes well for our business because naturally these people come from even a larger spirit heritage


than the Polish people. So, this should bode well for our business also for the next few years.


If you look a little bit at the sales: on the top line, we are up 21% for the quarter. Organically, we’re


at 16%. It was a record quarter for us organically, and really that the premiumization continuing


which I mentioned in the first quarter call, the imports, all range of imports from whisky, brandy,


Tequila, Cognac, everything is doing extremely well. We have 42% on our import growth for the


quarter. Our core Vodka brand is again double digit growth, for our core Vodka brand. So, again,


we continue to outperform the market. The market itself was up around 5, 6% in the vodka trade or


in the Vodka growth and volume, and we are up double digit. So, again, taking market share.


We also launched our new Zubrowka package which we are sayinh we had good results already in


April and that continued in for the rest of the quarter. New Zubrowka package even domestically


were up 31% on the quarter over last year on our new Zubrowka design.


Exports continue to do well, at 51%, and as mentioned also that we started the new largest gas


station distribution from June 1st.
 
So, now we have a full quarter, the third quarter and obviously


onwards to realize the great cooperation that we are able to see that, also having positive


development in June. Our business in Hungary also was up about 21%, also similar to Poland in


sales revenue, and I think even more telling is that we continue to gain distribution share of our own


brand. If we look at just a year ago we were 42%, first quarter we were 49% our own distribution of


brand that we produce, and second quarter 52%. So, again, it has been our management goal to


continue to raise our numbers every quarter and that certainly we’ve been able to achieve that.


Again, the hard work we did last year on the integration of our sales force and marketing team to


really concentrate on driving more sales through our own business. The margin improvement was


20.6, a year ago to 20.7% and really that -- the only – really that was led from -- again solid


fundamentals which I have mentioned in the premiumization, and I think that when you strip out the


sprit pricing, because we are still comparing a year ago when spirit pricing was much cheaper, so if


we stripped out on a comparable like to like spirit pricing that margin would jump to over 21%. And


the spirit pricing which I will discuss a little bit later in the market overview, which is also having


positive effects even in the second quarter as well.


On a comparable base to a year ago, when you strip out that spirit again it would be about 21.2%,


and we look at the third and fourth quarter we will see increase in trends and margins, and the


fourth quarter we are looking at margin over 22%. If you look at the SG&A, we have dropped the