raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp
 
CEDC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the CEDC Third Quarter of 2005 Earnings Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to


turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead sir.


James Archbold, Vice President, Secretary of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today’s CEDC’s Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. Joining me this morning are William Carey, President and CEO, and Chairman of


CEDC; and Chris Biedermann, Chief Financial Officer.


Please note that the content of this call contains time sensitive information that is as there is only,


as of the date of the live broadcast November 8, 2005. The online replay would be available shortly


after the conclusion of the call. You may also view a copy of yesterday’s press release on our


center website. Please also note that statements made during this conference call other than those


related to historical information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Without limiting the foregoing discussions of


forecast, estimates targets, plans, beliefs and expectations and like are intended to identify forward-


looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management current beliefs


and assumptions and current information known to management, involves known and unknown


risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements


to differ materially from those predicted. Additional, information concerning factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements are contained in the press


release, issued yesterday November 7. 2005, third quarter Form 10-Q will be filed with Securities


and Exchange Commissions tomorrow Wednesday 9. CEDC is of course on a no duty and takes


no obligations to update any forward-looking statements made in this call.


With that, I will turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?


William V. Carey, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Jim. And welcome to everyone to our third quarter conference call. I think to get


started, some changes have taken place, certainly not in our company but also in the economy


here in Poland. So, let me touch quickly on what’s happened here in economy as well as the


recent elections, then get into a little bit of the highlights of the quarter, as well as about the recent


closing of Polmos Bialystok, and then get into kind of what we are working on for 2006. As well as,


I have Chris Biedermann, our CFO discuss some of the ratios and so forth in the balance sheet.


Well, first half on the economy, what we are looking out in Poland is a GDP growth this year around


3% going to around 4% projection for next year. Inflation pretty stable around 2 percent, next year


is anywhere from 1.7 to 2.5% depending on, which report you read. Unemployment slowly


declining down from 18% going down to 17 percent, interest rates have been coming down this


year, they have stabilized now around 4.5 percent, next year one month currency is probably


trading around 4.5 percent. So, pretty much the market expecting rate to stay about the same, but


lot depends on the inflation. If the inflation does stay probably below 2 percent, we will probably


see rate cuts, probably continue in Poland.


Currency, quarter over last year third quarter, we are looking around 8% appreciation for the


[indiscernible]. And if you look at the recent elections in Poland, the law and justice party won the
raw transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp
 
CEDC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


recent elections, they not only got the Presidency of Poland, but also the majority of the parliament.


What that really means for us in business is probably not a lot for 2006, but probably looking out in


2007 there is certainly a good possibility of probably corporate and personal income tax rate,


possibility to come down, is what currently on the table. Of course, we don’t have any verification


of what will take will place, but that’s currently what is on the table.


If we move forward on the business, we had a very very busy third quarter, starting really, if you are


start it in beginning in July looking at sort of some of highlights, we were selected by the Ministry to


finalize the Polmos Bialystok acquisition in the beginning of July, we had already been working on


financing for this, as well as Bols transition. So, we went ahead with the road show of the


Eurobond road show, which we completed on July 25th with a 325 Eurobond raised. At the same


time we were looking to waiting for the antitrust approval for the Bols transitions, which we though


would come in the beginning of August, which actually came, lastly we were able to close on


August 17th. So, with a few days later, and then we also went to equity road shows at the


beginning of August to raise the rest of fund for Polmos Bialystok, which was put into escrow. And


we are expecting that to close in sometime middle to end of September, which is actually from the


antitrust delay. We actually didn’t get approval until, the beginning of October, which we could then


close with the treasury on around mid October.


So, overall it’s a very busy time within these financing as well as dealing with the treasury, dealing


with Remi [ph] and their partner on the both Bols transaction. And, we are pleased that we had a


very strong quarter in terms of sales and operation profits being so busy dealing with these large


acquisitions. We had net sales of 29% for the quarter. We had continued to see strong growth


coming from the import side of business as well. We are up over around 20% on the wine and


spirit business. Beer was slightly down for the quarter, many from the fact that they were finding


difficulty in terms of competing with them in the large breweries here in Poland, even though this


represents a very small part of our business, less than 1% and also not very powerful in terms of


distribution, but still it is something that we like to turn around next year in terms of increasing of


beer sales in Poland, but through the wine and spirit represent the bulk of our import up over 20


percent.


Gross profit was up over 49% are mainly driven from the fact of not only the net sales, but also


incorporation of Bols into our business. Bols operates on a higher growth margin than we certainly


do, they operate around 65% gross margin on sales, which we had about $8.1 million for the


quarter. Where CEDC operates on this margin was consistent with previous quarters around the


mid 12 range.


If you look at third quarter operating income up 44 percent, EBIDTA of 41% and with very strong


cash flow. We had a record cash flow of $23 million for the year, which translates into a strong


EPS on a comparable basis of 35 cents per fully diluted share. We also had a sort of a impact of


the acquisition related expenses and unusual items of 46 cents, which we – certainly most of that is


taken into third quarter, a very small part will probably be taken in the fourth quarter, but the bulk of


that is certainly from the acquisition related financing was written off if you want to say in the third


quarter. So moving forward we can really look at 2006, looking forward to very [indiscernible] year,


we’ve got lot of plans for 2006, which we already have been working on, not only we were busy


with the financing, but we are already with the teams of both Bols and Bialystok stock to transform


the company from not only being one of the distributors in Europe, but also integrating the fourth


largest vodka producer in the world. And, that’s coming from really that the items mentioned in the


press release these are key business objectives moving forward that we really want to concentrate


on where today looking at Poland we have 32% market share of some where leading brand in


Poland but they also translates into about 70% of profit share coming out of the distilling business


in Poland.