corrected transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: [Operator Instructions] Good day everyone, and welcome to the CEDC Fourth Quarter


and Full Year 2008 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, for


opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to the Director of


Investor Relations, Mr. James Archbold. Please go ahead, sir.


James Archbold, Vice President, Secretary and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone today to CEDC’s fourth quarter and full year 2008


earnings conference call. Joining me this morning are William Carey, our President, CEO and


Chairman and Chris Biedermann, our Chief Financial Officer. Please note that the content of this


call contains time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of the date of the live broadcast,


March 2, 2009. The online replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of the call. You may


also view a copy of today’s press release on our website. Please also note that statements made


during this conference call other than those related to historical information constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995.


Without limiting the foregoing discussions, the forecasts, estimates, targets, schedules, plans,


beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements, which are based on management’s current beliefs and assumptions


and current information known to management involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties


and other factors that may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially


from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking


statements.


Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those forward-looking statements are contained in the press release issued today and the 2008


Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CEDC is under no duty and


undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to William Carey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?


William Carey, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Jim. Yes, I’d like to welcome everyone to our 2008 full-year earnings call. Just to take


you through kind of what we’ll be discussing today, first off is what we’ll refer to as regional outlook


or what we’re seeing for the region; get into a bit also what’s happening with the currencies. Then


we’ll go over the trading environment, what we’re seeing in the trading environment in terms of


competition, the consumer, receivables, and what’s happening to the imports in our key markets


with the moving currencies. We’ll also discuss, of course, the ‘08 numbers. I’ll take you down to


operating profit. Chris will take you down to the rest of the P&L and balance sheet. Then I’ll discuss


the Russian Alcohol Group, the announcement that we put in the press release today. Also the


Whitehall Company, they’ll be filing, I think, an 8-K later today on some new information on


Whitehall, and then I’ll also discuss on ‘09 on the outlook that we see for 2009 trading in our key


markets.


Well first off, again welcome to the call. As we get into the regional outlook, certainly that we’ve


seen not only with the global slowdown, certainly the regions that we operate in -- Russia, Poland,


Hungary -- has really have not seen any different in terms of crisis than the global crisis. We’ve


seen the Poland and Russia GDP come down over the last four to five months from mid-single
corrected transcript


Central European Distribution


Corp.
 
CEDC
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


digits. You can find different estimates really today from GDP ranging from slightly negative to


slightly positive for both markets. So it’s really difficult to get a true picture on the underlying


movement of GDP for the remainder of this year, as estimates are, like I said, from slightly negative


to slightly positive.


What we’ve seen from, also from inflation, we’ve seen inflation start to come down quite rapidly in


Poland. Certainly, unemployment, as you know, in almost every country is moving up. And certainly


on the currency side, we think the currency has been a bit too far, has fallen too much based on


fundamentals in Poland. I think when you look at the Polish currency, that it’s probably a clear case


of undershooting probably at times of really, in our view, of indiscriminate regional panic, but there’s


really no fundamental reason for the Zloty to lose certainly more value. Of course, we can’t predict


that for sure, but certainly we don’t see anything fundamental of why the Zloty is not 10 to 15%


undervalued today is where most people are putting it.


Of course, there’s been also numerous press releases out about Eastern Europe in the last two,


three weeks. And again, I think that people need to strip out of what countries are grouped to those


Eastern European countries. Certainly, Poland, Russia are certainly in the stronger group of


Eastern Europe and certainly does not have the same fundamental problems as many of the Baltic


and other smaller countries. I think that they will start to come out more and more that there is a


differentiation between Eastern European countries in terms of the market development and where


they are on their country risk and country development.


I think the Ruble, we’ve seen the Ruble stabilize in the last two weeks or so in the 34 to 37 range.


As you know, the Russia government did the slow, the slow devaluation, and that’s the 34-37 to the


USD and that’s with, within their budget. That’s also based on around a $40 oil price. Pretty much,


Ruble has traded in that range for the last three weeks. I think it’s around 36 today. So it is pretty


much in-line with the government range that they put out with the $40 oil price.


If we move on to the trading environment, first take a look at competition. What we’ve seen with the


competition, we’ll move back and forth between Poland and Russia. What we’ve seen generally is


that -- you’ve probably listened to some of the beer companies as well -- what we’ve seen from the


beer companies that are really struggling in Poland and Russia, both have negative growth. For


2008, it’s very interesting to note that the alcohol basket for Poland, beer lost 3% to the spirits, in


terms of total value market share. And to be clear, this is the first time that I can remember probably


in 12 to 13 years that the beer companies have lost to the spirit in terms of value gains. So it’s quite


interesting to see the consumer move now as beer has sort of topped out at its consumption per


capita levels and the same – really the same thing is happening in Russia. And even more so


sometimes in crisis -- in countries like Poland and Russia where spirit is the sort of historical, let’s


say, drink of choice that we believe spirit could gain also additional to beer in the current trading


environment. But I think it was very interesting to note that is the first time in 12-13 years, beer has


lost to spirits in Poland.


If you look at also what our competitors are doing, look first at the Belvedere Group in Poland,


again that the company is not emerging out of their bankruptcy protection. They got another six-


month stay from the French courts, and my guess is they could even get another six months. I


guess the limit is January ‘10 is the last time they could stay under the bankruptcy protection. What


we’re seeing is they’re losing considerable market share. And the company month-by-month, we


certainly believe is having more and more difficulty on their liquidity. In terms of state companies,


also that they continue to struggle as I mentioned on previous calls, and we see continued loss of


market share from most state companies.


If we look at Russia, what we’re seeing in Russia is that we mentioned on the last call that there


was some bankruptcies of some key competitors, Gross and Veda. This is certainly helping the rest


of us in the marketplace gain market share. Also, you have a number of Ukrainian companies.