raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Co
 
LNET
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Lacey and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the LodgeNet Entertainment Corporation's First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a


question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Miss Ann Parker,


Director of Investor Relations. Miss Parker, you may begin your conference.


Ann Parker, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Operator. Good day, everyone. I would like to thank all of you for taking the time today


to listen to our First Quarter 2005 Conference Call. You should have received copies of our


earnings release. If not, please call me at 605-988-1000. We'll make sure you do get a copy.


Our speakers for today's call will be Scott Petersen, President and CEO of LodgeNet, and Gary


Ritondaro, our Senior Vice President and CFO. Scott and Gary will review our first quarter 2005


earnings and will then welcome your questions and your comments.


This call is being webcast live over the Internet through our company website www.lodgenet.com.


We also have slides posted on our website which correspond with today's comments, and they can


be found under the Investor section.


Before we get started, I'd like to remind that some topics to be discussed today that do not relate to


historical performance may include or constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Federal Securities laws and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could


cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the company to be materially different from


those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Certain of the risk factors which


could affect the company are set forth in the company's 10-K and other filings. And with that said,


I'll now turn the call over to Mr. Scott Petersen.


Scott Petersen, Chairman, President, and CEO


Thank you, Ann. And, good afternoon everyone. During the first quarter we continued to deliver on


our strategic goals of growing our core business while simultaneously generating net-free cash flow


and improved profitability metrics. We continued our string of setting quarterly records for revenue


and operating income exclusive of depreciation and amortization.


Having continued that run now for 46 straight quarters, we nearly doubled our operating income


and cut our net loss by over 40% as compared to the first quarter of 2004. During the quarter we


added 32,000 digital rooms and over 11,200 net new rooms to our base, bringing our digital


penetration to 55%. We continue to reducing the cost of installing a new digital room, which is


down 8% to $351, and the cost of an upgrading an existing analogue room to our digital platform by


15%, both as compared to the first quarter of 2004.


And we again generated $5.7 million of net free cash flow during the first quarter, calculated after


deducting all expansion-related capital-investment activity. And we did this despite having installed


6.5% more digital rooms this quarter as compared to last year and a disappointing 2.5% reduction


in the revenue we generated per average room.


I do want to spend additional time talking about room growth and the revenue and our strategies to


positively impact both of these factors. But before doing so, I'm going to turn the call over to Gary
raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Co
 
LNET
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Ritondaro, our Chief Financial Officer, to give you some color on our general financial results and


conditions. Gary?


Gary Ritondaro, Senior Vice President and CFO


Thank you, Scott. Good afternoon, everyone. And, again, thank you for joining our call today. As


you have seen from the release, and as depicted on Slide 2, we continue to produce year-over-year


increases in total revenue. Revenue for the quarter grew 3.4% versus the first quarter of 2004.


Revenue continues to grow as we expend our digital room base and at the end of the first quarter


we had 986,000 interactive guest-paid rooms in operation, of which 541,000, or as Scott


mentioned, 55% of our interactive guest-paid rooms, were installed with our digital system.


Slide 3 details the average revenue per room per month comparison. For the quarter, movie


revenue per room, per month, averaged $16.22, a reduction of 3.6% over the last revenue per


month in the first quarter of 2004. On a per room basis, purchases of Hollywood contact were


higher this year compared to last year. For example, we had 2 Hollywood we had 2 Hollywood


titles that generated over $1 million of revenue in the month of March. No movies during the first


quarter of 2004 reached that plateau. However, revenue from independent film was lower this


quarter versus the first quarter of 2004.


Movie revenue was also impacted on a comparative basis due to the Easter holiday occurring in


the first quarter of this year versus in the second quarter of 2004.


Looking at other interactive services, they increased 1.3% to $5.44 per room. And this increase


was primarily due to price increases in basic cable services and the increase in revenues from our


high speed Internet access systems. Revenue per room was also negatively impacted by an


initiative we started in the first quarter of last year to eliminate on TV services at price that were


generating negative returns. Comparing this quarter versus the quarter of last year, we had


approximately 32,000 fewer TV Internet rooms, which had an effect of reducing average other


Internet service revenue. While this initiative has the impact of reducing revenue, direct costs were


reduced even further and as a result, we improved profitability and cash flow.


Moving on to Slide 4, despite the mix shift in movie content, we generated a gross margin of 55.7%


in the first quarter. This is essentially the same as the gross margin that we had in the first quarter


of 2004. Overall, our operating expenses decreased to 7.6% on a current rim basis, mainly as a


result of decreasing depreciation. Depreciation continues to decrease as more costly systems


become fully depreciated while the cost of new systems installation continues to decline. It is


important to note here that, our depreciation policy has not changed and is consistent with prior


periods. That is, we depreciate our systems over the life of the contract. Excluding depreciation,


SA operations, and SG&A, on a current rim basis increased less than 1% quarter-over-quarter.


This was achieved just by increase in wages, costs that are directly related to energy costs, and


increases in compliance. SG&A as a percent of revenue was 9.2% versus 8.9% in the first quarter


of 2004. Operating income, exclusive of depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $22


million versus $21.7 a year ago.


Slide 5 shows the increasing level of operating income, exclusive of depreciation and amortization.


Over the last 8 quarters on a trailing 12-month basis. Moving to Slide 6, operating income for the


quarter increased substantially to $4 million versus $2.1 million last year. This is the result of an


increasing revenue, control over discretionary spending, and a reduction in depreciation. Operating


income is growing faster than the rate of exchange in revenue and operating income, exclusive of


depreciation and amortization. And, we continue to expand our room base with less costly systems


while maintaining and in fact, increasing the return on that investment. While we are focused on


revenue growth, we are also giving more and more attention to positive cash flow and our


profitability metrics.