raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Corp
 
LNET
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Kelly and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. I


would now like to turn the call over to Miss Ann Parker, Director of Investor Relations.


Ann Parker, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Kelly. Good day, everyone. I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time today to listen


to our Second Quarter 2005 Conference Call. You should have received copies of our earnings


release. If not, please call me. We'll make sure you do get a copy. Our speakers for today's call


will be Scott Petersen, President and CEO of Lodgenet, and Gary Ritondaro, our Senior Vice


President and CFO. Scott and Gary will review our second quarter 2005 earnings and will then


welcome your questions and your comments. This call is being webcast live over the Internet


through our company website, www.lodgenet.com. We also have slides posted on our website


which correspond with today's comments, and they can be found under the investor section.


Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that some topics to be discussed today that do not


relate to historical performance may include or constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the federal securities laws, and are subject to risks and uncertainties and other factors


that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the company to be materially


different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Certain of the risk


factors which could affect the company are set forth in the company's 10-K, and other filings. And


now I will turn the call over to Mr. Scott Petersen.


Scott Petersen, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Ann, and good afternoon everyone. In the second quarter we continued to deliver on


our strategic goals of growing our core business, while simultaneously generating an increasing


level of free cash flow, and improved profitability metrics. We continued our string of setting


quarterly records for revenue and operating income exclusive of depreciation and amortization,


having continued that run now for 47 straight quarters. Operating income increase 88% and our


net loss decreased 67%, as compared to the second quarter of 2004. And both of these metrics


were record second quarter results for our company. During the quarter we added 32,000 digital


rooms, and over 9,400 net new rooms for our base, bringing our digital penetration to 57.5%. We


continued in reducing the cost of installing a new digital room, which is down about 10%, and the


cost of upgrading an existing analog room to our digital platform by about 13%, both comparing the


first 6 months of this year, to the first 6 months of last.


And for the first 6 months, we generated $5.1 million dollars of net free cash flow, calculated after


deducting all expense from related capital investment activity. This compares very favorably to the


$2.1 million we generated during the first 6 months of 2004, and we did this despite having installed


10% more digital rooms this year during the first 6 months as compared to last year. And on a 12


month trailing basis, net free cash flow now equals $9.3 million. I do want to give you an update on


our HDTV and healthcare initiatives, but before doing so I'm going to turn the call over to Gary


Ritondaro, our Chief Financial Officer, to give you some more color on our general financial results


and conditions. Gary?
raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Corp
 
LNET
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
212. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Gary Ritondaro, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Scott. Good afternoon everyone, and again thank you for joining our call today. As you


have seen from the release, and from Scott's overview, we continue to improve our profitability


metrics and our generation of cash flow. If you'd please turn to the slides that we have posted on


the website, I would like to discuss the second quarter results with you. Turning to Slide Number 2.


Revenue on a trailing 12 month basis increased for the 47th consecutive quarter. Revenue for the


quarter was up 2.8%, versus the second quarter of 2004. The growth in revenue is a result of our


expanding digital room base. At the end of this second quarter, we had approximately 996,000


interactive guest paid rooms in operation, of which 573,000 or 57.5% of our interactive room guest


paid rooms are now installed with our digital systems. Slide Number 3 details the average


revenues per room per month comparison. Overall, revenues per room per month decreased 2%


compared to last year. For the quarter, the movie revenues per room per month averaged $16.89,


a reduction of 2.3% over the average revenue per month of $17.28 in the second quarter of last


year. The decrease in movie revenues per room during the quarter was mostly attributable to lower


purchases of Hollywood content.


While we had several very good titles during the quarter, the line-ups produced slightly fewer


overall purchases than a year ago. Prices for our movies during the quarter remain very consistent


with prices during the second quarter of last year. Versus the second quarter of 2004, other


interactive service revenue per room decreased 1.3% to $5.49 per room. We did generate higher


revenue per room with several of our products, specifically basic cable services, TV on demand,


and high speed internet access, but this was offset by declines in revenues per room for games


and internet on television. As we discussed during the last conference call, we have removed the


internet on television service from the rooms that were generated unacceptable performance. For


this quarter, that meant a 16 cent reduction in overall revenue per room. Without this reduction,


other interactive services revenue per month would have increased 1.6%. While our programs had


the effect of reducing revenue, it also had a greater effect on the reduction of our direct expenses,


and thus added to our margin improvements. AS we noted in the press release, our overall guest


paid gross profit per room was actually up by 5 cents per room this year over the last, despite the


revenue per room reduction, and we re very pleased with this result.


Slide Number 4 compares those direct costs, and our operating expenses quarter over quarter.


Overall, we have reduced our cost of operations $1.48 per room per month, almost a 7% reduction.


Starting with direct cost, as I mentioned the removal of internet on television had the effect of


reducing our direct costs. The reduction for the quarter was approximately $700,000. The mix of


products sold during the quarter also resulted in lower direct costs. These factors produced 110


basis point reduction in direct costs as a percentage of revenues.


As you can see on the Slide, Guest Pay operations for the quarter was $2.98 per room per month,


slightly higher than the second quarter of 2004.


SG&A for the quarter was $2.11 per room per month, a 4% reduction from last year. SG&A


remained steady at 9.2% of revenue.


The last category of operating expense is depreciation. Depreciation continues to decrease as


more classic systems become fully depreciated, while the class of new installations continues to


decline. It is important to note that our depreciation policy has not changed and is consistent with


prior periods. That is, we depreciate our systems over the life of the contract.


Operating income, exclusive of depreciation and amortization for the quarter, was $24 million


versus $22.7 million a year ago. Slide 5 shows the increasing level of operating income, exclusive


of depreciation and amortization, over the last 9 quarters on a trailing 12-month basis. I would also


point out that operating income, exclusive of depreciation and amortization for the quarter, came in


at the high-end of guidance.