raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Corp.
 
LNET
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon my name is Yolanda [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator today.


At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the LodgeNet Entertainment Corporation Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent all background


noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer period. [Operator


Instructions]. Now I would like to turn the conference call over to Ms. Parker who is the Director of


Investor Relations. Ms. Parker you may begin the conference.


Ann Parker, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good day everyone. I would like to thank all of you for taking the time today


to listen to our third quarter 2005 conference call. You should have received copies of our earnings


release. If not, please call me at 605-988-1000; we'll make sure you do get a copy. Our speakers


for today's call will be Scott Petersen, President and CEO of LodgeNet; and Gary Ritondaro, our


Senior Vice President and CFO. Scott and Gary will review our third quarter 2005 earnings and will


then welcome your questions and your comments.


This call is being webcast live over the Internet through our company website www.lodgenet.com.


We also have slides posted on our website which correspond with today's comments and they can


be found under the investor section.


Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that some topics to be discussed today that do not


relate to historical performance, may include or constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities Laws, and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors


that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the company to be materially


different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Certain of the risk


factors, which could affect the company, are set forth in the company's 10-K and other filings. With


that said, I will now turn the call over to Mr. Scott Petersen.


Scott C. Petersen, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Ann. Good afternoon everyone. The headline for this quarter is right at the bottom of


our financial statement. And I am extremely pleased to report for the first time in our Public


company’s history, that we’ve reported net income, a very positive bottom-line, and we did this to


[indiscernible] 00:41, effects of 2 powerful hurricanes in the gulf coast. This milestone achievement


resulted from our continued focus on our strategic goals of growing our core business, while


simultaneously generating an increasing level of free cash flow and improved profitability metrics.


We continued our string of certain quarterly records for revenue, and operating income exclusive of


depreciation and amortization and we have continued that run now for 48 straight quarters.


Operating income increased 43% as compared to third quarter of 2004. Our bottom-line swung to


a positive $585,000 or $0.03 per share this year from a negative $3.5 million or a negative $0.20


per share in 2004. We continued reducing the cost of installing a new digital room, which is down


about 13% as compared to last year. And for the first nine months, we generated $35 million of


pre-expansion cash flow, and $13 million of net free cash flow, calculated after deducting all


expansion related capital investment activity. And given our fourth quarter digital installation plans,


we are increasing our net free cash flow guidance for the full year of 2005 to approximately $12


million. And this compares very favorably – quite favorably to the $6.2 million we generated during


2004. I do want to give you an update on marketing, healthcare, and advertising initiatives. But
raw transcript


LodgeNet Entertainment Corp.
 
LNET
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


before doing so, I am going to turn the call over to Gary Ritondaro, our Chief Financial Officer, to


give you some more color on our general financial results and conditions. Gary?


Gary H. Ritondaro, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President-Finance, Information & Admin


Good afternoon everyone, and again, thank you for joining our call today. As you have seen from


the release and from Scott’s overview, we continue to successfully manage our business through


these challenging times, especially by keeping a close eye on controlling our operating expenses.


Results of these efforts are reflected in our profitability metrics, and by the generation of positive


free cash flow.


If you now, please, turn to the slide that we have posted on the website, I would like to walk through


those with you. Starting with slide number 2, revenue on a trailing 12-month basis, was


approximately $273 million. As we have said in the earnings release, this is the 48th consecutive


increase of comparative quarterly revenue. For the quarter, revenue was up 3.5% versus the third


quarter of 2004. We have estimated that revenue for the quarter would have increased 4.2%, had


it not been for the effects of the 2 hurricanes. Approximately, 25,000 rooms were initially offline, if


you will, due to Katrina, and another 5000 were offline due to Rita. At the end of the quarter, we


still had about 20,700 rooms out of service. As a result, we estimate that revenues were lower


during this quarter by about approximately $550,000.


Slide number 3, details the average revenue per room per month comparison. Overall, revenue per


room per month decreased 3.1% compared to last year. And for the quarter, movie revenue per


month – per room per month averaged $18.01, a reduction of 4.7% over the average revenue per


month of $18.90 in the third quarter of 2004. We estimate that $0.11 to $0.14 of the reduction in


movie revenue per room is attributable to the reduced revenue caused by the hurricanes. The


balance of the shortfall is substantially attributed to lower revenue generated from Hollywood


movies. While we had several really good titles during the quarter, the line up produced slightly


fewer overall purchases than a year ago. Prices for our movies during the quarter were up slightly


compare to prices during the third quarter of last year, and occupancy levels for those properties


we served, were up about 60 basis points.


Versus the third quarter of 2004, other interactive services revenue per room increased 2.1% to


$5.87 per room. We experienced higher revenue per room. It was achieved by several of our


products, especially basic cable services, television on-demand, and high-speed Internet access.


This was offset somewhat by declines in revenue per room for games and Internet-on-television.


As we discussed during the last conference call, we have removed the Internet-on-television


service from rooms that had unacceptable performance. For this quarter, that meant about a $0.10


reduction in other revenue per room. While our program reduced revenue by approximately


$300,000, it reduced traffic sensors by approximately $900,000 plus, adding to our profitability and


cash flow. If you consider this two events I just discussed, that being the effects of the hurricane,


and the TV-Internet profit improvement initiative, the decline in guest pay revenues per room this


quarter was about the same as it was last quarter.


Overall, gross profit margin was down slightly compared to the third quarter of last year. Gross


margin from guest pay, the largest portion of our business, however, was flat compared to last year,


while the gross margin from other was lower. The reduction in other gross margin was caused


strictly by the increased level of sales of the HSIA equipment. And the sales of HSIA equipment, is


that it lower gross margin in our traditional business, at least to additional monthly reoccurring


revenue at very nice gross margins and cash flow.


Slide no 4 gives you the details of our direct cost and operating expenses quarter-over-quarter.


Over all we reduced the cost of operations by $1.28 per room per month almost a 5% reduction.


Starting with direct cost as I mentioned total direct cost increased as result of higher sales of HSIA