corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to The Standard Register’s Fourth Quarter and Full


Year Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation


slides for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of the


Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter. I will now turn the


conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Vice President Finance and Investor Relations


Thank you, Michael. And I too would like to welcome you to The Standard Register’s fourth quarter


and full-year 2010 investor call. Before we get started, I’d like to remind you that today’s conference


call may contain forward-looking language that is to be used in conjunction with the Safe Harbor


statement that can be found either in the company’s financial news release that was published this


morning, the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing the company


website under the Investor Relations section.


In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally


Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. It’s management’s belief that the use of these measures


will enhance our audiences’ understanding of the financial condition of the company. They are not


meant to be used in isolation or substitution for GAAP and in fact, full reconciliation could be


provided between these measures, as well as the GAAP counterparts in the earnings news release


that was published this morning.


For today’s call, Joe Morgan will have some opening comments and highlights, to be followed by


Bob’s report of the financial statement. After Bob’s report, we will open it up for any questions. So,


with that, I will turn it over to Joe for his opening comments.


Joseph P. Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Shaun. Good morning, everyone. I want to start first with Q4 financial highlights. In the


quarter, we saw continued stabilization of our revenue, which is something that we’ve been talking


about now for the last couple of years. We’ve been working very, very hard on that.


Our market focus is producing results. The insights that we’re gaining from the markets are allowing


us to focus more precisely on the things we do in terms of the products and services that we’re


bringing to market, which is contributing to the stabilization that we are seeing here. Our legacy


business and our core business, the core being the future of where we’re making our investments,


we’re seeing different performance there. Our priority solutions, which are the future, we call the


core, grew significantly in the quarter, a continuing trend that we’ve seen throughout the year. And


that’s giving us more and more confidence that the decisions we are making in terms of


investments are beginning to pay off. So, there is a lot of very positive news there.


On the gross margin side, we saw improvement for the quarter on lower favorable LIFO


adjustment, which means that the work we are doing outside of inventory is improving our situation.


Some of the CapEx we’ve made is helping us optimize the environment where our operations are


taking place. Our continuous improvement activities across the business are working and we’re far


more aligned now than we had been previously against the service level agreements that our


business units require in supporting their customers.


On the SG&A side, we – as we’ve talked previously, we have often talked about our MyC3 process.


We’ve now institutionalized that within our company under the term continuous improvement.


We’ve got a lot of things there on the SG&A side, as well as optimize our go-to-market activity,
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


which is helping us fund planned investments, again going back to the revenue conversation


around the core business for the future. We’ve also been working quite hard on our IT investment


strategy and we are seeing some improvement in the SG&A side as a result of those activities.


On the net income side, net income for the quarter, $2.2 million, or $0.08 a share. Non-GAAP


adjusted income, up $2.4 million from the prior-year quarter. We are very excited about the


progress there. We’ve now put ourselves in a situation for the year, as Bob will talk about, for profit.


On a non-GAAP cash flow, I want to explain this a little bit more, negative $5.9 million for the year.


We had an A/R increase of $13 million, which was the primary contributor to that negative cash


flow. But we have started this year as we expected we would in a strong positive cash flow position


as we begin 2011.


The next slide, we put in at the last investor call. You can see the revenue improvement from 2009


in terms of the decline. Our earnings per share, dramatic improvement year-on-year. And then in


cash flow, we’ve added some green bars to show accounts receivable, and the green leads the


blue. And so you can see in 2010 we had an increase of $13 million in accounts receivable, which


contributed to a negative cash flow for the year. But as I mentioned, as we’re almost to the end of


February, we’re in a much more positive situation now, Bob will review that in detail.


The next slide, I want to talk a little bit about the businesses. All of our businesses are making


progress, but they are making progress based on the portfolios that they are bringing forward to


market. And our Shared Services business continues to be optimized in support of the business


segment. So, I won’t read all of the information here because it’s all published, you have it, but I’ll


highlight a few things.


In our Commercial business, the Financial Services business was the biggest challenge we had


from a growth standpoint throughout the year. There is a lot of – continues to be a lot of turmoil in


that segment, although we are stabilizing and we saw our profit improving throughout the year in


both of those segments based on our go-to-market efforts.


Interesting in our Marketing Solutions category, which is a new service that we are bringing to those


segments, grew 24% on an annualized basis. So, we are very excited about how we’re participating


in that new growth opportunity for our company making that transition. That transition is at a


solution service and product level. So, it’s a combination of technology, it’s a combination of our


insight by market, but it’s also a combination of some of the manufacturing we do. But also we


outsource some of our capabilities to other people so that we can give a complete solution to the


markets or to the customers in the markets we are supporting.


On the Healthcare side, we signed $18.1 million in annual value of new contracts, but we also


implemented $13.4 million within the year from contracts signed in 2009. So, you can see there is


an increase there, which is again another indicator of the progress we’re making. We did secure the


majority of our base with the Novation contract that we have been talking about, and it’s a very


significant pipeline that we’re working very diligently on as we speak.


We’re very excited about the progress that’s been made in our technology area. Technology in this


case being defined as software and services in the healthcare space. We had our best year, yet


30% growth in technology revenue.


And one of the last comment did not occur in the last quarter was just recently released actually at


the HIM show this week, our PurBand Laser Wristband, which is an anti-microbial technology,


which is actually very interesting. It’s a very positive example of intellectual property. We’ve been


talking about innovation for the last two years and this is a great example of where we’re bringing


biochemistry into the discussion with physical science, which is typically done the way we approach


things with physics and chemistry. Now, we’re bringing in biotechnology to advance our position in