corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Standard Register’s Second Quarter 2009


Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation


slides for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center’s section of the


Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Bob Cestelli, please go ahead.


Robert J. Cestelli, Investor Relations


Good morning and welcome to the company’s second quarter 2009 earnings conference call.


Joining me are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial


Officer and Shaun Smith, VP of Finance and Investor Relations.


Please let me remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including


language concerning future projections. These projections should be considered in conjunction


with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release as well as the Safe Harbor


statement that can be found by accessing the homepage of the Investor Center on the company’s


website.


Joe has a few opening comments regarding the financial performance of the second quarter as well


as some comments about important issues going forward. This will be followed by Bob’s review of


our financials and then we will be ready to take your questions.


Now, let me turn the call over to Joe.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President & Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. I am – first off I want to start by saying we are pleased with the improvements that I


will describe coupled with the progress that we are making with the transformation of the company


that we started when I became CEO late last year.


Net income of 3.2 million compared to 1.4 million, revenue was 171 compared to 198.8 million


down 14%, but that’s an improvement versus the first quarter where we were down 15.7% Q1 ‘09


versus Q1 ‘08. Our revenue decline was due to a few factors, unit demand from customers being a


key one along with the economic weakness and technology transformation that is actually occurring


in each of the markets in a slightly different way, but impacting the core revenue of the business.


Our economic turmoil, however, is creating some opportunity as that we are seeing more, in our


focus markets, we are seeing more opportunity for the company and we are reacting more


effectively to that in our core markets. Our 2007 through ‘08, cost reduction efforts are holding, and


that’s evidence as Bob will share in our gross margin and then at the bottom line profit level as


SG&A is also down 13.3 million. So, our cost activities are very aligned with our business unit


focus and it’s producing some results that you’re seeing here. Our cash flow on a net debt basis


was strong at almost $8 million, 7.8 for the quarter. What I see from this is that our operational


execution is improving across the board and it’s supporting the overall performance.


Our predictability of the future of the business is also improving with our market focus and we’re


taking more proactive actions than we have traditionally and therefore trying to get out ahead of the


things that we’re seeing occurring in the marketplace. The economy part is a little more difficult to


predict; however, the dynamics within our business and the transformation of our portfolio et cetera


is something that’s within our control.
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So, a few comments about the quarter. At the beginning of the year, we organized the business


around three vertical market segments; healthcare, industrial, and commercial. We also


reorganized our back end of the business, our operations into a shared services model. And I’m


proud to say that we’ve made really significant progress in both categories – the business unit level


as well as the shared services level.


So, let me talk for a couple of minutes about the market activity. In the healthcare market, which


represents about a third of our business, our revenue appears to have stabilized. Where revenue


was down about 5.5% versus 7% or 6.9% for the first quarter, we feel good about that it seems as


though we’re potentially hitting – hitting some bottom here. We won 27 document management


deals and a win is defined as revenue greater than 50,000 per year, that’s up from the past, I think


it’s a demonstration of our market focus.


Our market focus is being well received in the healthcare space as we have many hospitals that do


business with us today. And bringing that story to new acquisition clients is really helping us win.


We also have implemented 14 installations in the quarter of our SMARTworks clinical enterprise,


which is an example of a software platform market focus, that is our response to the transition from


a very paper based infrastructure to a more automated one. And we are starting to see an increase


in the adoption of that technology.


What’s also interesting from a marketplace perspective is there are a lot of capital constraints right


now and our model is balanced between a software sale supported with maintenance to an ASP,


application service provider. And we are also, by doing that we are able to have a different pricing


and strategic model for our clients that I think allows them to participate with our offering, but do it in


a way that’s economically viable for them. So, we are feeling good about the progress we’ve made


in healthcare and that business unit is really spending, waking up everyday and that’s all they think


about which is really the intent of moving ourselves into that kind of a structure.


The industrial business represents about 10% of our revenue. The economy has had its biggest


impact in this segment and as you can imagine the manufacturing sector in the United States,


which is where we focus most of our energy, has been dramatically impacted. However, we feel


that revenue is also stabilizing in this segment, down about 24% from last year, primarily due to


units versus 35.4% in Q1.


We have early evidence right now that customers are starting to add production capacity in some


cases bring back workers that had been furloughed. However, it is a little too early to predict in


economic recovery, but we do feel that this is a positive sign. We have a Mexico operation that’s


part of this industrial business that is also seeing that kind of a response, which I think is an early


indicator that there is a potential demand increase at the consumer level in the States. We won


eight deals worth approximately $4 million on $70 million business that’s substantial and we’re


working operationally with our Shared Services business to drive revenue realization in that


business.


So we feel very good about that, which also important of on our industrial business as we have a


core competency around materials development. We have fundamental chemistry coatings and


adhesives capability that’s being leveraged. And one of the ways that it is being leveraged is in a


new technology that we’ve spoken a lot about which is our In-Mold labeling offering and we recently


attended a show in Chicago which is called the NPE show it’s a plastic show the largest one in the


States. And the reaction to that was very positive, which is yet another validation that a new


element of our portfolio has started to take off in the markets. We’ll be reporting on that on a


continual basis in go forward meetings.


Now the Commercial Business represents about 60% of our business. In this segment, we were


down about 17.6%, which is about the same as Q1. Two key segments that make up the


Commercial Business are stronger than that 17.6% that’s financial and government we’re seeing