Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shaun C. Smith — VP-Finance & Investor Relations Contact, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph P. Morgan — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, The Standard Register Co.
Robert M. Ginnan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph Perdue — Principal, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full-year earnings Conference Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of The Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Marissa. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Ginnan, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings news release we issued this morning, the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing our company website under the Investor Center.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. It's management's belief that the use of these measures will enhance our audiences' understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitution for GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings news release that we issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will have some opening comments. That will be followed by Bob's review of the financials for both the quarter, as well as the full year. Once Bob has completed his report, we'll open it up for questions.

So, I'll turn the program over to Joe for his opening comments.

Thank you, Shaun, and thank you, everyone for joining us today. I'm going to start by spending a few minutes discussing our business strategy and our expectations for the coming year, 2012. And then as Shaun said, I'll hand it over to Bob, our VP, CFO and Treasurer, and he's going to discuss the performance of the company in more detail.

The fourth quarter came in pretty much as we expected and in line with the restructuring announcement that we made back in January. But honestly, it was a really tough quarter, and each business unit was faced with challenges. However, there are some positives that we take from the quarter that we will build upon in 2012, which I will share with you in more detail as we go through this discussion.

The first one is a slowly, but steadily increasing market penetration of the core growth solutions, even with the steady decline of our legacy products. Another is the performance of Dialog Medical, the acquisition that we made in 2011. It is performing as we anticipated, and it is accretive to earnings, as well as adding a new component solution to our healthcare business unit.

Without the strategy that we had moved forward with a couple of years ago, I am very confident in saying that Dialog Medical would not have been in our radar, but with the focus we have on healthcare, it's an example of how we can identify an opportunity, integrate it into the business and have it accretive pretty quickly. So, this is very important for us as we think about the core going – core part of our business going forward.

We are also adding new clients at a pretty good rate. Of course, the customer portfolio does ebb and flow, as everyone else's does. But we are focused on adding new customers and selling more solutions to existing customers in 2012, and we are making good progress there. We've actually earned the right now to expand our position within existing customers in areas like marketing services and workflow optimization and technology, which I will talk about more as we go forward.

In today's conference call, we are going to talk in more detail about where the business is, underlying trends, and what we anticipate for the future. I would ask you right now – and I'm going to follow through the slide deck here, if you could now go to the slide entitled customer relationships remain a key advantage. Our overall objective is continuing to execute our strategic plan, focused on transforming the business, and to drive near-term growth in our focus markets, as we have stated them to be commercial, financial services, healthcare and industrial.

As you will see on this slide, one of our advantages is our ability to retain long-term relationships with our customers. About half of the Fortune 100 companies are our customers, as well as many small and mid-sized organizations. And we have leading companies within each of our focus areas that have chosen Standard Register as their strategic partner.

We had approximately 6600 customers active during 2011, and you can see their longevity in the chart to the left. On the right, you can see that nearly 80% of our customers buy more than one product from us. We call that filling the white space. We have identified the new solutions for the future, which we call the core, and we are actively trying to expand our position with our customers, recognizing that the legacy has – is declining, the new opportunity for us is to expand the solutions that we bring to those customers.

And we are starting to answer their question that was fundamentally asked of me a couple of years ago is, Joe, we are concerned about the legacy decline, we really enjoy the relationship we've had for so many years, where are you taking the company. And now that we are being more clear there, we are expanding our position with those businesses.

This is the foundation from which we work to introduce them to additional solutions, while maintaining the relationship that we have with them. I'd ask you now to advance to the next slide, which is entitled managing short-term based upon core versus legacy. Moving our business from the legacy products, which include transactional forms and labels, for example, to core solutions, which help customers maintain brand consistency, operate more efficiently, reduce security risk, for example, it's not static.

We must actively manage a variety of our products and solutions through the stages of their product lifecycles. What that says is that there will always be a legacy and a core. The definition will change as time goes on. Things that are core today will become legacy, and we'll replace them with new core things, which is why innovation is so terribly important in our business, and why we've spent more money in the last two years on marketing product management than we had in the previous six or seven.

We continue to gain traction with existing customers around value-added core solutions, as well as selling to new customers. We have a very robust activity underway to acquire new business through existing customers and expanding the relationship we have with existing businesses.

This table, which you can see on this slide, which we've shown before, represents the differences, the contrast between legacy products and core solution. And gives you an indication of how we're going to market, where the investments for the company are taking place, and where revenue expectations and predictability will come from. Based upon the past year, 40% of revenues were delivered from our core solutions. However, we ended the year at 42%, so you can see that the run rate is improving and increasing toward the core.

If you turn to the next slide, core and legacy revenues are about to converge. It's an interesting time for the company because we've been talking about the transformation of the portfolio. And if you look at the next slide, core and legacy revenues are about to converge. You'll see a trailing four-quarter trend chart that shows that our expectation is that the revenues are approaching the crossing point of core and legacy. Based upon historical trends, we expect that core solution revenues will exceed legacy revenues at some point in 2012.

However, as you can see from the blue line, we expect that continued decline in revenues from legacy products will continue to put pressure on total revenue, even as we grow revenues from core solutions. I'll stop for a second and let you absorb that because that's a very key point. We will be transitioning now where core will become the highest percentage of what we do, but the total revenue for the company, we'll still see pressure because of the legacy effect.

So what that translates to, then, is we must accelerate core solution growth. We cannot stop the decline, we can manage the decline of legacy, but we can't effectively stop it because of other things that are happening dynamically in the market. But we must accelerate the core solutions, which is in our control. You will see us in this process continuing to focus on things like marketing services across all the BUs, software and services, specifically in healthcare, and digital imaging, and web publishing in a highly secure environment, again, across all of our businesses consistent with the investment we made in 2011.

The next slide, cash outlays remain challenging, but manageable. Cash – you can see a breakdown in the use of cash in both 2010 and 2011 and our expectation in 2012 from this slide.

You can see that the pension funding over the past two years of $49 million, and that $30 million has been reinvested in the business through capital expenditures and acquisitions, the vast majority of which has been pointed toward the core solutions of the business.

During that same period, we paid $11.6 million in dividends, which obviously with the announcement we made in January, have been now suspended. Our cash flow has been sufficient to meet these commitments, and net cash on a non-GAAP basis has only decreased by $17.5 million even with these cash outlays.

Looking to 2012, planned cash outlays ease based on dividend suspension, reduced capital expenditures, although we are still investing significantly in the business to be able to accelerate core solution growth. That is on the front end with the products what our customers see, and also, in the infrastructure to help us optimize the way we deliver with our mantra of flawless execution every day, every way.

The 2012 stack does not include any potential acquisitions or other opportunities, although we are always looking for ways to grow and enhance our business, as long as they meet our criteria. So, we are nearing the transition point from legacy to core, and our cash commitments for 2012 are expected to decline.

The next slide, reducing cost and realigning our resources around the core, is an overview of the actions announced in January. We've been very proactive in taking aggressive actions – excuse me, aggressive actions to accelerate core solution growth, reducing our costs and aligning our resources around revenue expectations and future growth opportunities. We saw trends, we measure our business in trends, and we took action so that we could be proactive, and continue to take advantage of the work we've done, specifically in this transformation of the core.

As reported in January, and the fourth quarter news release, we expect that these actions will reduce annual costs by approximately $45 million. We're on track with the plan and expect that about half of the reductions will be recognized in 2012.

Now, before I turn it over to Bob, let's go to the slide titled – entitled summary. Transforming our business has not been easy, and we're far from done. We're executing our strategy, we're confident of our continued ability to be the leader in management and execution of mission-critical communications. We are confident in our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and capital resources to fund our near-term commitments, operations, and growth initiatives.

We're committed to continuing to make investments to expand our capabilities, to grow our business and to deliver value to both our customers and our shareholders.

During 2012, we plan to continue to provide more transparency into our business as we execute the plan. We will continue our policy of not providing specific guidance, but we will strive to provide more insight to help you, our investors, see the value in our company.

We expect to break out the focus markets and provide more insight into what is driving demand for our products, as well as the trends affecting the industries. During our restructuring in January, we made some leadership and marketing changes within the business units to streamline and realign our internal resources to deliver more value. That effort will continue as we learn more, as we progress through the year.

I think we're making progress, but it's not as fast as I would like to see it. We've had – we have a lot of work to do, but we're doing it. We expect to announce new solutions and new customers in the coming weeks and months as we continue to innovate and work to bring in new customers and expand the business we do with existing customers.

You will see Standard Register spending more time in mobility on the front-end of our business, and the cloud, both on the front-end, and internally, as we drive to enhance the efficiency of our overall delivery platform.

It's an exciting time. It's a challenging time. It's a tough business environment, but the work that we've done over the last several years has put our company in play in a way that allows us to bring new things to existing customers that have longstanding relationships with us, and gives us relevancy as we acquire new businesses in the markets we serve with depth.

So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Bob, where he will discuss specific business unit performance and financials, and then Shaun will turn it back for questions.

Thank you, Joe. We will start with the operating statement, and as Joe mentioned early in his discussion, pretty consistent with what we announced in early January. So, I'll hit some of the highlights here.

Revenue came in at $161.4 million, down 6.5%, pretty consistent with last year in the fourth quarter. Margin at 29.6% versus 32%, which is primarily an absorption issue, and where we've targeted part of the restructuring actions to solve there.

I will point out that restructuring, $5.3 million; we announced that we're going to record about $5.5 million in 2011, so consistent there. But the big item on the P&L to look at is the tax rate. As we discussed in January, we recorded a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, and that final number was about $89.5 million, offset by the other tax adjustments here that normally would go on there.

Going forward, while we will not be recording any tax benefit or expense from normal operations, we still have Mexican operations where we have a profit and will record tax expense, along with some flat rates in state income taxes as well.

On a year-to-date basis, down 3% versus the prior year of 3.7%, so even with some of the challenges in the year, we still continue to improve that ratio. I will point out and you will see the $19.7 million credit under pension settlement and post retirement plan. As you recall, in the third quarter, we announced the termination of our post-retirement healthcare plan, which brought about $20 million into the results there.

Turning to the business units, I'll start with Healthcare. Healthcare had a tough third quarter and then in the fourth quarter we'd talked about one particular customer that occur – that normally occurs in the fourth quarter that we knew wasn't going to.

And so when you factor that out, Healthcare actually saw an improvement over the third quarter and back more in line with expectations there. Also, the positive impact of the acquisition definitely comes through in the revenue there as well.

For Financial Services, we actually had growth in the quarter. And despite all the challenges in the banking industry, we actually grew in this segment, and pretty solid year considering all in all.

You will notice one important point there as we move forward in 2012; we do expect a pretty significant loss of one of our customers there, $15 million to $18 million. And obviously, that will present a challenge that we need to overcome in Financial Services.

Commercial Markets continued to be the challenge there for us. Revenue declined 11%. And what we saw in the core there is that – as much of this work becomes project work and the demand was soft, we saw a decline there on the core side as well. We are seeing good progress into 2012, and that represents an opportunity area for us.

In the Industrial business units, we continued to – while we have growth overall for the year, it was pretty flat for the quarter, and we do see some softening in some of the industry segments that they generate a lot of their revenue from, which really made for a tough quarter there. Margin has been a little bit of a challenge there for us, and we do continue to see improvements going forward, on the margin side there.

Turning to the balance sheet, a few changes in the balance sheet, and so I will walk through those here. First starting with working capital, one of the changes that we made that you will see reflected in the financial statements and actually restated into the prior years as we moved our inventory from LIFO to FIFO.

So, from a working capital perspective, this added about $25 million, and all the prior periods have been adjusted, and there will be more to follow in the 10-K on that. If you recall, in 2009 and 2010, we had $3 million to $4 million of profit from LIFO, and that's all been part of that rework there that you'll see when we file the 10-K.

On the pension liability, you will see that $236 million, we were at about $150 million in the third quarter. That represents the final year-end mark-to-market that we discussed in a press release, which came in as we expected there. So, that was a fairly big change there. Also, you – point out that the negative equity, $99 million, that was right in line with what we talked about in January as well. So, quite a different looking balance sheet as we factor through the deferred tax valuation allowance, the pension mark-to-market and the LIFO change.

On the cash flow, a couple of things to point out in the cash flow, negative $11.6 million for the year on a net-debt basis. However, that included about $6 million of dividends, and obviously, we've changed that going forward. Remember that the one dividend was still declared, and there won't be a dividend payment here in early March, so it won't go to zero in 2012, because there still will be the one payment, also the acquisition there of $5 million as well.

On the capital spending, $14 million, probably in the $9 million to $11 million range for 2012 and our pension contributions are expected to go from $25 million to $27 million.

So that covers the final financial summary for 2011. And with that, Marissa, I'll turn it back over to you for questions.

[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joseph Perdue with Wells Fargo Advisors.

Yes. Good morning.

Good morning.

I always have a slight bit of confusion with the number. Let me start going back to January 16, 2011. When I first came on board with Standard Register, there was the first round of cost cuts, expected to save $30 million to $40 million. I did all these calculations and figured with your earnings, with the cost cuts, divided by the shares outstanding on an after-tax basis; we could have potentially had earnings in 2011 of $0.75 to $0.95. Obviously, things didn't grow as much, the core and legacy, and so on, it didn't work. But now we come to the second – so that was very exciting early in 2011. It didn't happen, but I think it was a good attempt. And now with the layoffs and the saving of $45 million; I need help with the numbers. If I look at a $45 million savings, I'm wondering what – like do – first of all, did you earn $0.26 without any charges in 2011? I'm just trying to put everything together.

Joe, when you talk about earned $0.26 without any charges, I'm not sure I -

I saw a number without charges of – like without pension, without all the write-offs. I'm trying to find out where do we start to figure out – I might have read that wrong. I thought that was without one – hopefully one-time write-offs, I thought that the company might have had earnings. Was that not the case? Was there a loss even without write-offs?

No, no, you're correct on that.

Okay.

On the non-GAAP, the $0.26, yes.

Yeah. On the GAAP/non-GAAP, I mean, I've been doing this for 35 years, but sometimes it's a little beyond me. But at any rate, if I look at $0.26 in earnings without write-offs, and then you hoped to save $45 million in 2012. Now, first, 75% of that was going to be realized in 2012. Now, it's hopefully $0.50 [inaudible] (22:47) be realized in 2012.

Let's just use 2012 as a transition year and 2013, if you realize the $45 million in savings, and you did, let's say, $10 million in capital expenditures and you put $2 million more into the pension than you did in 2011, is there a way to try to come up with some kind of earnings projection if things go as planned? I'm trying to look at the $0.26, the $45 million in savings, the pension liability, the capital expenditures divided by 29 million shares, 40% tax rate. Is there any way to get – to get to a number where that we are hoping to achieve in 2013?

Well, I think – Joe, obviously, we – we're not – when it comes to earnings, we're not going to give guidance there. However, what we've tried to do is give you several of the pieces to do that. So, I think you are thinking through the right types of things.

Probably – couple of things I would add to that is, remember that the tax rate's going to be odd for this year. So, when you mentioned the tax rate, just remember that we won't be having a tax benefit or a tax expense related to the U.S.-based operations there. So, keep that in mind.

But more importantly, if you go back to what Joe said in the chart, in terms of this legacy decline, core growth, that even with solid core growth that – that's still the challenge even in 2012. So, you've got to kind of look at the topline as well. But you are talking about the right pieces from a cash perspective. We've given you what we're going to do with capital and with the pension plan, and obviously, the dividend has an impact on that as well.

And the $45 million savings to the bottom line, when that's achieved, let's say, in 2013, does the $25 million – just a rough guesstimate, pension contribution come out of that, or is that on top of – ?

Well, the pension contribution is a non-P&L, that's a cash and balance sheet issue, just that the pension amortization is a – just purely a balance sheet issue. Now, it just so happens to be that they're in the same ballpark, but they really are two separate issues.

Okay. It's – all right, I'll let it go or maybe I'll talk with you on the phone. It's just hard for me to put all these numbers together. It seems like, what – without you giving me the numbers, what, just by going through the numbers could the bottom line be divided by the 29 million shares? Now, is there any guesstimate about the dividend? Would it take – would everything need to go right for a couple of years to get back to a surplus for that dividend to be reinstated? Anybody would give any kind of timeline there?

We're not giving a timeline there because, first of all, that will become a board decision when, and if that option becomes available.

Okay.

However, if you look at – if you look at the accounting guidance there, one of the key events where you have to really get into the positive and negative evidence, the negative – big chunk of negative evidence is this three-year cumulative loss. So, if you look at that and say, okay, if that's starting the process, then obviously you have to have three years of cumulative income before you can really start to have a good solid discussion there. I think also the pension, as interest rates fluctuate, that could play into that as well. But that's kind of the – keep those in mind as you think about that process.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator instructions] There are no further questions at this time, Mr. Smith. Do you have any closing remarks?

Yes, I do. Thank you, Marissa. That concludes our presentation for today. And we look forward to reviewing our first quarter results in April 2012. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.