Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Merry — Senior Vice President, Fahlgren Mortine
Joseph P. Morgan — Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer
Bob Ginnan — Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph P. Morgan, Jr. — President and Chief Executive Officer, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Senior Managing Director-Sales & Trading, CJS Securities, Inc.
Joseph F. Perdue Perdue — Senior Vice President - Investments, Wells Fargo Advisors

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's Third Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Carol Merry. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to the Standard Register 2012 third quarter conference call. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and CEO; and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings release Standard Register issued this morning, on the webcast slides that accompany this presentation by accessing the company's website under Investor Center or in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. It is management's belief that the use of these measures will assist our audiences' understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as substitution for GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will provide a few opening comments that will be followed by Bob's review of the financials for the quarter and year-to-date. Joe will then discuss the company's strategy and direction. Following his comments, we will open up the call for your questions.

And now, I'll turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments.

Thanks, Carol. Good morning. We had a number of reasons to feel good about the quarter, but sometimes, as you know, the noise around results can't match the underlying performance, particularly in a situation like the one we've been in recently. We terminated our postretirement healthcare plan in the third quarter of 2011, which produced a one-time benefit in that quarter. Without that, comparable quarter-over-quarter operating profit would have been up $3.7 million, a pretty substantial improvement for our company.

Another fact that I want to spend a little time clarifying is that the reduction in business from one large financial services customer in our Business Solutions business unit somewhat obscured the growth in Core solutions during the quarter. Nearly all the decline in the third quarter revenue was attributable to this reduction, which, by the way, we expected and we managed the business to, and also we had disclosed previously.

Revenue from Core solutions in the quarter declined less than 1%. But if you take out that customer loss, the business loss within that customer, Core revenue grew 5% in the quarter. So when you look beyond the GAAP numbers, you can see that we're making good progress in our strategy of growing our Core solutions, and operationally we're improving.

We are maintaining momentum in our sales activity. This quarter it was particularly strong in the Healthcare business unit where we signed a record number of contracts. It's a good example of where we emphasize focus in a vertical segment and our expertise leads to a winning combination.

The activity in the Business Solutions unit was different. As you know, we combined three business units during the last three quarters into one called Business Solutions, previously Financial Services, Commercial and Industrial have now been brought together. And now we're accelerating new business development work, i.e., the acquisition of new business. Overall, technology-oriented solutions are a key driver in our performance. They grew 41% during the quarter.

But having said all that, we are also seeing clinical forms decline in Healthcare business and some of our Legacy transactional printed materials decline at a faster rate, a trend that we had previously identified for you and, quite honestly, was a key catalyst to our restructuring plan that we announced at the beginning of the year.

The decline in those types of materials often results in declines in revenue from the associated storage and freight of those materials. As we have obviously to distribute the products, those components need to be there too. And that contributed to revenue being less than last year's quarter and year-to-date.

I want to spend some time on this morning's call talking about our solutions to provide a little more perspective and color around how we have transformed our business and why we're excited about our strategy and the opportunities related to that. But before we do that, I'd like to turn the call over now to Bob where he will have a discussion of the quarter and year-to-date financials. Bob?

Thank you, Joe. Turning to the P&L for the quarter, we'll start there. Revenue came in at $145.7 million. And as Joe talked about, we've been talking all year about one particular customer, which really started to accelerate in the third quarter, worth about $10.6 million, so fairly flat with last year without that.

On the margin side, 28.8% versus 29.3%, so pretty flat on the margin. Given the contribution associated with the lost revenue, that's actually – we are very pleased with that performance at the margin line.

Turning to SG&A, $37.2 million versus $40 million, so a decline in SG&A. However, to help you with a couple of reconciling items there, remember last year we terminated the retiree healthcare plan. Within that plan, we were recognizing about $1.1 million of amortizing the actuarial gains plus the reversal liability of about $5.1 million. So on a comparable basis, you're really looking at SG&A of $46.2 million versus $37.2 million. So you can really start to see the impacts of the restructuring taking hold here. And at the operating profit, that would be a breakeven last year versus the $4.8 million this year. So it's a little bit hard to see at first, but when you look at this retiree healthcare issue and back that out, significant progress on the restructuring side here.

Turning to pension amortization, $5.8 million in the quarter versus $6.1 million last year. The other portion of the retiree healthcare termination, about a $15.2 million credit is what's driving that $9.1 million credit in there, so pretty comparable on just the pension component.

Restructuring, $700,000 as we expected, as we continue to roll out the plan for the year, virtually none last year, and then interest expense and other about $800,000 versus $600,000. That leaves us with a pre-tax loss of $2.5 million compared to $14.6 million. However, the $14.6 million included the little over $20 million related to the termination of the retiree healthcare plan.

Tax rates, again, very difficult to discern this year with the valuation allowance. Last year, full tax rate applied. This year, basically it's our foreign operations and a certain state there, actually driving to tax expense on a loss. So you can see the impact there of taxes.

On a year-to-date basis, the same issue, and you can see how the quarter was impacted, year-to-date number on the lost customer $16.6 million versus $10.6 million in the quarter. So you can see most of that occurred in the third quarter. Down 2.4% without that. Margin, 29.8% versus 30.9%, again, holding in there very well considering the reduction in revenue.

On the SG&A side, $121.3 million versus $132.2 million. If you look at both the amortization of the FAS 106 and the termination, about another $8.3 million on top of it, so you're really looking at $121.3 million versus about $140.6 million. So good progress on the SG&A side.

Going down to the bottom line, $9 million loss versus $7.7 million. Looking at the retiree healthcare, that was worth about $12 million. So you'd actually have a loss there on comparable period.

At the business unit level, turning to the next slide, you can really see the impact here, as we talk about this particular event. Healthcare, down 10.7%, $51.5 million versus $57.7 million as we transitioned through the decline in clinical documents associated with that business. And you'll see $94.2 million versus $99.8 million on the Business Solutions side, and that's where that one customer all impacted.

On the margin side, you see the decline in Healthcare, as we cycled through those clinical documents and then actually improvement in margin on the Business Solutions, which goes to the characteristics of that lost business there.

Operating profit, $2.2 million versus $3.9 million in Healthcare, all attributable to the revenue decline offset by savings and actually improvement in Business Solutions. Same story pretty much holds true on a year-to-date basis as well, and improved – with roughly flat margins in Business Solutions and slightly down in Healthcare and improved profit in Business Solutions.

On the balance sheet, to point out a few things on the balance sheet, you'll see, first of all, that we have now reduced our inventory on a year-to-date basis and compared to last year, down to $46.8 million. We're also continuing to pay down liabilities. You'll see the cash flow here, $46.8 million, is an improvement over where we were at the end of last quarter and of the year – ending the year. So we're now at $4 million positive cash flow. We've talked a lot about being at least $5 million for the year. So we're well on our way there. And you'll see the pension liabilities down to $212 million when we started the year at $236 million.

From a pension perspective, we have through the – into the third quarter, we contributed a little over $18 million to the plan on path towards $20.8 million for the year. So we're about 90% done as of the end of the third quarter. So most of the pension is behind us for the year.

And then finally on the cash flow statement, I already mentioned the $4.7 million positive for the quarter, $4 million on a year-to-date basis. And you'll see the pension funding there, the $18.7 million. So we're mostly done, and actually as of the first couple of weeks of October, we are all done with that for the year. You'll see we spent quite a bit on restructuring cash. Remember the P&L was only $700,000, however, on the cash side, almost $4 million there, and we've spent on a year-to-date basis now about $2.4 million in capital.

You notice, we're still planning to spend between $7 million and $11 million for the year, we talked about that, which would imply that the fourth quarter is going to be pretty heavy capital spending quarter here.

So with that, in summary, we really focus on the cash and good story there. We've done that and made most of our pension contributions and we'll spend a little more capital here in the fourth quarter. The restructuring in the pension relief has enhanced our stability and now we are focused on moving into the future.

So with that, I will turn it back to Joe.

Thanks, Bob. What I'd like to do now is if you move to the Key Investment Highlights slide, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the things we are doing strategically with the business.

Many of you on the call are – that are familiar with the company know that the printing industry has been under a lot of change over the last decade or more, but not unlike many other industries, but this one has changed irrevocably by the adoption and advancement of new technologies, things like tablets, things like anything digital. But we recognized sometime ago that traditional printing will never completely disappear, but traditional printing is being commoditized.

New print, however, has different characteristics than traditional print. It's very customized; it's highly digital; it's data rich, and it's on-demand, thus the investments that we've made in our on-demand platform in security to make sure that we are in a position to support our clients.

We assessed our strengths and weaknesses and we developed a proactive strategy. Many of our customers have looked to us to provide the how, not just the what, the what being the product; the how is how we actually – how they actually want to advance their business. We want all of them to look at us for complete solutions, not to place an order for printing.

Although we still print, and I'll emphasize, we are experts, we are in a business of critical communications now, providing not just printed materials, but also integrating communications for electronic delivery, e-mail, digital, direct mail, tablets and mobile communications, essentially getting the message across that's critical to the company that we do business with in whatever means that's most appropriate for the audience.

We help our customers analyze their needs. We develop customized channel communications, we measure success, and we put a system in place to manage their brand, recognizing that there is time sensitivity, as I mentioned previously, security and other variables necessary for our customers to be more efficient in their critical communication process from both of cost or from a cost or regulatory and also from a competitive standpoint. We can help them be known as the best at what they do, which is why we changed our focus in our strategic statement of advance their reputations, how we position our company.

We've been in the process of transforming our company to lead in this direction, something that many competitors cannot do. We're changing fast, and we're creating solutions for our customers that combine products and services from our portfolio and from channel partners that we have, providing end-to-end communications management as well as supporting individual campaigns and programs. Unlike the past, as a traditional printer, we can't do everything ourselves. So our channel strategy is very different and our partner strategy is critical to our ability to succeed going forward.

Every quarter, we provide a few examples of how our solutions are being implemented and how we are attacking our market. So I thought I'd give you a couple on this call. I'm going to focus first on healthcare. Our healthcare technology solutions are in the areas of customer communications, patient identification and patient information as well as some marketing solutions. There is a lot of change taking place in healthcare whether it'd be EMR implementation or consolidation within that space, and as a result of that, there is tremendous opportunity for a company like ours that's focused on reputation and critical communication.

The transition to EMR is underway. We all know that. We've aggressively reorganized our business, sales and customer service, and we've invested in core growth technology solutions, an example being our acquisition of Dialog Medical last year, which is in the patient consent and information space.

Our strategy is now to facilitate the transition to the next stage of healthcare communication, very much patient-centric. We do that by helping healthcare providers automate and improve clinical content and processes, helping them digitize and then standardize their forms content and preparing for what we call the hybrid environment where electronic and printed forms exist after the full implementation of EMR.

This is an example of what I was saying as print isn't going to go away entirely, but it certainly is changing. We help our customers prepare a library of e-forms, not paper, but E, electronic and we provide a digital platform, which is an extension of the SMARTworks platform that we've talked about for years for more efficient management throughout the organization. And then we help them at the patient level with managing approvals, both pre and post-care personalized communications which, if anyone is involved, fortunately – unfortunately in receiving care or a family member, you know how important it is to have information prior to and then after.

In this transformation, Standard Register has separated itself from traditional document providers. We're helping our customers manage their business by driving operational efficiency and driving cost savings to manage their expense.

Recently, you may have noticed that John King was promoted to President of the Healthcare business. John has been instrumental over the last year at driving this strategy in the technology solutions that I've just been talking about that helped to differentiate Standard Register and make us a more valuable partner to our healthcare customers. We are fortunate to have him as a successor to Brad Cates as a leader of this very, very important and strategic business unit.

I'm not going to spend as much time on Business Solutions. I will talk about it on the next call, but there are similar stories around our ability to capture data and provide analytics across the complete communications lifecycle. Business Solutions had a positive sales activity in the quarter. It will produce revenue in the future quarters. This also contributes to immediate growth in consulting as we ramp up new customers.

On-demand publishing, which is a key solution in Business Solutions, is growing, which is a direct result of the 2011 investment that we made in our digital color process in quality and capability.

Our Core technology solutions are producing growth, particularly in customer communications, which is very data-rich and very secure – security-oriented. On-demand publishing, which again leverages the investments we made in the prior year and product marking and labeling. We have continued to advance our in-mold labeling capability and there is a lot of very exciting things happening there as that solution set continues to grow.

And we're generating great customer interest in our tablet and mobile solutions. Customers are excited about piloting and testing the innovations that we're moving forward with, which are integrating our material science capability, which has been very traditional here along with our software and services knowledge that has come through intimate awareness of how workflow assists our clients around communications within their business.

What investors want to know, what you want to know is how we're going to get to sustained growth in this environment and how we can improve our valuation over the long-term. The Healthcare example that I've described illustrates how we're getting sustained growth. In the third quarter particularly, we're generating organic growth with our customers as well as signing more contracts and subscriptions for the software that we developed and acquired with longer terms and a better product mix. We're changing the story.

The Healthcare Solutions technology portfolio grew over 5% in the quarter and 11% year-to-date. We're encouraged by these results and we're confident that we can continue to grow. Our investments will enable that. The challenges we have to improving valuation are the rapid decline of our Legacy printed transactional forms and the time it takes to transition our business to the new destination. We're making good progress, as you can see, when you look beyond the GAAP numbers for the quarter.

We will continue to invest, but we'll invest at a prudent level in management reporting systems and customer communications, marketing services solutions, healthcare technology where we can leverage our digital capabilities and personalized content creation. The restructuring has given us more clarity around where we need to invest to get the most return.

So let me summarize the call today. So a few things I'd like you to take away. We are producing improved operational performance resulting from demand for our technology-oriented solutions in both parts of our business, the restructuring plan, which is expense improvement, but also alignment of the capabilities of the company. We received some pension relief from the passage of the Highway Bill in the second quarter and we've completed our pension contribution for 2012. And we can reaffirm that we are on track for positive cash flow of at least $5 million for the year.

We will invest in our strategy, the restructuring plan and the work that we've done this year has given us more clarity. So we will be investing more in the fourth quarter to advance our positions so that we can continue to have positive progress as we've described in this quarter.

I look forward to reporting you – to you on that progress. And now I'll be happy to take any questions. Bob and I will be pleased to help you. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer with CJS Securities.

Bob, can you hear me okay?

Yeah, Charles. I can.

Okay. Sorry. Just a couple of questions. Joe, you talk a lot about the new plan in the progress and the hope in future itself, but can you give us a little bit more color around or context around the timeframe and also kind of certain milestones we should be looking for to kind of judge that progress?

Sure. The way that we've organized the business and the first milestone was getting the businesses organized to enable that, which is Business Solutions. So I would say that coming out of the third quarter, that organization is in place. We stabilized the sales organization, the go-to-market effort. So we feel good about that. So that would be milestone number one.

We expect that we'll continue to make progress on the Core solutions that we've described. Honestly though, as we go forward, the definition of Core and Legacy will change because products come and go and that's going to be next evolution of the business. But we are really confident in the new solution set that we have in both of the businesses.

And we're not going to peg a specific number because we're not going to give a specific forecast as to what the date will be, but I can tell you that the underlying definition and growth prospects of Core are giving us confidence that what we've said previously as when the crossover takes place that we will be in a better position is there. So there is not a specific date, but directionally we're more and more confident that it's going to happen as we've described. And that comes from the healthcare technology success we've been having, but along with that, has come with customer communications and Business Solutions product marking and the marketing services progress.

And, Joe, I appreciate you don't want to nail them in deep. I mean, are we talking a year, two years, three years before we can start to see that inflection point? And as we get closer to the inflection point, do you plan to kind of give a little bit more granularity on that?

I would say that, I'll answer the second part of your question, yes, as we get closer and the confidence grows, then we'll – I mean, I would love to be able to answer your question more definitively, but as you know, in an industry that we're in like this with so much dramatic change, it's more difficult than I'd like it to be. But yes, as we get closer to that, I'll be the first to come out and say exactly how this is going to work.

Okay. And then shifting gears just if we can touch back on the pension for a few minutes and just any additional color there in terms of, as we look out to 2013 and beyond, any changes to the recent Highway Bill, the benefit that you got from there, any changes to the numbers there, and also any other thoughts in terms of maybe working towards reducing that liability any faster in terms of maybe using your balance sheet and things like that?

Charles, this is Bob. I'll answer that one. First of all, yeah, the numbers have changed a little bit from our original estimate as we got some of the final numbers from the IRS, et cetera. And so for 2013, we're right now looking at about just a little bit under $27 million as a contribution. And if you recall, probably beginning of the year or towards the end of last year, beginning of the year, we were thinking about $37 million. So it has changed quite a bit. And since we first announced, it's gone down a little bit further. So we're looking probably at around $27 million for next year on the funding requirement.

Got it. And then as we look beyond that, do you have any other clarity into 2014?

Yeah, we had announced early on that that was going to be just a little over $40 million, and so far we don't see a dramatic change there. Probably depends more on what interest rates do between now and the next 18 months when it comes to 2014.

Excellent. And then, Joe, just back to you, just when you look more strategically at the overall business and the assets you have versus the businesses that may be more prudent to look at, maybe divesting some assets that are not going to be performing in the new programs that you outlined, have you explored or thought about maybe some divestitures to maybe find some cash to use that in terms of the pension funding as well?

Yeah, unfortunately or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, we don't have businesses that are easily divested within our company. The way the company has been built over time is more at a capability level. So the way that we would look at this would be probably less about business-oriented divestiture and more about capability optimization, which can be defined as elimination of certain capabilities that wouldn't be required going forward, so we would therefore minimize the cash drain that would come from that.

So for example, in our Legacy, our business forms, traditional rotary manufacturing, we focus on safety and quality. Those are the two things that we spend money on. We don't spend money on advanced capability because it's a diminishing return.

I did actually promote a guy in our company, his name is Joe Klenke. And he took over a lot of our advanced materials part of the company and a few other areas that have some really interesting potential for us, things like IML, and then there are some really neat little technologies that we believe have some potential going forward. Those could, at some point, get us to a place like you're describing. But I would tell you that the vast majority of our work on what you're describing would be to optimize the footprint of manufacturing capabilities that we have in the company.

And, Joe, lastly just on the NYSE listing, any further update there?

We submit at the end of each quarter. So, we did that at the end of the second quarter. We received validation back that we've done what we said we were going to do and they accepted that. We'll submit again here at the end of the third quarter and then hopefully receive the same feedback.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Charles.

Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Perdue with Wells Fargo.

Yeah, good morning, Joe and Bob.

Good morning, Joe.

Hi, Joe.

I didn't know if there is any thought or if you can talk about a – when we get to the point where revenues start to increase again. I mean is that on the horizon or is that just too hard to predict? And then secondly, I think you were going to spend some money in the fourth quarter, and I didn't know if you're going to try to get a new business mix or a new business area on top of your current business mix.

Maybe Bob and I can tag team on this one. The second one in terms of the investment, the investment for – that's taking place in the fourth quarter will be geared toward partly operational execution so that we can become more efficient and continue to drive the expense reduction in the company.

The second one is – second part of the investment will be to advance solutions that we previously defined, customer communications, the digital network, which is on-demand publishing, that's what sits underneath that, product marking and labeling. Those are probably the primary ones that we'll be investing. Actually, I should say there is some investment in our Healthcare Solutions as well. As we've integrated or starting to – finish the integration of our Dialog Medical and SMARTworks clinical enterprise platforms. You might – Bob, can you answer maybe the other part of that?

In terms of the revenue, as Joe mentioned earlier, we don't give guidance on that. What we've tried to do is kind of give you a view as to where the trends have been and where we're headed. Again, this quarter, the percentages are getting more favorable towards the things that are growing. So if you kind of look at the charts we've provided in the presentation, you can kind of make some assumptions there and start to look at that. It is progressing, but we're still not in a position where we can really give that guidance.

All right. Great. My next question is as the – if the revenue stays the same, you've outlined $60 million in what appears to be new annual savings by the end of 2013, can anybody figure out with current revenue and an additional savings of $60 million per year, what earnings per share could look like for 2014, assuming current revenue growth – excuse me, current revenue?

The answer would be mathematically we can, but that would also be guidance, which we're not in a position to provide. So...

All right. Well, it would certainly be better at any rate. The $60 million goes a long way with 30 million shares outstanding.

My next question is, I have not seen sales from you guys, the insiders and also the two family trusts that, I believe, own something like 51% of the stock. I was wondering is that correct that they have held on through this period?

Based on public information, not personal discussions, I see the same things you do. So I would assume yes.

And then I don't know if there is any talk like if I own 50% of your company and the stock is down and the dividend is cut, and obviously the dividend must have generated great income for the family trusts that own half the stock, is there any talk about a long-term plan? I mean, is that all the same talks that you have with us or are there concerns or do you listen to them or are they just confident in your ability to turn things around?

Management spends the vast majority of our time with the board and the board is aligned with the strategy of the business. As CEO, I do talk with the trusts just to keep them informed of what's going on, but there is no dialog specifically as you described with me or with management. So there may be other conversations that take place within the family and the ownership, but that's not something that we participate in at the moment.

Okay. And my last question is on the approval from the New York Stock Exchange. Of course, they're looking for $50 million market cap and with 29.94 million shares, that would be $1.67 per share to stay on the New York Stock Exchange within a year and a half of June 25, so basically by the end of 2013. Do you believe that that is still achievable with this – the new $42 million pension liability, the business mix and so on, to get back up to our $2 a share?

Well, I think that first of all, from the pension liability perspective, the only change that occurred there since we submitted the plan has been that the picture has gotten a little bit better as a result of the passage of Highway Bill. So that was always factored in, always part of that.

And I think in terms of hitting those kind of numbers that you described, it kind of goes back to your first question about seeing the savings and then as we go through time with the revenue picture coupled with those savings, that's what has to happen to get there. And I think that's kind of how you started out, Joe. I think that's the key.

Right, right. And then I guess getting back, it's certainly years down the road, we have to get a positive network to – and obviously, earnings would have to be up dramatically to even think about reinstating a dividend. So I assume if everything went well for a couple of years, we might be able to start talking about that, but certainly it's premature at this point.

Right.

Yeah. All right. Well, very good. Thank you so much.

Thanks, Joe.

Thanks, Joe. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Barry Blank with Murphy Durieu. (33:45)

Question on the pension. Interest rates have been historically extremely low. What would happen to the pension liability if interest rates became a more normal 4% or 5% down the road? Would that diminish the amount of pension liability that you have?

It – this is Bob, [ph] Barry. (34:13) It absolutely would, and that's really the fundamental issue with the pension plan. Every 100 basis point would improve that liability by about $35 million. So seeing a 300 basis point or 400 basis point improvement there would absolutely dramatically change that liability and the corresponding future funding requirements. It is the issue.

Well, knowing that, and I mean interest rates don't stay down forever, have you thought of any plan that could take advantage of this through the use of maybe some sort of a derivative that would lower the liability in the future when and if interest rates do come to a more normal level?

Well, I think that with any pension strategic planning, you're always looking at the opportunities that occur when that happens. Obviously, right now given the funding level, we're below the 80% funding, so therefore you're limited on what you can do, but minimizing risk as we go forward when we can is absolutely part of our thinking.

Okay. The other question is, I know you lost a large client in the past year. Is there any chance of getting some of that business back in the future?

Yeah. Actually thanks for stating it that way. We didn't actually lose the client. We actually lost certain products that that client had previously been purchasing from us. So we continue to do business with this company as we have for years. We never stop selling. So I can tell you that our team will continue to fight very hard to get as much back as we can in the areas that we want to win, which is more in the Core going forward.

One last question and it's about your listing. I realized the New York Stock Exchange has given you the okay with your plan or everything, but I have – I used to be a member of the New York Stock Exchange, had a seat and went across that exchange – went to a stock company, they don't have them anymore, but I know a lot about these lower price stocks and the listing requirements on them.

And all of a sudden, the exchange has a habit of saying gee, you know you are so far below $50 million; even though we've approved this, we're going to terminate it. If I may suggest that you start at least to have a backup plan of an alternative listing, it's a lot better to leave voluntarily if you start to hear the noises that they're going to do that and be kicked off the exchange as it makes – it's a lot better.

Also a lot of times, the exchange recommends reverse splits. And I can tell you, they never work. If you do a reverse split, the stock immediately goes up the amount and within usually two to three months it drops 25% to 30%, which is contrary to the fact that you've got to get the market cap of the company up. I mean, I won't bore people on the phone with this, but I can give you 20 different instances of it happening. So I just wanted to throw that out to you that it may pay to look at plan B here in case the exchange starts to call you more often. That's usually the sign that they are not going to keep you until the stock gets up to $50 million. [ph]

Barry, (37:43) thank you for that insight. That was helpful. Is there any specific question about that topic that you'd like to ask us while you have...?

Yeah. Have they put pressure on you to do a reverse split?

Not at this time. We're evaluating all the different strategic options that we have. We've recognize what you described, but your experience was very helpful in the way you described it. So, thank you.

Okay. Good quarter. Thank you very much.

Thanks, [ph] Barry. (38:16)

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Perdue with Wells Fargo.

A reverse split would get the stock price up, but it wouldn't do anything for the market cap. It's got to get above $50 million?

Yeah.

Isn't that correct? So like a reverse split wouldn't really help you?

It wouldn't help on the overall market cap issue. However, remember that there is-

Oh, is it one or the other?

There is also – well, there is also the minimum dollar threshold, which it would help you with that.

Oh, yes. Okay.

Yeah. So that's the issue with the reverse split, is that we've kind of got two steps we've got to take here. But you're right, it doesn't help with the market cap at all.

You just have to earn your way out of this?

You've got to earn your way out. That's right.

Right. That's right.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

Sir, we have no further questions in the queue at this time.

All right. Then, we will thank everyone who participated today and conclude our call. Thank you.

This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.