raw transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Standard Register‘s Third Quarter Conference Call.


Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today’s


conference are available by accessing the investor information section of the Standard Register


website at www.standardregister.com/investorrelations.


Before we begin, our spokes person for Standard Register will read us a brief statement.


Company Representative


This report includes forward-looking statements covered by the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Because such statements deal with future events, they are subject to various risks


and uncertainties and actual results for fiscal year 2005 and beyond could differ materially from the


company’s current expectations. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as


“anticipates,” “projects,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” and other


similar expressions that indicates trends and future events. Factors that could cause the


company’s results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements include,


without limitation, variation in demand and acceptance of the company’s products and services, the


frequency, magnitude and timing of paper and other raw material price changes, general business,


and economic conditions beyond the company’s control, timing of the completion and integration of


acquisitions, the consequences of competitive factors in the marketplace, cost containment


strategies, and the Company’s success in attracting and retaining key personnel. Additional


information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those


projected is contained in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


including its report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2005. The Company undertakes


no obligations to revise or update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, since


these statements may no longer be accurate or timely.


<Operator:>


Thank you. We will now turn the conference over to Mr. Dennis Rediker, President and Chief


Executive Officer of Standard Register. Mr. Rediker, please go ahead sir.


Dennis Rediker, President and Chief Executive Officer


Okay, thank you and good morning and thanks for joining us, as we review our third quarter results.


With me are Craig Brown, Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Cestelli, Vice President of Investor


Relation. Our usual format, we will – I will make a few comments on results and Craig will review


the financial statements and then we will take questions.


Historically or traditionally, the third quarter is the weakest quarter of the year, due to reduced


demand for products in certain industries, such as manufacturing, whether you take downtime in


summer months and people take vacations and so forth.


I will start over again with the comments about operations. Third quarter is typically the weakest


quarter of the year, because the demand for the products down in certain industries such as


manufacturing, whether summer month’s vacations taken and customers pattern for buying are


altered. That being said, revenue was up 4% in the quarter and we are encouraged by the fact that


we had top line growth over the prior year for the last four consecutive quarters. In addition, all of


our business segments recorded growth over the prior year’s quarter, which is good news.
raw transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Revenue increased for the quarter as a result of aggressive selling activity not only to recover the


multiple raw material price increases, but also to achieve unit growth, in other words taking share.


This represents a solid achievement by our sales team, given the highly competitive market


environment.


Now, taking a little bit about more operating profit; we recorded a positive operating profit in the


quarter compared to a loss last year. Noteworthy of the fact that this quarter represents the fourth


consecutive quarter of improving operating profit over prior year’s quarter. This is attributed to


revenue growth, cost reduction, productivity gains and overall reductions in SG&A expense.


Our balance sheet remains strong as always through the first nine months. We have made


voluntary cash contributions of 12.8 million to our pension plan; we’ve incurred 4.3 million in


restructuring spending; invested 15.6 million in capital expenditures for the long-term growth and


profit improvement and returned 19.8 million in dividends to our shareholders, while maintaining a


very low debt ratio.


Thus recovery of paper price increases has been an objective during the last two years; I thought to


spend little time to see how we are doing for the balance of the year. There were no price


increases for uncoded paper in the third quarter and we don’t anticipate any in the fourth. Given, oil


and refinery situation, we do expect to see increase in fuel surcharges and we did see a 5%


increase in carbonless paper in the quarter and further, increases are expected in 2005. That’s


about my summary for the operating performance; you will hear more of the numbers from Craig.


But, I would like to take a moment to share some thoughts about our direction in moving toward the


fourth quarter and sending out the company for 2006 and beyond.


During the last several years, we’ve witnessed a good deal of change in the competitive landscape.


Moore Wallace become as part of RR Donley workflow management’s proposed acquisition relies


on, IKON exiting its business document services unit, new leadership at Insamyo [ph] just to name


of few. During the same time, we have spent time with many customers outlining their future


objective and their expectation of strategic suppliers. The marketplace has validated that our


direction along with the investments and talent, subject matter expertise technology and capability,


positions us well to help customers achieve their desired business outcomes. Our vision is to be


the world’s most trusted document services company and that makes good sense for both us and


our customers.


We have significantly strengthened our position to be able to deliver enterprise document


management and print supply chain services, through the addition of array of services and


technology that we believe customers value and will become a future source of new revenue


growth. These services range from designed services to contract resources to technology and


professional or consulting services. We believe they will further differentiate us from competitions


and competitive offering and allow us to win in the marketplace. We will be providing further


information on these initiatives and results of our efforts during 2006 as we strive to clarify our


position here in the marketplace.


Now, just sort of take a look at the guidance in the outlook. Our guidance has not changed from


the last time we spoke. To reiterate, given sales momentum supported by stable backlogs and


finished customer-owned inventory, we continue to maintain that we will have modest revenue


growth on a full year basis adjusted for the extra accounting week in the fourth quarter of 2004. We


estimate that this extra week added approximately 17 million in revenue to the fourth quarter 2004.


Also, our past guidance set an objective for improving our operating profit before restructuring and


impairment charges by 5 percentage points, in relation to revenue from the first half of 2004 to the


second half of 2005.