corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to the Standard Register’s Third Quarter 2009


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for


today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard Register


website at www.standardregister.com/investor.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Shaun Smith. You may begin.


Shaun C. Smith, Vice President Finance and Investor Relations


Good afternoon, and welcome to the company’s third quarter 2009 earnings conference call.


Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Ginnan, Chief


Financial Officer.


Please let me remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements


including language concerning future projections. These projections should be considered in


conjunction with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release as well as the


Safe Harbor statement that could be found by accessing the homepage of the Investor Center on


the company’s website.


In addition, we will make references to financial measures that are not accordant with generally


accepted accounting principles or GAAP. This information is not meant to be considered in isolation


or substitution for GAAP. The use of these measures is meant to enhance our audiences


understanding of the company’s financial performance.


Joe has a few highlights to discuss, which will be followed by Bob’s review of our financials. After


Bob’s report, we’ll open it up for questions.


Now, let me turn the call to Joe for his opening remarks.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Shaun, and welcome to the team, and good afternoon. I just have a few comments that


I’d like to make prior to Bob discussing our financials for the quarter. We still are participating in a


very competitive, in a very challenging environment. However, we are seeing progress being made


as a result of the focus that we instituted at the start of this year, actually it began in the fourth


quarter of 2008.


We have solid evidence that our market focus is working. We’ve had major wins in the quarter.


Major win greater than $1 million in every segment. Those segments being healthcare, acute care


hospitals, financial, our industrial business, focus in the manufacturing sector and actually


government as well, which is a place that we’re spending a lot of time recently as well.


We have seen a dramatic improvement in retention of accounts. We know that in this very


challenging environment retaining our business is very important regardless of the decline or the


impact of the decline economically, so we’ve done a very good job of retaining our core clients.


That is a result of our market focus due to the repetitiveness of our capability. In each customer


we’re able to more clearly see what’s required in order for us to retain those accounts. We’re


seeing a significant improvement there.


We’re also seeing an increased rate of close in deals. Our pipeline is growing quarter-on-quarter,


and we are starting to see customers start to make decisions. There has been a delay I think
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


mostly driven by the economy that has caused us not to achieve some of the revenue that we


thought might occur. But we’re starting to see that free up a lot and that’s encouraging as we go


forward because of the retention and the wins that we have brought forward are really going to


contribute once spending starts to increase.


We have seen some unit recovery, some signs of debt. There is still price pressure, but we are


seeing again, which supports my previous comment, that people are starting to procure more.


We’re also seeing some hiring take place with some of our clients as well whereas prior there had


been declines. And with hiring of course, there would be a higher need for the consumable type


product that we produce.


Our cost structure in the quarter has remained stable. That’s a result of past work that we’ve done


starting in 2007, which further executed in 2008 and executed even more in 2009. I’ll talk in a few


moments about further actions that we’re going to be taking that are more of a strategic basis to


improve earnings.


And also in the quarter, I have been acting as both CEO of the company as well as General


Manager and President of the commercial business. And we were fortunate in the quarter to hire a


gentleman by the name of Jerry Beigel. Jerry comes to us with a very solid background. He has


experience working at Reed Elsevier, LexisNexis, as well as Xerox and several other technology


companies in between. And he brings great insight to us not only where we are currently as a


company, but where we need to transition to, which is the key question that we ask, that we’re


asking ourselves and continue to pursue. And I will share a little bit of our initial ideas on how we’re


going to transform the company there at the product level.


So, we are seeing some improvement. That improvement is coming from our market focus, and in


the coming quarters we hope to see evidence, more evidence of that in our financial performance.


I’m disappointed in the overall quarter performance. However, I am aware of the reasons for that


challenge and that some of it is the economic condition, some of it is also the condition of our


marketplace. But we are focused on share and we’re winning.


Also, in terms of our approach to business, just from a consistency perspective, back several


quarters ago I introduced you to our approach, which we call the Five Points of Change. And then


we also talked about C3, which was our mechanism for ensuring that our associates are aligned


with the work that we need to do. We continue to use that framework and it’s advancing our


business so that we have the ability to execute in a more flawless way, especially with the


challenges that we face not only in the marketplace, but also within our operational structure to


continue to improve our profit in such a challenging time. So, this is the foundation. We continue to


do that.


But I’d like to take this opportunity to share with you a process that we’ve been going through over


the last 100 days and which came out of – after our second quarter results. We embarked on a


journey starting in July, which we coined MyC3. The reason that I put the slide here around Five


Points of Change and C3 is I wanted you to see where that’s connected. It’s really around – MyC3


is around cost and it’s around improving our position through revenue growth.


And so, this – we embarked on a journey with all of our associates in July, which was to drive us as


a company closer to our customer, to simplify the way business is done with Standard Register,


recognizing that we have a long legacy. We’ve been a company for 98 years. We’ve built a lot of


systems and processes that – some are relevant, some are not. We have some need for change in


talent so that we can in fact advance our business as technology and services have a greater


impact on what we do. We have a need to make sure that we’re focusing on all of our resources,


whether that be cash and investment or people, and the things that are going to create the greatest


return for the business.