corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Standard Register’s First Quarter 2010 Conference


Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today’s


conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard Register website


at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I would now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Investor Relations


Good morning and I would like to welcome you to Standard Register’s first quarter 2010 conference


call. Joining me are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Ginnan, Chief


Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking


statements, including language concerning future projections. These projections should be


considered in conjunction with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release


as well as the Safe Harbor statement that can be found by accessing the homepage of the Investor


Center on the company’s website.


In addition, we will make references to financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally


Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. This information is not meant to be considered in


isolation or as a substitution for GAAP, the use of these measures is meant to enhance our


audiences’ understanding of the company’s performance.


For today’s call, Joe has a few key highlights that he wishes to discuss. This will be followed by Bob


to review our financial statements. After Bob’s report, we’ll open it up for questions.


So, please let me turn it over to Joe for his opening remarks.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Shaun. Good morning. As Shaun said, I want to go through a few key highlights from the


quarter, and then, I’d like to just talk about some things that we’re observing in the market.


So from a financial perspective as the information that we provided will show, our revenue was


down by approximately 4%, which is again – as we’ve seen over the previous quarters, the decline


has slowed. Our units are starting to stabilize, but we’re seeing some price and mix change that’s


obviously impacting the bottom line.


Gross margin was slightly up on a percentage basis, in great part due to the effort that we’ve put


forth through the MyC3 process that we’ve spoken about in previous calls. Our SG&A, as you’ll


note, is up by 2.5 – $2.3 million, primarily due to planned investments that we’re making to


transform the portfolio and the company, now that we’ve moved to a market focus. Bob will


describe that in a little bit more detail.


We are feeling good though about the unit stabilization. That isn’t an accident. That has a lot to do


with the work we’re doing in the front-end of the market. There has been some mix shift that has


affected the price of the products that are in the performance of the business, but unfortunately that


combined with the SG&A has resulted in a loss for the quarter.
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We did however manage cash differently than we had planned and we had a positive quarter of


$1.9 million, as Bob will probably describe in a little greater detail for the business. We did spend a


good deal of capital in the quarter in terms of some strategic investments that we’re making.


In terms of highlights, in terms of those investments, one of the things that we’ve talked about on


previous calls is what role does Standard Register wants to play in the transformation of the print


industry, and there’s a lot of great information out available in the public on that. Not the least of


which is as the economy rebounds, it’s expected that the print space will not rebound at the same


pace.


However, there are some shifts taking place. There’s an acceleration toward digital, and our


investment in the quarter on our digital framework transformation investment – our investment on


our digital transformation has basically refreshed the entire standfast network device and workflow


connected to the web, and that is our play in print. We expect to be a leader in Print On Demand


within the market segments we’ve chosen and that’s how we’re addressing, at this moment, our


print portfolio.


From a material sciences perspective, we’ve advanced our investments as well. We talked about


research and development and applied engineering in the last call. We’ve continued to progress


there with in-mold labeling being an example. We are advancing our patient identification and


safety, specifically around wristbands, new technologies there, and our security features on


traditional documents continue to advance with our investments in marketing and product


management.


The MyC3 initiative that we’ve spoken about is on track. As we’ve talked about previously, on an


annualized basis, we expect to achieve 30 to $40 million that’s substantially being achieved in


2010. We, at this point, are ahead of schedule. We have completed the upgrade that I mentioned in


terms of investment. Those devices and workflow are in place, and we’re taking orders and we’re


running product through those new – that new capability.


And another big event for us is the credit facility was finalized. Bob will go over the highlights of


that. So we feel like, in the quarter, units have stabilized in great part. We’re making progress in


each of the segments. We did make planned investments in SG&A, which is a great reason why


that number is larger, managed our cash really well from a positive cash flow standpoint.


We’re not satisfied with the loss for the quarter. Obviously, we’re accelerating some things to


reverse that. MyC3, which is our strategic earnings improvement initiative, is on track. In fact, at this


very moment, a little bit ahead of schedule and we’re executing on the investments that we said we


would make.


Now, let me talk for a couple of minutes regarding the market segments, and each of the segments


are a little different. But one of the things that is very interesting that – that is occurring is within


each segment, there is a growth engine being created, our marketing solutions within commercial


double-digit growth. Within healthcare, our sales grew in technology by about 54% and our Patient


Identification solutions which is around wristband and related products is growing. And the


industrial business was up 32%, and our in-mold revenue, although be it small, pipelines growing


dramatically and we’ve got 80% growth there.


What that means is that within each one of the segments, the things that we’re investing in are


starting to show signs of growth. Within healthcare specifically, the Novation contract, as we’ve


talked, we signed that at the latter part of 2009. We have signed 20 new customers and we have 38


renewals. We haven’t lost any of the companies that we had been doing, customers we had been


doing business with. That’s how we’re under the Novation contract.