corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Standard Register’s Fourth Quarter 2009


Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides


for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard


Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Investor and Media Contact


Thank you. Good morning and welcome to Standard Register’s fourth quarter and full year 2009


earnings conference call. Joining me today, are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer;


and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.


Please let me remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements,


including language concerning future projections. These projections should be considered in


conjunction with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release as well as the


Safe Harbor statement that can be found by accessing the homepage of our Investor Center on the


company’s website.


In addition, we may make references to financial measures that are not in accordance with


Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP for short. This information is not meant to be


considered in isolation or as a substitution for GAAP, the use of these measures meant to enhance


our audiences understanding of the company’s performance.


For today’s call, Joe has some key highlights that he wishes to discuss, which will be followed by


Bob Ginnan to review over our financial statements. After Bob’s report we’ll open it up for


questions.


So, now let me turn it over to Joe Morgan for his opening remarks.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us. First, I’d like to make a few brief comments


about the business as Shaun mentioned, and then I will hand it over to Bon Ginnan, our CFO for a


further discussion about the financials.


Couple of things that I want to do on this call and on future calls, as I want to always connect with


our previous periods, so that, there is an understanding of the continuum of our strategy


transformation. So first let’s talk about the financial results for 2009.


Revenue, we improved our revenue position throughout the year quarter-on-quarter, declines


improved. We started the first quarter versus prior year at over 15% decline and we finished the


year fourth quarter versus prior year quarter at 5.7%, so we saw a continuous improvement. We


believe that has a lot to do with our efforts to focus on the retention of clients, but also with the


market focused shift that we made from being more of a product company to a market focused


company. We had evidence of wins and gain in all of those segments as the year progressed. So


first we improved the year in terms of revenue and feel that we had stabilized it as things went


through the quarters.


Also in the fourth quarter, all of our BU’s performed at the level that we thought they would from a


revenue standpoint. So we had more predictability in the fourth quarter. As you know, we don’t
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


provide guidance, but in internal management perspective, we were on track. In fact, a couple of


interesting points, if you look at our Industrial business, we actually showed growth in the final


quarter, and in our Healthcare business we reduced the decline from the third quarter by 50%. So


we feel good about the controls that we put in place there.


From a gross margin standpoint, in a situation where we lost year-on-year almost $100 million in


revenue, we would have expected without a lot of management effort in terms of cost control, an


impact on our gross margin, but actually in the year, we saw a slight improvement on a percentage


basis. So that’s something that’s very positive.


On an SG&A basis, we improved our SG&A by about $23 million, as referenced in the press


release. From a cash flow standpoint, we were positive for the year. And approximately 2.5 million


in the quarter, but overall for the year slightly positive and that’s the second year in a row with that


kind of performance. We also saw a slight improvement in earnings in the quarter, which was again


a result of the effort that was put in throughout from a cost management standpoint also is reflected


in the stabilization of the revenue. And Bob will likely talk about this a little bit and you may have


some questions.


In regards to our credit facility that we’re in the process of working on, we began and made great


progress on our negotiations with our bank group so, again good progress there. So from a


financial standpoint, we feel as though we leave 2009 in a stronger position even in the midst of a


very difficult economic period. We survived and actually strengthened the core of our business and


I’ll share some of that in the next part of my discussion.


The next piece, what I’d like to do is connect the dots a little bit from the previous quarter. We


talked about in the last earnings call, market focus update five points of change framework in MyC3


initiative. The slides are fairly detailed, I won’t go through all of that, but I do want to make some


highlights – highlight a few things in each category, because I think it’s very important to


understand how we’re transforming the business. So, we are in the midst of a transformation and


we are executing a plan right now, and as I mentioned, I want to continually update you on the


status of that.


So, if we look at the market units, as I mentioned we hired a President of our Promotional Business


just at the tail-end of the last quarter and Gerry has been in the business now since then. And the


first thing that we’ve done is we’ve launched a Financial Services segment as part of the


commercial business. The other part of that is comprised of our emerging market segment which


honestly is more up where we were as a company and more of a product focused business, but its


about half of the commercial business that is being sorted out by market right now. But we saw the


opportunity and are really focused on the financial services space. As you know, we do business


with 20 of the 25 largest banks and we have started to expand our position in the middle-market


segment as well. So, we have been working very closely with alternative channels, and we’re


starting to see some growth in that effort.


One of the interesting things is we’ve invested in some things very specifically some market – some


solution categories, customer notices, training and marketing solutions. We do have some double-


digit growth product set solutions within the business although the decline in revenue was obvious.


And customer notices, training and marketing solutions give evidence of that.


Our opportunity now is to grow those to a substantially larger size, so that they have a bigger


impact on the bottom-line of the company. We’re making good progress there. We also have spent


more time in the period in our commercial business focusing on government both local and state,


as well as we’ve done some work the federal government and obviously there is a good deal of


spending going on there. We need to be careful where we place our best in the government space,


because it is a very bid oriented business, but there are some unique capabilities that we bring


particularly around secured documents.