Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Merry — Investor Relations, Fahlgren Mortine
Joseph P. Morgan — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, The Standard Register Co.
Robert M. Ginnan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's first quarter 2012 results conference call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of The Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Carol Merry. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Michael. Good morning and welcome to The Standard Register 2012 first quarter conference call. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and CEO; Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings release that Standard Register issued this morning, or on the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing the company website under Investor Center.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. It is management's belief that the use of these measures will assist our audiences' understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will have some opening comments that will be followed by Bob's review of the financials for the quarter. And then following management's comments, the call will open up for questions. And now I'll turn the call over to Joe for his opening remarks.

Good morning and welcome, Carol, to our team. Thank you for joining us today. I first want to spend a few minutes on our performance for the first quarter and the progress that we are making on our transformation, and then as Carol mentioned Bob our VP, CFO and Treasurer will focus on our financial results for the first quarter.

As noted in the news release, we have made good progress in the first quarter, although we're not satisfied at all with the overall results. We have more work to do, however we are moving in the right direction and pleased to see that the emphasis that we began about 12 to 18 months ago on our new core growth solutions are being accepted. It continues to open up brand-new conversations to us with new clients, but equally important, with our core customers are taking on these new solutions and helping us continue to make progress.

Three of the four business units in the quarter Healthcare, Financial services and Commercial Markets, experienced core solutions growth within the quarter. Bob will get into more detail regarding the individual business segment performance when he makes his comments. As we go forward, you'll see with the Industrial business too, timing affected why they were not the fourth business unit that showed growth as a large portion of what we sell in our Industrial business, being that it's labeling technology, a variety of different labeling technologies like in-mold labeling, digital labeling and more traditional flexographic that's environmentally sound and sustainable, showed some softness due to a few of the verticals that we focus on.

In the first quarter, legacy products declined at a rate that was expected, although we should point out that we continue to see new legacy product sales. The value of our historical solution set continues to be there, and while the overall transactional rates are lower, customers continue to see value in us, particularly in the vertical markets we've focused on, like financial services and healthcare. We will over time, though, proactively exit non-profitable legacy products, but will not do that at a business category segment, but more at an individual product level as things transition to technology solutions, et cetera. At the end of the quarter, core solutions make up about 42% of our total revenue and Legacy 58% of our total revenue.

There was positive activity during the quarter and what I would like to do is share a little bit of that with you here. We are having success winning new customers and expanding existing customer relationships for our technology-oriented solutions across the company. Those technology-oriented solutions take various forms based on the vertical segment, but one of the ones that is consistent across all of the businesses is in the marketing, services and solution space, as you will see, Standard Register not being always tied to a print infrastructure, in this case working with digital direct marketing and things of that nature.

Because of the programing required, ramping up new core solution customers can take some time to impact revenue, so there will likely be a lag between when we talk about wins and the actual revenue that we receive from them. We expect to see more tangible results as a result of that as the business progresses throughout the year.

One good example of success was in Healthcare, where our technology- and marketing-oriented core solutions, which include things like patient information, marketing and communications and wristbands, which are used for patient safety and identification, grew about $2 million in the first quarter, or a 15% increase over the first quarter of last year. We emphasized on it and we were successful. We've got good pipeline and good opportunities across all of the business units with a focus and emphasis in the core.

We're continuing to introduce new products that extend our end-to-end critical communication management through leveraging the SMARTworks platform, which we've been talking about for quite a long time. The SMARTworks platform has been one of the key pieces of evidence that shows how we are transforming the business from an operational focus, which is in the document management area, to more around critical communications as we get involved in the marketing space. So the pace of change with this type of technology is rapid and we continue to spend a disproportionate but planned investment in that area.

We have, as I've said – probably just implied, enhanced the capabilities of that platform to the point where no one else offers such a complete enterprise package, and that is a core element of our value proposition. We're using our new digital direct marketing solution in our own communications with customers. As an example, I've been doing video releases of communication, as other people have in our company, embedded within a far more extensive communication vehicle in the spirit of we sell, we use, as we go forward.

We've also introduced a tablet application, which has both iPad and Android versions. It's in beta testing right now. We've brought that to the market over the course of the first few months of the quarter and we're moving forward now with advancing the capability. It's exciting for us and quite honestly, when we introduce it, people see the new Standard Register, because they see us embracing the change of what I see as a hybrid world of print, which is very important still, and that's why we made the investment last year transformationally in our secured digital network, and now handheld-electronic-using mobile devices. Seeing Standard Register practically participating in that with real-life solutions is really starting to change the perception and leading to some very exciting opportunities for the company. In fact, this week we went live with our first major customer using a tablet application for the business, and as we go forward we'll probably talk more about that, not today but in the future.

So we're encouraged by a lot of activity throughout the business units. Bob will talk more about the financial health of the company, and despite the challenges of transforming from legacy to core in our pension obligations. We do have headwinds in the business, but we're focusing on bringing forward new things to our customers and the response has been very, very positive.

I want to shift now to the restructuring update in January. Actually the last call we talked a good bit about the changes that we were making, which were part of the overall plan since I have been CEO. We were first reshaping the business in terms of where we wanted to emphasize our future solutions. We've begun to do that in the marketing area, the healthcare technology area, the labels area and our Industrial business, for example critical communication being a key theme that goes throughout all of that. But in order for us to be able to invest in the future and, honestly, reward our shareholders for their participation in our business, we need to have the proper cost structure. We want to do that in a smart way, and so we began a very robust and aggressive restructuring process in January. So I want to give you a few minutes about the progress, where we are.

As I said, we announced the plan in January to better align our resources and support of our growing core solutions business, but also to reduce cost to offset declining revenue in legacy product sales. At this point we are on schedule with the implementation of the plan. We originally announced that we expected $45 million in annual savings. I had mentioned that we had engaged a third party, that third party is AlixPartners in a consulting role to help us identify where we can improve our performance. And the first thing that they did is they helped us validate the $45 million, as well as then identify additional areas where we can improve operational efficiency.

As a result, we expect to increase the savings number in 2012 and take out significant additional costs in 2013. This will drive an earnings improvement and enhance shareholder value, but it will also allow us to continue to move forward with the core solutions platforms that we're building for the business. Our engagement with AlixPartners has been somewhat distorted in local media. We did not engage AlixPartners for bankruptcy planning, but for actually the opposite, to improve our cost structure to help us get back to positive corporate and financial performance. I want to be really clear on that point.

Without the pension obligations, we would be able to invest to grow our core solutions faster to offset continuing declines in our legacy products. The pension situation is our reality. As you may be aware, many of you on the call, recent discussions from the Fed do not indicate that we will have interest rate relief in the foreseeable future, which continues to make emphasis of the continued contributions that Standard Register will be making to our pension, $27 million this year, $37 million the following and $47 million the year after. It's imperative that we execute against our implementation – or implement the restructuring plan with speed, which we're doing now, but also we have to advance the core solutions, which is going to require some investment and that is part of why the restructuring plan is moving as it is.

We're still a viable company. We produce plenty of liquidity to fund operations and modest but very focused investment to grow our business. As we said in our press release, we ended the first quarter with positive cash flow of $3.4 million, which I'm very proud of, and we expect to end 2012 with positive cash flow of at least $5 million.

As I'm sure those listening to the call know, we announced that Standard Register is currently not in compliance with New York Stock Exchange listing standards. This in no way impacts our ability to provide continuing best-in-class service to our customers. Our mantra in our company is flawless execution every day, every way, and that is exactly what our employees are doing today, regardless of that announcement. We foresaw the non-compliance issue, we planned for it and we will submit a plan to the NYSE that is going to show how we will return to compliance.

As you can tell from my comments, we're not where we want to be, but I am confident that we have the right strategy, a healthy balance sheet, enough liquidity to support the company while it transforms, a great team, large and diverse customer base and good prospects for growth. I personally spent a great deal of my time outside of Dayton with customers in the market talking with where money is being spent with our clients, and we were absolutely in areas that the company has previously not been, but also where investments are taking place with our clients, which was the original intent of our strategy, to move from a less of a supply-based strategy to more of a demand-based strategy.

I am going to turn the call over now to Bob for the financial report, and then I will have some concluding comments and then we will be happy to take any questions that you might have.

Thank you, Joe. We will start with the P&L first. Revenue came in at a $157.6 million, down 4.4%. Recalling the fourth quarter, we were down 6.5%, so an improvement over that, although we are still down 4% versus prior year. Margin at 30.6% when you compare it to the prior year is down, primarily based on volume. However, if you look back to the last two quarters, which really what transpired and really drove us into the restructuring plan, that is a pretty significant improvement over the last two quarters that we're at 29.3% and 29.6%.

SG&A came in at 44.4% versus 46.2%, so you start to see already some of the impacts of the restructuring plan. Just a reminder on the prior year there in the third quarter, we announced the termination of the retiree healthcare plan, which brought a credit into the results. In each quarter there is about $1.1 million of credit associated with that plan, so when you look at that number it's really about a $3 million decline in SG&A expense.

Pension amortization, pretty similar to last year. However we did have a pension settlement associated with the non-qualified plan of about $1 million. Last year we had one of those in the second quarter, a little bit less than that, but there was a settlement charge. In the restructuring, we took the biggest part of this charge in the fourth quarter. However, there is ongoing expense here as we go throughout the year and we described that in our 10-K and in the first quarter 10-Q, we'll continue to describe that as well, leaving us with a loss of $4.7 million pre-tax versus a profit last quarter, and if you look at the pension amortization settlement and the restructuring profit from operations there.

I do want to point out that tax has now become very confusing with the deferred tax valuation allowance. You'll see we actually have tax expense associated with our international operations, not U.S., and all the tax benefit now goes against the valuation allowance, so there's no tax benefit. As is as the quarters go forward and when there is profit, there's no tax expense on that profit either. So, very, very different on the tax side of this. Net $0.18 loss versus a penny last year.

At the segment level, as Joe said, we had growth in core solutions in three of our four business units. We had 5% in Healthcare, 10% in Financial Services, and a little over 1% in Commercial, followed by the decline in Industrial, which Joe described. Overall, Financial Services did have growth for the quarter. So given some of the challenges that we've described in the past with some customers there, we still had positive growth in the quarter.

You see the margins pretty much flow with the overall results, in that down about by the same amounts as the total of last year, 32.4% versus 30.6%. However, one thing I do want to point out is on Industrial, about the second quarter of last year we started struggling for margin there, and we're now on our third consecutive improvement of margin in that particular business at 31.3%. We had dropped to as low as 26.9%, so good progress in Industrial on the margin side.

On the balance sheet, a few key things to point out here. First of all, on our net working capital, we continue to have strong working capital, a current ratio of about 1.9, so very strong there. We didn't spend much in terms of capital spending in the quarter. I will talk about that on the cash flow, so you see a decrease in the capital asset net of book value. Net debt down to $47.5 million, which reflects the $3.4 million of positive cash flow that Joe mentioned.

The pension liability did improve a little bit, the biggest improvements will come from mark-to-market as interest rates change, however, you will see we went from $236 million to $227 million, which is primarily the result of the contributions that we made. And also overall equity did improve from $99.1 million-negative to $97.6. Seemed a little counterintuitive given an overall loss in the P&L, but remember the pension component of the P&L already came through equity in prior periods, so overall a net improvement in equity as we close out the quarter.

We will spend a little bit more time on cash than we typically do. In the slides, we added a slide on some of the non-operating components of cash flow 2011 versus 2012. All this information has been previously disclosed, but I thought it was helpful to bring it all together here. And when you look at last year, some of the non-operating components of the business included pension contributions, capital, acquisition and dividend. And when you look at those components, we've talked about the contributions going up a couple of million. Capital, plan to spend somewhere in the $9 million to $11 million range, which is about $4 million decline there. Acquisitions, we spent $5 million last year, this year, that's still an unknown at this point, but at this point there will be the $5 million improvement.

And then of course the dividend is gone going into this year. You will see the final one in the cash flow for the quarter, however after that, the dividend has been eliminated.

So we ended the year at $11.6 million-negative, and those non-operating components totaled about $13 million. So if you look at that coupled with the restructuring plan, that's how you start to move to the positive cash flow that Joe described, along with continued investment in the business.

So if you look at the cash flow statement, couple of things on there. The $3.4 million-negative on a net-debt basis, $700,000 in capital spending, so we really were focused on implementing the plan in the first quarter here, but we still plan to spend $9 million to $11 million there. Last dividend payment, $1.5 million, is in there, and then we did put in $7 million in the pension plan. Plan to spend about $27.2 million there for the year, so at $7 million, we're well on track for hitting those numbers. So that's the conclusion of the cash portion and the financial results. So Joe is going to close with a few highlights.

Thanks Bob. Before entertain the questions, I'd like to just take a few moments to highlight some things that I believe are important from the quarter. First, emphasize core solutions are growing. It's a result of us executing our strategy across the business. They are not yet offsetting the declines in our legacy products, but we're moving forward aggressively in the right direction, albeit at a slower pace.

Our intent is to pick up the pace now and gain new customers while continuing to sell both core and legacy to existing customers. The investor call being changed from next week to this week is an example of picking up the pace. We're going to be doing this more and more across all of our business because with technology advancing so rapidly, this is a cultural shift for our company, and quite candidly, the industry that we've come from. So we're excited about really instituting that kind of a change.

This is one the most important takeaways for the quarter that I want to share. Our financial health is strong, we have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations. Our current ratio shows that we have more than enough financial strength to fund short-term obligations and we have very manageable long-term debt. We have adequate borrowing capacity for our needs.

Our pension obligation is a big challenge, but it is one that we're meeting and managing. We talk to our shareholders and bankers regularly and they know where we are and where we're going. We had positive cash flow in the first quarter and expect to have the same for 2012, as we said, $5 million in positive cash flow for the year. We are managing cash flow to invest in new solutions that our customers tell us that they want and we're being innovative in how we do that.

And finally, we're on schedule with our strategic restructuring plan to manage our cost structure and invest in growing the company. We're confident in this process and we thank you for your confidence in Standard Register as we turn 100 years, old actually within the next two weeks on May 10. Thank you.

Now we're ready for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Charlie.

Joe, if we could talk a little bit and get into a little bit more detail on the segments, and separate out what's being impacted more by secular versus customer-specific issues? If you can maybe, by vertical say, hey, you know what, we think that the majority of the issues or the declines that you're seeing say maybe in Healthcare are more secular versus financial, maybe it's more customer-specific. Can you give me a little bit more detail and color behind that?

Yes. If I understand your question -- you will tell me if my answer answers the question you were asking. I can go through each one of them. If you talk about Healthcare, the macro trend in Healthcare is electronic medical record. The impact in our business is primarily in clinical forms, which are declining rapidly. As EMR is implemented, forms are being virtually eliminated, which has been historically a very profitable and successful business for us and we have a strong position there. For example, in the quarter those declined 18%, just to give you a sense of – and it ranges plus or minus a couple percentage there. It wasn't all that long ago that that was a 5% to 7% per period reduction. So that's an example there.

If you look at -- Financial Services business, when you get into bank automation, one of the areas that is impacted, and we- we're more of a specialty provider in checks, but checks is an example of something that's been really impacted. MICR documents, MICR documents, as some people refer to them, which are used in the banking environment, those are also being reduced pretty significantly in favor of electronic presentment. For us, we're not a huge statement printing company, so we do that in certain middle-market opportunities. If we were doing that in the retail banking environment, it would have an enormous impact on us, but that's not something that we spend a lot of our time on, so that's one.

In Financial Services, we did make known publicly that we did have one customer of size take a significant amount of revenue away from our company, but that's unusual, that's not something that we've seen in many places, and that had nothing to do with the period that we're in now, that's something that happened toward the end of last year and it was just due to a late-stage legacy product line moving to a different direction.

If you look at our Industrial business, the vast majority of what we do in Industrial is actually not really legacy-oriented. The labels business continues to grow. For example, our Mexico operation is very successful, that's more of a near-shore or near-border operation that's profitable, and it's actually growing because our customers are moving in many cases the manufacturing out of the U.S. into the Mexico area, and we've been successful with that investment there. But the Industrial business would be a good example of not tremendously impacted by legacy-type declines. Although where we do have a small percentage of that portfolio, maybe in the 10% to 12%, you're probably seeing a 5% to 7% reduction.

And then you get into the Commercial business, and this is a different story because you have a lot of different applications that have been built for a number of different customers. And if you take transportation for example, I'll put airlines to the side, but if you take on-the-road transportation, a lot of the historical business forms documents that have been created for that segment have been dramatically reduced by significant percentages period-on-period. So what we do in that area is really work on material science to reduce the overall cost so that we continue to be profitable. But that will continue to grow. Will it be virtually eliminated? Probably not 100%, but over time electronic presentment in the transportation space is definitely a trend.

So that's the way I would describe, each situation is a little bit different, each market segment is a little bit different, but they all -- I would say Healthcare probably has the single most dramatic product line that's affected by electronification or digitization of the space that we've traditionally participated in. Having said that though, you can also see some of the most dramatic growth with our healthcare technology because we saw that happening and made the transition with the acquisition of Dialog Medical last year with informed consent, which has been a very successful investment for us. We're very pleased with what we've seen there. Does that get close to what you were looking for, Charlie?

Yes, that's perfect, Joe, and that gives me the kind of granularity I was looking for. And I think when you segue back into the Healthcare, you just were talking about – let's expand on that a little bit and talk about a little bit more what you talk about in your prepared remarks about the technologies that you're using in Healthcare. And give me a sense of the long-term view there, do you think you can move that fast enough along to A, stay competitive in what could be a new field for other technology players, but also to offset those declines, and basically at what point, where do you think you hit the inflection point?

That's a long conversation. I think one issue that we're going to deal with there is that that business moves from being annuity-based to very program- and programmatic-based – project- and programmatic-based. And we have a portfolio that's pretty extensive there, and I'll just break down a few pieces, and one of the things I will say will conflict with the annuity-based because there is an element of consumables here. Wristbands, patient marking, patient identification will continue to be a growth opportunity for the business, as will labeling technology used in healthcare. So those two will continue to be growth opportunities for the company, but would not likely offset the decline in some of the business forms that have been used in healthcare.

However, having said that, some of the technologies that we're bringing forward now in the -- whether it's patient identification and tracking or communication, the continuation of patient communication, or the informed consent, which is a regulatory need, the profit opportunity there is substantially different than what we see in some of the more traditional print opportunities. So while the company might be smaller, the profit revenue might be smaller, the profit would be different. So that is part of the inflexion discussion that we're working on right now, that portfolio balance where revenue has been a key driver because of the print assets we've historically had. In the future it won't be necessarily that way in every case.

On the marketing solution side, which is very interesting as well, which leverages our secure digital network, that is a print opportunity, and we saw that coming. There is a lot of branding and a lot of marketing opportunity that's taking place within healthcare, which we are very well-positioned to take full advantage of. But I am focused honestly more on the bottom line and cash flow than I am on total revenue because I think the opportunity for us is to be sustainable in what we bring to the market as opposed to the complete revenue view.

Got it. Very good. And then just when you look on the cost side, going to that bottom line discussion, you are ramping the reductions, you've got AlixPartners in there helping you identify areas and move that along aggressively. Do you think there are potentially other savings that you could find over and above what you've been talking about that could help offset some of these more rapid declines?

I'll answer the question by saying this, this is not a process where we look at where we are today and say, how can we take cost out of the current environment? What we're doing is looking forward. Your questions paint a very good picture of that. What do our clients look like, customers look like, two years from now and what are they going to be interested in acquiring from us, working with us, and building towards that environment. So the cost structure will be built toward the future state, not to just remove cost out of an environment that's been built over time. That's the way that I would look at it. So having described it in the way that I did, the process will be continuing as we go through this, and I am very confident that we'll find new efficiencies for the future business.

One key point though is what we want to do and need to do now is future business needs to fit within the new cost structure, and that's going to be a key piece for us going forward so that we don't have to refresh this in the same way that we've built this plan. So yes, I have high expectations that we'll continue to be able to find new ways to be efficient. AlixPartners has been very helpful because they have other perspectives that they work on with companies outside of our industry, quite candidly, that have been I think more helpful than insights from a company like ours.

And I would say that – is it safe to say that with Alix being in there for a little while and helping you identifying some of that stuff, are the divestitures potentially part of that solution as well, just given that you may have some business that just you don't think will be profitable enough or even be profitable, that makes sense to even keep going forward?

Yes, I think we'll look at the shape of the company and what we should emphasize as we go through this process for sure, because it's obvious that emphasizing and concentrating will yield the greatest opportunity for us. That's why marketing services is going very well for us, that's why health technology is moving ahead rapidly. So I think as we go forward, I know as we go forward, we will want to really put our chips, as you might say, on the things that will have the greatest opportunity. Keeping in mind, though, that we have a pension obligation that requires a certain level of cash funding, which is one of the filters that we constantly have to be reminded of as we go forward.

Great, thank you very much, Joe.

Thank you, Charlie

At this time, we're not showing that there are any more questions in the queue. So we thank you very much for joining us today. And we'll turn it back over to Michael.

And thank you ladies and gentleman. This will conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.