corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 30, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Standard Register’s Second Quarter 2010


Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides


for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard


Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Investor Relations


Thank you, Angie. Welcome to the company’s second quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


Joining me are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial


Officer.


Before we start, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking


statements including language concerning future projections. These projections should be


considered in conjunction with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release


as well as the Safe Harbor statement that could be found by accessing the home page of the


Investor Center on the company’s website.


In addition, we will make references to financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally


Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. This information is not meant to be considered in


isolation or as a substitution of GAAP. The use of these measures is meant to enhance our


audience’s understanding of the company’s financial performance.


For today’s call, Joe has some highlights to discuss, which will be followed by Bob’s review of our


financial statements. After Bob’s report, he will open it up for questions that both Joe and him will


answer.


Now let me turn the call over to Joe for his remarks.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thanks for joining us on this investor call. We’re pleased that the foundation we are


building is making progress as evidenced in this first half. From a revenue standpoint, we had a


3.7% decline, which continues to trend favorably, that’s the fifth quarter in a row, where we have


been able to step down our decline. Obviously, our intent ultimately is growth, but we’re moving in


that direction. As we analyze our performance for the first half, it’s very evident that we have areas


that are growing which I’ll talk about in a minute, and then we have the core declining component of


our business, but we have separated those things so that we can in fact take appropriate actions at


the portfolio level.


From a gross margin standpoint, Bob will talk in detail about our MyC3 activities that we’ve talked


about previously, but we continue to work very, very hard there and our gross margin being


maintained at approximately the same percentage is a good indicator of that.


In the quarter, we also spent several million dollars on investments that fall with the SG&A line.


Again, this is to advance the portfolio and continue to build out our technology capabilities. As I


mentioned, MyC3 is on track. Last year we mentioned the range of expectation was between 30


and $40 million of savings once fully implemented. We are seeing that performance within the


business and Bob, as I said, will describe that in more detail.
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 30, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


For the quarter, our earnings were breakeven, which were in line with our internal expectations.


From a capital standpoint we’ve mentioned in the first quarter that we were making a significant


investment in our digital network, upgrading equipment in workflow so that we could take


advantage of the transition that’s taking place in the print space toward a more digital delivery. That


upgrade is now complete in the quarter – the second quarter. And what that is allowing us to do is


to increase our capacity where growth exists, where it matters, which is in the digital space. We’ve


created super regional centers as a result of this, which is enhancing our ability to serve our


customers going forward, but also allowing us to balance our go-to-market effort, which will have


direct sales, but also you’ll see more and more rep capability from Standard Register as we go


forward. And it really is allowing us to additionally optimize our network with no customer impact,


that being negative impact. Thus far this year, we’ve announced three facility closures, we have


actually closed one, the other two will be closed as the year progresses.


Our focus on the markets is enabling us to identify growth, separate growth from the declining


categories and that insight is providing us with significant optimism for the future. I am going to


make a few comments here about each of the markets and again reinforcing that our market focus


is transitioning our company from internal operational focus to everyone in the company moving to


other markets so that we can understand where the trends are and then act upon them. And our


operations are being built so that we can respond quickly.


So from a Commercial standpoint, some key points here. Revenue trends are improving across


Commercial, in the Emerging segment we had 4% growth for the quarter. It’s been a while since we


can state that, that’s a good indication of where the focus is helping us. The Financial segment, as


everyone is aware, with the regulatory environment and many of the changes that are happening


there, is a little unclear. However, we had stabilized the revenue and improved the profit in the


quarter. We did sign 16 new customers through the first half and that continues to ramp. And what’s


also interesting is our portfolio on the print side shifts. Our marketing solutions is taking advantage


of some of the new investments that are taking place in this segment and we had double-digit


growth. Again 4% in Emerging, but one very significant part of the digital communications, digital


print growth is marketing solutions and we’re playing in that space at double-digit growth.


Let’s talk about Healthcare for a minute. We signed – we talked last year about Novation, through


the first half we’ve signed 67 deals, 25 new which is very important and we retained 42 existing


customers. 32% growth in our technology sector, again I mentioned that we have significant growth


parts of every one of our businesses. We tended to talk in the past a lot about the declining forms


business, which is true, but we are now reinvesting some of our dollars in things that are growing


for us. We had 16 new installs in acute care in the Healthcare space.


We also announced yesterday a relationship with Precision Dynamics around patient identification.


This will further enhance our ability to take advantage of that growth opportunity that exists in


healthcare, wristbands and other patient identification and safety opportunities. Industrial is a great


story for us. One of the things that we did through market focus is put ourselves in a position to take


advantage of the economy rebound, but also growth opportunities. As we look at the Industrial


sector the compounded annual growth rate in the labels business is in excess of 4% based on


industry data. Our Q2 revenue grew 19% versus prior year and 25% year-to-date.


We have 11 new customers. In the quarter, as we mentioned, we were going to be giving evidence


of our advancement in our markets. We acquired the assets of Fusion Graphics, previously we had


a partnership with them, we’ve now acquired the business. Why we did that is, we were able to


validate the importance of the intellectual property through customer growth and once that was


done, we were fortunate to be able to strike a deal and close that within the quarter. Since last year,


since we first began talking about In Mold labeling, we have actually now advanced our position


from a small number of customers at a pilot phase to now having 15 customers that have actually


purchased In Mold solutions from us.