Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Merry — Senior Vice President, Fahlgren Mortine
Joseph P. Morgan, Jr. — President and Chief Executive Officer, The Standard Register Co.
Bob Ginnan — Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Senior Managing Director-Sales & Trading, CJS Securities, Inc.
Joseph Folliard Perdue — Investment Adviser, Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC
Barry Wayne Blank — Broker-Dealer Agent, Murphy & Durieu

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Standard Register's Fourth Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Carol Merry. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Crystal. Good morning and welcome to the Standard Register's 2012 fourth quarter conference call. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and CEO and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found in the earnings release that Standard Register issued this morning, on the webcast slides that accompany this presentation by accessing the company website under Investor Center or in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. It is management's belief that the use of these measures will assist our audience's understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitution for GAAP and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will provide a few opening comments that will be followed by Bob's review of the financials for the quarter and the year. Joe will then discuss the company's strategy and direction. Following his comments, we will open up the call for your questions.

And now I'll turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments.

Thanks Carol. Good morning and thank you all for joining us today. I'm going to make some comments, as Carol said, about the performance of the company for the year. I'll draw some threats and themes throughout. Bob will talk about the financials of the business giving more clarity, and then I'll conclude with some comments that will bring it together.

During and throughout 2012, our company implemented a strategic restructuring program that we announced last January, intended to reduce cost and allow us to better align resources to support the growth solutions for the future of our company.

With this program, we made significant changes to our go-to-market model in terms of how we sell, focusing on the right field resources in the right market segments along with leveraging online selling as well as strengthening our marketing organization. We segmented companies – excuse me, customers additionally and all of these actions supported our evolution from a product focused company to a market focused innovator.

I'm happy to say that even though revenue declined, which I'll talk about more in a few moments, there were significant positive performance points in the quarter and throughout last year. As the direct result of the restructuring measures, as well as the growing success of our technology-oriented solutions, we saw our financial performance improving throughout 2012.

First point I'd like to make is regarding cash flow. We told our investors that there would be positive cash flow in 2012 of at least $2 million. We over-performed on this objective and even after funding the qualified pension plan $2 million more than required to get a head start on 2013, we ended the year with positive cash flow of $8.2 million, giving us confidence for the future.

Operating profit is another area where we saw continued improvement, while operating profit is being affected by unit declines in printed transactional product revenue, an overall industry issue, growth in certain of our higher margin technology solutions and savings from the aforementioned restructuring program is having a positive impact on our operating income, again, giving us confidence.

Our management focused on operating profit as a driver of shareholder value is where we spend a vast majority of our time. Our objective is continually improving operating profit driven through investments and growth in sales of our newer solutions.

As we move into 2013, operating profit is at the top of our priority list. I'd also like to highlight an important achievement that we worked on during the year and recently finalized, which again confirms the emphasis that we placed several years ago on market focus. It was an outcome of our 2011 acquisition of Dialog Medical and its powerful application called iMedConsent, which provides a standardized approach for engaging and informing patients about medical procedures.

This is a very content focused solution. We've been very, very pleased with the performance of that acquisition and subsequent innovations that continued to provide us with the path forward toward future solutions in our Healthcare business unit. We announced last week that iMedConsent has achieved a place on the shortlist of certified applications for complying with Electronic Health Record program.

This is significant to our Healthcare business. We expect the certification to provide additional revenue, as well as, opening new customer doors in an area where Standard Register Healthcare is one of the acknowledged leaders. It also exemplifies the strategy that we are pursuing in healthcare.

As early as the 1940's, Standard Register was showing hospitals how to reduce and simplify paper work. This is our 21st Century equivalent and has great value for hospitals struggling to comply with the first level of EHR requirements as they plan for the future.

We will be showing this and other solutions at the HIMSS show which is largest healthcare information management or technology show in New Orleans in a couple of weeks, and we're very excited about that. We also have an advisory council that we rely on strategically that has healthcare experts from across the span of the industry, giving us insight in terms of our future product roadmaps.

Before we turn the call over to Bob for his analysis of the financials for the quarter and the year, I want to address the issue of the decline in our revenue. We've been reporting throughout 2012 that our revenue was being impacted by the reduction in a portion of our business with a very large financial services customer. For the 12-month period $24 million of the $46 million decline in revenue was attributable to that one customer.

Our core solutions, those that will provide future growth for the company grew in the quarter without the effect of the reduction in business from that financial services customer. I hasten to add that the company continues to be a significant customer of ours, and we are leveraging our solution innovations within that relationship. While the dimensions of the relationship will change, we fully expect to have a strong go forward, on a plan in joint concert with them.

One of our strengths as a company is the long-standing relationships with many of our largest hospitals and industrial companies. Our customers continue to rely on Standard Register and we're just transitioning what they rely on us for. I'll have more to say about where we're going in 2013 after Bob makes his comments on the financial position of the company. Bob?

Thank you, Joe. Well, revenue came in at $143.6 million versus $161.4 million which was the revenue situation that Joe described. So I'll move on to the gross margin here as he has gone through the revenue for us.

Margin actually improved in the quarter at 30.4% versus 29.6% last year. And we saw a significant improvement in our SG&A, as a result of our efforts throughout the year with our restructuring at 36.3% versus 45.3%. This left us at operating profit of $7.3 million versus $2.5 million last year on significantly less revenue, so quite an improvement in our operating profit margins there.

Pension, amortization and settlements, 6.1% consistent with last year, last year we did book the restructuring in the fourth quarter. leaving us at this year at a $400,000 loss compared to a $9.5 million loss in the same quarter last year. As you recall, last year, we also booked the deferred tax valuation allowance leaving us last year at a loss of $95 million versus a virtual breakeven this year in the fourth quarter.

For the year, again margins at 30% versus 30.6%. We saw the improvement in the fourth quarter, but still slightly behind last year, however, on $46 million less revenue. SG&A came in at $157.6 million versus $182.6 million last year. Last year, while the effects of the post retirement termination are out of that SG&A number, there still was $3.3 million of favorable amortization in the number leaving us at $22.8 million operating profit versus $15.6 million last year, so quite an improvement on operating profit given the lower revenue base. On a bottom line basis, you'll see a loss of $9.1 million which is a combination of pension amortization and the additional restructuring in the year.

Turning to the business units, for the quarter pretty consistent across both business units $52.5 million in Healthcare versus $91 million Business Solutions for a total of $143.6 million, about the same decline and really continued the story that Joe described there.

On a margin basis, you'll see improvement in both businesses, 34.5% versus 33.7% in Healthcare, and 28% versus 27.2% in Business Solutions. And then, also the other important thing about the quarter is we saw operating profit in both businesses as well as for the year. So, nice performance on both businesses from an operating profit perspective.

Moving to the balance sheet, probably the big thing I want to point out in the balance sheet is in the pension liability. In 2012, we continue to see declines in the long-term interest rates. Our overall rates that we use to value the net present value of our liability went from 4.25% to 3.65% resulting in another pretty significant increase in the liability, about $16 million over where we were last year at this time, so continued declines there had impacted the liability. But overall, we saw improvements in our working capital, helping to driven the positive cash flow for the year and pretty consistent on the balance sheet other than the change in the pension liability.

On cash flow side, it shows that we're $8.2 million positive cash flow. One of the things we did in the quarter was we actually accelerated our pension funding, contributing $2 million more than required to help us in 2013 as well, so quite a strong cash flow performance for the year. We spent $6 million in capital and spent $8.6 million on our restructuring efforts leaving us at the $8.2 million.

So in summary, the positive cash flow for the year was extremely important at $8.2 million, actually if you look over the last two years and take out our acquisitions, we've actually been positive on a cumulative basis over the last two years. We're seeing the positive results from the restructuring, the expenses are being controlled, we can see that in the SG&A and the operating profit and more ahead of the plan on the pension because we're confident in our cash flow and that's enabled us to get a jump on the pension as well.

So that's the financial summary. And Joe, I will turn it back to you.

Thanks Bob. In 2013, we've been able to sharpen our focus based on what we learned in 2012. Being very bold in our restructuring approach, our investments are focused on the customer and we will drive the long-term efficiency in our operations and be compliant given that that is very important in the markets that we serve.

By tracking the customer's researching trends and relying on our experience and the expertise that we've developed in the markets and industries that we're focused on, we validated a few very important trends. Companies are going more digital and looking for partners who can help them figure out what they need to do to be successful with digital communication and delivery. It's not about print anymore that is a component of the discussion, but it's about digitalization of the business.

The EHR acceleration is great evidence of that. The transition to digital is not coming soon, it's here, it's a reality and I should point out that print is digital too. If you remember actually two years ago in our investor call, we talked about the digital print investments that we were marking, smart move on our part, it's really helped particularly in our digital publishing solutions in support of our customers.

Companies know they need to communicate across multiple channels and maintain the integrity of their core messages. More communications that were previously printed are being presented and transacted online particularly in financial services we see that with the [ph] presentment (13:36),

Another example is the dramatic decline in printed materials since the introduction of tablets about two years ago. Companies are more concerned than ever with efficiency and that applies to enterprise work flow management as well as individual communications. Related to that last point, the analytics are growing in importance both from the perspective of determining the proper communication channels per audience and in analyzing the effectiveness of communication campaigns whether to patients, customers or partners.

This is a very important emphasis of our company as measuring the effectiveness of the solutions that we bring to our clients and how they utilize them. Our restructuring and transformation efforts are contributing to position Standard Register perfectly to address our customers' objectives in the aforementioned areas.

In 2012 we signed more contracts that are relevant to our strategy than for the transactional document production. But they were smaller than the large enterprise print contracts of prior years. Tie that back to my comment about operating profit. This is a trend that we expect to continue, however we see margin improvement in many of these new areas.

We moved to a demand-based strategy focusing our energy on areas where our customers need help and where they're concentrating their spending. Our current portfolio has been defined by the evolution of our solutions. They are older solutions that are still valuable as well as newer solutions that are contributing to growth. I'll also point out that many of our older solutions have intellectual property tied into them around security and how we performs for our clients, which will continue to have value going forward.

We are evolving in our approach to our portfolio, looking across solution lifecycles instead of only weather the solutions falls into a broad category of Legacy or Core. We will be better able to identify customer end market trends and then proactively address them. We believe this will lower the risk, as well as increase opportunities for our company. One evidence of that is, some of the channel relationships that we're beginning to evolve that I hope to speak to you about in the future – on future calls.

We still have challenges, our qualified pension plan obligation, which I imagine, that will be a question about marketing our contemporary portfolio to change some customers appreciation for our scope and complying with the New York Stock Exchange requirements for continued listing. We filed, as you know, a preliminary proxy statement earlier this week announcing that we will ask our shareholders to approve a reverse split at the upcoming Annual Meeting in April. Our Board and Management believes that maintaining listing on the NYSE will provide Standard Register with a market for its common stock that is more accessible if the company's common stock were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.

Our key priorities for 2013 are on incorporating digital delivery solutions into our portfolio mix, bringing to new customers innovative ideas that we are commercializing, sharpening our emphasis on work flow, communications, and the analytics, as well as on controlling costs and continuous improvement in operating profit, driven by those same solution sales. As I noted earlier, with the overall objective of being a sustainable business as we have been for the past 100 years.

And maybe just to point out a few final things to summarize the call today, as noted on this slide, key ratio is the measure of financial health of a company who have very strong credit and ability to borrow, is adequate to our operating needs, positive cash flow of $8.2 million even after funding $2 million of 2013 pension obligation, the operating profit of the business is improving.

Contracts were signed and pipeline is strong for the future. Restructuring efforts are contributing positively and continue on and we're continuing to validate our strategy with market trends and customer behavior. We made a lot of progress in 2012. We feel more confident than ever of the value we bring to our customers. We are better equipped to show them how we can create value for them and we are well positioned to continue to increase that value with the new solutions and capabilities that we're investing in. Our whole company is focused on success for 2013 and looking forward to that very much.

Now we'll be happy to answer any questions, Bob and I.

[Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer at CJS Securities.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, Charlie.

Hi, Charlie.

If we could just talk a second about the comments about the listing and the reverse split. Assuming the reverse split is approved and moves forward, would you then be kind of in line with what the NYSE requires post that split?

Well, there is two listing, continued listing requirements that we're dealing with, Charlie. And the first one is the less than dollar standard. And, yes, we would absolutely be in compliance with that at that point. The second standard which was the 18 month plan is the minimum market cap and of course, just the math of a reverse stock split won't necessarily change the total market cap, so we're still working towards that plan.

Got it. Okay. Thank you very much on that. And Joe, if you can talk a little bit more broadly on the business and obviously, some of the Core growth products are performing as you'd probably hope and obviously the Legacy stuff is still falling off. Are you seeing the inflection point yet at all in the future? Obviously, we're not close to it yet, but does it feel like we're getting closer to that inflection point where the kind of the growth avenues are starting to kind of take more of the share to the point where they can start offsetting the declines within Legacy?

That is the key question and thanks for raising it. I would say that as you look at the business now, if you piece together some of the things that I've said, by segmenting the business the way we have, we can start to see more clearly that we are stabilizing in the areas where those Core products are being sold. So the inflection point – we could see where that horizon point would be. I'm not ready to say exactly when that will happen. But yes, we're becoming more confident in terms of when that will occur.

The other thing that is subtle but important here is that as we looked at the document management business or the Legacy business, the size of those contracts has certainly been very, very large and Standard Register's position specifically in financial services has often found us with some very large customers. While we never want to lose a customer like we did or lose business to the degree that we did and noted earlier in the call.

And we started to operate the business not depending upon those larger customers to that same magnitude. And so, therefore, as we plan for the future, our confidence and ability to report that the inflection point is coming, that we can see growth on the horizon gets clearer for us. So it's a little bit of stay tuned, but our confidence is definitely building in the area that you described.

And, Joe, when you look at the overall portfolio, and when you talk to your customers, especially kind of in hindsight when you bid on jobs or bid on contracts that maybe you hadn't won. Are there pieces of the portfolio that are still missing that you think are necessary to kind of get you closer to that inflection point?

Yes, it's interesting, in the print side, which often finds its ways into those contracts. So, we do have print-related solutions that are part of the Core going forward.

Generally, we have everything we need, that's not an issue. What's interesting is that the opportunities in many of the core areas are not RFP-able if that's a word. Because our customers don't actually know in many cases, how to digitize their business and they're asking us to help them operationally with the Core – the components of our company.

So, we are leveraging partnerships and channels very often to bring in the components that we don't have, and then building an analytics engine on the back-end to validate that the solution is in fact achieving its objective. I actually, feel more confident that we can access and integrate the appropriate solutions in the Core than sometimes I've felt in the traditional side, which sometimes size matters more than whether you can print the product or not.

Got it. And shifting to the balance sheet and the cash flows and when you look at this year, obviously last year you had a better than expected year of cash flows, it looks like you've paid down a little bit of debt, as well as, a little bit more on the pension funding side. This coming year you've got a little bit of a step up in the pension funding, are you confident in your abilities to fund those needs with the cash flows you're expecting from this year?

Yeah, Charlie, I think that the work we did this year through the changing of the business structure, driving the cash flow this year and then going into next year. As you've pointed out, it's a fairly slight increase in the pension funding. We were able to accomplish that this year with positive cash flow. So, yeah, we feel pretty good going into 2013 from a cash flow perspective.

And then beyond the pension funding in CapEx obviously, what do you expect to use part of – use your excess free cash flow, if there is any for? Is it more for continued debt pay down?

Charlie, could you say that last thing, again, I heard most of what you said, but the last point I didn't hear.

Just basically if you have excess free cash flow this year, above and beyond CapEx and pension funding. What's kind of the primary use of that excess free cash, if you had that?

We have a very robust governance process in the company as we evaluate where we want to spend our money. And so we have, like all companies, the affordability question. So we know what priorities we can invest in. But as we have success in certain areas or free cash flow that wasn't expected, we bring up the next couple of things that we would invest in, many of which are not maintenance, they are focused on customer advancement.

For example, our SMARTworks platform, we are releasing a new release today, actually. So we continue to invest in that platform. Our new President in the Healthcare business John King coming from the healthcare software and services area has really refined and continued to progress that strategy. So there are many new things that are coming out of that business. And one thing I can tell you for sure is every time we go to HIMSS, which is the healthcare software and services show. We absolutely learn new things that we would want to be able to invest in.

The one area that I would suggest though that's very important for our business, if you look at traditional printing, a lot of times people talk about how much do you outsource to other providers, subcontracting. In the software and services area and I'm sure you're familiar with this, there are a lot of partners and so the integration amongst those partners is very important. So our excess cash going forward in many cases will be spent on new partner integrations that will help advance the solutions we have for the company.

Excellent. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Joe Perdue at Wells Fargo.

Yes. Good morning, Joe and Bob.

Hi, Joe.

Hi, Joe.

How much time is left to get back I think on the report I read, I think you need a $50 million market cap and you are somewhere around $17 million now the reverse split will take care of the dollar, you said you have 18 months. Are we already are six months into that 18 months?

Yes.

Yeah

So we – yeah, we have – it will go to our reporting in late October.

Okay. So basically the stock would either have to triple after the reverse split or are you thinking that if you can show progress maybe you can do it secondary, or you'd have to issue more shares to try to get back up to that $50 million – it would have to obviously be on positive news whilst the market would be reluctant to add additional money to Standard Register, but is there a thought or maybe a secondary if you really start showing a turnaround?

Well I don't think issuing more shares will raise the overall net market cap, not just based on a market cap issue. It really comes down to the performance of the company in the strategic direction.

Okay. Every year I look at the cost savings that – this has gone on for like two or three years now and obviously we're all glad you're doing cost savings. And it looks like 2013 you've already realized $40 million in cost savings from 2012. You're trying to get up to $60 million in 2013 which leads me to believe that there could be another $20 million in the annual cost savings.

And I always seem to be wrong on this and I don't know if I'm looking at it differently from other companies. But, if you came in with a loss of $0.31 for 2012 and you realize another $20 million in cost savings for 2013, which would equate to $0.68 per share. If the revenue decline could stop, are my numbers correct that there could – like if everything stayed the way it was in 2012 and the different divisions did not decline which is what we're hoping for, could there be profitability of $0.37. I'm just taking the $0.68 savings from cost savings minus the $0.31 you lost.

Am I doing that wrong again or – this is what I was looking for years ago, like dramatic earnings of well over $1 and it just didn't happen, I guess because of the business declining, the Core business – the Legacy business declining. If all are staying I mean, does this equate to profitability?

I think you had a lot of things in there, so let me make sure I address them here.

Got it. Certainly it's loaded, I mean...

Yeah.

I'm just trying to make sure I'm looking at things correctly, although we don't know what the revenue number is going to be?

I think the first comment is you're absolutely right on the revenue that that is the key to ultimately seeing the $60 million. But I would say that your math is correct, that we still expect to continue to improve here, and obviously get to profitability. Now there is other factors outside of the operating profit here, for example, the pension amortization, that is subject to change and it will go up a little bit in 2013 as well. So there are some other factors there. I think the other piece of it is that given the deferred tax valuation allowance that has an impact on EPS as well. But, overall, yes, we're looking at continued improvement here.

Okay. Good. You've been talking about strong Healthcare business. I think there was new software that was coming in mobile solutions, and there was still an 8.8% revenue decline. Can you touch on what the chances of Healthcare and other segments actually showing revenue increases? I mean, is that realistic or are you just in a declining revenue world?

Well, I'll take that one. I think that, what's most interesting about our business today, let's isolate Healthcare. We know what the impact of EHR is on traditional printing. We can very accurately forecast what that looks like. We're not going to state that publicly, but that's how we run the business.

So as we look at that, we also have the same way of viewing our software and services portfolio, which we bifurcated last year in terms of the organization. We separated how we look at the tradition forms from how we look at the newer software and services. The growth on the software and services was substantial. The decline on the traditional print was also substantial, so when you add them together, you get to the minus 8% or so that you mentioned.

What will happen eventually and we have fairly keen insight into this is when the business forms or the clinical forms will – I don't want to use the term bottom out, but where it will reach a point where the decline will slow substantially. That is the moment when the other growth will actually overcome that decline and we'll have the opportunity for growth. We as a leadership team and a management team are working towards that objective and that's how our investments are being made. We're not ready to share that on a public level yet, but we're able to manage the business effectively with variable cost management, et cetera, and the restructuring to get us where we need to be.

Okay. I know there was a talk, I think we were hoping maybe a year or two ago that by the end of 2012 you would be 50-50 Core and Legacy.

Right.

Is there any comment on that by the end of 2013? Is that still a goal to be 50% Core by the end of 2013?

I think it's the goal, yeah. I would say that, that's a good way to describe it, yes.

Okay. And then I've had trouble following the family trust, I know they've been – obviously they've been there longer than anybody and they own 50-plus-percent of the stock. Does it still appear that they've held through this major downturn and dividend cut?

We're not aware of any...

Yeah, I can't really speak for them and I don't have insight in terms of...

Yeah, I have one more question. Obviously somebody sold to knock it down from $3.5 to $0.56, but I just didn't see that they did. So it looks like they might be hanging through. Now do you have any cash projections for 2013 – excuse me, cash flow?

We'll have positive cash flow for 2013. That's our objective. We haven't spiked the number yet – excuse me, targeted the number yet.

And the other thing I'm not sure, I ever asked either one of you is can you move more of the fixed side of your pension to equity? Or is there some blend where you are not allowed to do that? Is there any way to change the underlying setup of your pension account, so that these endlessly low interest rates that only seem to go lower won't be such a problem for you?

Well I think, I heard two separate questions in there, and I heard in terms of the asset performance, can we move more of its equity to increase the return. And, I think the answer to that is yes, we can do that. I also would say historically, we've been at the higher range of equity versus other forms of investments. When you look at all pension funds in aggregate, we're generally at the higher end to driver better returns.

I am sorry, why the equity performance that's obviously doubled in the last three or four years? Why that hasn't lowered the fixed income side of the liability? Like you would think that you are making money on the equity side, am I looking at that incorrectly?

Well I think what's happened is the asset is actually over the last few year, it has actually performed very well, in fact in this past year, it has performed extremely well. But the problem is on the liability side which is where the interest rate comes into a decline in the interest rate given the liability has such a dramatic impact on the net of the two versus increases in the asset that that's what you continue to see happen. So the reality is, we could have three years of 10% return on the equity side, but a 50 basis point decline in the interest rate is going to [ph] eat all (34:25) that away. So it's really the two sides of the story here.

Okay. All right. Thank you both very much.

Thanks, John.

Thank you, John.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Barry Blank with Murphy & Durieu.

Good morning. Joe, I have a question for you on the reverse split. If 85% or more of all reverse splits, usually the stock will decline in value. I mean, I don't know what the reverse split will be, let's say it's one for three. Initially the first trade would be three times $0.56 which are trading, but it seem – well, the 85% of the time that drops afterward, which will hurt you more in getting you a $50 million market cap.

Yes, it will take care of the dollar price immediately and that may not in the long run, because as they say stock – usually it ends up going down. Don't you think it would be better to defer the reverse split and try and get the stock value up at a later point in time, possibly think about it when the company is having earnings and can sustain the price based on a P/E basis?

Barry, thank you for participating today and your question. I would say this that the Board and the management team look at the circumstances of business that we face today very seriously. And we understand what you just described, that's information that obviously is considered. But we believe, all things being considered, that it's in the best interest of the shareholders, as I said, for us to stay on the NYSE. And in order for us to do that with confidence, we have to maintain compliance now and this is a way to do that.

We also have confidence which I think we've conveyed throughout this call that in the operations of the business, which will hopefully continue to help us improve. But I will also say and take this in the spirit it's intended that there is 15% that don't experience what you described. And we hope and believe that it's very possible that Standard Register may in fact be within that category. I understand exactly what you're saying, but time is of the essence for us and we must do what we believe is appropriate given all factors.

What ratio of reverse split are you proposing?

We have not made that determination as yet, but we will be communicating that obviously when we have.

And then last question, I've got it, okay let's say, you do this reverse split, what assurances do you have at the exchange that they would maybe even extend your time past the 18 months because it's highly unlikely even if we stayed at the same price with the 31 million shares outstanding in the stock trading at the present time at $0.56. It's working about stock having to triple in the next 12 months, which is a major thing for any company to triple their stock price in that particular period of time. Do you think that they will give you an additional 18 months or 12 months to reach that level?

We don't know. I mean, I think it will be speculation if I even commented on that, but I'll say that we'll obviously learn more details over the coming months. And as we do get an insight of it, I'll be in a better position to answer the question, but right now it will be pure speculation.

Okay. Well, thank you.

Thank you, Barry.

There are no further questions at this time. I'll now like to turn the call back over to Carol Merry for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining us today. And we look forward to talking to you next quarter. This will end our call.

This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.