corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year


2008 Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation


slides for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard


Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Bob Cestelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go


ahead.


Robert J. Cestelli, Vice President – Investor Relations


Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2008 earnings conference call.


Joining me are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer and Craig Brown, Chief


Financial Officer.


Please let me remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including


language concerning future projections. These projections should be considered in conjunction with


the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release, as well as the Safe Harbor


statement that can be found by accessing the homepage of the Investor Center on the company’s


website.


Joe has a few opening comments regarding the quarter and the year followed by a review of some


key issues for the company. This will be followed by Craig’s review of our financials. We will then


address your questions.


Now let me turn the call over to Joe.


Joseph P. Morgan Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you for joining us today. A few things, just in terms of the structure what I’m going to say,


make a brief comment as Bob said about ‘08. I’m going to talk briefly about the strategy focus and


update on activities that we’ve been driving here in the company and then thirdly, talk about some


very specific things that are referenced in our earnings release that came out this morning


regarding some Board actions that took place.


In regards to 2008 financials, in Q4 we began the process of our strategic transformation for the


company. And we are pretty satisfied with the progress we’ve made around costs and alignment


within the organization. You can see that our profit, net profit versus 2007 in the same period was


positive. And I would say, as we approached this challenging economic time, we really held our


own and we did a lot of things differently in the company not just cost cutting, but managing a


transition of our business from a very product-focused organization to a more market-focused


organization. So we began that process and executed quite well. And the actions that we took


helped us take more of a preemptive approach to the business.


As we look at the total year, we’re not satisfied with the revenue situation. In fact, that’s our central


focus now that we’ve changed our strategic focus to more market orientation. It was down 8.6%,


which you can see the cost management activities that started in ‘07 and continued through ‘08


served as well. We had a positive net profit of $6.8 million versus a loss of 7.6 million in the prior


year.


Our cash flow remains strong at 61 – approximately $61 million. That is an emphasis of our


organization. Our leadership team focuses very much on cash management and that theme will
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


flow through the next few comments that I make. And we believe as we left ‘08 and now into the


probably midpoint of the first quarter of ‘09, our cost management approach and focus on cash is


having the desired impact on the company.


So as we talk about strategy, when I first spoke to you, I was made Chief Operating Officer of the


company back in April of ‘08 and shortly thereafter established a strategic framework for the


company, the premise of that strategic work was that we have vertical markets that we have


tremendous expertise in that we’ve generated over the years and that we have knowledge about


very specific solutions that support those markets. We also have an insight in terms of the overall


industry.


And when we bring those three elements together, we felt confident that by focusing on the vertical


markets and the solutions that support those, we would ultimately lead to growth in revenue and


earnings. That was the premise that we went into our strategic planning process with and we came


out of that with a – three business units that we focused on. One would be healthcare, one is


industrial products and the third is our commercial business, which is dominated by financial but


has many other customers that we do business with in various smaller market segments.


We put a plan together which we call the five points of change, which ranged from an


organizational transformation. We changed our go-to-market strategy again lining up underneath


the vertical markets, a very specific and aggressive cost reduction plan which we’re proud to say


the things that we put into our cost reduction plan which we had announced last year of


approximately $30 million, those things are moving forward aggressively and we feel on track as


planned. We put in place the CapEx, capital expenditure governance process, where we’re really


managing our cash expenditure very tightly in this very challenging time. But as importantly to be


prepared as we go through our strategy process that we’re going to identify areas that will require


more precise investment and we want to be in a position to do that, put flexibility into our model.


And then finally, around metrics and measurement, to be in a place where we’re far more predictive


to see how things are changing in our business, so that we cannot be in a reactive mode, but


actually be proactive in how we address those changing activities or actions in our markets. So we


put a plan together and we’re in the execution mode. Honestly, we had planned to complete this


transformation in the – by the end of the first quarter and we’re actually pretty much done with that


transformation at this point. Our measurement systems are in place, our organization is in place,


and the new model, our go-to-market transformation is in place, and as I mentioned the cost


reduction activities that we had taken in ‘09 have not completely been achieved because, of course,


they take place throughout the year, but they’re on track and we’re moving.


When we take into consideration all the hard work that our company has done over the last few


quarters around strategy, we look at the economic condition and then some unique conditions of


our business. We’ve had several Board discussions to take that into consideration and yesterday


we had our Board Meeting. And we talked about the condition of the business, the condition of the


economy, and made some decisions that I think will be more clearly understood as Craig goes


through his part of the presentation here.


The first thing we discussed was we are in fact embarking on a new strategic focus for the


company. But the good news is that it’s not – we’re not changing to a completely different direction.


What we’re doing is aggregating our expertise and capabilities in a more focused way that we


believe once done will yield, as I said, a higher potential for growth revenue and the related


earnings.


Our cost management actions are serving as well, but we must have prudent cost management at


this time. We have a pension plan obligation that we face. We have potential new strategic


investments that will come from our strategic work and the changes that we’re making. And we also


have this very uncertain economic time. So when we take all of those things into consideration,