raw transcript


Standard Register Com
 
SR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Standard Register’s Fourth Quarter and


Year-end Earnings Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. As a reminder, the


presentation slides for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Information


section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregiser.com/investorcenter. Before, we


begin, a spokesperson for Standard Register, who will read a brief statement. Please go ahead sir.


Company Representative


This call includes forward-looking statements covered by the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Because such statements deal with future events, they are subject to various risks


and uncertainties and actual results for fiscal year 2005 and beyond could differ materially from the


Company's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as


"anticipates," "projects," "expects," "plans," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "targets," and other


similar expressions that indicate trends and future events.


Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those expressed in


forward-looking statements include, without limitation, variation in demand and acceptance of the


Company's products and services, the frequency, magnitude and timing of paper and other raw-


material-price changes, general business and economic conditions beyond the Company's control,


timing of the completion and integration of acquisitions, the consequences of competitive factors in


the marketplace, cost-containment strategies, and the Company's success in attracting and


retaining key personnel. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results


to differ materially from those projected is contained in the Company's filing with the Securities and


Exchange Commission, including its report on Form 10-K. The Company undertakes no obligation


to revise or update forward-looking statements as a result of new information since these


statements may no longer be accurate or timely.


Operator: And thank you sir. We will now turn the conference over to Mr. Dennis Rediker,


President and Chief Executive Officer of Standard Register. Mr. Rediker, please go ahead.


Dennis Rediker, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Okay, thank you. And welcome to the fourth quarter and year-end conference call. Craig Brown,


Chief Financial Officer and Bob Cestelli, Associated Vice President of Investor Relations are here


with me. As usual, I will have the few observations and comments, Craig will go over the financials


and then we will answer your questions.


I would like to highlight the fourth quarter, since I believe, it represents the trajectory and the


foundation for 2005 and then beyond. I want to clear one significant factor that occurred in the


quarter and that was the gain on the sale of our equipment business to Pitney Bowes. The gain


was equivalent to 45 cents a share and the company has reported this as a discontinued


operations.


Setting aside that gain, the company’s performance on continued operations generally met our


expectations as the changes we have been making over recent months and years has began


taking effect. Revenue was up 7% and the company reported positive earnings. Although,


revenue was helped by an extra week in November, it actually had a little impact on profit since


November has holidays and we continued in that week with our normal SG&A type expenses.


Adjusting those for the extra week, we did show that we continued the stable revenue pattern that
raw transcript


Standard Register Com
 
SR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


we have established over the preceding five quarters. More significant though, is the fact that


excluding restructuring and asset impairment charges, profitability on continued operations


improved in each successive quarter for 2004 due to our lower cost structure. However, gross


margins were a little lower in the fourth quarter of ’04, compared with ’03 and that’s driven primarily


as a result of the experience we had in ’04 with increased paper costs that have not yet been


recovered in our prices and that’s due to delays that are introduced in the system caused by


contract terms and inventory consumptions. However, we are making progress on passing the


paper cost through.


A couple of business units also made good progress in ‘04. I would like to highlight those.


InSystems business unit moved into positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter due to improved revenue


and significant cost reductions taken earlier in the year. Also, we have made very good progress in


our fulfillment services business unit. They showed an improvement in the operational


performance in each successive quarter of the year. During 2004, we combined Stanfast, but we


call Stanfast facilities and our fulfillment facilities into one unit and we name the business print-on-


demand services to better reflect its overall mission.


Now, taking a look at 2005, we will continue our focus on developing our position as an enterprise


document management and print supply chain services company. Our main lines of business are


the document and label solutions, where we do expect gain shares through competitive products,


our aggressive cost reduction and more increased or intensified marketing support. And, the other


line is our POD services, which is showing improved profit and has major growth potential as the


market is expanding. Supporting those and in addition to those, we are expanding our offering that


complement our main lines of business. For example, our commercial print exchange, our


PathForward consulting business, our contract print services and our Design On Demand and other


customer-oriented applications that they are software enabled. This portfolio products and


document related services is unique and is the basis for repositioning Standard Register in the


market to grow the business, as well as, capture significant share of the large POD and document


management services business. We are also making steady progress and pushing through the


pilot stages on our digital pen and paper, emerging technology that is in early stages of adopt and


class of wide range of applications.


And finally, we continue to execute our plan to increase revenue and EBITDA at InSystems, as they


work with their customers and lower cost structure.


One final word on the financial perspective, which Craig will give you a lot more details on. We as


usual continue to have a very strong balance sheet with low debt, good cash flow and you’ll hear


more about that.


Just a couple of points relative to outlook. We believe that our revenue in the first quarter will be a


little lower than it was in the recent fourth quarter due to seasonality and, of course, there was the


extra week in the fourth quarter. However, because of our focus on mainlines of business, our


sales and marketing intensity and effort, we do anticipate that revenue for the year will show


modest growth over 2004 when compared to a normal 52-week basis. And, as we indicated in July


2004, we are well on the road to achieving our 5% cost and expense ratio improvement and the


pre-tax offering and profit as a percent of revenue for the second half of ’05 compared to the first


half of ’04.


Now, that concludes my remarks, as far as, the opening. I’ll turn it over Craig for him to give you


more details on the financial and then we’ll go back to questions.