raw transcript


Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Luan [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Standard Register Second Quarter 2005 Results


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and answer-period. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


The spokesperson for the company will now read the Safe Harbor statement.


Company Representative


This report includes forward-looking statements covered by the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Because such statements deal with future events, they are subject to various risks


and uncertainties and actual results for fiscal year 2005 and beyond could differ materially from the


Company's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as


"anticipates," "projects," "expects," "plans," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "targets," and other


similar expressions that indicate trends and future events. Factors that could cause the Company's


results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements include, without


limitation, variation in demand and acceptance of the Company's products and services, the


frequency, magnitude and timing of paper and other raw material price changes, general business


and economic conditions beyond the Company's control, timing of the completion and integration of


acquisitions, the consequences of competitive factors in the marketplace, cost-containment


strategies, and the Company's success in attracting and retaining key personnel. Additional


information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those


projected is contained in the Company's filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission


including its report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2005. The Company undertakes


no obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements as a result of new information since


these statements may no longer be accurate or timely.


<Operator:>


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Dennis Rediker, CEO.


Dennis L. Rediker, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you and welcome to our second quarter conference call. With me today again are Craig


Brown, Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Cestelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. I will make a


few comments about the quarter; then Craig will go over the financials before we get to the


questions.


First of all, we will talk about the results of operations. In the second quarter, revenue increase for


the second quarter was overall growth of 2% over the second quarter of last year. Gross margins,


however, were little weaker due to continued price pressure as well as the 2004, 2005 paper price


increases. We have made good progress from recovering these cost increases and full recovery


does remain a high priority for us.


Expenses continue to fall as a result of our cost reduction action. Pre-tax income from continuing


operation shows significant improvement with 0.4 million in the quarter versus a loss of 6.3 million


last year. This is a third quarter – consecutive quarter of positive pre-tax profit driven by our cost


reduction and top line growth. We recorded a restructuring charge and had a State of Ohio tax


adjustment due to the new tax legislation, which did negatively affect net profit. Craig will provide


more detail on the financial reports.
raw transcript


Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We also demonstrated solid performance improvement on a year-to-date basis with revenue up


3.7% and pre-tax income of 4.3 million versus a loss of 17.4 million for the comparable first half.


From a business unit perspective, the core document and label business had modest growth in the


quarter and is holding its own. Print-on-Demand is down slightly and we will be increasing our


investment in this business in order to capitalize on the double-digit market growth opportunities.


InSystems reversed its revenue fall with overall growth attributed to higher software license fee


revenue. The majority of restructuring charges recorded in the quarter were result of further


reductions in staff and lease office space at InSystems.


Our new business initiatives and commercial print although small did have a solid revenue growth.


And while gross margins in this business are a little lower than our average, we have no fixed


assets and they did provide a positive contribution margin. The ExpeData digital pen and paper


group continued to work through pilots with a number of prospects. They were successful in


obtaining their license agreement with our international associates in Australia who will host the


digital writing ASP, that’s application service provider systems, and print-to-pattern paper


documents.


We are continuing to work with various other customers and channel partners as well as other


associates on a worldwide basis.


Now turning a little bit to cash here. Company maintained its strong financial position and as a


result net debt improved over $40 million compared to this time last year. Good asset management


generated positive cash flow of approximately 10 million in the quarter after restructuring, pension


funding, as voluntary pension funding, capital expenditure, and dividend payments.


Now we’ll turn a little bit to forward looking. We continue to believe that we have modest revenue


growth on a full-year 52 week basis. As you recall, we had 53 weeks in 2004; only 52 weeks this


year. We estimated the actual week in 2004 added about 17 million to revenue. In addition, we


believe, as we previously stated, that we expect to achieve a 5-point improvement in our operating


earnings before restructuring and impairment as a percent of revenue for the second half of 2005


compared to the first half of 2004. Since the first half of this year, we have shown an increase or a


gain of 3.8 percentage points. However, we have elected to accelerate our investment in talent and


technology and growing business segments such as Print-on-Demand in order to achieve a long-


term profitable growth. In addition, we continue – we plan to continue investing in our Digital Pen


and Paper offering, although the adoption rate there is a little slower than originally expected.


These investments will result in uptick in capital expenditure and SG&A expenses in the second


half of this year versus the first-half run-rate. And our current outlook indicates that we may fall


short of our 5-percentage point goal. However, we will continue to strive for the 5-percentage point


profit improvement, but this goal must be secondary to achieving our long-term plan.


Now that will be end of my comments and I will turn it over to Craig for more information on the


financial results.


Craig Brown, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Senior. Vice President of


Administration, and Treasurer


Thanks Dennis. Good morning. I am going to comment on the result of operations for the quarter,


also the year to date, and talk a little bit about our cash flow during the quarter and our – and the


balance sheet. For the quarter, our revenue was $225.5 million, a growth of just under $5 million or


2.1 percent. We saw good unit growth in there and also little bit of pickup in price. Our document


and label solutions business, our core business, was $154.3 million, up 1.1 percent. Our Print-on-