Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Carol Merry — Senior Vice President, Fahlgren Mortine
Joseph P. Morgan — Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer
Bob Ginnan — Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph P. Morgan, Jr. — President and Chief Executive Officer, The Standard Register Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's 2013 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Relation section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the call over to Carol Merry. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Crystal. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Standard Register 2013 fourth quarter conference call. Earlier today, Standard Register published fourth quarter and full-year 2013 results. The news release is available at the company's website. During our conference call, President and CEO, Joe Morgan, and Executive Vice President and CFO, Bob Ginnan will discuss the company's performance and results.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings release Standard Register issued this morning, on webcast slides that accompany this presentation, by accessing the company website under Investor Center or in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

In addition, the speakers may make use of financial measures that are not in accordance in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. It is management's belief that the use of these measures will assist the audience in understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitution for GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe Morgan will provide a few opening comments that will be followed by Bob Ginnan's review of the financials for the quarter and year-to-date. And Joe will then discuss the company's strategy and direction, and following his comments, we will open up the call for your questions.

And now, I'll turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments.

Thank you, Carol. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us today. As you know from our previous reporting, 2013 was very much a transitional and in many ways transformative year for Standard Register. We are in a much different, much better position today than we were in 2013 when we began the year. We're starting to see the positive effects of our investments and the realignment actions that we have taken to stabilize the company and position us for sustainable growth over the long-term. Today, there are many good things happening within the company, and performance in the fourth quarter serves as an indicator for where we will be concentrating our attention going forward.

The WorkflowOne acquisition was immediately accretive to our business, and you can see that in the increase in revenue in the fourth quarter. There are many other positive impacts as well and I'll note a few of them, such as the expansion of our customer base, which provides us with tremendous cross-selling opportunities, extension of our portfolio of products and solutions, which is also increasing the opportunities for our company, and also significant purchasing power increase, which is something that we can leverage and improve our bottom line impact, integrated depth of talent, which is a really big opportunity for the company. Our base is increasing as we take advantage of these opportunities across the company.

In addition, our investments in areas like high-speed inkjet, digital labeling, customer-facing technology, software and healthcare are all of our growth areas, are producing results in new customers and new work for existing customers. We brought additional talent into the company. We're driving operating performance improvements plus advancing the growth solutions across the business. Throughout the company, we continue to be focused on managing expenses as a core part of what we do. We make good decisions on where to invest and we're frugal, as I often call our company. We spend our money very, very carefully, because we have a great opportunity ahead of us.

We've completed and we will continue to drive synergies across the business. We have the synergy plan well underway to achieve the $40 million that we've spoken about in the past, when the integration is complete in 2015. And the integration is proceeding rapidly and smoothly. We've completed the consolidation of the headquarters in Dayton. We've moved all selling resources into the BUs and we're integrating the facilities around the country.

Our pension liabilities, you've seen, has decreased by $60 million during 2013 and we are meeting all of our funding obligations. And as reported in our earnings release, the company produced positive cash flow and net income in the fourth quarter. Our work is not done, the markets are dynamic, but we have made very good progress in 2013 and its being seen in the results for the quarter and for the year.

At this point, I'm going to turn it over to Bob for the financial results and then I'll spend a little more time talking about the strategy.

Thank you, Joe. Turning to the operating results, and you can see, for the quarter, we had net income of $9 million versus a loss of $35 million last year. Kind of working up the P&L, revenue of $242 million, which reflects the growth Joe mentioned as a result of the acquisition. Margin, about the same percentage as last year, and SG&A actually improved on a percentage basis, leaving us a operating profit of $15.8 million versus $7.1 million in the prior year. As we pointed out in the press release, we did – as we converged policies of the two companies, we did reverse a vacation accrual, which was about $5 million of that operating profit there.

Pointing to the pension, in the third quarter, we elected the mark-to-market pension accounting with the corridor option, and so for the most part, pension is now out of the P&L. This represents the pension accounting adjustments made through actuarial adjustments, because at the beginning of the year, our corridor was completely filled on the negative side. With the interest rate increases, we now have room in that corridor and we've attached a chart in the back for you to get a better picture of how that corridor operates and where we are in that corridor. But for this quarter, we did recognize expense there.

Additional restructuring of $5 million and then pre-tax income of $3.1 million. We did have a tax benefit that resulted as a result of a special rule within taxes, given our positive other companies income and the fact that we had a loss for the year, allowed us to recognize a tax benefit, thus increasing the net income. On a year-to-date basis, a $7.4 million loss with $26.5 million of restructuring, about $10 million of that restructuring is the associated deal cost with the acquisition. So absent the restructuring cost there, positive on the year as well.

Looking at the segments and actually I'll work from the two charts that break out the segments and the solution, you'll see a growth in each of the growth solutions within healthcare, marketing communications, patient ID and safety and patient information solutions, and then of course document management for the clinical forms that we've been talking about for quite some time.

Staying with the business solutions, growth in marketing communications, customer communications and the product market and labeling and the interesting thing in both businesses is, when you add up the three growth solutions versus document management in each business, they now outpace the prior year in terms – or I'm sorry, outpace the document management. So, the growth is starting to come to life there. So, it's a good turning point.

On the balance sheet, most importantly, two things on the balance sheet, one is that the opening balance sheet work with the acquisition is all complete, and contained within the balance sheet here. And then, secondly, as Joe pointed out, the $60 million decline in pension liability, roughly $33 million of that was because of the rising interest rates, and the other component comes from contributions made to the plan throughout the year. So significant improvement in pension liability, and thus translating into net improvement in equity for the year, which was a very positive thing there as well.

On the cash flow, we did have positive cash flow in the quarter, couple of hundred thousand dollars, after the – including all the restructurings payments. And for the year, we were negative $6.4 million, but we spent about $10 million on the deal cost; so positive without the deal cost for the year as well.

With that, that's the financial results. There is a chart in the back of corridor, if you'd like understand more of that, as well as a GAAP/non-GAAP reconciliation in the back. Joe?

Thanks, Bob. I'm going to talk a little bit about some of the things that are going on in each of the individual businesses to give some more feel for the progress that's going on within the company. For 2014, our focus is growing our growth solutions, which are reflected in the presentation. The integration achievement; we have a lot of activity going on there around operations, customer service and the overall business, and then ensuring that we achieve the operational outcome that we need, which is to be able to support our customers in the solutions that we are driving, going forward. It's actually a very exciting alignment opportunity for the company.

The WorkflowOne acquisition has given us broader customer base, very little overlap, as I said in previous calls, some new products and solutions as well as a broader depth, technically, and from a capability standpoint in document management, which we all know is one of the foundational components of our past, and continues to be important going forward, although being a lesser part of the growth opportunity. While the demand for printed forms such as paper patient records is decreasing. We know the slope of the curve. We understand the business and we're managing to that. So, to go along with our document management service, we have positioned the company where the demand will be, which is our market focus, where growth will continue and where we can add value for our customers.

This is where I'm going to spend a little bit of time on each of the businesses. One thing that, as you look at the deck that's provided along with the call, you'll see that we have four solution sets in each of the businesses, healthcare and business solutions. You'll see document management as being the largest. But you'll also see that through the acquisition, both businesses have seen growth in all of the solutions, which is pretty exciting for us. And what's really great is that there isn't a lot of customer overlap between the two companies. So the leverage opportunity as we get into the white space is really great.

So in healthcare, the acquisition brought about 150 new hospitals and 50 to 75 new buying opportunities for our technology. These represent net new customers and very little overlap in solutions, products and services, as I previously said.

We are replacing printed forms and documents with our patient information and safety technology enabled solutions, and this solution set continues to show strong growth. We're investing both in the capacity and talent level very much in this area. We're focused on selling promotional products, which is one of the things that came – much more capability came with the acquisition of WorkflowOne, and marketing communications into the Standard Register customer base and our technology solutions conversely into the former WorkflowOne customer base.

Our deep knowledge of the healthcare industry, patient engagement and patient-centric communication is the basis for building this business. We have our HIMSS show next week, which is the largest healthcare technology show, that's taking place in Florida, and we'll be talking about some new things that we're doing as a company to take advantage of the market knowledge that we've gained over the last couple years.

In 2014, we will continue to focus our investments to grow our Healthcare Center of Excellence in Atlanta, which is focused on software development. We have the aim of becoming a dynamic software and related services healthcare business, backed by print and transactional communication solutions that are growing and expanding with our world-class customer base.

We expect growth to come from cross-selling into our large customer base within healthcare, increasing that customer base as we look at tangent opportunities and introducing new solutions and services based on our expertise. In parallel with that, our business solutions business has other opportunities. We have a tradition of printing that is foundational and still highly valuable in the hybrid landscape of digital and printed communications.

A comment – we have an extremely talented sales team engaged to be a part of the future. The vast majority of those folks get it. We know where we need to go and we're spending a lot of time training our team to take full advantage of this hybrid environment.

We have invested in inkjet technology, with which we can insert color and variable data to customize the transactional documents such as cheques, statements and forms that are critical to our customer's communications with their stakeholders, and this technology opens up new opportunities that could never before be addressed, and that's part of our go-forward plan as well. The inkjet technology has been installed in Sacramento, California, and in Columbus, Ohio. We're already shipping profitable products to key customers.

Standard Register had a promotional products business prior to the acquisition. Actually that might be an overstatement. We had a promotional product that we sold to customers. But WorkflowOne actually had a business, a robust operation and a very strong capability that has really been helpful for us, in both business solutions and in healthcare. We're taking advantage of new opportunities where we can bring this forward in addition to that marketing consultant services around selection, kitting and distribution that allow us to leverage the Jeffersonville, Indiana investment that we made last year, which is up and operational and making great progress.

We continue to be excited about the opportunities in our label business, where new product development is combining the application of material science and computer science technology to bring to life the future world of interactive communications between physical things, people and events. This is one of the growth areas for our business that we're excited about. And as we look at the Mexico investments that we've made over the last several years, it's very strongly aligned with this part of our company.

We expect growth in business solutions to come from deeper and broader penetration of our large customer base, where we can sell the entire suite of services that marketers need to run their businesses. We're viewed as an execution firm in this area. We're gaining new customers from partnerships, that we've spoken about before, like Saleforce.com and ExactTarget that allow us to make marketing content seamlessly available to company's sales forces and from applying our knowledge and experience in more market specific ways.

The Jeffersonville Center of Excellence in Jeffersonville, Indiana is doing what we call marketing logistics. It's an asset for both healthcare and business solutions' customers and we'll see even more benefit in 2014. We put that in place strategically, knowing that over time this was going to be the destination of logistics and marketing and kitting, and we're really excited about this capability and our partnership with UPS.

We continue to advance our SMARTworks customer facing platform to improve the customer experience for all of our customers. We deployed new functionality in 2013 and we will continue to introduce new advances in 2014. One of the great things about this part of our business is we've hired a new leader in Terry Williams, who is driving this change for the company, as we move from a cost-center to a profit-center over time.

We are customer-centric in this effort and everything we do, thinking about our customers as the primary driver for the future of our company. Overall, our growth is coming from leveraging our talent always on critical communications. We haven't come off of that in three years and that's really driving – it drove the WorkflowOne acquisition and it drives most of the investments that we make in our business.

We've identified strong opportunities to sell our existing solutions into what the marketers call the white space in our very large customer base, as well as newly developed offerings at the beginning of their life cycles. In addition to the large and enterprise companies, we are well-equipped to serve. We continue to look for channel partners to introduce our solutions in customer-facing platform -and the customer facing platform to broaden middle market opportunities, where a lot of dynamic innovation takes place.

We evaluate acquisitions that can enhance our offerings and bring new customers and markets. Over the last several years, we've actually made three acquisitions that have all been accretive. We acquired some in-mold labeling capability with patents a couple of years ago. We acquired a healthcare software company, which was called Dialog Medical that has really advanced our position with content workflow and analytics. And then recently with WorkflowOne, we've advanced our position in every solution with a broader customer base. And we're beginning to engage with international partners, where appropriate, to meet our customer's needs.

We and I are more confident today and more energized going into 2014. We are though a very skilled and aware leadership team. We understand we're in a very challenging marketplace. We're fully cognizant of those challenges and the macroeconomic conditions and industry trends. But we are confident in our strategy and absolutely determined to execute it successfully. I look forward to reporting our progress throughout 2014. And I can tell you that our team is very excited about the three things that I mentioned at the start; growing our growth solutions; ensuring that the integration takes place; and at the end of this, we have the strongest operational footprint possible in the business we support for those great customers we have and the markets we serve.

With that, Bob and I are now available for questions and thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from the line of [ph] Gary Hugh of SBC Capital (0:20:10).

Hi, Joe and Bob. Congrats on a good quarter. Could you just remind us or I don't know if you've given this out yet, can you just give us some guidance on $40 million is the total synergies. Could you give us a sense for what you've captured to-date and what your plan is that you'd sort of get through in 2014?

We – I don't think we're prepared to talk about 2014 other than in terms of the total which you mentioned there. In the fourth quarter, I would say that it's probably about $3 million actually realized in the quarter.

Okay. And, do you have sort of a quantity of cash that you've expended to-date on integration and then a plan for cash that you would expend in 2014?

What we said year-to-date in our cash flow, I believe, that let me look it up here.

And it could be directional too, it doesn't have to be precise.

Yeah, probably, including the deal cost and the integration, we're probably at about $15 million in 2013.

Okay.

And that's all for cash flow and then the deal cost [indiscernible] (0:21:31). As far as 2014 goes, we're not prepared to disclose that specifically. However we did say in the press release that we will be negative in the year, as we really focus on integrating the companies being the primary driver there.

Okay. That makes sense. And I don't know if you've given information out in your past filings to come up with this number or not, but do you have a sort of pro forma Standard Register Workflow third quarter 2013 revenue and EBITDA, as if the acquisition took place at the beginning of the quarter, I guess it closed on August 1. The 10-Q doesn't give a – its gives an okay picture, but not a full picture, just sort of compare the $242 million of revenue and the $25.5 million of EBITDA.

In the 10-K, when we file that here in a little over a week or so, we will have that detail in there for you.

Okay great, thanks very much. And then, is there anyway – I am not a – by no means, am I a pension expert. Is there any way you could just give a little bit more detail on how slide 11 works with respect to the pension? So if I understood what your comment was, you don't anticipate having pension expense in your income statement, not going forward or is it something different than that?

That's a potential conclusion, but there is a couple of caveats around that. And so, if you look at that slide, when we elected the mark-to-market accounting, we did let the corridor option which basically says that you have a corridor of plus or minus 10% of your liability and – or your assets if that would be bigger, but in our case, liability is bigger.

So you have a corridor of plus or minus 10%. Basically if you're within that corridor, any of the actuarial adjustments, which include interest rate changes, asset performance et cetera, actually just stay within that corridor and you don't take anything to the P&L.

So if you look at slide 11, what that says is coming into the year, our corridor, I kind of think of it as a bucket, was completely filled on the negative side, and with the increase in interest rates, that gain actually then reduced the liability, but also started to empty the bucket. So that graph kind of gives you a feeling that, you know, that roughly – roughly $40 million to $50 million bucket in terms of the corridor, and we only have about $18.5 million on the negative side. Now, then you, as – hopefully as interest rates rise, you start to go into the positive side. So you don't take gains to the P&L either, until you've surpassed that $47 million in terms of gains on the positive side either. So if rates stay flat or continue to rise, we should be pretty clean, here, going forward for a little bit of time.

But, so I guess I'm just trying to, at a high level, I'm just trying to think about the business. So you – if in the $25 million of EBIT – $25.5 million of EBITDA, that has the benefit change in it, so it's maybe call it closer to the $20 million, but you'll pick up some synergies over time ideally. And I know this is going to sound really crude to you, but if $20 million is sort of $80 million-ish and then you pick up $30 million, $35 million more, let say you're kind of at $115 million or so of normalized, maybe EBITDA. But you don't have any – there is no pension expense in that. And you still – and you're going to contribute just under $40 million to your plan to – at least that's what the press release said?

Yes.

You could have planned to contribute just under $40 million of cash to your pension in 2014. And do you know now? Do you have any sense for what a 2015 contribution will be? Will there be a – do you have a – just directionally, do have any sense for what that would be?

Yeah, I'll tell what, we will actually put the next three years in the 10-K.

Okay.

So we'll be able to put that in there for you...

But do you think it's going to be coming down in 2015 or [indiscernible] (0:26:03)...

2014 is the high point.

Okay.

But 2015 is not necessarily dramatic, but 2014 is the high point.

Yeah, because it's big, I mean sure you're thinking about that too.

Yeah. Oh, yeah.

Yeah, okay. All right, well that's very helpful. And let me just try to go to my last one, because I don't want to take up too much of your time. And then, well I guess, one of them you answered or it was in your slide. There is $51.3 million drawn on the ABL facility?

Yes.

Okay. And how much – and ABL's $125 million, how much is the whole $125 million, other than the $51.3 million is the other amount available or is that constrained?

It's pretty much available. There is the – we have a little bit of letters of credit that doesn't amount to whole heck of a lot, that takes some of that capacity. And then we have – obviously, we don't want to operate at the very end of that, so it's not technically constrained, but from an operating perspective, it is.

Okay. And then, do you have like a capital expenditures plan for 2014?

We will. In the 10-K, we will put a range in there for you.

Okay. All right. I'll look forward to reading the 10-K. Thanks very much for your time and congratulations on a great quarter.

Well. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Well, if there are no more questions, this will conclude our call today and we thank everyone for participating.

This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.