corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to Standard Register’s Third Quarter 2010


Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides


for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard


Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Investor Relations


Hi, good morning. And welcome to Standard Register’s Third Quarter 2010 Investor Call. Joining


me today is Joe Morgan, Chief Executive Officer and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer. Before


we get started, I’d like to remind you that today any forward-looking statements that we might make


are covered by the Safe Harbor statement that can be found in the company’s earnings new


release as well as accessing our website.


In addition, we will make references to measures – financial measures that are not in accordance


with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. Management believes that the use of


those measures will enhance our audience’s understanding of our financial performance and are


not meant to be considered in isolation or a substitution of GAAP.


For today’s call, Joe Morgan will have a couple of comments regarding the highlights for the quarter


that will be followed by Bob Ginnan’s overview of the financial statements, at which time Bob will


turn the call over for questions that him and Mr. Morgan will answer.


So with that I turn the call over to Joe Morgan.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. We’re excited today to be talking about our earnings and performance for the last


quarter. As you’re probably well aware at this point, this is a key pivot point in our turnarounds


leading to transformation.


And so I’m going to talk a little about that. One of the things that we’re doing a little different today is


that we’ve taken this investor call and a follow-up town hall with all of our employees to Boston. We


have a great deal of business on the East coast and we have a fairly good size number of


employees for our company there as well. So part of our transformation is to connect the


performance of the business with employees throughout the country. So we’re doing that just by


way of reference.


So a few a highlights for the month. As Shaun pointed out, I’m going to provide some specific


details to give a little bit clearer view of how we’re performing against our strategy. First is around


revenue. We came back to growth. It’s been a long time since we’ve grown as a company and it’s


the sixth quarter in a row where we’ve demonstrated performance improvement. We’re feeling


more stable, of course, at the revenue level which is a key driver for the future of the business.


From a gross margin standpoint, we saw slight improvement on a percentage basis when you


adjust for LIFO. On an SG&A basis we’re controlling our expenses while we reinvest in the


business, and the MyC3 plan that we announced last year has progressed quite well. And as we


mentioned, we have reinvested a good portion of some of the earnings improvement opportunity


that’s come from that in the business, and that’s a key factor in our transformation.
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


And then from a net income standpoint, $0.05 a share, 1.4 million positive for the year. Bob will get


into more detail there. And then of course, on a cash basis it’s very important for us to have positive


cash flow. We achieved that in the quarter. We’re still negative 3.2 for the year, but we intend to be


break-even by year-end, taking into consideration the level of investment that we’ve made thus far.


So very excited on the financial performance. A lot of work yet to do, but I think, again, consistent


progress toward what we ultimately wanted to do is to get back to profit, positive cash flow and


grow as a company.


A few things that I’ll point out. As Shaun said, the slides are available. When we announced the


turn-around back in 2009 when I officially became CEO of the Company we were focusing on a few


things. We first wanted to stabilize revenue because that was the catalyst for the future and we


wanted to begin the process of adjusting the portfolio.


With that would come an improved earnings, but we had to also catalyze that through a very


aggressive process which we called MyC3. And then we have some unique attributes of our


business, which are around the pension. And we obviously have to do our best to mitigate the risk


there, but then make investments in the Company and reward our shareholders through dividends.


So we had to manage that cash flow component very closely, and we’ve been successful in the


midst of this turn-around in doing that. The key steps for us to be able to operate in the turn around,


though, were first to have a very robust operational plan. I’ve talked about the five points of change


several times on previous calls and that’s the way we structure the business and align our


objectives.


And the second thing which is really important, we’ve talked about culture on many calls before in


terms of transitioning our go to market business from being very print centric to services and


solutions, and we’re making that move. But it’s not just the go to market, it’s the entire company. So


we’re making progress there.


And then thirdly is to develop a growth strategy that’s not based on what we’d like to sell, but more


in line with what our clients are interested in purchasing that help them achieve their goals long-


term. And we’ve made progress on all three fronts, which I think is indicated here by our financial


performance.


There’s a slide in the deck that shows trend, and I think trend really starts to show the story more


clearly. We’ve have six straight quarters of improvement at the top line. Our earnings per share


brought us back into positive. We had two quarters where we’ve had positive earnings over the last


six, but this is – we’ve had three in a row where we’ve shown improvement. And then cash, of


course, reversing the negative from the previous quarter and more in line with what our


expectations are going forward.


Moving to transformation, really the first phase of my tenure as CEO has really been a turn around.


We still have a lot of work to do to stabilize our business. We have a portfolio that has a


tremendous legacy component to it. But with that legacy we have tremendous relationships with


customers in our key markets that want us to extend ourselves into new areas and we’re doing that.


But we need to overcome some of the decline in the legacy portfolio by refreshing that on our –


what will now become our core for the future.


So the first thing we needed to do in our transformation plan, it’s actually quite straightforward. The


first one is to gain share, but then to optimize the business we’re in. So we’re doing that. Our


retention levels are better than they’ve been in historical measurements. We’re being very


successful in acquiring new accounts. I’m going to feature Healthcare, a couple of instances with


Healthcare when I talk to you. We are extending ourselves into the market, so that we get a greater


deal of coverage – greater coverage level, where it’s not just a direct selling effort. We are being