Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Merry — Senior Vice President, Fahlgren Mortine
Joseph P. Morgan, Jr. — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, The Standard Register Co.
Robert M. Ginnan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Senior Managing Director, CJS Securities
Joseph Perdue — Principal, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's 2012 Second Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slide for today's conference are available by accessing the – I'm sorry, the Investor Center section of The Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Carol Merry. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Felicia. Good morning, and welcome to the Standard Register 2012 second quarter conference call. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and CEO; and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language and projections. These types of comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings release that Standard Register issued this morning, or on the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing the company's website under Investor Center or in the Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. It is management's belief that the use of these measures will assist our audiences' understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitution for GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will provide a few opening comments that will be followed by Bob's review of the financials for the quarter and year-to-date. Joe will then discuss the company's strategic direction. And following his comments, we'll open up the call for your questions.

And now, I will turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments.

Good morning. Thank you for joining us on this call. If you are going to look at the slide, second quarter highlights, I'll be speaking briefly about the accomplishments that we've had in the last 90 days.

In the second quarter, we did keep momentum in our growth core solution sales in both business units, Healthcare and Business Solutions. The growth was 3.4% in the aggregate. Later, I'll talk more specifically about certain solutions to provide better insight.

The legacy products, particularly transactional forms, which are focused on the operational component of most of the clients that we work with in Business Solutions, along with clinical forms, which is a key category in our Healthcare business, declined 12% from the year-ago quarter and 10% in the first half of 2012 compared to last year.

Continued trend of legacy declining faster than core growing, but there are a lot of variables within the categories that we are using to advance the strategy, particularly in the areas that we've made investments over the last few years. And I will speak about that in more detail as we get into the call further.

At the end of the second quarter, core represented 43% of revenue and legacy 57%, a slight improvement that is nonetheless going in the right direction. We're excited about the fact that our growth continues to advance in the core. We're implementing our restructuring plan according to schedule. And in this environment of declining revenue, we know that we must reduce cost and we must do it in a rapid fashion.

We're doing this with the restructuring, as well as selling more. Our themes for the year are to expand our relationship with our existing clients and acquiring new business, and we continue to do both. And our pipeline opportunities in closed deals in the core give evidence of the adoption of the strategy that we've been embarking on here for the last several years.

We've been very successful in reorganizing our sales and service organizations to both reduce cost, while retaining and adding customers and maintaining our very good customer loyalty scores, which we monitor very carefully and constantly.

I'll also add that we're focusing also on the ease of doing business with Standard Register, and that's guiding our investments in software that runs the company. As all of us know, people are moving to more self-serve, especially living in a mobility-oriented world as we are.

And as we said in the news release this morning, we can reaffirm that we expect positive cash flow of at least $5 million for 2012 in total.

I'm going to turn the call over to Bob now. He will review the financials in more detail, and then I'll come back and talk about strategy. But before I do, I'll leave you with one comment. We have completed the restructuring of the business units. We now have the Healthcare business unit, and we have a Business Solutions business unit. And we're very excited about the momentum that's been created by those two leaders and the new structure that we put in place.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Bob.

Thank you, Joe. We came in the quarter at $155 million of revenue, down 5.6% versus 2011. And about two-thirds of this decline is really related to the clinical document decline as EMRs are implemented throughout our customer base here.

On the margin side, we came in at 30% versus last year of 30.9%. When you factor in the revenue decline, that's right on track from a margin perspective.

On the SG&A side, you can really start to see the impacts of the restructuring. We came in at $39.6 million versus $46 million, so a pretty significant reduction there. In addition to that, what you don't see in the $46 million last year, we still have the $1.1 million a quarter amortization credit from the retiree healthcare that was terminated in the third quarter. So without that credit, the gap was even better there.

On an operating profit perspective, $7 million versus $4.8 million, so a pretty significant improvement as we really start to see the benefits of the plan come through. Pension amortization settlement pretty consistent, slightly under last year and it's kind of where we will be throughout the year. On a year-to-date basis, by the way, you have the settlement charge that occurred in the first quarter this year. You also had one in the second quarter of last year. So on a year-to-date basis, pretty flat.

Restructuring, as we talked about in the first quarter, we were going to spend a little bit more than the original announced plan of $7 million. We're now at $11 million. And in the quarter, we actually expensed about $1.5 million. Last year, we had some reversals of some old restructuring, so you can see a fairly big delta there.

And then, finally, interest expense, about $600,000, which leads to the pre-tax loss of $900,000 versus the $1.6 million loss last year on $9 million less revenue. So, but the plan is really starting to come through here in the quarter. Again, as we talked about last quarter, the taxes, with the valuation allowance, the tax rate is are a little odd. Typically on a $900,000 loss, you'd expect about a $400,000 benefit. Instead, we have expense since we are not recording those benefits at this time. So the tax expense is a little bit skewed there.

On a year-to-date basis, operating profit at $10.8 million versus $12 million, so in the first quarter we really didn't have the impacts of the plan starting to come through, and you can see the mileage we made up here in the second quarter from an operating profit perspective.

Again, on the restructuring, you've got two quarters now in about the same amount, $2.6 million versus the reversal last year, and on a pre-tax loss perspective, $5.7 million versus $1.1 million, again a combination of the revenue and the restructuring expense there.

Turning to the business units, remember that we now have combined four business units to two; Healthcare and Business Solutions. So that's reflected in this report. If you look at Healthcare, we're down about 7% for the quarter, of which the primary driver of that was the clinical forms. Overall, our legacy business was down 14%, the clinical forms are down about 20%. And our overall solutions grew 5%, however, our healthcare technology-oriented solutions grew at 14% for the quarter. And again, this is the last quarter that we have Dialog Medical in there as a no comparison to the prior year.

On the Business Solutions side, we are at about 45% core, 55% legacy. Total revenues declined 5%. We did have growth in our core solutions, specifically in our critical communications and on-demand publishing, and then of course, offset by the legacy decline. We did talk about one particular customer that we expect to lose $18 million to $20 million. Through the first half of the year, we're at $5.7 million loss and we expect that to ramp up over the course of the year.

On the P&L side, you'll see that businesses need money in the quarter. Healthcare came in at $3.7 million versus $3.8 million last year, and given the revenue reduction related to the clinical forms, that's a pretty outstanding performance and you can see the impact or restructuring there. Significant improvement in Business Solutions, going from $600,000 to $2.6 million on the operating profit level, and on year-to-date basis $3.3 million versus $2.8 million.

Moving to the balance sheet, we have continued to improve our working capital since a year ago at $105 million versus $90 million, pretty flat with last year. Our capital assets continue to go down as we've really been light on capital spending. We've spent a little over $1 million so far this year, although we still anticipate that to be in the $9 million to $11 million range.

You will see the potential liability has continued to come down. We ended the year at $236 million, right now we're at $219 million, primarily attributable to the contributions we've made. We've made about $13.5 million for the year on the contribution side there. And you will see an equity improvement to $92 million – to a negative $92.2 million versus we started the year at negative $99 million, so we are improving on the equity side. And just to remember that the pension amortization in the P&L has already been factored into equity and that's why you see an improvement there.

Cash flow, I think, I get most of the key points there. We do anticipate to be $5 million negative for the – $5 million positive for the year. We're at about $700,000 negative year-to-date. And we did have negative cash flow in the quarter as anticipated, and feel like we're right on track to achieve the stated objective there from an overall perspective.

We did announce earlier in the quarter that we did get relief from the pension funding requirement, and that could reduce our overall contributions by about $4 million this year, $8 million next year and then $5 million in 2014, for a total of $7 million. So, if you look at our contributions year-to-date on the cash flow statement at $13.5 million, that would come out to the original goal of $27 million and now we look at it as $23 million, so we should have lighter contributions here in the second half of the year.

So, with that, I'll turn it back to Joe to talk about the strategy.

Okay. Thanks, Bob. I want to move now to talk you about how we're progressing with the strategy. So, if you were to look at the progress and strategy – strategic area slide that will be a good start for you.

So, I'm going to spend the remainder of my time, before we take your questions, to just talk a little bit about how the company is being transformed, and also in relation to how the strategy is impacting the go forward plan.

First and foremost, when you look at performance, without cost related to pension and restructuring, Standard Register had a profitable quarter. So, we're proud of that and it gives good evidence that we're moving in the right direction. We are making progress in many of the strategic areas, particularly in technology solutions and services, which is an emphasis of the business in both the Healthcare and Business Solutions areas focused on workflow, marketing services and customer communications. Those are the three key areas of emphasis that have evolved very specifically from our strategy.

And Bob made a comment earlier about the limited amount of capital expenditure in the first part of the year. You can expect that the majority of our capital expenditures going forward will be in these three areas in addition to optimizing the customer experience, which I referenced just a few moments ago in my initial comments.

And as many of our legacy sales declined rapidly, some of our core solutions are outpacing the segment as a whole. For example, clinical documents, which I referenced earlier is a healthcare version of transactional forms. It declined 22% in the second quarter as our healthcare clients are moving rapidly toward electronic medical record or EMR implementation.

Over the past two years. approximately 60% of the decline in our legacy products has been attributable to the EMR decline. We understand it, we're managing to it and we're advancing the portfolio to take advantage of new opportunities that are being created. However, healthcare software solution revenues were up 20% in the second quarter over the same quarter last year, and up 29% year-to-date over the first half of last year, although, overall revenue in healthcare was down 7% for the quarter and the year. So, there's evidence there of the transformation of the portfolio. Some of that's organic investment, some of it is as a result of the very strategic investment that we made in Dialog Medical last year.

In Business Solutions, customer communications and on-demand publishing, an industry term, grew at 12% and 57% respectively in the quarter, although overall revenue declined 5%. These two areas are where our capital expenditures have been focused in the Business Solutions area. Although that's a new business unit, the capabilities to sit underneath these solutions have been focus areas in the past and will continue to be.

We made significant efforts in the past couple of years to gain deeper understanding of markets and the technology that will drive how our customers in Business Solutions and Healthcare communicate with their customers, employees and their other constituencies. It's given us more clarity around where we can invest to evolve our portfolio and optimize our core solutions to give us a distinct advantage in the marketplace.

As we said last quarter, we are finding that our core technology oriented solutions are driving sales across all of the markets we serve. Therefore, horizontal solutions are being created to serve those vertical markets. The benefit of that is, we can optimize the investments we make; one investment serves many.

CapEx spending restrained year-to-date, but it's still expected to be in the $9 million to $11 million. It will accelerate in the second half and I mentioned that it will be in the three areas, plus optimizing the customer experience.

So, where are we going to invest to grow the business? So, the market is telling us that three areas are critical focused investment spaces for Standard Register. The first is in healthcare software and services. We made the investment last year in Dialog Medical. We also are making some investments in some new software that we'll be introducing soon.

Marketing solutions oriented software and services, that is a horizontal capability. Candidly, it's a little different than healthcare in terms of what the needs are that it might be in some of our other enterprise focused customers, but the underpinnings are very, very similar.

And then customer communication software services and fulfillment where we can leverage our digital capabilities and personalized content creation support to move upstream in the process of helping customers, in fact their critical communications and ultimately grow their business. I'll give you a few examples of where that's coming to be successful for the company.

We're going to continue to invest in software and services solutions delivery through our platform of traditional printing, digital color, personalized options in digital media, including what we talked about in previous calls, our new tablet solutions.

SMARTworks, we just had a recent release with our SMARTworks platform. We continue to advance the transition from a more traditional document management or operational forms, transactional forms based platform to one that is more aligned with customer communications and marketing services.

For example, last year in the digital color space, we made a pretty significant investment to ensure that with our new focus as a company around advancing new reputation that we could in fact have color consistency across our footprint and our network. And revenues from those solutions using the digital color platform have grown 100% year-to-date, pretty exciting stuff for the company.

Last year, we bought Dialog Medical and it's contributed accretively since the acquisition a year ago in July. Most of our growth in patient information software is attributable to Dialog Medical. It also complements our suite of solutions and fill the gap in our Healthcare portfolio, which is really the point of making that acquisition. And I think it's a great example of where the market is focused that we embarked on couple of years ago, give us insight as to where to make those bets and that's really working well for us.

And it's also brought us some new customer opportunities in some segments that were tangent to where we had spent the majority of our time. An example of where we're investing in healthcare technology solutions is a new offering of the iMedConsent from Dialog Medical. Our relationships with our clients provide an intelligence on a new trend among physicians. They're using their iPads or hospitals are providing them with iPads. So, everybody is moving toward a more mobile solution in terms of how they choose to communicate in conducting business.

Dialog Medical redesigned and redeployed software to seamlessly recognize and run on an iPad or a PC. So regardless of the technology used by the physician, we now have the ability to bring forward the solution, which I think is pretty dynamic and important transition for our company. It's not an app. You can't buy it on an iTunes, however; its software that's truly hardware-agnostic and it's an indication of how we're recognizing industry trends and tailoring offerings to support them.

If you look at a recent press release on the most recent changes in healthcare legislation or at least the approval of moving forward in most recent healthcare legislation, you'll see, as a leader, how we're starting to communicate about how we see those changes being interpreted within our business and how we go forward as a company.

So, Standard Register is well positioned with solutions that help our customers prepare and meet the requirements of the legislation I mentioned, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. We published the physician paper, as I said, and it gives us credibility in the market as we go forward to advance our solutions.

Essentially, what we've done now in healthcare, on the technology side, as we package our workflow optimization services, our iMedConsent solution, Dialog Medical, and SMARTworks going to clinical enterprise, which is the solution that Standard Register in a proprietary way develop to help Healthcare providers and payors automate their communications for efficiency and compliance. So, we're aligning the solutions we have to bring in even better solution to the market.

We're also preparing for the launch of the industry's only health plan specific project management software to manage and comply with regulatory requirements. Our solution is called MarCom Navigator, and it will help integrate all areas of the health plan environment. A big space, very complicated space, data matters a lot. And having a coordinated view of this adds tremendous benefit to the health plan organizations. I've personally been involved in several of the selling situations, and it's amazing the reaction we get with the insight that we have and applying it to the business.

In fact, I was in a recent meeting where a client made a comment to us. They've said, you are only healthcare company that has brought forward a solution, pretty good validation to the strategy that we brought forward. It's very, very important in selling in that market space to be viewed as a healthcare company.

In Business Solutions, we've identified a customer trend in outsourcing content. We're capitalizing on that trend with our Digital Direct Marketing solutions, which experienced 15% growth in the first half of the year.

A few great examples of the wins in Business Solutions. Two financial institutions are outsourcing their print center functions to Standard Register, and trusting us with their critical communications to their customers. Our new local marketing and tablet solution focused on content optimization, centralization and digitalization has moved from pilot to a full commitment for rollout. And a leading online consumer brand increased revenue dramatically through a digital direct marketing campaign utilizing our combination of email and direct mail.

The bifurcation of our business model now, print is great, software and services are also great. We combined the two into a wonderful solution for the customer. And then the outcome was dramatic impact on their business through the analytics validation that we provided and a commitment to further rollout the program, which was on a pilot basis, now on a monthly basis.

And these are just a few examples of where we are seeing the greatest opportunity for the company and how we are capitalizing on them. So, we are on track for the restructuring. Our go-to-market effort is improving and becoming more and more robust. We're simplifying the business structure, two business units, the solutions under them are being invested in for success and we are excited about how we are moving forward.

So, now, if you look at the key investment highlights slide and I'd like to just review that really quickly. We're managing the downside of our business. We're restructuring to optimize operations and investing, albeit modestly to grow the business, but it's very, very focused. We're encouraged by the results. We've got a good pipeline. We're retaining and gaining customers, we're involving our portfolio for the future. It's a long-term strategy for increasing shareholder value and we intend to implement over the long-term, keeping track of trends and being as nimble as possible to stay ahead of our customer needs.

I personally look forward to continuing to report on our progress and, as we do, we'll provide more and more interesting detail of our customer adoption. And now I'd be happy to entertain any questions that you might have.

Operator, we will do the question-and-answer.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer with CJS Securities.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, Charlie.

Hi, Charlie.

Let's talk a little bit about the pension first, if we can, with the highway bill and providing some relief there. I know that when you look at your 10-K, you talk about how your 100 basis point change favorably could be above $40 million of relief on the liability or obligation there from a bookkeeping standpoint. There's been estimates that the pension relief could lend upwards of over 2% to a company like yourself. And I'm just wondering why the actual cash savings versus the amount of, I guess, liability reduction, there's such a big disconnect there?

I think, Charlie-this is Bob-I can answer that. Two elements of that. I'm not seeing up to 2%, I have seen the 125 basis points to 140 basis points. And that of course depends on where you are in your rate and your duration. With the plan being frozen, our time is lesser here in terms of we're at 9 to 10 years out in terms of a rate for us. So, we're probably going to be a little bit less than that average to begin with.

But I think the real issue, the real underlying issue here is that the way the law was actually implemented, it was implemented with what they call these corridors on where you stand in terms of where your rate is today versus this average. And what they are, really are, they're governors that really reduce the benefit here. And as you go through time, they expand each year.

So, to put it kind of in perspective, we did a really rough estimate of that corridor impact and if this had been put in place without any corridor, that $17 million probably would have been double. And once you get into double, now you are kind of talking in that range that you would expect from a $35 million to $40 million type number. So, it's really the throttle that's put on there in terms of how these corridors work in terms of minimizing the maximum amount of benefit there.

Got it. And but you still think that at this point where you stand you'll shoot out ample cash flow to fund the next three years' pension contributions?

Yes, that's why we built the plan, to make sure that we've done that, along with investment in the business as well.

Got it. And then, can you also talk a little bit too-and maybe, Joe, this is a better question for you-but a little bigger picture in terms of overall strategic thinking in terms of from the sentiment from the board and from management over maybe changing your stance on, you're looking at other external strategic opportunities or strategical alternatives. Has there been any sentiment shift there given everything that's been happening over the last, call it, 12 months or so with the company?

Well, I would say that the good thing about the company over the last couple of years is that the alignment with the board on the strategy is very tight. There is a very kind of deep understanding of the pension cash needs. And to your point, the relief is a good news for us. I think you're seeing a level of conservatism on investment so that we take the money that we do have and point it to the things that have the greatest return. We've got some good evidence of that over the last couple of years as things that we have invested in have returned accretively to the business, albeit we've had and continue to have a pretty significant reduction in the legacy, which at times can match that.

The board continues to be smart in how we approach taking advantage of the strategy. But at this point we focus on the restructuring. We're happy with the progress we are making there. We're seeing growth in the core. We have some capital that we'll spend in the second half of the year that we believe will continue to advance that position. So, that's the way I would position how we, management and the board, are thinking about the business right now.

Got it. And then, I know a few quarters back you had hired AlixPartners to do some strategic overview for you.

Yes.

And are you still engaged with them? And if not, or if so where do you stand with it, what's kind of the outcome of that review and can you shed a little more light on that?

A couple of things. One is, yeah, thank you for stating the relationship with AlixPartners in the way you did, because that's exactly right. We brought them in as a strategic consultant to help validate what we've already put in place from a restructuring standpoint and then honestly expand our thinking in a few areas that we thought were appropriate. As a result of that, couple of things, one is that we validated a little bit larger opportunity for the business, which we disclosed in our press release.

Alix has completed their work or will be completing their work with us in this month actually and we have a PMO or an enterprise Project Management Office in the business that actually along with my executive team is driving the execution of the plan. So, we feel really good about the work that they did in conjunction with our executive committee and now we're executing the plan. And honestly, we've extended this opportunity now into 2013. And we've actually -- the number is there. So it's a good thing for us to increase the opportunity on the restructuring, but also improve the business as we're doing it.

Got it. And then, Joe, you guys talked about you've seen growth this quarter in core.

Yes.

Can you quantify that a little?

Yeah. We had about 3.4% in aggregate for the business. Not about, we had 3.4% in aggregate growth for the quarter. And at this moment, as I mentioned, some things are growing larger than others, the Healthcare Solutions are, for example, over – close to -

5% overall

Yes, 5% overall

Yeah.

Got it. And then, when you look at kind of the longer-term strategy for core, obviously that's being the driver to kind of help offset the secular issues that are going out in legacy, at what point or I should say, at what percent of revenue this core need to be the kind of inflect that decline on the -

The question, let me restate it. The question is, what percent does the core revenue have to be to offset the decline in legacy?

Correct.

Two parts to that. One is the profit that can come from core and then the revenue that comes from core. So, some of that, it depends, but if you were to say everything was equal, you'd probably have to see us be roughly, I'd say, 60% core and 40% legacy to start to feel revenue all being equal. But one of the things that we're working on is the actual, the margin that might look from those two different segments of our business. So, I think as time goes on, we'll be in a better position to show you the trending there. But that's probably directionally what I would think.

A lot of it depends too, honestly, if you take Healthcare, one of the things we're monitoring very closely is that with full implementation of the EMR, which is in the 2015 timeframe, what remains of legacy at that point. And it won't be complete elimination of paper certainly, but a very significant amount. You can see that with 20% decline in healthcare documentation around clinical.

And, Joe, when you look at the Healthcare business obviously being a pretty good market you're attacking here, and the Supreme Court upholding Obamacare, have you taken a closer look at potentially some new end markets opening up to you from the [indiscernible] (32:24) opportunity that's out there to a lot of companies?

Yes, and I think we're a little early stage in describing that because that would be kind of a competitive advantage if we get too much advance notice on that. But I think with the Dialog Medical investment that we made, we were able to move our Healthcare business into a tangent segment, which is into the VA and into some of the government agencies around healthcare, which was some place we didn't participate previously. And the shorter answer would be, yeah, we're looking at some tangent markets right now that have substantial upside for the business. And that's where our technology solutions and services would be focused.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

You're welcome. Thanks, Charlie.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Joe Perdue with Wells Fargo Advisors.

Yes, good morning, Joe, Bob, and Carol.

Hi, Joe.

Good morning.

About a year and a half ago, year and a half or two years ago, when I first bought Standard Register, there was a $45 million restructuring program, and I did all the calculations and I figure earnings would be around $0.75 to $0.90 and it didn't happen. And I think there might have even been a second restructuring and this is the third restructuring. And I was wondering, when do you expect this latest restructuring that includes layoffs to fully kick in and is there any expectation of what kind of profitability you are looking at a year down the road?

Well, first of all, we're not giving guidance on that, which we've said before. So I mean, I think it's a great question, but at this point we are not in a position to give a future view.

We did have in 2009 and into 2010 we did have restructuring that we announced. And as you recall, a portion of that was used to reinvest into the transformation of portfolio, which we are now seeing evidenced is contributing to improve performance of the business. But we have given some perspective on the current restructuring. The $45 million that he put out before, 75% of which would be seen in this year has now grown to a larger number that will be executed through 2013. So I think you are getting some prospective on that.

The positive cash flow for the year, I think you're seeing that, plus the contribution that we're making to the pension plan along with the CapEx. But I think you have some data points there that would give you some perspective on what we're thinking about going forward. But we are not, Joe, at this point we're not in a position to quantify that in terms of earnings and the like for 2013.

Because the other two really didn't get to you where you wanted to go, or at least just quickly as you wanted to go, do you think the lowering of employees is a key variable that wasn't there before?

Well, I think there's two things you have to think about. One is that the restructuring, the value of the restructuring did achieve – was achieved. We did actually reduce the cost as much as we said. The issue was a rapid or more rapid decline in our legacy revenue that had been expected which offset some of the gain that might have been seen. And that's what we talked about in the latter part of last year in the decline of revenue in the legacy business.

So, I think now what we're doing is trying to manage that in a different way. And hopefully, obviously our plan would be is that the core will continue to grow and help us offset some of that decline. And, honesty, a lot of the core is the result of the portion of the restructuring we took from previous years and focused on reinvestment in the business.

Okay, good. Also, you're looking at – it looks like you're trying to manage everything, and I certainly appreciate that you've gotten us through this difficult period and hopefully we are going to see some substantial upside. Do you guys see any timeframe of actual revenue increases?

Again, Joe, what we're seeing is increases in aspects of the portfolio when we're describing that. But the aggregate would lead to guidance which we're not in a position to provide.

Okay. Well, it's was a good try. Also, a while back you mentioned that core hopefully by the end of the 2012 would exceed legacy. Is that just something you're going to just discuss on a quarter-by-quarter basis? Is there any kind of projections now for year-end?

Your first comment is exactly right. We'll continue to talk about it on a quarter-by-quarter basis. And it is a mathematical calculation. So we'll continue to put forward how we're doing against that approach. The other thing that I would say is, going back to the question that Charlie asked me, is what's the ratio that actually determines kind of what offset the other.

Right.

I think, to some degree every company has got old products and new products. And as time goes on, legacy and core become less interesting as a conversation and what's more interesting is, are you taking advantage of the opportunities that are afforded to you because of the focus of your business. And that's the story we're going to start to tell more clearly as we go forward.

And honestly, when I first became CEO, that was a really hard story to talk about because we hadn't made investments in certain areas that were in fact in the new swim lanes of growth business. We started to do that, so I think we'll be in a better position.

So, I think over time the ratios of one versus the other become less important, and what really becomes important is how much market share are we getting in the areas where there is in fact growth. And that's the story we want to start to tell in the coming quarters.

Yeah. That would be very exciting to hear about growth in new end markets where there's substantial growth. That would be a whole new spin. You're absolutely right. My last thought was, when do you expect the full effects of this latest restructuring, including the layoffs, to be realized?

Well, part of this -

You can't tell if it's like a year to go or two years, or is it just sort of ongoing or...?

Well, we've noted already that we have a plan, when we talked about it previously, 45%, 75% would be in a year, on track. But the most recent number that we just announced with the press release would suggest that it will be completed in 2013.

Okay.

By 2013.

Now, the last thing was, Carol Merry got on and said that there is a slide presentation. And it's funny, I've been all through the website, I've hit everything I could possibly hit. I couldn't find the slide presentation. And I'm assuming if I can't find it, others probably can't either. I don't know if you want to take time to walk me through that, but I would like to see it and others might like to see it also.

We'll look into that. It should be on the website.

Yeah. I've looked everywhere. I've been doing this for 35 years. I simply cannot, I just don't see it.

Okay. Well, Joe, we'll make sure we get it up there.

Okay. Very good. I think everybody would like to see it. Thanks so much.

Yes, thanks, Joe.

Okay, bye.

I would now like to turn the conference back over to Carol Merry for closing remarks.

Well, thanks everyone for joining us today. And we appreciate your interest. And this will conclude our conference call.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.