Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shaun C. Smith — Vice President-Finance & Investor Relations, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph P. Morgan — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, The Standard Register Co.
Robert M. Ginnan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Senior Managing Director-Sales & Trading, CJS Securities, Inc.
Joseph Perdue — Principal, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's Third Quarter Earnings Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.

I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Nicole, and good morning. Joining me today is Joe Morgan, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Ginnan, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that today's presentation may contain forward-looking language or projections. These comments are covered by the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings new release that was issued this morning, the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing our company website under the Investor Center.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. Management believes that the use of these measures will enhance our audience's understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in isolation or as a substitution of GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and our GAAP counterpart can be found in the earnings news release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe will have some opening comments. He'll be followed by Bob's review of the financials. Once Bob has completed his report, we'll take questions.

So with that, I'll turn the program over to Joe for his opening comments.

Thanks, Shaun. Thank you all for joining us. Bob and I will share responsibility this morning for communicating the performance in the third quarter. And also, I think it's very important right now to provide context on how this quarter fits within our strategic transformation that we've talked about for the last several quarters.

Third quarter performance did not meet our expectations, with revenue from our core market facing, core solutions growing slower than expected in some areas, and the legacy business forms product sales declining a little more than expected. You can see the performance results that we released today.

There may be some people on the phone that are here for the first time. But even if you've been here few other times, I think it's important for us to convey what legacy and core mean because we'll be talking about that throughout the call.

Legacy, our legacy products typically are focused on our customers' operations and they're primarily related, they generally are documents. Our core solutions, they're aligned with our company's growth strategy and as we go through the conversation, we'll be more specific by market what those solutions and products look like.

At this point, we actually cross the 40% core ratio against our total sales for the first time. And so 41% of our business revenue came from core and 59% came from legacy. It's a pretty important inflection point in the business.

The third quarter was a difficult economic – excuse me, a difficult operating environment for our business. The economic conditions that began to form in previous quarters did affect our customers. However, our strategy of transforming from legacy to core continues to be validated by our customers, even if it's been at a little bit slower rate. As you can see, our core solutions and products did grow in the quarter, but our legacy decline overshadowed that growth along with some delays with implementation of some pretty sizable opportunities that we sold and closed last year.

In our earnings news release for the quarter, we included more information about our markets and industries that we serve. We believe this will help you, our investors to understand more about our challenges and opportunities, which are actually greater.

Bob will go through the financial performance in greater detail during his presentation to align it with the revenue detail, the earnings performance and obviously cash, which is very important to us. As we execute the strategy, we've continued to see success with investments and solution launches. We've made a great deal of progress. One of the things that I wanted to make sure we did a better job of when I became CEO was in the core is to create a portfolio that had growth potential for us going forward. It was also relevant to the market segments we serve as well as where the trends were in general industry.

In the third quarter, in a market specific way, we closed the Dialog Medical acquisition. It's already contributing to our results with critical communication solutions for educating and informing patients. An interesting note here is, we trained a certain portion of our sales force that existed – exists in our company in the Healthcare business and we've already been able to close a couple of deals within our Healthcare business due to that relationship that we now have, of course, with Dialog. So that gives us some pretty good confidence going forward that that will continue to be a contributor for our business as we hoped it would.

New solutions launched during the quarter were primarily in healthcare innovation and around our critical communications platforms for both our Commercial Markets and Financial Services business.

Let me take a couple of minutes and talk about healthcare innovation. We launched a platform called Celebrate Health, which is our technology software in services-based solution that helps marketers promote healthcare observances. We will see that grow to hundreds of observances, we started with a slightly smaller number, approximately 65 to 70 ranging from – for example, cancer awareness, other types of observances that you would normally see in business.

We also announced a relationship with Poken that provides Standard Register the exclusivity in the – to the suite of interactive touch marketing tools in North America. We've used that in our own tradeshows to create kind of a social media connection with clients. So we are seeing some real excitement within existing customers to take that on.

From a marketing services solutions standpoint, we introduced several things in the quarter. We introduced a local marketing services suite to drive brand consistency from content creation through campaign execution. Again, you'll notice I didn't mention the word print. Print is an outcome of that, but in order for us to be successful we have to have the software and services embedded with the customer relationship, again moving upstream in our conversation with our clients.

We also introduced a suite of promotional product solutions that in the form of a company store for again brand and reputation consistency, not to be confused with becoming a promotional products company, but recognizing that promotional products need to be integrated in the marketing services suite as we drive toward advancing the reputation of our clients in their complete brands positioning.

On the Critical Communication Solution side, a few things were introduced, one being an integrated statement and billing solution that allows customers to manage multichannel communications, resulting in lower costs around time for invoicing to payment as well as creating more cross-selling opportunities, again leveraging the web and software. You see a trend happening here where most of our releases now are around technology and services.

Another example in healthcare was the solution called InterimID. It's a standalone solution that provides patient identification armbands and labels when – through an automated workflow system. It is a disaster recovery solution that again gets out the whole regulatory compliance component in healthcare, which is, again, came from our market focus.

Another example of market focus, our release – or situation, we talked a couple of quarters ago about one of the things that we were doing with market focus, which was to get connected with our clients. One way that we did that is in October, we hosted a Financial Marketing Leadership Summit in Boston, which was similar to the Patient Safety Summit that we had earlier in the year in Baltimore, where we brought together Financial Service industry leaders, CMO's, Vice Presidents of Marketing to talk about the challenges that they faced. We had a gentleman by the name of Seth Godin speak at this session. He's very renowned in the marketing area. And he changed a lot of people's thinking and we were able to present who we are in our new brand in a way that has since led to some really interesting conversations, which will ultimately give us – strengthen our position.

This is really important from a market validation standpoint as we look at our strategy. The results in the quarter are obviously less than we expect. And it's not – they're not acceptable, but we know the strategy is being validated through our experiences in the marketplace. I personally attended and spoke at this session as well.

Next week, in the continuation of our healthcare advisory groups, we have our second event where we'll have a pretty good number of healthcare leaders working with us in helping us craft the future portfolio of our business around the continuum of Healthcare Communication. And that is one of the main outcomes of our strategic focus around markets, is to listen to the market to develop our future portfolio as opposed to us hoping that they'll buy the things that we create. And that's been very successful for us as well and I expect great things will come from that.

In October, early October, just a little bit ago, we announced significant investment in our Digital Color technology platform that will position us for leadership in this fast growing segment of the print space. We also – as part of that, you'll change – you'll see a change in our discussion, it's not about the equipment, it's about the integrated platform, which takes the web and our secure network and puts us in a position to do things that we could not do previously and now actually are being – giving us a position with our customers that is advantageous as we go forward. The new equipment will be integrated into our business process and workflow automation as I mentioned and we'll have full integration by the year-end.

One important part of this though is we continue to invest in our infrastructure to maintain leadership and security and technology systems that could be leveraged among all of our business units. Our investments in security continue to be significant and we continue to be recognized by customers as they come in and do audits, but also on a third-party basis as we have several areas that require us to be certified and we're able to proceed and continue to evolve there.

I'll conclude with this point. Our performance was not where we wanted it to be in the third quarter. But I am very confident and we are confident in our strategy. We're pleased with the traction that we've gained in our core solutions and that we're gaining in our core markets.

With that, I'm going to turn it over to Bob to go through our financials, and then of course, we'll have questions at the end. Thank you.

Thanks, Joe. Before we start with the P&L, we'll do a refresh on our major financial goals. First of all, stabilizing revenue, while the quarter was disappointing, as Joe described, we continue to have a stabilizing revenue as the legacy business declined, but then the core business starts to grow, as we went from a trailing four quarters of $25 million loss to $21 million loss.

On the earnings side, on trailing four quarters, $10.2 million versus $1.3 million, obviously, skewed by the termination of the retirement healthcare benefit that Joe mentioned. If you factor that out, plus the significant increase in pension amortization, we're still ahead at about $2.2 million versus $1.3 million. On the cash side, we've used a lot more cash this year. And that usage of cash is all at capital spending in our acquisition. We spent about $8 million more on advancing the strategy into the future.

So turning to the P&L, revenue, as Joe mentioned, we're at a 3.7% decline at $157.5 million for the quarter. We did have growth in the core. However, the legacy products continue to decline at increased rates. We are now over 60-40 in terms of our mix of business there.

Our gross margin declined 2.4% to 29.3%. This was a – partly a product of the lower revenue, but also we did have some high cost scenarios such as materials and also investments as we are ramping up in the strategy area here, so 29.3% versus $51.8 million or 31.7% last year.

On the SG&A side, you'll see a $45 million versus $44.6 million, a slight increase there, primarily we had about $600,000 more SG&A associated with the acquisition of Dialog Medical, it is now part of the SG&A base as we complete the third quarter here.

You'll see the increase on a per quarter basis of the pension amortization. We have the benefit of the postretirement termination of $20.2 million leaving us with $14.6 million versus $2.7 million of net income last year. You'll also note that last year we did have a reversal of some environmental accruals that helped us nicely a couple of cents in the last year. So ending the quarter at $0.29 versus $0.05, and of that $0.29, about $0.42 relates to the termination of the plan.

On a year-to-date basis down 1.8%, so you can see the change in the quarter that we've talked about here 3.7% for the quarter. SG&A or – I am sorry gross margin of 31% versus 31.7%. We did have a pretty significant LIFO benefit in last year's numbers and that put gross margin pretty flat on a year-over-year comparison. SG&A down slightly versus last year and overall a $13.9 million pre-tax versus $1.1 million. Again, you have the $20 million termination benefit in there.

Turning to the segments. For Healthcare, consistent with the story for the company, we saw increased decline in the legacy product offset by core growth. Core solutions, however, had a lower rate. We also saw revenue coming in for the quarter for Dialog Medical at $800,000 of revenue in the quarter.

For Commercial, we saw improvement in the rate of decline there to $80 million versus $83.7 million, so some good improvement there. And again the same story on the legacy versus core in the Commercial business.

Industrial, we did have growth in Industrial. However, it had slowed to what it's been over the last several quarters, primarily softening in our manufacturing parts solution, which our customers saw some pretty big slowdowns there. And we've been experiencing good growth there and saw that slowdown, but still ended good growth. We had good growth in in-mold labeling and we had good growth in our Mexican facility.

Turning to the balance sheet, we see that we have continued to improve this year our turnover on our working capital. Our net debt did increase to $45.5 million as we spent money on capital and on the acquisition in the quarter. Our pension liability has continued to improve this year as we made contributions and continued the amortization process. And for the quarter, we actually improved our equity quarter-over-quarter and since the prior year. Partly there is a portion of the retirement benefit that helped improve the equity there as well.

On the cash flow, we've covered most of the components. You will see capital expenditures of $12 million versus $6.5 million last year. Our acquisitions are doubled, and our pension contributions are up as well, which is driving the overall need of cash flow for the year.

So with that Nicole, I'd like to turn it back to you for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer with CJS Securities.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, Charlie.

Hi, Charlie.

All right. So [indiscernible] (17:40) just obviously this morning, let's start up with – on the business side and it's obviously the – I know you guys were disappointed in – where the sales kind of came out. You mentioned Joe a little bit about timing of some contracts that had been awarded or won last year and that appeared to kind of really vet out the revenue. Are you confident that that could potentially turnaround and as we kind of exit the year into next year or do you think that that contract is just, those contracts just aren't going to really flush out as you thought?

No. Those two will absolutely appear in the fourth quarter. It's – I don't want to leave you with, that's the whole mess. But those are – those are contracts that we've already made the investments. They are fully implemented and we'll see the benefit in the fourth quarter.

Yes.

And then have the run rate next year.

Okay. And obviously the financial industry is having turmoil with BoA and the like cutting back and things like that and obviously it probably had some impact on your business as well. Are you seeing some of that at least that they can maybe potentially create some opportunities to maybe go out for some outsourcing business potentially?

Yeah. I think you are highlighting a very interesting trend. There is more outsourcing discussion taking place around, particularly the legacy side than we've seen in a long-time. The question about that is really the profit opportunity that comes with some of that revenue and we have to be careful, where we spend our time off. We are obviously spending more of our energy on the core, even though we didn't have the kind of growth we are looking for. We did grow that part of the business. And if we had that growth across the whole portfolio, we would be having a far better conversation than we are.

But, yes, there is opportunity there for sure. I think your point on as we mention economic turmoil, the two key areas there for us are retail banking, which you pointed out, and then the other one is what Bob mentioned around certain aspects of manufacturing. That slowdown or that lack of clarity absolutely affected us in the quarter. But, I think there is opportunity because of the investments that we've made. We know – and I shouldn't say think, we know there is opportunity due to the investments we've made. So our future expectations continue to be high.

Excellent. And then, shifting over to Healthcare, I mean there has been a lot of talk lately about ICD-9 going to ICD-10 in terms of the coding that physicians use and it's a pretty significant jump in the number of codes that are going to be implemented in 2013, I think it's something like 20,000 to 120,000 codes. Have you explored at all the potential ramifications on your customers and potentially obviously documentation needs are going to go up. What do you think about that opportunity, have you really explored that or is it still kind of too early to kind of even talk about it much?

Yeah, that's actually a really good lead into why we went to the market focus and specifically the advisory councils. That's a topic that we'll be – discuss next week, that among many. And one of the questions that we want to talk to that group about is, how do we assist you in – we would want to take advantage of it obviously, but how do we assist them in ensuring that their institutions are effectively managing that issue that you raised.

So that really is one of the reasons why we've gone forward with the advisory council. That – similar issues exist in retail banking as well. The regulatory changes are having a dramatic impact on revenue streams for customers and of course when that happens, they have to reduce their costs, which has discussions about all sorts of work flow and process automation and technology, and also I think in our previous portfolio, we would have had far less opportunities than we do today with the technology investments we've made. So that's been a real important part of why we've chosen to take the approach we have.

Yeah, it just sounds like a very intriguing opportunity that could emerge for you guys. That's why I brought it up?

No, it's a good point. Thank you.

Great. And then just shifting gears now to the pension and the elimination of the post retirement benefits. And maybe just talk about a little bit about the potential cash flow benefits from that. I see that you're going to save about $1 million, sorry, about $4 million a year, I think you said in the press release in terms of the amortization. But is it going to be a cash benefit to that as well, the elimination of these benefits?

Yeah, Charlie, there is actually a couple of components there. The ongoing amortization is actually a credit today, so that credit will be gone now as we took all that out of the company with income section of the equity. So the credit side will change going into next year. But more importantly on the cash side, it's probably over the last three years, it averaged maybe $1.2 million, it's been on a decline, of course, it's been a frozen plan. So, my guess is probably around $800,000 to $1 million a year on the cash side. And it also takes risk out of the equation as well.

Got it. And then any other changes you see coming in terms of – I know there is a lot of focus about pension being discussed at the government level and obviously the states are having issues too. So what are you hearing in terms of potential changes to pension requirements, et cetera that could be good or bad, either way for you guys?

Well, as you know, we've frozen our plan already. So we've kind of taken the biggest action you can take there. In terms of the legal changes, right now we're not hearing a whole lot in terms of additional changes, we did take advantage of changes that were put in place a couple of years ago in terms of how you spread out some of your losses from a funding perspective. We have done that, we haven't heard any more. I know we would obviously like to see some help on the interest rate side as interest rates have been kind of frozen in place for a few years now. And obviously that would be a tremendous benefit. So we would love to see some help there.

Got it. And then just remind me on the balance sheet, what kind of flexibility you have on your facility in terms of availability?

We have a $100 million facility and we have about $45 million drawn right now.

Got it. And you're paying what kind of rate currently?

We're paying a little bit over 2%, we pay LIBOR plus a spread.

Got it. Okay, great. And then just, given you do have some flexibility there obviously, Joe, maybe talk a little bit about your penchant for maybe some further tuck-ins here?

You said penchant for tuck-ins?

Yeah, just your desire to make some more tuck-ins?

Yeah, no. I just wanted to make sure I heard what you said.

Yes.

Yeah, that we continue to evolve. As I think I mentioned in the last call, our strategy actually has two major components. One is seeking market specific solutions and then the other recognizing that there are solutions that apply to all markets. So, we are looking at discrete solutions that can help us accelerate the revenue growth and profit of the company in those two areas. So the penchant for that is high in terms of understanding how beneficial that could be to the portfolio now that we've evolved.

The question that you asked about availability is important in that discussion as well. Cash has a lot to do with our ability to move forward in those areas, but we are actually looking at that from a confidence in our ability to do it with the Dialog success and it's only been a relatively short period of time. And while I would like to see the in-mould labeling business growing faster, it's also been a substantial gain in a relatively short period of time as well. We have on an intellectual property basis grown our patent portfolio substantially in the last year, and we have grown at a very rapid pace, although it's a relatively small base. But the companies we're doing business with are companies that anybody would want to do business with. These are notables, so it's not insignificant. So, the answer – I just gave you a longwinded answer, but the short answer would be yes, that's something that we continue to look forward to doing.

Got it. And then just lastly just talking a little bit about the competitive environment, and obviously your cross-town rivals had iterations of problems along the way and probably causing some volatility in their business. Are you seeing any further contraction, I should say, in kind of the capacity in the kind of traditional documents arena that's maybe potentially beneficial down the road for you?

Yeah, we continue to – going back to your penchant for tuck-ins, we see an increased activity of companies trying to get out of this, this legacy stuff, so we get a lot of phone calls about that as you can imagine. But there have been an increasing number of companies unfortunately not making it. And we continue to see that take place particularly on the legacy side, which is why our investments went into the digital network, not just the equipment but the ability to be secure.

The two companies that I mentioned, which I can't say who they are, but the two companies that I mentioned that were slightly delayed in the quarter would not have been able to be taken on as companies, if it were not for the infrastructure that we have in place around security and web-to-print and networking and distribution. It's a strategic advantage that we have. And so I think what we're starting to see there is that network is unique in the marketplace. And so there is an attractiveness to that not only with our customers, but there are other companies out there in the market that see it too.

Great, okay. Thank you very much for all the color.

Thanks Charlie.

Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Perdue with Wells Fargo Advisors.

Good morning.

Good morning. How are you?

Good morning.

I've been following the stock for a long time. I'm the Senior Vice President of Investments. Back on January 16, 2011, there was talk of a $30 million to $40 million improvement to net annual earnings by 2012. Obviously, a lot of things have changed since then. But I estimated that to be earnings on an after-tax basis of around $0.75 to $0.95. Since that point, of course the economy's had its ups and downs, the company has changed its focus. Are numbers like that out of the realm of possibility for 2012 and 2013? I mean, is that concept gone at this point?

I don't think the concept in general is gone. I think, as you said, there has been a lot of ups and downs in the economy. I think when you look underneath our business, the acceleration through not only – we talk about this always in the quarter, but over the point in time in terms of the legacy business that's going away and then coupled with the investment going into the core, I think that makes it very difficult to see. However, as you do move forward, we start to turn, as we mentioned in the quarter, we're now up over 40% in the core and that will continue to progress. So the timing may be in question, but I think that's still the longer-term view of things.

That's great. Secondly, with the $0.42 termination benefit and a earnings of $0.29, it was then an actual loss of $0.13 for the quarter?

Plus or minus maybe a rounding there, but that's the general idea, yeah.

Right, that's fine. Secondly, I'm glad to see that you've declared the December dividend, that's great news. Is there – do you think there could be any problem maintaining the $0.20 dividend for 2012 for two reasons, on an earnings basis and also the Ohio rule regarding pension liabilities and dividends, do you see any problem with 2012?

In regards to the dividend, that's a quarter-by-quarter decision by the board. So it would be hard for us to – in fact, we can't project that. Obviously it goes back – it ties back to your first question, which is the performance of the business will dictate our ability to do that, which also relates to the second half of your second question, which is in regards to whether the Ohio law actually comes into play or not, so.

And is that Ohio law frightening or do you think you're going to be able to maneuver around that or lower the liability of the pension account to the point or earn enough income or I think there is a stock side to it and an interest side to it. Do you think you'll be in good shape for 2012 so that doesn't come into play?

Well – Joe, this is Bob. I think that – let me talk to it as of the end of the third quarter.

Right.

And as of the end of the third quarter, obviously we declared a dividend, have plenty of capital surplus there to do that. So, on an ongoing basis, that – I wouldn't see why you would expect anything other than that. However, the thing that you have to keep in mind here is that the pension accounting does on the balance sheet go to a mark-to-market basis. So depending how the market performance, what happens with interest rates, that's always the question. So it's hard for me to go anything beyond the third quarter where it is this right now.

Okay. Well, at least rates have moved up a little bit recently. So that might be helpful.

Yeah.

There's two old family trusts that have been in place, I understand that for years that own 50% of the stock and I think three quarters of the voting rights. Have they made any comment as far as alternatives like they'd like to see somebody buy you out or they would like to have any kind of changes, any public statements made from the trusts?

Nothing that we've been made aware of at this point. Well, there is nothing public. But we haven't been privy to those conversations if they've taken place.

Okay. And then if a buyer did want Standard Register, would it really need to be somebody with a pension surplus, would they go to offset your deficit with their surplus, is that like an insurmountable – is your deficit so big that only a company with a surplus might want to take [ph] your spot (32:31)?

I don't know if we've done too much research in that and I don't know if I can answer that. I do know that the last survey that I saw that was three quarters of the pensions out there were in deficits. So that obviously would play into that. And in terms of the combination rules and how that work, I don't know if I have any thoughts there, Joe.

Okay, okay. And then my last question is in the second quarter conference call, you mentioned that you thought the second half would be better. And then Charlie answered the question on the delay in deals going into the fourth quarter so that was good to here. Do you have any comments on the fourth quarter and 2012 at this point as far as any kind of projections?

We don't. We're still not in a position to provide guidance. The only comment that I would make on the fourth quarter is, generally between the third quarter and the fourth quarter, we do see a positive change. And so at this time, we don't see an indication that that trend wouldn't continue, but we're not giving – we're not in position to provide guidance at this time.

All right. So it's normally a positive change plus some business that didn't fall into the third should fall into the fourth. So hopefully that will be a good quarter we will see. Thank you so much for your time.

Thank you, Joe.

Thank you, Joe.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Dennis Van Zelfden (34:00) with Brazos Research.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, Dennis.

Hi, Dennis.

All of my other questions have been answered. So good luck on the transition.

Thanks.

Thank you.

We appreciate it.

And there are no further questions at this time. I'll now turn the call over to Shaun Smith for closing remarks.

Okay, that will wrap up our call for the third quarter. We look forward to presenting our fourth quarter and annual results in February of next year. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.