Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shaun C. Smith — Vice President-Finance & Investor Relations, The Standard Register Co.
Joseph P. Morgan — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, The Standard Register Co.
Robert M. Ginnan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, The Standard Register Co.
Charles Strauzer — Senior Managing Director-Sales & Trading, CJS Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register's Second Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today's conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of the Standard Register website at www.standardregister.com/investor center.

I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Michael. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Ginnan, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that today's conversation may contain forward-looking language or projections. These comments need to be taken into consideration with the Safe Harbor statement that can be found either in the earnings news release that was issued this morning, the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing our company website under the Investor Center.

In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. It's management's belief that the use of these measures will enhance our audiences' understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used in substitution or isolation of GAAP, and a reconciliation between these measures and their GAAP counterparts can be found in the earnings news release that was issued this morning.

For today's presentation, Joe has some opening comments. This will be followed by Bob's review of the financials. When Bob has completed his report, we'll take questions.

So, I'll turn the program over to Joe for his opening comments.

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. I'll start by saying that overall, we're pleased with some areas where we are growing during the quarter, but, of course, not satisfied with some other ones, particularly in the revenue and profitability area.

We're continuing to focus on that particularly in the second half, so that we can have a performance that's more consistent with what our expectations are. We've been making progress on the strategy of transitioning the portfolio of products and services from legacy to core.

In the deck, we've attempted to define more clearly for you, which is consistent with questions that have been asked previously, about the differences between core and legacy, and I'll speak briefly to that in a moment.

Our mix continues to change a few percentage points, in legacy, it's 65%. And then our core, 35% as we exit the second quarter. In the second quarter, this is the part that I am very excited about, is that we did have double-digit revenue growth in our core solutions as we noted in the press release, in the market segments that we're focusing most of our energy on.

The market is validating the new strategy since we last spoke. We have, of course, moved forward with our new branding and positioning and we're demonstrating that we can, in fact, grow organically within the core segment – the core solutions segment. We all know the story about the legacy product portfolio.

In addition, as we said, by being market-focused, we're learning more and our expertise is yielding different insight than previously in the business history. And as a result of that, we said we would acquire capabilities that would be consistent with that learnings – those learnings in the healthcare core solutions. And it's giving us better in-roads into targets that we have within markets like healthcare. I'll speak a little bit more about our acquisition of Dialog in a few moments to give you some more specifics on that. But we did complete that acquisition in the quarter, and we are very excited about what that brings to the company.

We still have a lot of work to do, and I am a bit disappointed at this point in our lack of revenue growth and the dip in profitability. Bob, will get into some specific details there. But it's really the revenue that will drive the profitability improvement for the company and the related financial performance. But we are making progress, just not as quick as we needed to be.

The overall economic outlook for the second half depends on the sector, but we're seeing a lot of pressure in the financial services business, the recent Wall Street Journal article, I think is a good example of what's going on in particular retail banking which is where we spend a lot of our time.

But our diversity of products and services and solutions I think will serve us well as those conditions unfold. But, we expect that our growth is not going to be linear. I think there will be some moments like the one we're experiencing right now that we'll have to address as we go forward. But what I look at is the fundamentals of the business, and I see the growth where it needs to be. And that's really what we've been emphasizing for the last year or so.

The market tells us we're on track and we're going to continue focusing on building a sustainable business by investing in growing our core solutions that are most valuable to our customers and providing legacy solutions and related customer service that they depend on from our company. That's the basis by which we have the right to go forward and talk to them about the new things that are impacting their business.

Reputation is the central point of the conversation. And as time goes on, we'll give more examples as to how that's evolving for our business. We come at this – we start from an operational focus, the intensity which is really our legacy and we advance through safety and security and marketing and that's really what will show in terms of the portfolio evolution. And I'll share a little bit more with you as I go through a few of the slides.

So, now I'd like to do is move to the slides. If you look at our financial goals in terms of stabilization of revenue, you can see trailing four quarters that we're continuing to make progress there. On a profit basis, we continue to make profit – progress in that regard as well. And in regards to cash, you can see that we're again moving in a positive direction year-to-date for trailing four quarters.

If you look at the core versus legacy, I'll let you go through this, and I think it will create questions for probably a little bit of this call and may be in future. But we want to make sure that you understand exactly how we're structuring our business going forward at the portfolio level. And that's what this slide intends to do. But I'll give you just a couple of these. The first one, if you look at the overall company strategy, if you think about the core, it's around introducing new solutions for specific target markets. It's leveraging the expertise. Examples are In-Mold Labeling, which we've talked about and I am going to talk about briefly here, which is really a very unique marking technology that's focused on the Industrial segment.

And then if you look at what we just acquired with Dialog Medical, it's a capability around informed consent that applies very specifically to the healthcare space. So, you can see that we're taking those knowledge points and acting on them and creating advantage for the business. And then, also, on the legacy side it's really more around growing share and retention of existing customers, which we've done a good job of over the last several years.

Now, if we look at the solutions then, what changes is the conversation starts to change a little bit. We talk about software and services and new product solutions on the core side, but if you get into the legacy it's really primarily a product discussion, which really gets into print-centric activity.

Now, if you take a look now at the company's shared services results. You see for the quarter, we had a slight decline in revenue, although the core solutions did, in fact, grow. We did have a higher mix of legacy products and those do continue to outpace the core. And again, if you go back to the math of 65/35, you can see the challenge there.

Our telesales grew through the – as well as the web sales grew. That's a change. We made that specific investment over the last couple of years and we're seeing the benefit of that. Really in two areas on the telesales side. One is we're growing the revenue through that telephonic approach. But we're also using that as a training ground for new capability. We're bringing – many of our people are starting there and moving out into the field, which is really exciting for us. It's been a tremendous benefit.

Our continuous improvements activities have continued to deliver cost savings on the MyC3 front and you can see that in our gross margin performance. And as we had a press release recently we did, in fact, score in the top 5 as it relates to Carbon disclosure. So sustainability has two meanings in our company, sustainability of the enterprise but also sustainability as it comes to the environment. We continue to focus there.

In the spirit of trying to more clearly describe the business transformation, we're starting to now organize our conversation around core and legacy. And we're going to give you some insight as to how we are positioning new things to in fact grow the company. So, if we talk first about healthcare, pretty good rebound from the first quarter actually slight growth in the quarter. Operating income was pretty close to flat in the same circumstance.

You can see the definition of core solutions here around patient safety and identification in consulting, and you can see the acquisition here for Dialog. We did sign an agreement on the marketing services side, which is important because that is what we'll call an enterprise-wide core capability that we'll be bringing to each one of the markets, which is really around marketing services. We continue to win contracts and our legacy products are defined here. So, we had a moderate decline there, which in some ways offset the growth we had in the core solutions, thus the flat quarter.

Let me talk for a minute about Dialog Medical. We did acquire 100% ownership on July 6, it's a firm located in Atlanta, it reports into our Healthcare business. Their core capability is used by a large number of hospitals and as you can see, physicians. So there is two good things there. We have – we do business with about 64% of the hospitals in the United States. You can see 200 hospitals there. There is a large opportunity here for cross-selling. And also we don't spend a lot of time selling directly to physicians. So this is a new segment that opens up for us. And you can see some of the attributes of what they're doing here. Their revenue is approximately $5 million and we'll see some of that, of course, in the second half of the year.

One of the things that we – our first acquisition in the new structure of the company was really a capability that we're now selling. This company has a capability, but already has revenue, which is really the direction that we want to go in as we make acquisitions going forward.

In the commercial business unit, again, commercial business unit is the financial services business as well as commercial markets, which are segments like transportation and retail, just, for example. We're focusing that business now on marketing and communication solutions. And in financial services, branch automation within the retail banking segment. So again, another example of unique capability, you can't really sell branch automation to non-financial services, specifically retail banking.

We launched an integrated statement and billing program for managing print, mailing and electronic transmission in the quarter, again, focusing around critical communication. It's an example of the transition from being paper and print-centric to being somewhat agnostic to the method by which communications go to our customers, customers. And this is a pretty important move for the business.

And, also, our promo solution was launched just in the last couple of weeks, and that is really a component of our marketing solution, not a product play. It's really to give a complete view to our customers, a single place to go to buy all that is, in fact, marketing services and marketing solutions. Again, you can see our legacy products are defined there for you.

The industrial business unit, our core solutions grew significantly in the quarter and the core solutions in that business, again are manufacturing part solutions which are labels that are used in the industrial business, Tech Lit and In-Mold Labeling, which is the – In-Mold Labeling rather, which is what we invested in previously.

The first half CAGR on that is 156% which is really quite exciting for us. And we are seeing greater success in Mexico, which is, again, an investment that we made a couple of years ago. We are starting to see tremendous benefit there. I personally met with several customers in the industrial sector and that's become a very important asset for our company as they balance manufacturing here and across the border.

Talk for a couple of minutes about In-Mold Labeling. This is an early stage business. The revenue is – it's not insignificant because the projects we are working on are with very large corporations that are impacting their brand and their reputation in the market segment. Very large pipeline, in a relatively short period of time and we are very excited about the advancements that continue to be made in the technology there. We have grown year-on-year, as I mentioned. And what's exciting now is the pipeline of opportunities, and our opportunity is to close those obviously and turn them into revenue and related profit.

You can see on the next slide, which I won't go into, but it just demonstrates on a product that we can all probably relate to, the difference between a pressure sensitive label, which candidly is MPS, and In-Mold Labeling.

What our message is, that you need to use the right technology for the right application and when you do it, the brand and reputation of that organization is enhanced, and you can see that on this wheelbarrow, if you use In-Mold Labeling in the bottom picture versus inappropriately designed pressure sensitive label, you get a much better outcome.

I will leave you with this one thought, that on a go-forward basis, we have defined the attributes of legacy and core. We are excited about the fact are core business is in fact growing double-digital in all of the core markets that we are focused on. And we are now as a result of the insight we have gotten from the marketplace making different kinds of investments.

So, on the next call, I want to talk to you about what we are, in fact, investing in. I am going to give you an update on Dialog, the Dialog acquisition. I am also going to give you some insight into our software and services capabilities that exists in a couple of our key markets. And then I am also going to talk to you about a solution set called marketing services that gets positioned differently in each one of our markets, but we are releasing some new technologies in the quarter for Q3 that we will be in a position to share with you, which are very exciting and have been under development for a better part of a year.

So with that, I would like to turn it over to Bob.

Thank you, Joe. As Joe said, revenue for the quarter flat or two-tenths decline at $154.3 million. The real story on gross margin, 31% versus the prior year of 31.4% and that's really attributable to paper prices really taking hold in the second quarter, and our price recovery is lagging there about eight-tenth on the margin there. Yesterday flat at $45.9 versus $45.8. We do point out in the 10-Q that we did have a nice sales tax project last year that generated about $1 million of refund into SG&A. So actually down when you factor that out.

Pension amortization is up as we discussed both in the fourth quarter and first quarter call for the year, up pretty significantly. We did have a pension settlement in our non-qualified pension plan that we actually talked about last quarter as well there. We did do some true-up work on our restructuring reserve generated about $300,000 pick-up there versus $1 million in the prior year. And overall, net loss of $1.3 million versus $0.2 million last year. So the challenge on the margin is that the paper price recovery, other than that, we are actually continuing to make progress on our gross margin improvement.

On a year-to-date basis, down nine-tenth, so you can see the two-tenth decline in the second quarter is actually an improvement versus the first quarter. Margin at 31.8%, actually one-tenth improvement in a couple of key things there. We talked about the price in the second quarter. And last year, in the first quarter, we had a difference of $1.6 million favorable LIFO. So the underlying operations continue to improve there on the margin despite the challenges on paper prices.

SG&A at $92.2, down versus prior year. Cost savings continuing to kick in there along with really good experiences in our medical claims expense that helped driving that reduction as well. Pension, same for the year-to-date at the first and second quarters there at $12.1 million versus $9.3 million, leaving us with a pre-tax loss of $700,000 versus $1.6 million in the prior year or a penny loss versus $0.03 last year.

On the market side, a couple of notable events in the second quarter. First of all, healthcare came in at two-tenths growth and that's significant because the last two quarters have been between 5% and 6% decline, so an improvement there. Also, a better trend in financial services, didn't quite get the growth but improved over where we've been. Commercial market continue to be in about the same area and we did have 13% growth in industrial as we continue to have good solid performance there from a growth perspective.

Commercial markets, probably the biggest pressure there was both in government and transportation sectors where we had the biggest declines there. On the gross margin, price again issue for the quarter in the healthcare and financial services. In the commercial markets, our revenue declines actually were in pretty low-margin areas so you actually see a flat or actually improved performance there on the commercial markets.

On a year-to-date basis, we see a 2.9% decline in healthcare, primarily driven by clinical forms as they decline, and then the rest of the trends as we have discussed.

On the balance sheet, a few notable events on the balance sheet. First of all, you'll see that our working capital is down $5 million on a year-to-date basis, primarily accounts receivable as we collected some of the year-end receivables in the first quarter.

You'll also see capital down $4 million as depreciation is still outpacing capital spending. However, we've seen some pretty significant increases in capital spending in the second quarter.

Progress on net debt, down a little over $1 million in the quarter, which represents positive cash flow on a year-to-date basis. We made progress on the pension liability and you'll see the equity is actually up despite the loss in the second quarter.

On the cash flow side, I mentioned capital expenditures. We had $4.7 million in the second quarter versus about $1.9 million in the first quarter, so up significantly on the capital side. We do have the acquisition coming in in the third quarter here, early in the third quarter, and our pension fund, we actually dropped a little bit in the second quarter to $5 million or $13 million for the year.

So, on a year-to-date basis, $1.3 million positive, $4.3 million negative. We do expect the capital to continue at least the second quarter rate along with the acquisition and increased pension funding, so we do expect negative cash flow in the third quarter. Basically, our good cash management has enabled us to make these critical investment decisions as we move forward.

So, with that, we will open up the call for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.

Hi good morning

Good morning, Charlie.

Hey, Joe, if you could talk a little bit about – obviously, you are pleased with some of the growth initiatives kind of taking hold a little bit here. And when you look at some of the kind of lagging areas of the business, are there parts of the business that when you kind of continually kind of review them that you can say, hey, you know what, I don't think we're going to really get these things turned around, and it's just not profitable enough for us to even continue doing them? Are you thinking about maybe kind of moving away from some of those areas that would maybe unmask some of that growth that's going on?

Yeah. I think your point is exactly the strategy. We are emphasizing the core. If you go back to Bob's final comment around managing cash flow so that we can invest in the things that are going to have the greatest potential going forward, some of those decisions are now being made because of the market insight that we have gotten. And, candidly, you can't turn around a business that is less and less required in the market to achieve our customers' objectives. And, candidly, some of that is business forms. And so, we're seeing that decline, we're managing that decline in what we're – of course, our strategy is to take our insight and apply it into new growth areas that our customers want to spend money on.

The trick for us is to delicately move from one to the other because many of those things that we've done do add value to our customers and add value to us in the form of cash. So yes, we are prioritizing the legacy and the core. And I think there will be moments when we might exit a product category or emphasize something more than another. But that is, in fact, the way we look at the business, the way you are describing it right now. As things progress and we see more progress on the core, and it becomes less – there is kind of a crossing point where we have enough momentum and enough profit and cash coming out of the core that those decisions become a little easier for us, we're just not quite there yet.

Got it. And then when you look at the cap expenses the back half of the year, Joe, remind us really kind of what the nuts and bolts of that spend is for and what kind of return do you expect to get off of that over the long-term?

Well, most of the investment that we are making – if you go back to the legacy and core, on the legacy side, CapEx that goes into our legacy manufacturing is to ensure that we have safety handled in our facilities that's critically important to us. It's investments in quality and productivity where it matters. And productivity only matters if it's a growth-oriented product set. So even in the legacy, there are some products that grow. So we do, of course, spend money there.

But the majority of our investments are on the core, which is – honestly, as you look at the print space, for example, we won't spend a lot of money on traditional printing and offset production of business forms, we just won't spend money there. Where we will spend money is on our digital network and secure warehouse and distribution and logistics around that. We will absolutely continue to spend money in that area and evolve.

We are also spending CapEx on simplifying the way our customers interact with us, which would be web interfaces so that there is less and less touch on transactions. Our transactions actually – if our transactions were our revenue discussion, we would have a growth discussion because transactions are getting smaller and more frequent as business evolves. It's definitely moving to a more on-demand world, even in the traditional business. And so as a result, we need to take our expertise on things like SMARTworks and advance the platform.

So I would say you are going to see more money spent in software and services. I think you'll see money spent on things like digital printing when it comes to printing, and then I think you're going to see us spending money on accretive improvement to the portfolio, which will be new solutions that we bring forward.

Got it. And then, when you look at the overall – the margin profile, I know that you had a little tick down year-over-year in gross margins. Is there anything that you see that would prevent margins from perhaps expanding year-over-year in the second half of this year?

I'll take that one, Charlie. I think that there is a couple of things here. As we continue to advance some of these core solutions, we do expect some margin there. However, I would say that the pressures on the legacy business will continue. So hopefully what that says is that when you balance those out that we'll see margins somewhere kind of similar to what we have probably seen over the last four quarters.

Okay. Got it. Great.

If you look at the – Charlie, if you look at very specifically, if you look at the financial services sector, it's very clear what the banking side is focused on. And we are squarely in the middle of that. The good news is that we understand it very well. So I think we will be able to respond accordingly. But that is a very high pressure price environment today.

Got it. And Joe, kind of picking up on my original question was if you have – drilling down from the segments and looking at individual customer contracts, are there some contracts maybe kind of rolling off that maybe are just not profitable that you can just kind of walk away from or just not rebid that would help also with the margins?

I think, Charlie, when you look at the commercial margin compared to the revenue, I think that's exactly what you're seeing.

Got it, okay. Great, thank you very much.

Thanks, Charlie.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Dennis Van Zelfden with Brazos Research (27:07).

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, [ph] Dennis (27:13).

Joe, I was wondering, you gave the mix between the legacy and core at 65/35. I am curious, do you happen to have that same mix this time last year?

I would – not off the top of my head, but I would tell you that it fluctuates between 70/30 and 65/35. It's been in that range.

Okay. I was just kind of curious as to the progress. Moving on to the acquisition that you just made.

Right.

How much EBITDA does it generate or did it generate?

[ph] Dennis (27:50), offhand, I don't think we put that in the – I think we're going to talk a little bit about the price in the Q, but we haven't quite got down to that. I think it will be flat to slightly accretive in this year given only we have half a year, but it will ultimately be accretive.

Okay. And I know you said you were going to talk a little bit more about it going forward, but what kind of revenue growth do you expect out of, I mean, I guess, considering these cross-selling opportunities and so on? Anything you can say about that?

I would say that when we make an acquisition, our expectation is that it's absolutely going to be double-digit growth going forward. Those are – that's why we would do it. So, as we go forward, kind of like we've done with IML, we'll report out on the performance, but that's our expectation.

I'm just also curious, was there any other companies that you've looked at that you tried to buy but couldn't buy because of capital constraints? Is that the issue for not accelerating acquisitions, I guess?

Actually, that's a really great and very insightful question. I would say that there are capital constraints in our company like there are on many. But if we have a compelling reason to acquire, I would say that we will address that at that moment that we have a need that's beyond what maybe our facility would allow or our free cash flow would allow. Our expertise in the markets we're in and the insight that we're getting now is going to lead us to more and more opportunities like what your question is centered around. And – but at this point, I don't think we've passed on something that is directly related to a capital constraint. But I would say over time we'll be finding more interesting things that will have more significant impact on our business. That's really a key focus of me personally.

Okay. So the supply of those types of companies out there that would enhance your core products is good? Are you saying that they are out there to be bought?

Yes.

Okay.

Yes.

All right. Just two housekeeping type situations. What was the stock compensation in the quarter? Do you have that?

I'll tell you what, why don't you go to another question. And I'll...

I think we do have that, I think.

Okay. The second question was, was the amount of the pension contribution this full year lowered or is it just always going to be in a range?

It's always going to be a range, I think in the range of, say, somewhere between $24 million and $30 million. So we're kind of halfway through the year, we're squarely in that. I guess, if you annualize the $13 million, we're at $26 million. I would expect a little bit more in the third quarter than in the second quarter, but I think that range is still very appropriate.

Okay. And that's all my questions.

[Operator Instructions]

This is – sorry, Mike. This is – I just – I do have the answer to [ph] Dennis' (31:18) question here, stock compensation in the quarter was $419,000 versus $280,000 prior year, we're up about $200,000 on a year-to-date basis.

And at this time, there are no further questions. And I'd like to turn the call back to Shaun Smith for any closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you, Michael. That concludes our call for the second quarter. We look forward to revealing our third quarter results in late October. Thank you and have a great day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.