corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to Standard Register’s First Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides


for today’s conference are available by accessing the Investor Relations section of the Standard


Register website at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I will now turn the conference over to Shaun Smith. Please go ahead.


Shaun C. Smith, Investor Relations


Thank you, Michael. Joining me today are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer and


Bob Ginnan, our Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I’d like to remind you that today’s conversation may contain forward-looking


language or projections. These statements need to be taken into consideration with the Safe


Harbor statement that can be found either by accessing the earnings news release that was issued


this Thursday, the webcast slides that accompany this presentation or by accessing our company


website under the Investor Center.


In addition, we will make use of financial measures that are not in accordance with Generally


Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. It’s management’s belief that the use of these measures


will enhance our audiences’ understanding of our financial position. They are not meant to be used


in isolation or the substitution of GAAP, a full reconciliation from these metrics to their GAAP


counterparts can be found in the earnings news release that we issued this Thursday.


For today’s call, Joe will have some opening comments that be followed by Bob’s report of our


financials. Once Bob is completed with his report, we will open it up to the operator for any


questions. So with that, I’d like to turn the program over to Joe for his opening comments.


Joseph P. Morgan, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you for joining us on this very important call. There are a couple of slides in


the deck that I’m not going to read, I’m going to just talk about the changes that we’ve recently


made in the company, take advantage of the new opportunities that we see ahead of us. I’m going


to just give you some flavor from my perspective on how this is actually going to impact our


business and it is already and what it will do in the future.


Over the last couple of days, we’ve gone public with a change in the structure and focus of our


company. We’re positioning the business quite differently than we had before. This is the


continuation of the story that I have been talking about for the last couple of years. As you know,


we spend a lot of time talking about the operational structure of the company around the five points


of change, that’s how we run business. That’s the framework from which we derive much of the


ability to deliver on the performance on a quarter-by-quarter basis.


The thing that we’ve been building toward though is we’ve been shifting our business focus from


what I’ll call a supply-based strategy to one that’s a demand-based strategy. And previously, we


made products and we sold those products, those products predominantly were print related. We


went to the market over the course of the last year, and we spent a lot of time talking to existing


customers, prospects and experts in the industry to determine where money was going to be spent


in the future.
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


And as you know, a lot of corporate situations now are shifting from a cost focus to a growth focus,


as we see some of the economy getting a little bit better. And so as that happens, our customers


want different things from us.


So, yesterday, we’ve changed our positioning in the marketplace from being known as a product


company to our new tagline as Advancing Your Reputation. And really the point there is to connect


corporate standards and priorities with critical communications. And while we focused on critical


communication in the past, critical communication has been defined as one medium and it’s


generally defined as print, and in the new company we will work with our clients, customers in way


that meets their needs, regardless of whatever medium they need to communicate with their


clients.


We introduced a new vision yesterday. Our previous vision was to be the world’s most trusted


document services company. Our new vision is to be trusted by the world’s leading organizations to


build and protect their reputations. I’ll go on record right now to say that manufacturing is critically


important to our strategy’s execution. We will be a manufacturer, we continue to be. We focus on


safety and quality, but we also put a disproportionate amount of our energy of investment into


things that have growth potential for the future, which not surprisingly is in the digital area. So you’ll


see us continue to invest in workflow and color and devices that allow us to most effectively support


the new vision of our company.


I’ll also say that a significant amount of our investment is being made in our technology platform.


We’ve talked about SMARTworks for a very long times. SMARTworks has traditionally been


focused on the operational document side of the house. As we advance forward, new technologies


are being developed that are both market specific but also allow us to extend ourselves to other


reputational components, which could include marketing related activities within our clients.


As I’ve talked to you over the last couple of years, when we analyzed our business, not surprisingly


some of the existing business model has limitations. We have the traditional printing or what we’ve


started to call legacy, is declining. You’ll notice in our P&L -- we can’t stop the decline, what we can


do is manage our business within that decline. While we do focus on taking share when it’s


appropriate, you can’t stop the overarching decline of traditional business forms printing. And so


given that that’s the case, we need to now transition our emphasis to core, which is where we’re


making our investments for future growth.


I’m happy to report that the things that we are investing in are in fact growing. The issue that we


face today is the growth of the core is not outpacing the decline of the traditional or for legacy which


is why our revenue is not at the growth point where we’re stable, we’re close to even, but it’s not


growing just yet.


One of the things that we’re very proud of now though is over the last two years as we worked on


the strategy, we’ve also enhanced our innovation engine. Standard Register has had 900 patents in


the history of its company for over 100 years, we’ve been around and we have about 100 active


patents as we sit here today.


In the last year, we’ve had six patents. In the next few weeks or the next few months, we’ll have


another few. But our development projects have increased by about 300% from 2009 to 2010 and


we have new projects underway in our development area that are equivalent to the entire 2010 just


in the first quarter. I believe fundamentally that that will become the key reason why our company


will have a sustainable outcome in the future because our innovation engine is back, it’s growing


and we’re being far more successful.


Our customers, when we went through recent surveys, told us two things, market focus is a very


important attribute and the innovation that you bring to solve our problems, those are the two tough


things. So that’s not a surprise. That’s why we’re moving forward so fast with these activities. Today