corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Standard Register’s First Quarter Conference Call.


Today’s conference call is being recorded. As a reminder, the presentation slides for today’s


conference are available by accessing the Investor Center section of the Standard Register website


at www.standardregister.com/investorcenter.


I would now turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Cestelli. Please go ahead.


Robert J. Cestelli, Vice President, Investor Relations


Good morning. Welcome to the company’s first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. Joining me


are Joe Morgan, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Ginnan, Chief Financial Officer.


Please let me remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including


language concerning future projections. These projections should be considered in conjunction


with the Safe Harbor statement contained in our earnings news release, as well as the Safe Harbor


statement that can be found by accessing the homepage of the Investor Center on the company’s


website.


Joe has a few opening comments regarding the financial performance for the quarter, as well as


some comments about key issues for the year. This will be followed by Bob’s review of the


company’s financials. They will then address your questions. Now, let me turn the call over to Joe.


Joseph P. Morgan Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. I want to start by talking about some of the financial metrics for the quarter.


Revenue was down 15.7% from the prior – from prior year. We, however, saw no significant losses


in customers, however, we did experience lower units, significant pricing pressure, and then from a


technology standpoint, the impact of technology on legacy products continues to advance.


However, we are investing in market specific technologies around both workflow and data


management. We’re seeing our customers becoming increasingly interested in that offering from


us. We are advancing our communication infrastructure in our client satisfaction centers of


excellence, which we talked about in our previous call. We moved from a decentralized client


support model to a centralized – what we call centers of excellence, three locations throughout the


United States. And we have continued the evolution of our SMARTworks document management


platform around very specific solutions that we bring to market.


Additionally, we’re investing additional money in our web presence, traditionally Standard Register


had had a very secure and customer specific platform called SMARTworks. We continue to have a


secure platform, but now what we’re advancing to is people being able to acquire product from us


over the web using credit card and the like. So, we are investing in that platform during this time.


From a cost standpoint, we’re confident that the cost has been managed well and it’s evidenced by


the balance of the P&L. From a gross margin standpoint, we’ve kept even from last year, which


gives evidence that our cost reduction programs that we’ve been working through over the last 18


months are holding. Our SG&A expense is down for the seventh consecutive quarter. Bob will


provide additional details in regards to the financials as we go forward.


One of the things that’s been very important for us is to clarify our business model and we’ve


created a much, much simplified strategy statement about our company, which I won’t read to you,


but I will provide some specifics around where we’re focusing. We recognize that our customers


rely on us as experts around specific business processes that are around both documents and
corrected transcript


The Standard Register Co.
 
SR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


sometimes print. We’re doing that in specific markets where we have expertise. What we do is we


identify solutions that allow us to leverage our knowledge. We are a customer intimate company


and thus this will lead to an increase in our market share. And we’re starting to see evidence of this


even in this challenging time. Where we are investing money, as I’ll talk about in a couple minutes,


as we advance our business now from a product focused to more of a market focused organization,


market knowledge and product development expertise become critical. We’ll be investing there.


Our technology platform really around digital workflow and our national production and distribution


network become critical as we execute our plan.


We are innovating around specific solutions for our clients in markets like healthcare, like industrial.


We already have software solutions that we manage on behalf of our customers and provide to


them. We will be investing further as we go forward. I’ll give you a couple examples, we do have


software that we sell directly to acute acre institution – health, hospital institutions around patient


identification; and in our industrial business, we sell – we provide software that helps clients


manage their inventory around the label solutions that we provide to them, where they manage


their manufacturing environment.


So, we – I would recommend that you go to our website, we’ll have our strategy statement there


and you can read it, and it will – I think, it’ll give you much more clear focus of how we’re managing


our business in the future.


I mentioned in the last two calls actually our five points of change transformation plan, so I thought


what I’d do is give you a brief update on where we are. The first two parts of the five points of


change are organizational transformation and our go-to-market transformation. We’re essentially


done with the organizational transformation. Key – two key components: one is market focus, the


other is shared services. My whole staff has now moved into different roles. My staff has over 100


years of experience with our company, and they all are now driving – executing their plans in their


respective areas of concentration. Our three key markets of course are healthcare, industrial, and


commercial.


I want to spend a few minutes describing the commercial market as we go forward in this


discussion, but the shared services are, let me – I’m going to point out one or two things there. Our


manufacturing organization in the past had been in several different organizations. We’ve now


since centralized that. We also in our client satisfaction organization are, as I mentioned earlier,


moving to three centers of excellence as opposed to a dispersed model, which is helping us


optimize what we do.


And then our technology organization has in fact been centralized too, both at the infrastructure


level, but also as we create the SMARTworks platform for our companies. What this is allowing us


to do, is to manage our costs more effectively, to have more precise investments as we proceed


and make sure that we’re meeting the service level agreements that have been defined by the


specific markets that we’ve identified here. The go-to-market transformation also included the


movement of our sales organization to more of a pure model, so our sales team is now focused in


healthcare, in industrial, and in commercial. We are probably about 85% pure, there’s some


carryover where we make smart decisions where a rep might actually have multiple customers in


multiple markets, but for the most part we are pure.


One thing we’ve done a really good job at is managing the expensive overhead that sometimes


comes with a change like we’ve imposed on our business, and we have used the resource and the


cash in the expense that we had in a very effective way, and we haven’t increased overhead in that


process. So, we feel good about the current stage, everybody is working in those markets, and


we’re driving forward very aggressively.


The other three points of change are really how we operate the business. The first is around cost


reduction, which we say is relentless pursuit of that, and I think relentless is an important word.