raw transcript


Standard Register Com
 
SR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, my name is Julie and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Standard Register First Quarter 2005 Results Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. At this time, the spokesperson with the company has a


brief statement to read.


Jenna Fogle, Spokesperson


This report includes forward-looking statements covered by the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Because such statements deal with future events, they are subject to various risks


and uncertainties and actual results for fiscal year 2005 and beyond could differ materially from the


company's current expectations. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as


"anticipates," "projects," "expects," "plans," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "targets," and other


similar expressions that indicate trends and future events.


Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those expressed in


forward-looking statements include, without limitation, variation in demand and acceptance of the


Company's products and services, the frequency, magnitude and timing of paper and other raw


material price changes, general business and economic conditions beyond the Company's control,


timing of the completion and integration of acquisitions, the consequences of competitive factors in


the marketplace, cost-containment strategies, and the Company's success in attracting and


retaining key personnel. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results


to differ materially from those projected is contained in the Company's filing with The Securities and


Exchange Commission, including its report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2nd, 2005.


The Company undertakes no obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements as a result


of new information since these statements may no longer be accurate or timely.


<Operator:>


Thank you Sir. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Dennis Rediker, Chief Executive


Officer of Standard Register. Sir you may begin.


Dennis Rediker, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Trading Activity


Thank you and thanks everyone for joining us and welcome to the first quarter conference call.


Today, we have Craig Brown, Chief Financial Officer and Bob Crescenzi, Vice President of Investor


Relation with us. As usual, I will review some highlights in the statements, Craig will provide details


of the financials, and then we will have an opportunity for questions and we will have closing


comments.


In my comments, we feel we are off to a very good start in 2005 and our results continues or


continued operations are a little better than our overall plan. Revenues grew 5% due mainly to


price improvements, our core Document and Label business, our Print-On-Demand Services


business both had topline growth. Within the Print-On Demand Services, digital color, digital


document outsourcing and software services all recorded revenue increases. Although, smaller in


size are path forward consulting services and commercial print services businesses both recorded


significant revenue growth over last year. Both these units, the consulting and commercial print


units, are services around document management and print supply chain in which we have no fixed


assets. The services are delivered by people for subject matter expertise and enabling software


technology.
raw transcript


Standard Register Com
 
SR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Now, to operating profit. The operating profit is 4.5 million compared to the first quarter 2004 loss


of 10.4 million. The quarter-over-quarter operating profit improvement is the result of price


increases primarily offsetting the three paper price increases we suffered in 2004 plus ongoing cost


reductions across the board and aggressive productivity improvement program. Our focus to bring


SG&A expense inline with our revenues showed very good progress, as expenses were down just


over $10 million as compared to the first quarter of last year.


In the quarter, our business development group had commitments for over $18 million in new


contract business that will have a positive impact [Audio Gap] these accounts are implemented


over the next several quarters. While our Print-On-Demand services business had revenue and


margin improvement in the quarter, our investments in digital printing hardware, software marketing


and training will allow us to grow in this market. Customer interest in Print-On-Demand and related


services is growing as they strive for efficiency and customer loyalty. Industry analyst estimate this


market at over $30 billion with the 12% in growth rate. Also, in the quarter are InSystems business


achieved its second consecutive quarter of positive EBITDA due to their aggressive 2004 cost


reduction activities. Finally, we continue to have a very strong financial position, which Craig will


review in more detail.


To continue improving the trajectory of the business, we are concentrating on the following


business imperatives. First, we must achieve profitability in all of our business units to revenue


growth and cost reductions. Next, growing our core Document and Label Solutions business


provides the solid foundation that we need for future growth. Improving our position in the high


growth markets of Print-On-Demand, managed services, and commercial print give us a future


growth potential.


Continuing to position the company as their leader in enterprise document management and print


supply chain services is the new positioning Standard Register needs to achieve in the minds of the


customer in the industry. Finally, we have to continue to invest an enabling technology in order for


us to be efficient and have a competitive advantage. These technologies are things such as smart


works, Print-On-Demand digital workflow, our commercial print exchange software, doculitic [ph]


software, which we used to analyze customer’s data in printing and costs, and our digital pen and


paper technology.


We intend to grow profitably as we (technology difficulty) the distinctive capabilities we have built


the differentiators from our traditional and other competitors. These capabilities include our suite of


document and print management services, our supply or independence, our open talk architecture


platform for software, and our distinctive enterprise wide solutions.


Moving towards the outlook here. We look forward to the full year 2005 that we anticipated before


[indiscernible] modest growth on a 52-week basis. Our current backlog and customer owned


finished goods inventory are immediate indicators that support this estimate.


In addition, we continue to believe, we will achieve our previously announced target of a 5 point


improvement in our operating earnings before restructuring impairment and interest expense as a


percent of revenue for the second half of 2005 compared to the first half of 2004. So, that


concludes the remarks that I had prepared. And now, I will turn the call over to Craig for giving little


more details on the financials and then we will move in the questions and answers.


Craig Brown, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Treasurer Trading Activity


Thanks Dennis and good morning. I will begin with the review of the quarterly P&L comment on our


balance sheet and end with a couple observations about cash flow for the quarter and for the


trailing year.