raw transcript


SunPower Corp.
 
SPWR
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to SunPower Corporation’s Second Quarter 2006 Earnings


Release Conference Call. Your lines have been placed on a listen-only mode until the question-


and-answer segment in today’s call. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you


may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Werner, CEO of


SunPower Corporation. Thank you, sir. You may begin.


Thomas H. Werner, Chief Executive Officer


Welcome to SunPower’s second quarter 2006 earnings call. We had a very strong quarter and I


would like to start by going over some highlights. First, we demonstrated strong execution with


another quarter of operating results that exceeded our guidance. We also successfully completed


our follow-on offering which raised a net proceeds of $198 million. We signed 4 silicon agreements


and we purchased a new building with more space for expansion than our previously announced


new building construction. Now, cumulative available building space for capacity now is greater


than 400 megawatts. And lastly, we continue to invest in corporate and product marketing and


that’s continuing to pay dividends. So, during this call, we will review highlights of our business,


report Q2 financial results and then provide guidance for Q3 and fiscal 2006 as well as revenue


forecast for 2007.


Let me start with operating results and get right into our silicon position. I believe everybody on the


call know that silicon supply is a grading factor from most of these solar industry. With this success


of our follow-on offering, we have completed a set of silicon agreements that positions us for


accelerated growth. And as we’ve mentioned in our previous 2 calls, we have a portfolio for silicon


supply that means that we’re diversifying our silicon supply along in 3 dimensions. First, in terms of


term or duration of contract, we have contracts that are short, intermediate and long-term, the


longest being 10 years. We are also doing business with incumbents as well as emerging players.


And then lastly, we are working with the range of technologies both established and emerging.


Let me go through the details of each of these silicon agreements. The first one was in May. We


announced an expansion of our agreement with M.Setek. Recall M.Setek is a world leading high


quality manufacturer mono-crystalline ingots for solar. They have proven to be a very substantial


and reliable partner to us. This extension was for two more years and goes through 2010 and


increases the amount of deliveries in the early years. It has the upside potential of more supply in


2007, and the value of this agreement is in excess of $500 million over five years.


Next, is the direct result of our cash position built from our follow-on offering we signed agreements


with three other companies. Let me start with DCC. They are Korea's largest chemical company.


The have world-class expertise in specialty chemical processes. They have specific expertise in


the precursor gases for poly manufacturing. They will combine this expertise with the buying


Siemens reactors to build the poly plant. This will happen over the next four or five quarters, so


there will be in production during the first quarter of 2008. Our agreement with DCC is a four-year


agreement that starts in 2008 and the total value of that agreement is $250 million.


The next agreement is with the world's largest manufacturer of poly for semiconductor and silver


markets. You are probably aware that they use Siemens technology as well and that agreement is


a 10-year agreement which starts in 2009 and is valued at $70 million. And our third agreement


was a co-investment a private company that is seeking to develop and commercialize an advanced


Polysilicon process that is, we characterize is unique or emerging. And we would characterize this


investment as a VC style investment of modest in value, and I would say as well that perhaps has a


low likelihood of working, but if it does work it has a huge up size.
raw transcript


SunPower Corp.
 
SPWR
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So, now lets move on, stay with Silicon but move on to the cash impacts, and let me quantify the


amount of cash prepayments to accomplishment these 4 things. From the second half of 2006, we


will have cash prepayments to support these 4 agreements of $39.2 million. 2007 will have cash


prepayments to support the Silicon agreements of 48.3 million and then in 2008 we will have cash


prepayments that will total 18.3 million. Via these agreements and previous agreements that we


have we believe we have the silicon to meet the street estimates for the balance of 2006 as well as


2007. I should mention as well that we continue to work on other agreements and those


agreements would be consistent with out portfolio, strategy, time, duration and with various


technologies.


Well, a bit more Silicon, we continue to capitalize on our high efficiency advantage in our thin wafer


program. The silicon utilization is under 8 grams of polysilicon per watt, whereas most of the


competition is greater than 10. And our fourth line, we expect our silicon utilization to go below 7


grams per watt, and this is a 20% gain year-on-year. On line 7, we continue – we expect


continuing improvement on our grams per watt, certainly reaching a 6 grams per watt eventually.


Looking forward, as more silicon becomes available and prices decrease, because of the leverage


we have with our high-efficiency product and our thin wafers we expect significant cost leverage or


the prices to flow through our P&L very effectively.


Now, let me move on to our expansion plans. We expect our installed nameplate capacity to reach


108 megawatts by the end of year 2006. By the end of 2007, we expect it’s a roughly double, the


207 megawatts.


By the end of 2008, we expect the – our installed nameplate capacity to be 372 megawatts. The


way you should think of this, it’s we’re installing our nameplate capacity, it gives us 80 to 90% of


our production pump volume for the previous year, I’m sorry for the succeeding year.


Additionally, now plan to add 3 lines in 2007 whereas previously we planned on installing 2 lines.


The first of these 3 lines will be installed during the middle of next year, and last will installed


towards the end of next year. As announced, we purchased the building instead of constructing a


building, and this building and land will allow us the building itself will house 10 lines and as you


recall we’ve had planned on constructing the building that would house 6 lines. So this acquisition


of the building will allow us to add an incremental 300 megawatts as opposed to the building that


we were going to construct that had a capacity of 200; so our total available capacity in the 2


buildings that we now own will be 400 megawatts, and again, we expect to add 3 of these lines


during 2007.


Switching to our panel manufacturing, we continue to work on our advanced automated panel


manufacturing plant, and we expect to begin production during this quarter towards the end of this


quarter. The capacity of this new facility is 30 megawatts and the building that is housed in has


available space for 2 more lines for a total of 90 megawatts. And the reason we are doing this is to


lower manufacturing cost, dual automation that capitalizes on our back-contact architecture. As we


automate this process, that will give us the ability to replicate this automated panel manufacturing


plant close to our end markets. Although [ph], we are on operations, we continue to meet or


exceed our operating goals, we had an excellent quarter in terms of yields, wafer thickness, silicon


utilization and equipment utilization. And we attributed this success to the significant investment


that we made over the last few years implementing Cypress Semiconductors manufacturing


systems.


Now let me talk about technology. You are aware that SunPower makes the world’s highest


efficiency solar cells that are commercially available, that the solar cells have a minimum


conversion efficiency of 20% and that this compares to most of the market that is between 14 and


15%. Here we continue to invest in research and development to leverage our technology


advantage. By the end of 2006, we expect to be shipping our Generation-2 technology where the