raw transcript


SunPower Corp.
 
SPWR
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to SunPower Corporation’s Fourth Quarter Year-End 2005


Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to


Mr. Tom Werner, CEO of SunPower Corporation. Thank you. Sir, you may begin.


Thomas H. Werner, Chief Executive Officer


Welcome to SunPower’s Q4 2005 earnings call. Q4 was our first quarter as a public company. We


are pleased to report solid financial results and to provide some color on what we feel is very strong


execution by the entire SunPower team against our ambitious growth objectives. During this call,


we will report Q4 financial results, review highlights of our business, and provide guidance for Q1


and fiscal 2006.


First, I would like to describe briefly why we at SunPower are so excited for our opportunities in


solar industry. We are addressing a large, rapidly growing market. Solar market is projected to


triple in size by 2010 to $18.5 billion and even if that substantial growth rate is still a tiny fraction of


the overall electricity market. The residential market is the largest segment of the solar industry


and it is in fact the fastest growing segment. It is the segment that placed directly to SunPower


strengths, superior esthetics, and higher conversion efficiency. And our company believes that it’s


within reach of mainstream electricity rates. The goal of our company is to drive cost to parity with


retail electric rates via superior technology.


We’ll accomplish that through better silicon utilization and I’ll talk more about that. Increase


manufacturing scale and productivity and cost leverage throughout the value chain of our higher


efficiency advantage. And then lastly, increased efficiency in the outbound channel.


We are also building a unique brand and a strong market position. It’s been a major focus of the


company and continues to be and we leveraging our unique differentiated products with the


Superior Aesthetics and higher conversion efficiency. We’ve also aligned with a strategic customer


base a top tier customer base and again I will talk more about that in a few minutes. And over the


last couple of years, we had a very consistent brand building program and positioning that will


continue to invest in over the next several years.


Now I will switch gears a little bit and I’ll cover some of the company highlights before turning


Manny Hernandez, SunPower CFO, who will report the details of our financial results. In the fourth


quarter, SunPower had an initial public offering. We began trading on NASDAQ on November 17.


Our idea was very well received. We raised the price the high end of our revise range and we


raised $145.6 million to fund our future growth.


In operations, we began production of second 25-megawatt solar cell line ahead of plan. This


second line contributed meaningfully to our Q4 results and are actually is outperforming our first


line on some metrics. This is a drive from our significant investment in the discipline manufacturing


process that we inherited from Cypress Semiconductor. We are also installing our third liner, we


have install our third line will begin ramping production during this quarter.


In technology, SunPower makes the highest efficiency solar cells available today. We are the only


company shipping greater than 20% efficiency solar cells. In fact third party analyst tell us that the


bulk of the market ships on average between 14 and 15%. So we have almost a 50% advantage


over the bulk of the market on its key product attribute. However, we are resting [ph] on our


technology lead, we continue to invest in R&D, actually at substantial higher rates than most of the


industry. And by the end of 2006, we plan to be shipping minimum 22% cell efficiency, and we call


that our generation 2 technology.
raw transcript


SunPower Corp.
 
SPWR
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In terms of silicon efficiency, you all know that the silicon is in short supply and that prices are going


up. Because of our high efficiency advantage, we have a – we utilize silicon much more efficiently


than most of the industry. Let me quantify this a little bit. SunPower is currently reducing our


silicon concern – in the process of reducing our silicon consumption and we measure that in terms


of polysilicon or watt produced. And our current measurement of that is around 9 to 8 – between 8


and 9 grams of polysilicon per watt.


We believe our competition somewhere between a 11.5 to 13 grams per watt. And as we work on


various initiates including improving the conversion efficiency of our cells, we expect to reduce the


polysilicon consumption to produce a watt of power between 6 and 7 grams over the next few


years. You can imagine it’s – when the silicon shortage abates and silicon is more available we’ll


have incredible leverage because of this progress. Maybe a few comments about silicon supply.


2006, we have purchase orders or contracts more than a 100% of our needs, which reconciles with


street financial expectation. As for 2007 we already have 75% of our requirements either on


purchase or contract. Most of you know silicon is one of the constraints of the industry and myself


and the management team spend a considerable amount of time in this area, and we will do so


going forward.


Let me comment a little bit on our expansion plans. As I mentioned we installed our third line, we


will begin ramping that line during this quarter. We have – during this quarter we’ll have a capacity


therefore of 75 megawatts by the end of the quarter. We've also ordered the equipment for Line 4.


That will increase our capacity to a over a 100 megawatts, we’ll have that line starting to ramp in


the fourth quarter this year.


Also, the SunPower Board has approved an expansion plan for a new facility. This new facility is


designed to have six generation to production lines. This will add increment aggregate capacity of


200 megawatts. We expect construction to start in the first half of this year and we think our first


product line will start up sometime early in 2007.


Now let me shift gears a little bit and talk about the demand side, and talk about demand visibility.


Customers are responding incredibly favorably to our product value proposition. That again is


higher efficiency meaning we produce more power for the same unit area in that, as we do since


installation cost and our installer partners appreciate that leverage. Our residential customers


which again, is the largest and fastest growing segment of the industry really appreciate the


esthetic advantage of our product.


Now customers have rewarded us with purchase orders and contract we have a backlog of over


$700 million of orders. We have a 5-year $300 million supply agreement with Silicon of we have a


4-year $330 million supply agreement with PowerLight North America’s largest system integrator


and commercial installer also were located with us in Bay area. And lastly, we’ve extended our


agreement with Conergy into 2006. And as we ramp our production, we are gaining market share.


Our goal in 2006 is to have between 4% and 5% and in key markets to be in the top 5. And as we


have earnings call throughout the rest of the balance of this year, we will tell a lot of our marketing


plans.


We tell you a little bit about the overall solar market and what’s going on in terms of policy. First


let’s talk about Germany as there was election and the government has changed, there is new


administration in Germany and post election the favorable solar feed-in tariffs are stable and that


country continues to have the largest solar program in the world. Spain and Italy have also passed


feed-in tariffs that are driving rapid growth and SunPower are participating in those countries


significantly through key channel partners.