raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Tandy Brands Accessories Second Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor


will be opened for your question following the presentation. This call is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr. Bill Zima of Integrated Corporate


Relations. Please go ahead sir.


Bill Zima, Integrated Corporate Relations


Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in the Tandy Brands Accessories second


quarter 2005 conference call. Joining us from management are Britt Jenkins, President and Chief


Executive Officer; Stan Ninemire, Executive Vice President of Operations; and Mark Flaherty, Chief


Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would just like to remind everyone that except for historical information,


statements made during this conference call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe


Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking


statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause the Company's


actual results in future periods to differ materially from forecasted or expected results. Those risks


include, among other things, the competitive environment in the industry in general and in the


Company's specific market areas, inflation, changes in the costs of goods and services and


economic conditions in general and in the Company's specific market area. Those and other risks


are more fully described in the Company's filings with the SEC.


I would like to now turn the call over to Britt Jenkins.


Britt Jenkins, President, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Tandy Brands second


quarter fiscal 2005 results. I’d like to start today’s call with highlights from the quarter, after which


Mark will provide details on our financial performance. After Mark’s review, I will discuss some of


our key initiatives for the remainder of the year and then we will open up the call for questions.


Net sales for the second quarter of $74 million came in above our anticipated range of $68 million


to $72 million and 15.3% above the year ago total of $64.2 million. We ended the quarter with a net


profit of $4.3 million or 65 cents per diluted share, compared to net income of $3.9 million or 61


cents per diluted share in the same period last year, which was within our guidance of 65 cents to


70 cents per diluted share.


Our strong performance was driven by both growth in our core men's business and by a better than


expected performance from the Eton gift accessory business. In our women’s category, we saw a


slowdown in the women’s department store business. This slowdown was due to general holiday


sales softness, which resulted in lower than expected handbag sales. The performance of our


women’s mass merchant accessory business stabilized during the second quarter in which sales


and gross margin met our internal plan and exceeded the prior year quarter.


Our men’s business reported sales of $44.9 million in which our Eton gift accessory business


contributed approximately $10.2 million to this division in the quarter. Excluding the Eton gift


accessory business, sales in our men’s division increased by 9.2% from the prior year. Growth in
raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our core men's business was primarily the results of strong sales of belts and small leather goods


program in the mass merchant category. Now ROLFS’ business during the second quarter, we


saw excellent sales at retail with a higher percentage of product placed at 19.99 than in previous


quarters.


Other successful programs in the men's division include the men's jewelry program. We saw good


sell-through of men's cufflinks and tag flips at belts, stylines [ph] and Fred Myers [ph] just to


mention a few. The private label neckwear business, which we began only a month's ago, is after a


very strong start. It has expanded distribution in department stores such as JC Penney, Belts [ph]


and Saks to mention a few. We hope to continue its expansion into additional doors at the


department stores at mass merchant level this year.


Sales for our women's division was $29.1 million compared to $32.4 million in the prior year. Most


of the decline was associated with our department store women's accessory business with the


decreasing [ph] sales of women's department store accessories that primarily a result of general


holiday sales softness. In the prior year holiday season, trendy initial handbags and small leather


good pieces were in strong demand. This holiday season, the fashion trend of additional handbag


was softer compared to the prior year. We were able to offset some of this initial accessory


weakness with the launch of several successful department store accessory programs. We


launched ROLFS ladies belt line of tables and navy exchanges that were well received. We also


increased our small leather goods program by launching a new ROLFS highlights program across


Perry Scott, a new box by leather goods product that retails for 24.99 at belt stores and a new 9.99


essential program also at belt store.


Our women's mass merchant business met our internal plan with sales and gross margin


exceeding the same period in last year. Additionally, in our women's mass merchant segment,


we've had good results in the second quarter with our sock programs. We've rolled out a sock


program to 2,700 Wal-Mart stores, up from 200 stores in the first quarter.


Thank you. I would now like to return the call over to Mark to provide more detail on the second


quarter and our outlook for 2005.


Mark J. Flaherty, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Britt. The second quarter sales increased 15.3% to $74 million compared to $64.2


million in the same period last year. As Britt mentioned, the sales increase was driven by higher


than anticipated results in our core managed divisions, and strong holiday sales in our gift


accessory business. Gross profit for the second quarter increased $28 million compared to $22.1


million in the second quarter last year.


Second quarter gross margins were 37.9% of sales compared to the year-ago second quarter level


of 34.4 percent. The 350 basis point improvement in gross margins is due to a combination of


increased men’s sales in the higher margins Eton gift accessory business as well as margin


improvement in our women’s mass merchant business. Overall, our gross margins improved in


both men’s and women’s business segments.


Second quarter’s selling, general, and administrative expenses were $19.5 million or 26.3% of


sales compared to $14.1 million or 21.9% of sales for the same period in the prior year. The rise in


SG&A in percentage terms is attributable to the combination of higher royalty expenses from an


increasing sales of totes gifts accessories and integration costs related to our Eton acquisition, and


also included in SG&A for the second quarter of fiscal 2005 is a charge related to a liability incurred


to settle apending legal dispute, which alone reduced earnings by 6 cents per diluted share in the


second quarter. I would also like to point out that SG&A in second quarter of fiscal 2004 included a