raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Tandy Brands Accessories Third Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. At this time, all participants


have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for your questions following the


presentation. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Bill Zima of Integrated


Corporate Relation.


Bill Zima, Integrated Corporate Relation


Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in the Tandy Brands Accessories Third


Quarter 2005 Conference Call. Joining us from management are Britt Jenkins, President and Chief


Executive Officer; Stan Ninemire, Executive Vice President of Operations, and Mark Flaherty, Chief


Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that except for historical information, statements


made during this conference call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe Harbor


provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements


involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause the company's actual results


in future period to differ materially from forecasted or expected results. Those risks include, among


other things, the competitive environment in the industry in general and in the company's specific


market areas, inflation, changes in the costs of goods and services, and economic conditions in


general and in the company's specific market area. Those and other risks are more fully described


in the company's filings with the SEC. I would now like to turn the call over to Britt Jenkins.


Brit Jenkins, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director


Thank you Bill. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Tandy


Brands third quarter fiscal 2005 results. I would like to start today’s call with reviewing the results


from the quarter after which Mark will provide detail on our financial performance, after I will discuss


some of our key initiatives for the reminder of the year, and then we will open up the calls for


questions.


Net sales in the third quarter was inline with our pre announced financial results reported last Friday


April the 15th. In the third quarter, net sales increased 3.3% to $43.9 million compared to $42.6


million in the same period last year. Our sales increase was driven by continued strong results in


our core mens division. We ended the quarter with the net loss $997,000 or 16 cents per diluted


share compared to net income of $132,000 or 2 cents per diluted share in the same period last


year. This net loss was also inline with our pre-announced earning results reported last Friday.


The net loss we experienced in the third quarter was a result of softer than expected sales during


March would happen to be one of our worst months in recent retail history.


Our performance was impacted by adverse weather conditions in many parts of the country, higher


than anticipated return rate on gift items in our ETON gift accessory business, and that comparative


retail pressure did effected our women’s mass merchant accessory business. In the third quarter,


our men’s business was our strongest performing group. This group, which includes ETON


reported third quarter sales of 25.9 million versus 24.3 million in the prior year. Sales in our


Foreman’s business increased 13% from the prior year. This growth was a result of increased


demand for belt and small leather goods program in both the mass merchant and the capital store


categories.
raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Sales drives in our Rolfs small leather goods business is JCP. Our new belt styles with JCP also


had a profound impact on our sales numbers. Really encouraged by our small leather goods


business with Target goods continues to enjoy strong sell-through. We landed Levis signature


brand for Kmart and believe that will ship into [indiscernible] doors in the first quarter. We also laid


a deposit label belt program at committees which will shift to all other doors in the first quarter as


well.


Our belts and small leather goods business with belts, belts, and [indiscernible] were all 40% to


50% ahead of last period. Our Rolfs’ accessories were placed in $101 in Carson Perry Scott in the


third quarter, which performed beyond our expectation in there's as well. Overall our Rolfs


managed business performed very well in the third quarter. This was due to a better ride of sales


and retail, largest final [ph] day field orders, and a higher percentage of product position as 1999


platform continuously.


Our private label network business just continues this expansion with the opening of a private label


network program of K&G. Our network business, which began only months ago has expanded


nicely. We now have several key customers completing [indiscernible]. We are proud of our


unique policy designs and we continue to focus on expanding the number of doors in which we sell


through.


In our boys fashion network category, we performed a higher platforms of debt rating, which had


positive impact on performance. In our ETON business, while we experienced a higher than


anticipated return rate for the quarter, the business remained strong and well accepted by the retail


community. We recently received several large orders in our ETON’s gift program for the upcoming


holiday in fall of 2005 holiday season. Some of our customers that have already lined gift programs


include Target, Fred Meyer, Goodies, Cole and Shopco, which is new business compared to last


fall. We expect additional orders from current customers as well as new customers in


characterizing of the holiday season. Overall, the opportunities associated with this business are


excellent. Other successful programs in our men's division there in the quarter included our


suspenders program. Also, our [indiscernible] business shows 10% increase over the prior year.


We continue to be excited by opportunities in the men's business segment and believe we have the


opportunity to grow this business segment through our existing product offerings as well as through


our new business initiative such as ETON and private label netware [ph] that compliment the men’s


core business.


Sales for our women’s division in the third quarter were 18 million compared to 18.3 million in the


prior year. Most of this decline was associated with our women’s mass merchant accessory


business. We are working aggressively to return the women’s mass merchant business to


acceptable levels of profitability and performance. We intend to draw from the success of our


men’s business and imply this to the women’s business and improve this operating infrastructure


and financial performance. In order to improve the performance in our women segment, company


will be restructuring income [ph] and consolidate with sales, merchandising, and administrative


effort related to the women’s mass merchant in the private store business units. These activities


are expected to result in one-time non-operational charge related to the possible impairment of


goodwill and severance that will impact reported results from the fourth quarter, which Mark will


discuss in greater detail.


Now, clearly, there were challenges associated in the women’s business during the quarter. This


segment did achieve several noticeable accomplishments during the quarter. In the department


store business, we began shipping a 999 essentials small navigates program in all made company


doors. Initial demand for this program has been very good. We began shipping a new Rolfs debt


programs all doors and profit. This is an entirely new program for us. Our debt program in Tarson


case [ph] increased 84% compared to the prior spring period. Increased demand for this location is


expected to continue and we reopened handbags with Stage Stores, which is an exciting


opportunity for us.