corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Tandy Brands Accessories Second Quarter 2009


Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief


question-and-answer will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Craig Mackey, Chief Financial Officer for Tandy


Brands. Please go ahead.


M.C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements on this call are


forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risk and


uncertainties, which may cause the company’s actual results in the future periods to differ


materially from forecasted or expected results. Those risks include, among other things, the


competitive environment in the industry, in general, and in the company’s specific market areas;


inflation; changes in cost of goods and services; and economic conditions in general and in the


company’s specific market areas. Those and other risks are more fully described in the company’s


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


I would now like to turn the call over to Rod McGeachy, our President and CEO.


N. Roderick (Rod) McGeachy, III, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Craig, and thank you all for joining. In the second quarter of fiscal 2009, Tandy Brands


Accessories reported net sales of $42.9 million, compared to net sales of $49.6 million for the


second quarter of fiscal 2008. The company reported net income of $952,000 or $0.14 per diluted


share versus a net loss of $40.7 million or $5.94 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2008.


Obviously, the past holiday season was one of the toughest periods that our retailer partners have


ever encountered. Most retailers reported decreasing sales in a highly discounted pricing


environment. Tandy Brands’ sales reflect this challenging environment as sales were down in our


men’s and women’s business, although we did have growth in our gifts business. It’s important to


note that retailers have told us that our products did perform comparatively well to our competitors’


offerings, but that overall spending in the space was soft. Our relative success is a direct result of


our improved product assortments, superior customer service, and long-term customer


relationships.


There were definitely areas of strong performance for the company during the last quarter. First,


our gifts category continues to show impressive results particularly under the TOTES brand. We


benefited from both strong sell through performance and expanded distribution. Our Key Item


strategy and improved retail floor presentations further helped drive these increases. Secondly, our


ROLFS brand of belts and small leather goods performed very well for us in men’s and women’s at


key mid-tier and department store accounts. Third, we also have a growing young men’s business,


which we market under several brand names, including SURPLUS and Tony Hawk across several


key mid-tier and department store accounts.


Also during the quarter, we continued our focus on reducing expenses and getting our cost in line


with current market conditions. We reduced operating expenses by approximately $2.3 million in


the quarter versus year-ago levels and later on in the call, I will share with you our plans to reduce
corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


overall expenses even more. My final summary comment is that I am pleased to report that as of


today, we have completely paid down our debt, which puts us in a solid position as we plan for the


balance of calendar year 2009.


Now I will turn the call back over to Craig to review the financial results in more detail.


M.C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Rod. To reiterate our company’s financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009,


the company reported net sales of $42.9 million and net income of $952,000 or $0.14 per share.


For the second quarter of 2008, the company reported net sales of $49.6 million and a net loss of


$40.7 million or $5.94 per share. The current year’s results include an increase in the provision for


doubtful accounts receivable of $1.1 million and I will discuss in more detail later.


Year ago results included charges of $36.5 million associated with the write-down of inventory,


goodwill, and other intangible assets. For the six months of fiscal 2009, the company reported net


loss of $328,000 or $0.05 per share on net sales of $77.6 million. This compares to 2008 results of


a net loss of $42.4 million or $6.20 per share on net sales of $89.1 million.


A couple of quick points on some of the key items of the income statement. Net sales -- the decline


in net sales in 2009 versus 2008 was primarily due to the ongoing weak retail environment, which


resulted in reduced sales for our customers. Our gross margin for the current year second quarter


was 36.7% compared to 34.7 in the first quarter and a negative 3.3% in the second quarter of fiscal


2008. Increase in gross margin was due primarily to product mix and partly to less discounting in


this year’s sales and ongoing sales of out-of-program inventory that were sold at prices exceeding


inventory’s previously reduced carrying value.


SG&A expenses for the most recent quarter were $14 million versus $16.4 million for the same


quarter last year. This represents a 14.6% year-over-year decrease in SG&A expenses. Over the


past 18 months, we have reduced SG&A expense annual run rate by approximately $8 million.


Keeping tight control on cost is a priority for the company.


Moving onto a review of some of the key parts of the balance sheet. We had cash of $3.6 million at


December 31 and accounts receivable were $24.6 million. We did take a $1.1 million increase in


the provision for doubtful accounts receivable. This includes full reserves for the companies that


have filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy, such as Goody’s, Mervyns, Gottschalks, and an overall increase


in the reserve provision that we feel is appropriate in this environment. We are in an active


discussion with the companies in bankruptcy regarding the amounts they owe us and are hopeful


that we will be able to collect some or all of amounts due to us.


Inventory levels were $38.6 million at December 31, 2008, a 20% decline from the inventory levels


on September 30, 2008, and a 7% decline from inventory levels at December 31, 2007. These


levels are more appropriate to support our current business run rates, and we will continue to look


for ways to reduce inventory. The current assets were approximately $73.5 million. Total current


liabilities were $22.2 million giving us working capital of $51.3 million. Regarding debt, we ended


the first quarter with outstanding borrowings of $8.4 million at quarter’s end and credit facility


borrowing availability was $23.6 million. As of today, the bank debt is zero.


I will now turn the call back over to Rod.