corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello, and welcome to the Tandy Brands Fiscal Year 2010 And Fourth Quarter Earnings


Results Conference Call. Today’s conference call is being hosted by Craig Mackey, Chief Financial


Officer for Tandy Brands. [Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session, and instructions will follow at that time. Any reproduction of this call, in whole or in part, is


not permitted without prior written authorization of Tandy Brands Accessories, Inc. And as a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded today, August 26, 2010.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Craig Mackey, Chief Financial Officer for Tandy Brands


Accessories. Please go ahead.


M.C. (Craig) Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, and thank you for joining us to discuss our fiscal 2010 and fourth quarter financial


results. We issued our earnings release yesterday. And if you don’t have a copy, you can find it on


our Web site at tandybrands.com.


Before we begin, I would like to read the Safe Harbor language. Except for historical information


contained herein, the statements on this call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe


Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking


statements involve known and unknown risk and uncertainties, which could cause the company’s


actual results to differ materially from forecasted or expected results.


Those risk include, among other things, the competitive environment in the industry in general and


in the company’s specific market areas; inflation, changes in the cost of goods and services, and


economic conditions in general, and in the company’s specific market areas. These and other risk


are more fully described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Additionally, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements. We have provided reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to their GAAP


equivalents in our earnings press release and detailed explanations of non-GAAP financial


measures in our Form 8-K, filed yesterday.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Rod McGeachy, our President and Chief Executive


Officer.


N. Roderick (Rod) McGeachy, III, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thanks Craig. And good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. On today’s call, I will


have some introductory comments regarding fiscal 2010, and then Craig will provide a more


comprehensive review of our financial results. After that, I will discuss the year in more detail and


highlight key accomplishments, followed by a review of our growth strategies and outlook for fiscal


2011. We will then open the call for your questions.


I’ll start by saying that it was quite an eventful year for Tandy Brands. In the midst of a challenging


operating environment, we carried out several key initiatives to revitalize our growth, both on the


top and bottom line. I will outline those developments further, but let me first review some financial


highlights for the year ended June 30, 2010.
corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We achieved double-digit revenue growth of 10%, reversing a three-year trend of revenue declines.


We also reduced our SG&A expense by $1.9 million, or 4%, and significantly improved both


EBITDA and net income. Excluding inventory write-downs taken in fiscal 2009, we increased gross


margins as a percentage of sales by 90 basis points.


Net sales were $141.9 million compared to $129 million reported in fiscal 2009. Accessories


segment net sales benefited from strong Belt sales of $34.6 million, attributable to the Chambers


acquisition. It is important to note that this incremental increase was partially offset by lower sales,


due to our retail partners continuing to carry lower inventory levels. And due to our SKU


rationalization program, which reduced sales of low-margin and low-volume products.


Gross margins for the year improved at 37.0% compared to 30.7% in the prior year. In addition to


improved product sourcing and benefits from our SKU rationalization efforts, the improvement in


gross margins resulted from inventory write-downs of 540 basis points taken in fiscal 2009.


As shown in the schedule attached to our news release issued yesterday, adjusted EBITDA;


Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, which highlights our profitability


before non-cash items and one-time charges, was $1.7 million for fiscal 2010. Compared to an


adjusted EBITDA loss of $4.6 million reported in fiscal 2009; an improvement of $6.3 million. We


feel adjusted EBITDA is the most useful measure of our business performance because it excludes


income refunds, property sales and certain acquisition-related and restructuring costs, which are


part of our turnaround efforts but not part of our ongoing operations.


From a bottom line perspective, adjusted net loss for fiscal 2010 was $1.9 million, or $0.26 per


diluted share, compared to an adjusted net loss of $6.3 million, or a loss of $0.91 per diluted share


for fiscal 2009. Again, adjusted net loss excludes the impact of events outside of our normal


operations.


Turning to a review of our fourth quarter results, net sales were $28.7 million; a 9% increase over


net sales of $26.4 million in the prior-year quarter. The Chambers acquisition continued to bolster


our top line, contributing an incremental $10.5 million, which more than offset an $8.2 million


decline in organic sales. Adjusted net loss was $2.9 million or $0.42 per diluted share for the fourth


quarter of 2010, improving $0.4 million from an adjusted net loss of $3.3 million, or $0.91 per


diluted share in the prior-year quarter. In a moment, Craig will detail one-time charges and gains


during the period.


Overall, I’m pleased with our fiscal 2010 results and achievements. But I often say, don’t confuse


the excellent progress with excellence. There is still work to be done, especially as we continue to


navigate through the uncertainty of the general economic climate and fear of a double-dip


recession. Once Craig reviews the financial performance in more detail, I will then provide more


color on our operational performance and growth strategies going forward. Craig?


M.C. (Craig) Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Rod. As Rod indicated, we reported a 10% increase in our net sales of $141.9 million


for fiscal 2010 compared to $129 million in fiscal 2009. Accessories segment net sales of $120


million were 13% higher as a result of incremental Chambers sales of $34.6 million. This


incremental increase was partially offset by lower organic sales growth, due to our SKU


rationalization program, which reduced sales of low-margin and low-volume products. Organic net


sales were negatively impacted by lost sales to customers experiencing severe financial difficulties


or bankruptcy in fiscal 2009, and reduced by inventory assortments and several customers.