raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Oct 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning my name is Meredith [ph] and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to Tandy Brands Accessories First Quarter 2007


Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speaker remarks there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions].


Thank you. I would now turn the call over to Bill Zima of Integrated Corporate Relations. Please go


ahead, sir.


William Zima, Integrated Corporate Relations


Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in the Tandy Brands Accessories First


Quarter 2007 Conference Call. Joining us from management are Britt Jenkins, President and Chief


Executive Officer and Mark Flaherty, Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that except for historical information, statements


made during this conference call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe Harbor


provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements


involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause the Company's actual results


in future periods to differ materially from forecasted or expected results. Those risks include, among


other things, the competitive environment in the industry in general and in the Company's specific


market areas, inflation, changes in the costs of goods and services and economic conditions in


general and in the Company's specific market area. Those and other risks are more fully described


in the Company's filings with the SEC.


With that added away, I would now like to turn the call over to Britt Jenkins.


J.S.B. Jenkins, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Tandy Brands first quarter


fiscal ‘07 results. I would like to start today's call by reviewing our results from the quarter as well as


discuss some of our goals and initiatives for our coming fiscal year. Mark will then provide you with


detail on our financial performance and then we will open up the call for questions.


For the first quarter of fiscal 2007 as anticipated net sales decreased 6.2% to 57.2 million versus


60.9 million in the prior year, due to our exit from several lower-margin women's categories. Gross


margins increased 350 basis points to 21 million compared to 20.3 million in the prior year period.


Net income increased to 2.8 million or $0.41 per diluted share compared to net income of 1.5


million or $0.22 per diluted share in the prior year period.


We believe we have made strong progress in our overall performance in the first quarter. While our


total revenues were down due to our exit from several lower-margin women's categories, sales


from remaining categories in the women's business exceeded our internal projections. Sales in our


men's business increased 7.9% for the first quarter due to increased demand for belts and gift


accessories in most of our major channels of distribution.


We have worked very hard over the past year to improve the performance in our business and


believe that we are nearing the end stages of our turnaround effort. We have exited several


categories at our women's business. We have improved our shipping efficiencies, consolidated


department functions, added several talented executives, reduced our workforce and maintained a
raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Oct 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


watchful eye on overall spending. Our implementation of the preceding initiatives is having a


positive effect on our results.


We are also encouraged with the overall improvements to our balance sheet. Our debt position


continues to move lower, our cash flow is strong and our inventories have much improved. We are


also proud to be paying our 14th consecutive dividend.


As we look at our two operating divisions I will begin with our men’s business. Net sales increased


7.9% to $37.4 million compared to $34.6 million in the prior year. Gross margin increased 40 basis


points to 38.2% compared to 37.8% in the prior year period. The improvement in our men’s


performance was primarily due to an increase in the full pass orders for boys and men’s belts and


then both mass merchants and department stores tiers of distribution. Within our belt category


bounding our product penetrations within many of our customer doors is an important factor to our


growth and we have received both royalty commitments for additional orders and increased SKUs


at many of our retail store customers.


I would also like to point out that some of our higher tier customers such as Nordstrom and Dillard’s


higher retail price points on our product are devoted more sales pace to our boy’s belts and


neckwear business. We also saw a strong results in our ETON gift business in first quarter. Travel


accessories and on-the-move goods such as Mercedes [ph] cell phone chargers, battery free


radios and marks the response lighting, resonated well with our retail customer base. We also we


are able to improve our shipping consistencies in this business compared to the prior year period,


which resulted in a significant improvement in our men’s business performance.


Among other product categories and customer accounts we had several standup performers in the


first quarter. We enjoyed an increase in men’s neckwear, Meeting Street, small leather goods and


Meeting Street sandal belts at this quarter at belts. Those were Meeting Street is their private label


brand. While a small leather goods experienced a notable increase in the sales at Carson’s and


downtown stores. We are also continuing to expand our relationship with Casual Male. We have


picked up the 555 private label program and also increased our synergy private label belt programs


from 200 to 400 doors.


Strong customer relationships are also very important to us. We are proud to have been the winner


of the Vendor Partnership Award from Gottschalks Vendor Conference. Out of the 100 main


suppliers, we were selected as one of the top vendors who work closely with this retail chain to


provide them with superior levels of support necessary for continued success.


We are big believers in maintaining strong customer relationships as this proven to be beneficial for


new products commitments. We believed our merchandise assortment continues to get better in


our men’s business and we remained focused on improving the quality of our distribution and


reducing our overall inventory. We have had success in these areas in the first quarter, and hope to


see continued improvements in the coming quarters.


In our women’s business, net sales decreased 25% to 19.8 million compared to 26.3 million in the


prior period. This decrease in our women’s business was expected. It was a result of our exit from


several women's categories, which were socks, cold weather accessories, fashion scarves, evening


bags and all children accessories with the exception of belts.


Gross margin in our women’s business increased 660 basis points to 34% compared to 27.4% in


the prior year. This dramatic improvement in gross margin is still [ph] from exit from our lower-


margin categories.


Our exit from these categories allows us for the opportunities to more fully concentrate on and


develop additional products around our four remaining categories, which includes small leather