corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Tandy Brands Accessories


Incorporated Third Quarter 2009 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a


listen-only mode. A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Craig Mackey, Chief Financial Officer for Tandy


Brands Accessories. Thank you, Mr. Mackey. You may begin.


M.C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. I’d like to read the Safe Harbor. Except for historical information, the statements made


on this call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown


risks and uncertainties, which may cause the Company’s actual results in future periods to differ


materially from forecasted or expected results. Those risks include, among other things, the


competitive environment in the industry, in general, and in the Company’s specific market areas;


inflation; changes in cost of goods and services; and economic conditions in general and in the


Company’s specific market areas. Those and other risks are more fully described in the Company’s


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Rod McGeachy, the Company’s President, Chief Executive


Officer, and just named Chairman of the Board. Rod?


N. Roderick (Rod) McGeachy, III, President and Chief Executive Officer


Craig, thanks a lot. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. We certainly appreciate


your interest in our company. On the call today, I’ll have some brief comments regarding the


quarterly results and our key near-term objectives; then Craig will go in a more detail regarding the


financial results. After that, I’ll review some of the key developments that had happened at Tandy


Brands since our last call, and finally, we will open the line and answer your questions.


For the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company reported a net loss of $12.3 million, or $1.78 per


share on net sales of $25.1 million. This compares to fiscal 2008 third quarter results of a net loss


of $2.2 million or $0.32 per share on net sales of 30.1 million. The 2009 results include a $7.5


million inventory write-down and an $844,000 charge associated with the previously announced


corporate restructuring in January that we discussed in detail on our last call.


Obviously, the ongoing economic slowdown continues to impact our financial results. During the


third quarter, the consumer continued to cut back on spending, and our retail partners maintained a


very conservative approach to inventory replenishment. Nonetheless, we are keeping a tight control


on expenses and making sure that the Company’s cost structure and product offerings are


appropriately aligned with current market reality.


As we look forward, the Company is focused on accomplishing two primary objectives right now;


stabilizing our operating platform and pursuing profitable growth. In order to stabilize our operating


platform, we have four key initiatives, three of which we’re prepared to discuss today. First, we


have built a new management team. This not only involved bringing on board new individuals with


excellent capabilities, but also simplifying our organizational structure for better communications


and speed to market.
corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Second, we have implemented a new product lifecycle management process, which has


fundamentally redesigned our go-to-market efforts. From product inception to retirement, these


processes will better align our new products to meet market demand, reduce the total number of


SKUs, and help us better manage inventory levels. Third, we are developing appropriate financial


strategies and credit facilities to enable us to achieve our growth target.


As for our fourth initiative, although we’re not prepared to discuss it today, we look forward to


sharing it with you in the near future.


In terms of our second objective, pursuing profitable growth, we also have four key initiatives; first,


gaining market share in our core business with our core customers; second, entering into attractive


new product categories such as eyewear; third, pursuing new licenses; and fourth, making strategic


acquisitions such as our recent acquisition of Chambers Belt Company. I’ll go into more detail later


regarding what we are doing to accomplish these objectives. But first, I will turn the call over to


Craig for a more detailed discussion of financial results in the quarter.


M.C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Rod. To reiterate the Company’s financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the


Company reported net sales of $25.1 million, and a net loss of $12.3 million or $1.78 per share. For


the third quarter of 2008, the Company reported net sales of $30.1 million, and a net loss of $2.2


million or $0.32 per share. The current quarter’s results include a write-down of inventory of $7.5


million and a charge of $844,000 in conjunction with the restructuring that we announced in


January.


For the nine months of fiscal 2009, the Company reported net loss of $12.6 million, or $1.82 per


share on net sales of $102.6 million. This compares to 2008 results of a net loss of $44.6 million or


$6.52 per share on net sales of $119.1 million. The year-ago results included charges of $36.5


million associated with a write-down of inventory, goodwill and other intangible assets.


A couple of quick points on some of the key items on the income statement:


Net sales. The decline in net sales in 2009 versus 2008 was primarily due to ongoing weak retail


environment, which resulted in reduced sales for our customers. Our gross margin for the current


year third quarter was 6.7%, compared to 38.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. The decrease in


gross margin was due primarily to lower product sales and inventory write-downs, which lowered


gross margin from 36.6% to 6.7% in the quarter. Current year first quality gross margin was held


flat by 150 basis points because of lower product cost due to a shift in overseas manufacturing.


SG&A expenses for the most recent quarter were $13.1 million, versus $12.5 million for the same


quarter last year. The increase was the result of one-time charges associated with bringing on the


new executive management team. Additionally, there were one-time consulting fees related to the


construction and implementation of the product lifecycle management process. Over the past 18


months, we have reduced the SG&A expense annual run rate by approximately $6 million, keeping


tight control on cost as a priority for the Company.


Moving on to review some of the key parts of the balance sheet, we had cash of $2.2 million as of


March 31, and accounts receivable were $17.1 million. Inventory levels were $25.8 million at March


31, which included the $7.5 million write-down of inventory deemed to be obsolete, slow-moving or


not generating the sales volume or operating margin needed for long-term success.