raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by and welcome today’s Tandy Brands Accessories Second


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. At this time,


all participants have been placed on listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions,


following the presentation.


Now, at this time, it’s my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host Bill Zima of Integrated


Corporate Relations, please go ahead.


Bill Zima, Integrated Corporate Relations Investor Relations


Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for participating in the Tandy Brands Accessories second


quarter 2006 conference call. Joining us from management are Britt Jenkins, President and Chief


Executive Officer; and Mark Flaherty, Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that except for historical information, statements


made during this conference call are forward-looking and may pursuant to the Safe Harbor


provisions under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements


involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause the company’s actual results


in future periods to differ materially from forecasted or expected results. These risks include among


other things, the competitive environment in the industry, in general and in the company’s specific


market areas inflation, changes in the cost of goods, services and economic conditions in general


and in the company’s specific market area. Those and other risks are more fully described in the


company’s filings with the SEC.


I would now like to turn the call over to Britt Jenkins.


J. S. B. Jenkins, Chief Executive Officer, President


Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Tandy Brands second


quarter fiscal 2006 results. I would like to start today’s call with reviewing our results for the


quarter, after which Mark will provide detail on our financial performance. I will have some


concluding remarks and then we will open up the call for questions.


As we have anticipated and addressed last weeks pre-announced earnings release, total revenues


for the second quarter were 73.9 million, which was approximately even with last years second


quarter revenues of 74 million. We ended the second quarter with a net profit of $2 million or 30


cents per diluted share, compared to net income of 4.3 million or 65 cents per diluted share, in the


same period last year.


Net profit for the second quarter was inline with our pre-announced earnings results, reported on


January 19th. Our results were impacted by several factors there in the quarter. On the men’s


side, we saw a slower than normal replacement sales of men accessories among several of our


mass merchant customers. We also incurred approximately $900,000 in unexpected air freight


charges, due to manufacturing delays associated with private label packaging were the related


delays due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Along the fact, we expected in times in our Eton gift


business.
raw transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


And in our women’s business we recorded as non cash charge of approximately 14 cents per


diluted share related to goodwill impairment associated with women's mass merchant business.


They were also negatively impacted by several merchandise at lower margin levels to reduce


excess inventory. And in our man’s business, second quarter revenues where 46.4 million


compared to 44.9 million in the prior year.


Gross margins in the man’s division for the second quarter was 38.7 percent, compared to 40.9% in


the prior year period. Total revenues to gross margin in our men’s division would have been


improved if the one time air freight chargers where excluded from our reporting results.


Most of our men’s business is performing well, including an 18.7% sales growth, in our gift


accessories categories for the quarter. We remain, very comfortable with the direct to this business


and continue to look for ways to improve its performance.


Given the unexpected air freight charges in the second quarter we have moved forward our factory


as expected schedules to improve the timing of our customer orders, and is limited to tied order


time lines for products for many of our key customers. We have installed certain safeguards to


ensure that retailer provider us with orders earlier so that, we can better play in the shipping


process. The company is also taking measures to eliminate light order by pre packing products


better to meet anticipated demand.


And our West Bend Wisconsin distribution facility, we are increasing our warehouse stakes to


ensure that, we can held more accessory goods in our facilities, which will ensure quicker, more


cost effective shipping going forward.


Man sales are running a very good through October with our large customers, however in


November and particularly December sales really slowed down and consequently they did not


replenish that the levels anticipated, which left us with higher to normal inventory levels. We will


work through this inventory with no negative impact to March in our men’s business in spring selling


season.


Overall, we feel good about our men’s business and believe that is solid. I guess, business was up


considering over the prior year, that we came close to doubling the sales performance of our


neckwear business over the prior year period. We have conducted apparel in the evaluation


process to learn how to better anticipate with placement orders that will make efforts to keep our


inventories lower as we shift replacement orders into our customers doors in our fiscal third quarter.


Finally, we plan on continuing dealt in that new accessory programs, among key mass merchants


as well as the departmental store customer. And among our highlights in this area during the


quarter the Eton gift accessory business enjoyed very good sales grew during the holiday seasons.


The flashlight, which I will explain it was the shinning star, it’s likely just wind it, for every minute you


wanted to get about 30 minutes of light. So, it requires no battery so it’s been very good sale for


us. In total we shift over 350,000 units of this item. We also saw a very strong product demand for


the crank radio which works on the same principal as the flashlight, which requires no batteries.


Girls had strong sales increase with [indiscernible] looking to expanding this program for next


holiday.


Now, let me review more depths some of our men’s business, trend rises has put a voice past of


sales in the 750 stores. We are running a 43% gain with boys product year-to-date. Last years


demand are basic boys belts in all 95 stores in addition to the past, we have placed in the same


store locations. [indiscernible] good success with the allied special belts, wallets, jewelry gifts


selling, selling 17,000 units in only $42 doors for holiday. So, hopefully we will be able to expand


that program in to more doors.