corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to the Tandy Brands’ Fiscal Year 2010 Third Quarter Earnings


Results Conference Call hosted by Mr. Craig Mackey, Chief Financial Officer for Tandy Brands


Accessories. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a


question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. Any reproduction of this call


in whole or in part is not permitted without prior written authorization of Tandy Brands Accessories


Incorporated. And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today May 13, 2010.


At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Craig Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


for Tandy Brands Accessories. Mr. Mackey, you may begin.


M. C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter 2010 financial results. We


issued our earnings release yesterday afternoon and if you don’t have a copy, you can find it on our


website at tandybrands.com.


Before we begin, I’d like to read the Safe Harbor language. Except for historical information


contained herein, the statements on this call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe


Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking


statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which can cause the company’s


actual results to differ materially from forecasted or expected results.


Those risks include among other things, the competitive environment in the industry, in general,


and in the company’s specific market areas, inflation, changes in the cost of goods and services;


and economic conditions in the general and in the company’s specific market areas. Those and


other risks are more fully described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


Additionally, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements. We have provided reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to their GAAP


equivalents in our earnings press release and detailed explanations in non-GAAP financial


measures in our Form 8-K filed today.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Rod McGeachy, our President and Chief Executive


Officer.


N. Roderick McGeachy III, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Craig, and good morning everyone. On today’s call, I’ll briefly review the quarter and then


Craig will provide a more comprehensive review of our financial results. After that I’ll provide


additional commentary regarding key highlights of the quarter and discuss our ongoing growth


strategies and outlook. And then of course we’ll open the call for your questions.


Let me begin by saying that we are very pleased with our third quarter performance, as we


achieved double-digit revenue growth of 11%. We reduced SG&A reduced by $1.9 million or 15%


and significantly improved adjusted EBITDA by $3.2 million versus last year’s third quarter. Our net


sales increase represents our third consecutive year-over-year quarterly improvement. From a


high level perspective these tangible business results are because of our relentless focus on and
corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


execution against our two-prong business strategy of stabilizing the operating platform and


pursuing profitable growth.


Our key financial metrics continue to improve. As I’ve mentioned net sales for the third quarter


increased 11% to 27.7 million compared to 25.1 million in the year ago quarter. The sales increase


was lead by incremental accessory sales of 7.7 million from the Chambers acquisition. We also


benefited from favorable holiday sell-through rates in the gifts category resulting in lower customer


deductions for returns. We reported a net loss of $3.3 million or $0.48 per diluted share for the third


quarter ended March 31, 2010 compared to a net loss of $12.3 million or $1.78 per diluted share in


the fiscal 2009 third quarter.


As we’ve mentioned in our prior earnings calls we believe adjusted EBITDA, earnings before


interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which highlights our profitability before non-cash


items and one-time charges, is a truer analysis and provides a cleaner view of our operating


performance. For the third quarter we reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $0.7 million which


included charges for certain acquisition related items compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $3.9


million in the year ago period, an improvement of $3.2 million. For our investor’s convenience we


have provided supplemental detail in our earnings release to show the reconciliation from net


income to adjusted EBITDA.


Well now turning to a review of our nine month results. We continue to work in a challenging


operating environment with retailers carrying less inventory. Nonetheless, we continue to succeed


in executing our growth strategy. I’m pleased to report double-digit sales growth of 10% for our


nine month results of $133.2 million compared to $102.6 million in the same fiscal 2009 period.


Chambers again led our sales growth with $24.1 million revenue contribution which offset a $13.5


million decline in organic sales. The Chambers acquisition has proven very successful and it


continues to bolster top and bottom line performance in our accessories segment. The organic


sales decline from accessories was partially due to tighter inventory controls as part of our product


life cycle management process implemented in fiscal 2009 through which we are shifting away from


slower moving low margin products. These adjustments are resulting in a higher performing


product mix which is being well accepted in the marketplace.


From a bottom line perspective, net income for the nine-month period was $4.6 million or $0.65 per


diluted share compared to a net loss of $12.6 million or $1.82 per diluted share for the comparable


2009 period. In a moment, Craig will review one-time gains and charges in our fiscal 2010 nine-


month period. But excluding these items, the company reported nine months adjusted EBITDA of


$4.1 million which represents a $5.6 million improvement over the year ago nine-month period.


The challenging market environment continues to put pressure on our financial results but we are


executing our turnaround strategy well. We’re making significant progress in improving our


operational efficiencies and driving top line growth which will make us stronger in the long term.


Now I’d like to turn the call back to Craig to provide a more detailed review of our financial results.


M. C. Mackey, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Rod. As Rod indicated, we reported net sales of $27.7 million for the fiscal 2010 third


quarter compared to $25.1 million in the same period last year. We posted a net loss of $3.3


million or $0.48 per diluted share for the fiscal 2010 third quarter compared to a net loss of $12.3


million or $1.78 per diluted share in the 2009 third quarter. We did book one-time charges during


the quarter which included a $1.2 million restructuring charge related to distribution and facilities


consolidated, consolidation charges announced in February 2010 and a $0.6 million charge


resulting from increased earn-out payments on Chambers acquisition due to Chambers net sales