corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q1 2006 Earnigs Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please stand by. Good day everyone, Welcome to the Tandy Brands Accessories First


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. At this time,


all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for your questions


following the presentation.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor to your host, Mr. Bill Zima, of Integrated Corporate Relations.


Bill Zima, Senior Vice President, Integrated Corporate Relations Inc.


Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in the Tandy Brands Accessories Fiscal


First quarter 2006 Conference Call. Joining us from management are Britt Jenkins, President and


Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Flaherty, Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that, except for historical information, statements


made during this conference call are forward-looking and made pursuant to the Safe Harbor


provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements


involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause the Company’s actual


results in future periods to differ materially from those forecasted or expected results. Those risks


include, among other things, the competitive environment in the industry in general and in the


Company’s specific market areas; inflation; changes in the costs of goods sold and services; and


economic conditions in general and in the Company’s specific market area. Those and other risks


are more fully described in the Company’s filings with the SEC.


I would now like to turn the call over to Britt Jenkins.


J.S.B. Jenkins, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Bill. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Tandy


Brands’ first quarter fiscal 2005 results. I’d like to start today’s call with reviewing the results for the


quarter, after which Mark will provide detail on our financial performance. After Mark’s remarks, I


will discuss some of our objectives for 2006, and then we’ll open up the call for questions.


Net sales in the first quarter were in line with our pre-announced financial results reported on


Wednesday, October 19. In the first quarter, net sales increased 1% to 60.9 million compared to


60.5 million in the same period last year. We end the quarter with a net profit of 1.5 million or $0.22


per diluted share compared to net income of 2.8 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the same


period last year. This net profit was in line with our pre-announced earnings results reported on


October 19.


Our top and bottom line results for the first quarter would have been better, but we’re impacted by


supply chain delays in our ETON business related to Hurricane Katrina, as well as an increase in


sales of lower margin direct sales goods in our women’s mass merchant operations.


The shipping delays accounted for approximately 3.3 million of revenue in the first quarter, which


we believe will shift into our second quarter reporting period. Our shipping delays primarily


impacted our men’s ETON gift accessory business. As a result, net sales in our men’s division


decreased to 34.6 million compared to 35.5 million in the prior year.
corrected transcript


Tandy Brands Accessories,


Inc.
 
TBAC
 
Q1 2006 Earnigs Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Aside from this delay, our core men’s business was quite productive in the first quarter, and we


made solid progress increasing our penetration among key department stores of mass merchant


customers. We have continued to take the steps to expand our distribution with Levi Strauss


Signature license. We’re testing men’s belts in 200 stores of Wal-Mart and our sell-throughs are


very good. We also had good sell-throughs of men’s signature belts and wallets at Kmart.


Also at Wal-Mart our young men’s and boys’ business increased 4% in the quarter. In particular,


our boys ties business performed well, and we expect sales to continue to remain strong as we


move into the holiday season. We’re working hard with having a preferred vendor at the


Federated/Macy’s department store. Beginning this June we’ll increase boys’ neckwear and vests


from 300 doors to 750 doors.


Our belt business is up 25% at best over the past year, and we’re proud to have recently been


awarded the WH Belt program, which carries a $45 price point. We also were recently awarded a


neckwear-replenishing program. We have launched a major belt and small leather goods program


to all the Goody’s store locations, and we’re very proud of this accomplishment and continue to


make progress with our efforts to sell other accessory products.


We also made good penetration at Target in the first quarter. We were awarded the Mossimo


young men’s wallet program for fiscal 2006, and it now captures 100% of Target’s wallet business.


We’re enthusiastic by the launch of our small leather goods program at Fred Meyer, and we will be


carried at all of their doors. And so far the feedback has been extremely good.


Our neckwear business continues to make excellent progress, increasing its distribution among key


merchants around the country. We’re now in 3,300 doors this fall. At JCPenney, we have increased


our men’s neckwear doors from 50 to 720 doors. We’re very excited about our men’s neckwear


sell-throughs in general. Our boys’ neckwear is consistently strong at Nordstrom’s and we’re now


distributed in all 95 of their doors. Our non-neckwear brand is now shipping into 72 doors at


[inaudible] and we recently shipped 90,000 units of neckwear to Kmart.


Despite the shipping delays associated with our 8,000 product, we have already shipped a large


portion of delayed product to many of our key customers. We’re thrilled with our creative yet


practical product assortment of gift accessories and are encouraged by our initial order demand by


some of our key customers for the upcoming holiday season.


In our women’s division, sales for the first quarter increased to 26.3 million compared to 25 million


in the prior-year period. This increase in our women’s business exceeded our internal [inaudible] for


the quarter. The consolidation between our women’s mass merchant and department store


divisions is making progress. We continue to work hard to leverage our strength and open new


channels of distribution to offer a broader range of women’s product to help us accomplish this


goal.


We relocated the women’s merchandize and sales teams to Dallas. We believe that by having


these two teams together in the same location, will allow them to leverage key relationships and


work more effectively together in the creative process to understand the needs of our core


customers. Having these talented individuals in this same location will allow us to better meet the


needs of our key department stores and mass merchant customers.


Additionally, we’re working very hard to improve our inventory position and ensure that excessive


inventory associated with the restructuring in our women’s business is minimized. We will continue


to monitor our inventory position going forward and take appropriate action when necessary. We


continue to focus on improving our sales and profitability in the women’s business and believe this


can be accomplished by opening new doors and improving our product penetration.