corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the TBS International


Ltd. second quarter and six months 2008 financial results conference call. We have with us Mr.


Joseph Royce, Chairman, President and CEO and Mr. Ferd Lepere, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer of the company.


At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a


question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions]. The conference call will also be webcast live,


audio and slide show on the investor relations section on the company’s website www.tbsship.com


by clicking on the webcast banner.


I must advise you that this conference is been recorded today, Thursday, August 7, 2008. We now


pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Ferd Lepere. Please go ahead Mr.Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining TBS international Limited, quarterly


conference call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS second quarter and six


months ended June 30, 2008.


Yesterday we issued a press release after the close of the stock market in New York with financial,


and operational information for the second quarter. If you have not received this release, you may


log on through our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the Investor Relations page, or you


can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post the transcript of this call on our


website once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you who want


to follow our slide presentation please go to TBS web site, which again is www.tbsship.com, and


click on the webcast link. Note that the slides are user control. Most of you who want to follow the


webcast please click on the arrow with the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn.


Also, please note that the webcast will be archived on our website.


Please let’s turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking statements. During the


course of the conference call we may make forward-looking statements. Such statements are just


prediction and involve risks and uncertainties, such that actual results may differ materially. I would


like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And, with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you Ferd. Good morning everyone and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the result of the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2008. We will begin our


presentation with slide number two. The second quarter and six months overview.


Well the second quarter 2008, we are pleased to have achieved the best quarter results in our


company’s history. In terms of revenue, EBITDA, net Income and earnings per share. Ferd Lepere,


will take you through the financial information in more detail later in the presentation.
corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Now let’s look at slide number three, TBS today. The core of the TBS business model emphasizes


our TBS Five Star Service. Ocean transportation, Logistics, Port Services, Operations and Strategic


Planning. It is still the professionalism and dedication of the 290 worldwide employees of TBS and


our affiliate agencies who deliver the TBS Five Star Service that cements customer relationships


while expanding cargo volumes. This foundation of direct customer relationships sets our company


apart from the traditional drydocked cargo companies who focus on chartering their vessels to other


companies.


Now let’s turn to slide four, the TBS Five Star service. Service is the essence of our business. Our


goal is to build long-term relationships. Our customers rely on us to be their shipping arm in the


markets we serve. We add value by offering our customers and menu of services, including Ocean


Transportation, Operations, Logistics, Port Services and Strategic Planning. Our Five Star Service


is a strong barrier of entry.


Now I would like to show you some examples of our Five Star Service in action. On slide five. As


you can see, TBS’s business is a complex logistical operation that requires a high-level of cargo


expertise. Our 18 full-time port captains are constantly working with the shippers, and we see this


to coordinate cargo movements within the ports. This combined with our fully staffed agency


networks and representative offices on five Continents continue to strengthen TBS’s position in our


core markets as well as offering new opportunities for further expansion.


On slide six, this shows our Project and Logistics Spread business is expanding and here is an


example of how we work with our customers. Mitsubishi is building power plants on the West Coast


of Mexico and Chile. The total requirement consists of 100,000 revenue tons of various


components including heavy lift pieces up to 275 tons. This project will move over 12 months.


The TBS team worked with Mitsubishi. We fixed the schedule, we chartered specialized ships for


the heavy lift pieces. With TBS port captains supervise the loading, strolling and discharging of this


cargo and we delivered the cargo on time and free of damage. The world’s superstructure today is


being built or renewed and TBS will be a part of it.


Now let’s continue along to slide seven, which represents a typical parcel voyage. As you can see


we load steel parcels in the lower holes and complete the voyage with general and project cargos.


As you can see on the right, on the bottom between that, scroll down and then we are able to load


our rolling stock and machinery. Also as you can see these cargoes are not suited for containers. In


our business performance counts On-time delivery, reliable schedules and cargo expertise,


separate us not only from our competitors, but from the typical commodity pricing that you see in


the spot market. People today with projects are not going to negotiate nickels to dimes, or dollars


when you have billion dollar projects that require a high-level of performance.


Now on slide eight, this is how we compare our net income to the Baltic Dry Index. Unlike the


traditional Dry Bulk Company, which is affected by the fluctuations of the Baltic Dry Index, we had


been able to achieve consistent growth in earnings with the implementation of our ‘Business First –


Fleet Second’ strategy. Our loyal customer base, franchise businesses and minor trades insulate


TBS from the spot market volatility.


We see solid fundamentals in the industry, with strong cargo requirements and firm freight rates, as


a result we believe that we have the ability to achieve growth in our business and look forward to


continued positive results.


Now I would like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Executive Vice President, and Chief


Financial Officer.