corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. We have with us Mr. Joseph


Royce, Chairman, President and CEO and Mr. Fred Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer of the company. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will


be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


The conference call will also be webcast live, audio and slide show on the Investor Relations


section of the company’s website, tbsship.com by clicking on the webcast banner. I must advise


you that this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, March 16, 2010.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, good morning and thank you for joining TBS International’s quarterly conference call. The


purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’ fourth quarter and year ended December


31, 2009.


This morning we issued a press release before the market opened in New York with financial and


operational information for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. If you have not


received this release, you may log onto our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the


Investor Relations page, or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post


a transcript of this call on our website once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you, who want


to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is www.tbsship.com and


click on the webcast link.


Note that the slides are user controlled. For those of you who want to follow the webcast, please


click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also, please note


that the webcast will be archived on our website.


And now I’d like you to please turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking


statements. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements.


Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results


may differ materially.


I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you, Fred. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the results of the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. We will begin our presentation


with slide number two: TBS today positioned for the recovery. 2009 was a particularly challenging


year for the global economy and shipping, especially for the dry cargo markets, where we
corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


experienced a dramatic decline in demand and freight rates. In this context, our financial results for


2009 were not unexpected and they reflect the normal progression of the recovery of dry cargo


ocean transportation from the depths of the severe global recession we experienced.


There are already signs of a gradual, yet fragile, economic recovery around the world. This


recovery was initiated as of the second quarter of 2009 with the movement of basic raw materials


such as iron ore, coal, and agricultural products on Capesize and Panamax vessels and had a


positive impact on the bulk cargo side of our business. Our TBS liner and parcel services, that


primarily transport steel parcels, general and project cargo, began their recovery during the fourth


quarter, which proved to be our best quarter in 2009. This recovery is gaining momentum as we


enter 2010.


Following shareholders’ approval, we completed TBS’ redomiciliation to Ireland, which we believe


will provide us with economic benefits and help ensure our continued global competitiveness.


In September 2009, we took delivery of the M/V Rockaway Belle, our first newbuilding multipurpose


tweendecker and expanded our fleet to 48 vessels. This was a significant milestone for our


company and was part of our long-term fleet modernization and expansion program. The M/V


Rockaway Belle is the first in a series of six larger multipurpose tweendecker vessels specifically


designed by a TBS team with the objective to increase our operational flexibility, optimize our cargo


transportation and support the requirements of our customer base.


Now let’s turn to slide number three, strengthening our franchise and customer base. During these


adverse and challenging market conditions, we continued to leverage our strongest assets – our


worldwide team of shipping professionals and our Five-Star Service consisting of Ocean


Transportation, Logistics, Port Services, Operations and Strategic Planning. We strengthened our


local presence in China and established a strong presence in Houston, which is the regional energy


and project logistics hub. We maintained the quality and reliability of our services, stayed close to


our customers, strengthening our franchise, and took several new initiatives positioning TBS to


benefit from the recovery.


Now let’s look at slide four, new long-term strategic alliance programs. We pursued opportunities


created by the financial crisis and global recession by aggressively building new alliances and joint


venture partnerships in the Caribbean, South America, South Africa and West Africa for logistics


and ocean cargo movements.


Looking ahead, there are still several significant challenges to cope with, however, we believe that


we can be cautiously optimistic as the global economy is slowly, but gradually, recovering, and


there are improving conditions in TBS’ niche markets.


Now I’d like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you, Joe. We should all now be on slide number five. We have a long-term debt that


does not comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. We’ve obtained covenant


waivers from all of our lenders, which expire on April 1, 2010.


We’re seeking to address this issue on a permanent basis by discussing with our banks


modifications of the financial covenants in our existing credit agreements, which would enable TBS


to be in compliance with these covenants through maturity based on our current internal projections


and by exploring the feasibility of new financings to repay some of our existing credit facilities.