corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


First Quarter Ended March 31, 2010 Earnings Conference Call. We have with us Mr. Joseph


Royce, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Fred Lepere, Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer of the company.


The conference call will also be webcast live, audio and slide show on the company’s website,


www.tbsship.com by clicking on the webcast banner. I must advise you that this conference is


being recorded today, Monday, May 10, 2010.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining TBS International’s quarterly conference


call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’ first quarter ended March 31,


2010.


This morning we issued a press release before the market opened in New York with financial and


operational information for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. If you have not received this


release, you may log onto our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the Investor Relations


page, or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post the transcript of


this call on our website once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you, who want


to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is www.tbsship.com and


click on the webcast link.


Note that the slides are user controlled. For those of you who want to follow the webcast, please


click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also, please note


that the webcast will be archived on our website.


And now I’d like you to please turn to slide number 1. This slide refers to forward-looking


statements. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements.


Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results


may differ materially.


I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director


Thank you, Fred. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the results of the first quarter ended March 31, 2010.


Through the leadership of our Chief Financial Officer, Fred Lepere, TBS concluded loan


modification agreements with its lenders. I want to thank our lenders for their unwavering support of
corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


TBS throughout this economic and financial crisis. We have received a sequential series of waivers


of technical covenants to avoid loan defaults. Throughout this period, TBS made all principal and


interest payments timely. Recognizing the need for a permanent solution, our lenders worked


diligently with TBS to restructure our financing facilities. This restructuring received the unanimous


approval of our lenders, including each and every bank in our various bank syndicates without


dissent.


Now we’ll begin our presentation with slide number 2, TBS Today – Positioned for the Recovery.


TBS is making positive progress in emerging from the economic crisis and financial malaise that


has affected world trade. Our handymax and handysize bulk carriers are participating in the


improving freight rates for the carriage of bulk cargoes.


Our multipurpose tweendeckers showed marked improvement in quarter 1 2010 in both cargo


volumes and freight rates as our traditional customer base increased exports of steel, liner, project


and general cargoes. We are optimistic that the volume of finished good cargoes we carry will


continue to improve throughout 2010 and that TBS will return to a more balanced rotation of its


tweendecker fleet in the second half of this year.


In quarter 1 2010, top line revenues, average daily Time Charter Equivalent, or TCE, voyage


earnings and EBITDA showed marked improvements over quarter 1 2009. Commencing with


quarter 3 2009, we have also experienced steady quarterly improvement in top line revenues,


average daily TCE and EBITDA.


Our business plan is to capitalize on the alliances TBS built during the past year to expand the TBS


brand and the Five Star Service in Latin America and Africa, which we view as emerging


continents, rich in energy and mineral resources that will sustain viable growth for decades to


come.


In March 2010, we took delivery of the Motor Vessel Dakota Princess our second newbuilding


multipurpose tweendecker and expanded our fleet to 49 vessels. This was another significant


milestone for our company and was part of our long-term fleet modernization and expansion


program. The Motor Vessel Dakota Princess is the second in the series of 6 larger, multipurpose


tweendeck vessels specifically designed by TBS team with the objective to increase our operational


flexibility, optimize our cargo transportation and support the requirements of our customer base.


Taking into account our increasing cargo volumes, enlarged fleet and improving freight rates, we


have a positive outlook for the rest of the year ahead and believe that we are well positioned to take


advantage of the improved market conditions as a result of the continued global recovery.


Now I’d like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you, Joe. We should all now be on slide number 3. As a testimony to our good and


strong relationships with our banks, we’re pleased to report that we have successfully restructured


our syndicated credit facilities led by Bank of America, The Royal Bank of Scotland and DVB Group


Merchant Bank, as well as our individual credit facilities with AIG Commercial Equipment, Credit


Suisse, Berenberg Bank and Commerzbank. These amendments modify the financial covenants


and other terms of the credit facilities, including covenants relating to TBS’s collateral coverage,


consolidated leverage ratio, consolidated fixed interest coverage ratio, consolidated fixed charge


coverage ratio and minimum cash balance.