corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Second Quarter and Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 Earnings Conference Call. We have with us


Mr. Joseph E. Royce, Chairman, President and CEO and Mr. Fred Lepere, Senior Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.


At this time, all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. Later, we will


conduct an question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The conference call will also be


webcast live, audio and slideshow on the Company’s website at www.tbsship.com by clicking on


the webcast banner. I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Friday, August


6, 2010.


We would now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining TBS International’s quarterly conference call. The purpose


of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’s second quarter and six months ended June 30,


2010.


This morning, we issued a press release before the market opened in New York with financial and


operational information for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010. If you have not


received this release, you may log on to our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the


Investor Relations page, or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post


the transcript of this call on our website once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you, who want


to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is www.tbsship.com and


click on the webcast link.


Note that the slides are user controlled. For those of you who want to follow the webcast, please


click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also, please note


that the webcast will be archived on our website.


And now, I’d like you to please turn to slide number 1. This slide refers to forward-looking


statements. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements.


Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results


may differ materially.


I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you, Fred. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the results of the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010.
corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Now, we’ll begin our presentation with slide number 2. TBS Today – Positioned for the Recovery.


During the first two months of the second quarter, we saw the improvement in freight rates on the


transportation of bulk and breakbulk cargoes continue from the first quarter. Demand for the


carriage of aggregate sugar, salt, and grain cargoes increased.


On our multipurpose tweendecker business, we saw both volumes and freight rates improve as


traditional customers increased their export of steel, liner, project and general cargo which helped


to reinstate operational and rotational balance.


Our trade from Asia to South America experienced strong cargo volumes with all vessels operating


on the route filled to capacity. Despite the reduced iron ore imports by China, we experienced


strong exports of minerals and metals from the west coast of South America to Asia.


Commencing in mid-May, the Baltic Dry Index declined from its value of 3,939 to 1,700,


representing about a 50% – 57% drop. This regression in the dry bulk market freight rates impacted


the TBS fleet, especially our bulk carriers and the impact is continuing in quarter three 2010.


However, market freight rates in our sector appear to have stabilized in recent weeks.


Our business plan is to capitalize on the alliances, TBS built during the past year to expand the


TBS brand and Five Star Service in Latin America and Africa, which we view as emerging


continents, rich in energy and mineral resources which will sustain viable growth for the future. We


have developed long-term relationships with well established industrial shippers in diverse markets


that include mining, steel manufacturing, heavy industry, industrial equipment and construction.


We believe that our business model allows us to increase the value of our service to our customers


as we are all well equipped to meet their challenging demands and short delivery windows. Our


joint venture subsidiary Log.Star recently obtained an operational license in Brazil to provide


domestic shipping services.


This Brazilian flag shipping company will concentrate on the movement of breakbulk, bulk parcels,


heavy lift, general and project cargoes along the coast line of Brazil and the Amazon River basin.


We own 70% of this joint venture Log.Star initial fleet of three vessels will be operated under a


three year bareboat charter.


We are on track with our goal to modernize and expand our fleet to our new building program of six


multipurpose tweendeck vessels of which we are taking delivery of our first two vessels. We sold


our smallest handysize bulk carrier for motor vessel Savannah Belle in July. We believe that when


market conditions begin to improve, TBS will be well positioned to take advantage of future growth.


Now, I’d like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Joe. We should now all be on slide number 3. This slide summarizes our second


quarter 2010 operating and financial highlights. For the second quarter ended June 30, 2010, total


revenues were $111.2 million, an increase of 54% over the same period in 2009.


Voyage revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2010 were $70.6 million, an increase of


18% from the $59.7 million during the same period in 2009. Time charter revenues for the second


quarter 2010 increased by 25.5 million to 37.7 million from $12.2 million for the three months ended


June 30, ‘09.