corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Limited Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Ended December 31, 2008 Financial Results


Conference Call. We have with us, Mr. Joseph Royce, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mr. Fred


Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the company. [Operator


Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, April 1,


2009.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining TBS International Limited’s


quarterly conference call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’ fourth quarter


and year ended December 31, 2008. On Monday, we issued a press release after the close of the


stock market in New York with financial and operational information for the fourth quarter and full


year 2008. If you have not received this release, you may log onto our website at www.tbsship.com


and navigate to the Investor Relations page, or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-


7566. We will also post a transcript of this call on our website once it has been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session, and for those of you, who


want to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is


www.tbsship.com and click on the webcast link. Note that the slides are user-controlled. Those of


you who want to follow the webcast, please click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen


to make the slides turn. Also please note that the webcast will be archived on our website.


Now I’d like you to please turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking statements.


During the course of the conference call, we may make forward-looking statements. Such


statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results may


differ materially. I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in


particular our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These


documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ


materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.


Now, Joseph Royce is traveling on an extensive business trip in South America. He is making this


conference call from our office in Lima, Peru. We have asked Lawrence Blatte, our Senior


Executive Vice President, to participate in this call in the event we experience technical difficulties


during Mr. Royce’s presentation, or during the question-and-answer period.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Fred. Good morning everyone and welcome to TBS International’s Conference Call for


the Results of the Fourth Quarter and Year-End December 31, 2008. We will begin our


presentation with slide number two, the challenges of the first quarter 2009. The year 2008 brought


the dry cargo bulk market to unprecedented highs, only to be followed by a precipitous drop. The


global economic slowdown has impacted the dry shipping market dramatically, decreasing both


volumes of cargo and freight rates, as reflected in the company Baltic Dry Index spread. There has


been a corresponding negative impact on asset values as well.
corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Now let’s turn to slide number three, proactive initiatives. In the current environment, we are staying


the course to safeguard the value we have created, and remain alert to new opportunities that may


arise. We have a strong franchise in our core markets of Asia and Latin America. The 300


dedicated worldwide employees of TBS and our affiliate agencies are in constant communication


directly with our customers to work together through these challenging times. They deliver the TBS


Five Star Service – Ocean Transportation, Logistics, Port Services, Operations and Strategic


Planning to further cement our relationships. TBS has added heavylift capacity and more


warehouses, to further enhance our offerings. We are aggressively seeking to leverage our Five


Star Service to increase market share in our existing trade lanes, and penetrate new trade lanes.


To support this effort, we are locating senior executives to Houston, Texas, and Shanghai, China.


Now let’s look at slide number four, TBS taking a cautious approach. To address these challenging


times, we have taken a series of defensive measures. We canceled our program to build an


additional 12 Roymar Class multipurpose tweendeckers, with no cost or penalties to TBS. We will,


of course, continue our existing new building program of six Roymar Class tweendeckers, and have


in place fixed-term financing. Multipurpose tweendeckers are an important segment of the TBS


suite, and the first new vessel is expected to join the fleet in June this year.


In order to conserve cash, we cancelled 2008 bonuses aggregating $15 million, and implemented a


salary freeze for our officers and office staff. We continue to evaluate our entire cost matrix to


identify potential savings, and, very importantly, we obtained covenant waivers from our lenders


with respect to certain 2009 financial covenants. Fred will speak about this in more details shortly.


Now slide five, looking forward. Turning an eye towards the future, we expect to see some balance


returning to the supply and demand of handysize, handymax dry bulk vessels. Scrapping of older


vessels has accelerated, newbuilding orders are being cancelled, and many ships have been laid


up that will likely never return to trading. On the demand side of the equation, China and India


remain the main drivers in the dry cargo industry. Both countries are expected to achieve positive


growth in 2009, despite the slowdown caused by the recent crisis.


According to Clarkson statistics, China is expected to grow by approximately 6.7% and India by


5.1% in 2009. This growth reflects their continued infrastructure development, which requires


imports of core commodities. This concerted efforts of governments around the world to inject


liquidity into the credit markets and to implement stimulus programs, aimed mainly at infrastructure


development, should eventually result in increased dry cargo movement.


Now, I’d like to turn to slide number six, our fourth quarter and year-end December 31, 2008


overview. Our record 2008 financial results have quickly become history. Since the last quarter of


2008, we have been experiencing a dramatic decline in the global economy, and we now operate in


a completely different financial and economic environment, without clear visibility as to when the


turmoil will end.


The near-term effects of this dramatic decline have been devastating on the dry cargo shipping


industry. The freezing of the credit markets and the virtual elimination of letters of credit, which are


the traditional financing mechanism of global trade, have caused a significant decrease in the


volumes of cargo transported, thereby affecting freight rates, vessel utilization and asset values. As


a result, revenues, earnings and cash flows for the shipping industry are under significant pressure


and expected to suffer during 2009.


TBS has not been immune to these conditions, and for the first three months of 2009, our revenue


has declined significantly. Though it is the stated policy of our company that we do not offer


guidance, in light of these extraordinary times, I believe it is appropriate to discuss how these


events have impacted TBS. Our preliminary estimates for the first quarter of 2009 indicate that our


financial results will fall into the following ranges: revenues between 55 and $60 million, producing


a net loss of between 20 to $25 million; and an EBITDA between zero and $5 million. Despite the