corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Limited Second Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. We have with us, Mr. Joseph


Royce, Chairman, President and CEO, and Mr. Fred Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer of the company. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will


be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


The conference call will also be webcast live audio and slideshow on the Investor Relations section


of the company’s website, www.tbsship.com, by clicking on the webcast banner. I must advise you


that this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, August 6, 2009.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining TBS International Limited’s quarterly


conference call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’s second quarter and


six months ended June 30, 2009. Yesterday we issued a press release after the close of the stock


market in New York, with financial and operational information for the second quarter. If you have


not received this release, you may log onto our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the


Investor Relations page. Or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566.


We will also post a transcript of this call on our website once it’s been prepared. Our remarks today


will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you who want follow our slide


presentation, please go to the TBS website which again is www.tbsship.com and click on the


webcast link. Note that the slides are user controlled. Those of you who want to follow the webcast


please click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also please


note that the webcast will be archived on our website.


And now I’d like you to please turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking


statements. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements.


Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results


may differ materially. I’d like to refer you to our fillings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission, in particular our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our Annual Reports on Form 10-


K. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to


differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director


Thank you, Fred. Good morning everyone and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the results of the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009. We will begin our


presentation with slide number two looking forward.


We entered this year facing the most severe financial crisis, since the Great Depression. Today, the


outlook is considerably brighter. We have the positive impact of the Chinese stimulus package,


which is the forerunner of stimulus packages in many other global economies. This has resulted in


record iron ore and coal imports and improved steel and commodity prices. We would expect basic


commodities and raw materials to be in the forefront of an economic recovery and this has provided


strong support for the Capesize and Panamax freight rates.
corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The positive impact on the smaller bulk commodities carried by outside vessels do not materialize


[inaudible] the end of the second quarter. And we are now experiencing improvements in both


cargo volumes and trade rates in our bulk cargo business going into the third quarter. The cargo


volumes and trade rates in our liner and parcel cargo business has lagged behind.


We anticipate that the movement of high valued finished goods and project cargo should improve


towards toward the end of this year as our customers restock there inventories and resume their


projects.


Now let’s turn to slide number three, TBS business focus. Our reduced revenue, EBITDA and


resulting net loss were not unexpected considering the impact of the economic crisis on our


customer base. We anticipated these financial results and accordingly prepaid all principal


payments due on our debt [inaudible].


Having secured our financial l position to these prepayments and covenant waivers, we focused on


strengthening our franchise by increasing market share in our core markets, adding to our customer


base, exploring new markets and expanding logistics and warehouse services.


Now look at slide number four, TBS growth opportunities. In addition to strengthening our franchise,


we are preparing for the market recovery and taking advantage of new opportunities.


We enhanced our presence in Asia, moving our Senior Executive responsible for our Pacific Liner


Service to Shanghai. We reinforced our commitment to the Houston Energy and Logistics business


segments by relocating two Senior Executives to Houston, expanding our office and establishing a


Port Warehouse. Houston is the regional project logistics hub.


We are exploring joint venture opportunities in the Caribbean, South America and Africa for


logistics and ocean cargo movements. We believe that this proactive approach combined with our


efficient and reliable service, will serve TBS well in the second half of 2009 and the economic


recovery in 2010.


Now I’d like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Joe. We should now all be on slide number five. This slide summarizes our second


quarter 2009 operating and financial highlights. For the second quarter ended June 30th, 2009,


total revenues were $72.2 million, a decrease of 54% over the same period in 2008.


Voyage revenues for the three months ended June 30th, 2009 were $59.7 million, a decrease of


54% from the $128.7 million during the same period in 2008.


Time charter revenues in the second quarter of 2009 decreased by $13.1 million or 52% to $12.2


million from $25.3 million for the three months ended June 30th, 2008.


Our net loss for the second quarter of 2009 was $16.9 million as compared to a net profit of $52.6


million during the same period last year. EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measure was $11.2 million


for the second quarter of 2009; a decrease of 85% over the same period in 2008. A reconciliation of


EBITDA is provided in the appendix of this presentation.


Earnings per share on a basic and diluted basis for the second quarter of 2009 was a loss of $0.57


as compared to the earnings per share of $1.82 for the second quarter of last year.