corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning (:01), ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Limited First Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. We have with us Mr. Joseph Royce,


Chairman, President and CEO and Mr. Fred Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer of the company. [Operator Instructions]


The conference call will also be webcast live, audio and slideshow on the Investor Relations section


of the Company’s website, www.tbsship.com by clicking on the webcast banner. I must advise you


that this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, May 7, 2009.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. So good morning and thank you for joining TBS International Limited’s quarterly


conference call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’s first quarter ended


March 31, 2009. Yesterday we issued a press release after the close of the stock market in New


York with financial and operational information for the first quarter. If you have not received this


release, you may log onto our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the Investor Relations


page, or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566.


We will also post the transcript of this call on our website once it has been prepared. Our remarks


today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you who want to follow our


slide presentation please go to the TBS website which again is www.tbsship.com and click on the


webcast link. Note that the slides are user controlled. Those of you who want to follow the webcast,


please click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also please


note the webcast will be archived on our website.


Now I would like you to please turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking


statements. During the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.


Such statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results


may differ materially. I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission, in particular our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K.


These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ


materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that I would like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman


Thank you, Fred. Good morning everyone and welcome to TBS International conference call for the


results of the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. You will forgive us if this first quarter presentation


appears to be repetitious of the fourth quarter 2008 presentation we made April 1, but conditions in


the dry cargo market have little changed in the intervening five weeks.


We will begin our presentation with slide number two -- the challenges of the first quarter 2009. We


are in the midst of very challenging time for TBS and the dry cargo shipping industry. Since the last


quarter of 2008, we have been experiencing a dramatic decline in the global economy, and we now


operate in a completely different financial and economic environment, without clear visibility as to


when the turmoil will end.
corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The near term effects of this dramatic decline has been devastating on the dry cargo shipping


industry. The freezing of the credit markets, the diminished availability of letters of credit, which are


the traditional financial mechanisms of global trade, and the resulting severe global recession have


caused a significant decrease in the volume of cargo transported, thereby affecting trade rates,


vessel utilization and asset values.


As a result, freight rates collapsed, as indicated by the Baltic Dry Index, which declined by 95%


from its high value of 11,793 on May 20, 2008 to a low of 663 by December 5, 2008. Since then,


the Index has modestly recovered to 1,897 as of May 5, 2009. Asset values in the sale and


purchase market have dropped substantially from their spring/summer 2008 highs. Revenues,


earnings and cash flows for the shipping industry are under significant pressure and are expected


to continue to suffer during 2009.


TBS has not been immune to these conditions, and for the first three months of 2009, our revenues


and EBITDA declined significantly and we experienced a net loss of $21.3 million or $0.71 per


share. We expect that for the second quarter of 2009 there will be a slight upward moderation of


these conditions as cargo volumes and freight rates are beginning to show improvement.


Now let’s turn to slide number three, TBS’s business focus. In the current environment we are


saving across to safeguard the value we have created and remain alert to new opportunities that


may arrive -- arise.


At TBS our strongest asset is our worldwide team of shipping professionals. We have fully staffed


affiliate agencies and representative offices on five continents. We run a unique five star service


consisting of ocean transportation, logistics, port services, operations and strategic planning. We


implement this five star service with our fleet of 47 owned or controlled vessels, consisting of 23


handymax and handysize bulk carriers and 24 multipurpose tweendecks – tweendeckers one of


which the Motor Vessel Zia Belle has two 150 ton cranes combinable to 300 tons.


Multipurpose tweendeckers are an important segment of the TBS fleet. We are proceeding with our


plan to complete the construction of the six Roymar Class 34,000 dwt multipurpose tweendeckers


that were contracted in February 2007. We expect to receive the delivery of the Motor Vessel


Rockaway Belle, the first vessel in this series in June.


With our five star service and our team of approximately 300 dedicated employees throughout the


world, we are able to provide complete logistics and transportation solutions for our customers. We


believe that this value added approach combined with our efficient and reliable service will serve


TBS well through the challenging times we face in 2009.


Now, slide four, looking forward. Turning an eye towards future we expect to see some balance


returning to the supply and demand of the handysize/handymax dry bulk vessels. Scrapping of


older vessels has accelerated, new building orders are being cancelled and many ships have been


laid up and will likely never return to trading.


On the demand side of the equation, China, India and South America remain the main drivers in the


dry cargo industry. These countries are expected to achieve positive growth in 2009 despite the


slowdown caused by the recent crisis. According to Clarkson statistics, China is expected to grow


by approximately 6.7% and India by 5.1% in 2009. This growth reflects continued infrastructure


development which requires imports of core commodities and project goods.


Our view of the dry cargo market environment for the second half of 2009 is that it will continue to


be challenging. Despite the lack of visibility, we are cautiously optimistic for a gradual return to a


more normalized market conditions. Urbanization and core economic development, which have


been the prevalent trends in developing economies around the world, and especially in China, India


and South America, may temporarily slow down but we believe they are irreversible.