corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the TBS International


Limited Third Quarter and Nine Months 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. We have with us


Mr. Joseph Royce, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mr. Fred Lepere, Executive Vice President


and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.


There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


The conference call will also be webcast live, audio and slide show on the Investor Relations


section of the Company’s website, www.tbsship.com by clicking on the webcast banner. I must


advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, November 10th, 2009. We will


now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead, Mr. Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining TBS International Limited’s quarterly


conference call. The purpose of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’s third quarter and nine


months ended September 30th, 2009.


Yesterday we issued a press release before the market opened in New York with financial and


operational information for the third quarter. If you have not received this release, you may log onto


our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the Investor Relations page, or you can call


Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post a transcript of this call on our website


once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. Now, for those of you who


want to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is


www.tbsship.com and click on the webcast link.


Note that the slides are user controlled. Those of you who want to follow the webcast, please click


on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the slides turn. Also, please note that the


webcast will be archived on our website.


Now I’d like you to please turn to slide number one. This slide refers to forward-looking statements.


During the course of the conference call, we may make forward-looking statements. Such


statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results may


differ materially.


I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you, Fred. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to TBS International’s conference call for


the results of the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009. TBS has been


positioning ourselves to take advantage of improving market conditions we believe will manifest


themselves in 2010. In this connection we have been focusing on two primary objectives. One,


addressing our corporate debt and strengthening our franchise and growing our customer base


utilizing the TBS Five Star Service.
corrected transcript


TBS International Ltd.
 
TBSI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We will begin our presentation with slide number two addressing our corporate debt. We have long


term debt that is not in default. However, technical accounting principles require the company to


reclassify this long-term debt as current in our September 30 financial statements.


We are seeking to address this issue on a permanent basis by discussing with our banks


modifications of the financial covenants in our existing credit facilities, which would enable TBS to


be in compliance with both covenants through maturity based on our current internal projections


and by exploring the feasibility of new financing to repay some of our existing credit facilities.


We have filed and have in place a registration statement on Form S-3 which allows TBS to issue


registered securities and may provide TBS another liquidity option.


Now let’s look at slide number three, strengthening our franchise and growing our customer base.


Utilizing our TBS Five Star Service we have been fortifying and growing relationships with existing


clients, adding new clients to our customer base, exploring new markets and expanding logistics,


warehousing and customer service.


We continue to expand our China presence and strengthen our TBS Houston hub reinforcing our


commitment to the Houston energy, mining and logistic businesses. We are pursuing the


opportunities created by the financial crisis and global recession by aggressively building new


alliances and joint venture partnerships in the Caribbean, South America, South Africa and West


Africa for logistics and ocean cargo movement.


Customers and clients today are seeking proven, reliable counterparties. This enables TBS to


leverage our strongest assets, our worldwide team of shipping professionals and our Five Star


Service consisting of Ocean Transportation, Logistics, Port Services, Operation and Strategic


Planning. We have fully staffed affiliate agencies and representative offices on five continents and


are taking steps to expand on trading areas.


Now, looking at slide number four, improving conditions in the TBS niche markets. In the third


quarter ended September 30, 2009, our TBS liner and parcel services that primarily transport steel


parcels, general and project cargo continue to lag behind the general market recovery. As a result,


elements of our fleet were out of sync from the normal, pre-crisis cargo rotations, leading to


excessive waiting times to load cargoes and the need to utilize the spot market to employ vessels


that will at a position. This had a negative impact on our financial and operating results, which were


generally flat with our financial and operating results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009.


For the third quarter 2009, TBS had a net loss of about $18 million or $0.61 per share.


We saw improvement in TBS cargo volumes and trade rates for the third quarter of 2009 with


respect to bulk cargoes, which we carried on our Handymax and Handysize bulk carriers. This


improvement is continuing and is being joined by improvement in our carriage of basic steel


products. Inquiry for the TBS parcel, general cargo and liner services are strengthening, leading us


to believe that the recovery in these services will manifest itself beginning with the first quarter of


2010 leading to improving cargo volumes and freight rates.


Slide four highlights the principle TBS business areas that are showing positive signs of recovery.


We are therefore cautiously optimistic that in 2010 the TBS fleet will resume cargo balance and


vessel rotations more in line with our pre-crisis historical trading patterns combined with improving


freight rates.


Now I’d like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer.