corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the TBS International


First Quarter ended March 31st 2011 Earnings Conference Call.


We have with us Mr. Joseph Royce, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mr. Fred Lepere, Senior


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the company. At this time, all participants


are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions] The conference call will also be webcast live, audio and slideshow on the


Investor Relations section of the company’s website, www.tbsship.com, by clicking on the webcast


banner. I must advice you that this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, May 11th,


2011.


We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Mr. Fred Lepere. Please go ahead Mr.


Lepere.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining TBS International’s quarterly conference call. The purpose


of today’s call is to discuss the results of TBS’ first quarter ended March 31st, 2011.


On Monday, May 9th, we issued a press release after the market closed in New York, with financial


and operational information for the first quarter ended March 31st, 2011. If you have not received


this release, you may log on to our website at www.tbsship.com and navigate to the Investor


Relations page or you can call Capital Link at area code 212-661-7566. We will also post the


transcript of this call on our website once it’s been prepared.


Our remarks today will be followed by a question-and-answer session. For those of you who want


to follow our slide presentation, please go to the TBS website, which again is www.tbsship.com,


and click on the webcast link. Note that the slides are user controlled. For those of you who want to


follow the webcast, please click on the arrow at the bottom of the webcast screen to make the


slides turn. Also, please note that the webcast will be archived on our website.


Now, I’d like you to please turn to slide number two. This slide refers to forward-looking statements.


During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements. Such


statements are just predictions and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results may


differ materially.


I’d like to refer you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular our


quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 10-K. These documents contain


and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in these forward-looking statements.


And with that, I’d like to introduce Joseph Royce, our Chairman, CEO and President.


Joseph E. Royce, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Fred. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to TBS International’s conference call


for the results of the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.


I’d like to begin with our presentation with slide number three, the Baltic Indices. The first quarter of


2011 was very challenging for the Baltic Dry shipping industry. There was an unabated delivery of


new built ships and continuing downward pressure on dry cargo freight rates as evidenced by the
corrected transcript


TBS International Plc
 
TBSI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Baltic Dry Indices. The Baltic Dry Index or BDI, which was at 1,773 on December 24th, 2010


dropped to a low of 1,043 in early February this year, and has modestly recovered to 1,344 on May


9th, 2011. Correspondingly, the Baltic Handysize Index or BHSI, which was at 829 on December


24th, 2010 dropped to a low at 634 also in early February, and has modestly recovered to 789 on


May 9th, 2011.


Please now turn to slide four, factors impacting first quarter 2011 financial results. We believe that


there are many reasons for continued weakness in freight rates, including the large amount of


additional tonnage and leasing deliveries in all vessel sizes, as well as natural and governmental


occurrences that significantly depressed the amount of available cargos. There was severe flooding


in Australia, which interrupted shipments of coal, iron ore and wheat along with government


imposed reductions of the export of coal from Indonesia and iron ore from India was the deviation


of vessels that traditionally carry these cargos from that region into the Atlantic.


There was an extended heat wave in the grain growing regions of Russia and Ukraine, and the


earthquake, tsunami and radioactive contamination resulted from the damaged nuclear power


plants in Japan disrupted the natural flow of cargos to and from that country.


Please now turn to slide number five, bunker costs. Most significantly, the exceptionally rapid rise in


the cost of transportation fuel, as you all have noticed, when you fill your cars, is severely impacting


our company’s operating results. On January 3rd, in Singapore, intermediate fuel oil was $518 per


ton, and at the end of April, the price was about $693 per ton, a rise of a $175 per ton or 34%. Most


of our vessels consume between 20, 25 tons of bunker fuel per day [indiscernible] and with a fleet


of 51 vessels, you can well image the monthly increases in our voyage fuel costs.


Please now turn to slide number six, addressing weakness in dry cargo market. TBS is taking an


aggressive proactive approach in dealing with the weakness in dry cargo market. We are engaged


in cost reduction programs, we have restructured the company’s debt obligation by revising the


principal repayment schedules under our credit facilities, revising the financial covenants including


covenants related to the company’s consolidated leverage ratio, consolidated interest covenant


ratio and minimum cash balance, and modify other terms of the credit facilities.


As a commitment towards a successful restructuring of our credit facilities, three key members of


the TBS management agreed to provide $10 million of new equity to the company. We are


preparing a rights offering that entitled the holders of the company Class A shares other than the


three key members of TBS management to purchase Class A preference shares that are


convertible into company Class A shares.


Please now turn to slide seven, looking into the second quarter 2011. Looking into the second


quarter of this year, we note that the impact of the number of the aforementioned factors is


ameliorating. Australia is increasing its exports, cargo volumes are improving to and from Japan,


the grain export season in South America has commenced, and more normalized balance returning


to the distribution of vessels looking for cargos between the Atlantic and the Pacific, privilege in the


Handysize, Handymax dry cargo bulk categories outside ships have stabilized and are now


showing early signs of improvement.


Now I would like to turn the floor over to Fred Lepere, our Senior Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer.


Ferdinand V. Lepere, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Joe. We should all now be on slide number eight. This slide summarizes our first


quarter 2011 operating and financial highlights. For the first quarter ended March 31st, 2011 total


revenues were $89.8 million a decrease of 10% over the same period in 2010.