corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 11, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning everyone, thank you all for holding and welcome to The Penn Traffic


Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call with your host, Mr. Dan Mahoney. Today’s conference


will begin with a presentation followed by a question and answer session. Instructions on that


feature will follow later in the program.


I’d now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Mahoney. Please go ahead, sir.


Daniel Mahoney, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Good morning. Thank you for joining us for The Penn Traffic Company’s fiscal second quarter 2009


conference call. I’m General Counsel, Dan Mahoney. With me on the call are CEO, Greg Young


and CFO, Tod Nestor. After prepared remarks expanding on yesterday’s second quarter and


procurement services agreement news releases, we’ll be available to address questions from the


Investment Community.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I must note that some of the matters we’ll discuss today are


forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by


such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to risk factors set forth in


yesterday’s news release, as well as our most recent annual report of Form 10-K, our quarterly


report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 and other SEC filings.


New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it’s always not possible for Management


to predict them nor can it assess the impact of all such risks and uncertainties on the company’s


business or the extent to which any factor or a combination of factors may cause results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance of forward-looking


statements as a prediction of actual results. Penn Traffic assumes no obligation to update the


information presented on this conference call.


We will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures utilized by management to monitor the


company’s business and performance. Reconciliations of those measures to GAAP may also be


found in yesterday’s news release.


With those preliminaries out of the way, I’d like to introduce our CEO, Greg Young.


Gregory J. Young, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Dan. Good morning everyone. Since Penn Traffic’s first quarter report, we’ve continued to


take important steps towards rebuilding the company, restoring profitability and value-creating


growth positioning Penn Traffic for long-term success. We are steadily improving internal processes


and efficiencies, we’ve continued our efforts to improve the value we offer shoppers recognizing our


customers’ needs in the current economic environment .And we continue to monitor and optimize


store performance and where necessary close under-performing stores or sell or convert them to


independently-owned locations where appropriate.


In addition, as we announced in conjunction with our second quarter results yesterday, Penn Traffic


has signed a new procurement services contract with C&S Wholesale Grocers. This new


agreement builds on the produce procurement agreement C&S has been working under since


March 2008. The new C&S contract expands those procurement services to categories, including
corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 11, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


grocery, dairy and frozen, bakery, deli, seafood and fresh and frozen meat. This deal enables Penn


Traffic to focus even greater resources on its customers and stores.


With C&S assuming procurement and some-related accounting functions that Penn Traffic had


performed in-house, Penn Traffic will eliminate about a dozen corporate and administrative


positions. We’ve already informed the affected associates and are working with them to make the


transition as smooth as possible. At the same time, Penn Traffic’s warehouse positions, drivers,


category managers and other merchandising functions will not be impacted by the new contract.


Also, Penn Traffic associates will continue to select merchandise, inspect, warehouse and deliver


product on our trucks to our retail stores and wholesale customers.


Under the new agreement, C&S will provide sourcing, purchasing and in-bound logistic services for


all of Penn Traffic’s corporate-owned supermarkets and independently-owned stores. Those of us


who work in the grocery business know C&S is a well established leader in the industry. C&S is the


second largest wholesaler in the country serving more than 5,000 stores and is one of the largest


privately-held companies in the U.S. C&S is a well established procurement partner.


The new Procurement Services Agreement frees up cash for Penn Traffic that would otherwise be


tied up in inventory and trade receivables thereby improving Penn Traffic’s working capital and


enhancing our ability to reinvest in our stores and enhance the service and value the company


delivers to all our customers.


Our corporate stores and independent customers will benefit from C&S’ considerable purchasing


power and expanded product assortment availability. This will also allow the Penn Traffic team to


make merchandising and execution the primary focus of its relationship with the trade. Not only will


Penn Traffic’s profitability benefit from C&S’ purchasing power, but also from the administrative


savings this deal provides us.


We anticipate that the new Procurement Agreement will significantly improve availability in the


weeks ahead and we expect a 17 million to $22 million improvement in availability by the end of this


fiscal year.


Some of the steps we’ve taken in recent months like the new procurement agreement have been


dramatic, others were less visible, all are in-line with our long-term strategic plan, which includes


focusing Penn Traffic’s investments on our top performing and highest potential operations lowering


corporate administrative expenses and not for re-sale costs and optimizing our wholesale business.


These efforts have taken on even greater urgency as retailers nationwide and the grocery industry


in general continue to feel the impact of high gas prices and difficult economic conditions on


consumers. As we’ve been saying since April, shoppers are consolidating shopping trips, trading


down in their purchasing decisions and curbing impulse buying. Also, cost inflation has outpaced


retail inflation this year. In spite of these industry headwinds, Penn Traffic’s fiscal second quarter


financial results reflect meaningful sequential improvement over the first quarter of this fiscal year


which Tod will touch on in a few minutes.


Penn Traffic remains focused on cost and expense controls and working capital management. We’ll


continue holding the line on spending and emphasizing those projects that provide immediate value


to our customers and our business. We’re also working very hard on improving the top-line. These


efforts include the continued expansion of our Wild Card Savings Club, shopper loyalty and


electronic marketing program. To give you some context, we piloted our new food rewards program


in our Quality stores over an eight week period during the first quarter of this fiscal year. And, in the


second quarter, we rolled a more comprehensive summer rewards program out to Quality and P&C


stores over an eight week period.