corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. Thank you for holding and welcome to The Penn Traffic First


Quarter Fiscal 2010 Conference Call with your host Dan Mahoney. Today’s conference will begin


with a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. Instructions on that feature will


follow later in the program.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mahoney. Please go ahead.


Daniel J. Mahoney, General Counsel


Good morning. Thank you for joining us today to discuss The Penn Traffic Company’s fiscal 2010


first quarter financial results. I’m General Counsel, Dan Mahoney. With me on the call are CEO,


Greg Young and CFO, Tod Nestor. After some prepared remarks, we’ll be available to address


questions from the investment community.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I must note that some of the matters we’ll discuss today are


forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by


such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risk factors set forth in


our first quarter news release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other


SEC filings.


New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not always possible for management


to predict them, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks and uncertainties on the company’s


business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Given these risks and


uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a


prediction of actual results. Penn Traffic assumes no obligation to update the information presented


on this conference call.


We will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures utilized by management to monitor the


company’s business and performance. Reconciliations of those measures to GAAP may also be


found in our first quarter news release.


With those preliminaries out of the way, I’d like to introduce our CEO, Greg Young.


Gregory J. Young, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Dan. Good morning everyone. To anyone following our industry, especially in the


Northeast, I’m sure it’s no surprise that we continue to be operating in a very challenging


environment. Our geographic markets continue to experience the effects of the recession. Job


losses are having an impact on retailing in the region, especially in some of our more rural


communities where we see many counties at double-digit unemployment rates.


Like the rest of the country, consumer concerns about job security, falling home values and


investments and the drying up of easier credit are having an impact on their shopping behavior.


Even those not personally impacted have changed their habits and are more cautious these days.


In the face of this challenging economy, we remain committed in our efforts to attract and retain


loyal shoppers, stabilize the top line, and take unnecessary overhead and inefficiencies out of the


business.
corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The lower volume and traffic levels we saw in the first quarter were inline with our internal


expectations and offset in part by our aggressive cost saving measures allowing us to narrow Penn


Traffic’s losses. At the same time, we continue to invest cash in store renovations and other


strategic capital projects while paying down additional debt. To tackle the pressure on our top line,


we’re continuing a number of initiatives to bolster customer traffic and item count at our P&C,


Quality and BiLo stores. We’re giving consumers value choices at a variety of price points,


including our strong and growing private label brand. And we continue to see increased private


label penetration in our stores during first quarter fiscal 2010.


In addition to value, P&C, Quality and BiLo stores continue to deliver variety and quality in our fresh


offerings that help us stand apart from the competition, in particular the Every Day Low Price or


EDLP players. We’re also stepping up our Wild Card loyalty marketing programs to give loyal


shoppers new opportunities to save money. For example, we’re enhancing labeling in our Fresh


Meat department to clearly showcase where customers can save money by participating in our


loyalty programs, other fresh departments are to be rolled out overtime.


Our price optimization efforts continue with more aggressive everyday pricing and promotions,


particularly on key staple items. We’re nonetheless maintaining relatively stable gross margin rates


in large measure because of the offset from the success of our C&S procurement partnership. Also


after we account for the shared services Penn Traffic provides to C&S as part of the wholesale


divestiture last December, gross margin rates have actually improved by 60 basis points.


Another effort that helps our P&C quality and BiLo markets drive customer traffic are careful


investments in quick return projects to enhance the in-store experience. The majority of the internal


capital plans we budgeted at the start of the current fiscal year remain in place, even though our


$1.4 million in the first quarter fiscal 2010 CapEx is slightly less than in the year ago quarter, we


continue to expect full year CapEx to exceed our fiscal 2009 investment with several projects in the


start up phase now.


On the expense control side, the not-for-resale and continuous improvement initiatives we’ve been


discussed – been discussing with investors since last year are beginning to yield significant results.


Expense control initiatives we’ve been implementing since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 alone


have slashed cost that when annualized should cut more than $2 million in overhead cost.


For example, our Energy and Environmental awareness and competitive bidding initiatives are


helping us cut costs on utilities, grocery bags, garbage bags, and printing of promotional materials


amongst other items. We believe savings on each of these items is worth well over a $100,000


annually.


Smaller ticket items that help us get to multimillion-dollar savings are more competitive contracts for


services such as janitorial, snow removal, as well as reducing waste on the disposable bags, trays,


and wrap we use in our Fresh departments. Above and beyond these budgeting initiatives, we


continue to expect to save well over $1 million annualized from the one week furloughs and other


labor cost saving measures we announced in March to respond to the current market conditions.


As anyone who’s been following Penn Traffic over the last 18 months knows we are committed to


focusing resources including capital investments on our top performing and highest potential


locations in our core store portfolio. Our retail Grocery business must be built on a foundation of


stores that can aggressively compete and achieve sustainable levels of profitability. We have work


ahead to get everyone of our locations in shape to compete at a high level, but we think we’re


getting close to the right scale and breadth we need to succeed with the current composition of our


store portfolio.


Our focus on high-performing stores remains a key element of our strategy for creating shareholder


value, rebuilding the company, restoring profitability and growth, and positioning the company for