corrected transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea


Co., Inc.
 
GAP
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 6, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company's Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions]. For your information, a webcast and PDF of the presentation is


available on A&P's website at www.aptea.com. Chairing today's call will be Christian Haub,


Executive Chairman. Also participating on today's call will be Eric Claus, President and Chief


Executive Officer, and Brenda Galgano, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I would


now like to introduce Bill Moss, Vice President, Treasurer, who will read A&P's Safe Harbor


disclaimer. Mr. Moss?


William J. Moss, Vice President, Treasurer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. This morning's presentation may contain forward-looking


statements about the future performance of the company and is based on management's


assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available. The company assumes no


obligation to update this information. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties


and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements, including


but not limited to, competitive practices and pricing in the food industry generally and particularly in


the company's principal markets, the company's relationships with its employees, the terms of


future collective bargaining agreements, the cost and other affects of lawsuits and administrative


proceedings, the nature and extent of continued consolidation in the food industry, changes in the


financial markets which may affect the company's cost of capital or the ability to access capital,


supply and quality control problems with the company's vendors, and changes in economic


conditions which may affect the buying patterns of the company's customers. Financial slides


accompanying today's conference call can be seen by visiting our website at www.aptea.com.


I will now turn the call over to Christian Haub, our Executive Chairman.


Christian W. E. Haub, Executive Chairman


Thank you, Bill, and good morning. Happy New Year to everybody and welcome to our third quarter


conference call. Participating with me today are Eric Claus, our President and CEO, and Brenda


Galgano, our new Chief Financial Officer, and we welcome Brenda as she speaks to you today for


the first time in that role.


I will begin the presentations by commenting briefly on our results and highlighting some of the


important strategic accomplishments of the past quarter. Brenda will present a more detailed


rundown of our financials, and Eric will conclude with his comprehensive report on the progress of


our operations and our other strategies to drive sales and return the company to profitability.


I will start by saying that there was indeed good progress in the third quarter. Throughout the past


three months especially, the operating, merchandising and marketing improvements made by our


new team have had an exciting initial impact and a measurable one at that. We have clearly begun


to improve our comparable store sales. Even though not completely visible in the total results of the


third quarter, if you just look at the very important Thanksgiving through Christmas sales period, it is


the best trend we have observed in the past several years.


Moreover, our results, excluding all what we consider special items in both years, have improved


significantly during the quarter, and Brenda will illuminate that for you by explaining all the quarter’s


non-operating items and illustrating the EBITDA progress we made. I'm very pleased with the
corrected transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea


Co., Inc.
 
GAP
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 6, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


improvements both over last year, as well as sequentially over last quarter. Although, we are


obviously not satisfied and won't be until we achieve absolute profitability on the timetable we have


stated, these early results underline my confidence that we are on track to accomplish that all-


important milestone on schedule. While I'm delighted with our improvement thus far, I'm not


surprised by it. I say that because the clear-cut strategy that Eric outlined for you on the October


call integrates actions that generate both top and bottom line impact. Eric and Brenda will give you


the complete rundown on our business operations and performance for the third quarter and


beyond in just a few minutes. I would, however, like to take a few moments to share my high-level


strategic perspective for the company.


For starters, let me update you on our investment and association with METRO and the new


consolidated Canadian operation. The consolidation of A&P Canada and METRO operations has


proceeded amid strong operating results, which is, of course, important to us as a major


stakeholder in that combined entity. The value of our investment has grown impressively in the


short time since we consummated that transaction. And as a member of their Board, I continue to


see great mutual benefits still to come from our association. As you know, the possible


consolidation of our industry in the US remains at issue, even despite the latest events and


decisions with respect to Albertson's. We continue to believe that there will be situations in our core


markets that present opportunities in the months and years to come. I feel that A&P is now in a


position that becomes more and more favorable with the passage of time with a prospect of steadily


improving results driving our own valuations. At the same time, our strong balance sheet clearly


provides us the opportunities to grow by participating in the industry's restructuring and ultimate


consolidation. Should an opportunity materialize that our executive management and our Board


consider being in the best strategic interests for the future of A&P, we will pursue it. Our intention,


of course, is to drive shareholder value in the short and long term and considering all the options


available to A&P to accomplish that. As always, time will tell, but I feel more confident than ever in


our future and the opportunities that will present themselves.


Let me conclude by saying that having completed the difficult actions required to strengthen our


balance sheet and pass the management baton to Eric and his team, the stage is set to complete


our remaining organizational changes by fiscal year-end and focus on driving the business. With


those preparations behind them, the team will focus even more exclusively on the operating and


merchandising strategies that will sustain and accelerate our top and bottom line improvement in


2006.


I know that Eric will be the first to acknowledge that the work has only just started and that the real


proof of our strategies and execution lies ahead. But based on our present momentum and the


tremendous energy and excitement of our management, support and field personnel, our


revitalization is off to the best possible start. Now, I want to take this opportunity to compliment Eric


and his team and all of our associates throughout the company for their efforts and engagement


thus far.


That concludes my portion of the presentation, and now I would like to turn it over to Brenda for the


financial review.


Brenda Galgano, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Christian, and good morning. As Christian has noted, this is my first call as CFO and


working with Christian, Eric and the rest of the management team has been very exciting as I


witness much positive energy and change in little time. Eric will discuss the specifics of progress


made in his part of the presentation, so I will now focus on the financial results.