raw transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co


Inc
 
GAP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your patience. Good morning and


welcome to The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company's First Quarter Investor Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] For your information, an enhanced webcast and PDF of the presentation is


available on A&P's website at www.aptea.com. Chairing today's call will be Christian Haub,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. A financial review will be given by Mitch Goldstein,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I would now like to introduce Bill Moss, Vice


President and Treasurer, who will read A&P's [indiscernible].


Bill Moss, Vice President and Treasurer


Thank you. Good morning everyone. This morning's presentation may contain forward-looking


statements about the future performance of the company and is based on management's


assumption in light of information currently available. The company assumes no obligation to


update this information. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other


factors that could cause absolute results or differ materially from such statements including but not


limited to competitive practices and pricing in the food industry generally, and particularly in the


company's principal markets, the company's relationships with its employees, the terms of future


collective bargaining agreements with its employees, costs and other effects of lawsuits and


administrative proceedings, the nature and extent of continued consolidation in the food industry,


changes in the financial markets which may affect the company's cost of capital or the ability to


access capital, supplier quality control problems with the company's vendors and changes in


economic conditions which may affect the buying patterns of the company's customers. I remind


you that there are slides available for today's call that can be seen on our website at


quicklinks/webcast. I will now turn the call over to Christian Haub.


Christian Haub, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, good morning and thanks for joining us. Today we'll discuss our financial results for the


first quarter and we'll also talk about an update of our strategic restructuring and Mitch will then talk


about the results in more detail.


Let me begin by giving you an overview of the results and then discuss our strategy going forward.


We announced this morning improved first quarter results as our performance trend over the past


two years continued. Both our U.S. and Canadian operations made significant progress and as a


company we achieved our highest quarterly EBITDA in three years. Our U.S. business turn around


progressed in the first quarter with a solid sales trend and improved EBITDA was mainly by lower


SG&A. U.S. operating earnings improved thanks mostly to our SG&A improvement, which more


than offset the gross margin decline that resulted from our investment in the launch of our fresh


format stores during the quarter.


This reflects the impact of our initiatives to reduce administrative overhead costs, to improve label


productivity in our stores and also to realize favorable results from our real estate activities. The


already strong performance of A&P Canada improved further in the first quarter as we indicated in


our press release on the sale of the Canadian company on Tuesday. Our earnings momentum was


again fuelled by solid sales, strong gross margins, excellent cost controls and the ongoing


turnaround at Food Basics. The first quarter one will likely be the last one in which full A&P


Canada results will be reflected in our total, but they are certainly going out with a bang.
raw transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co


Inc
 
GAP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


And this outstanding performance is one of the many reasons why we are so happy about our


participation in their future development through our investment in METRO. Combined, our


improved results from both operations and our rigorous cost management across the company


produced EBITDA from operations of $101 million in the quarter, significantly surpassing last year’s


results and leading to the fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year improvements in earnings.


And as I said before, one of our best quarterly results in the last three years. The first quarter was


a strong start to the new fiscal year despite the difficult competitive environment that persists and


the potential distractions of the strategic restructuring program in full swing. In addition to the


performance improvement in our U.S. and Canadian businesses, other important accomplishments


included the successful roll out of 19 new Fresh Format conversions in our Northeast U.S.


operations, the agreement we reached with C&S to transfer our distribution business to them, the


achievement of our targeted SG&A reductions, the closure and disposal of the 30 plus Midwestern


stores that are now a part of Health Core Farmer Jack Operations that remain to be sold intact as


an ongoing operation, and the ongoing favorable results we're achieving in our real estate activities.


Of course, our most important milestone accomplishment to date occurred during the present


quarter and is of course, the very successful conclusion of our initiative to unlock the value of A&P


Canada. Let me reiterate that the transaction we announced with METRO on Tuesday is a


breakthrough accomplishment for A&P, exceeding our financial objectives and providing the added


benefit of a significant investment position in an already strong company whose growth potential is


now magnified by the addition of our excellent operations. In summary then, the continued


progress of our U.S. operations, the strong performance of A&P Canada and our rigorous


management of expenses all contributed to improve results in our first quarter. We also acted to


reorganize the senior management structure, which we announced on Wednesday in alignment


with the pending sale of our Canadian company. I'm personally very excited about Eric Claus


assuming the role of President and CEO in the new A&P Company. I very much look forward to


working with him as we will set out to realize the tremendous value potential of our Northeast


focused retail operation.


I also want to take this opportunity to express my sincere and heartfelt thanks to Brian Piwek, who


elected to retire at the end of July after a long and successful career in the North American food


retail industry. After leading the turnaround of our Canadian business, Brian accepted the


challenge of reversing the decline of our U.S. operations by instilling improved operating standards


and discipline and identifying distinct retail formats resonating with today's consumer. Having


fulfilled those objectives, he leaves the core business poised to resume profitability and drive long


term growth. Let me now turn to the update of our strategic restructuring plan. As we said in our


May 10th announcement, all of the strategic operational and financial steps we have taken and will


take are aimed at returning A&P to profitability, positioning the company for long term strength and


success and in turn, building the value of A&P for all of the company's shareholders.


With the announced sale of A&P Canada to METRO earlier this week, we have taken a major step


toward achieving those objectives. Since we have talked in detail about this transaction earlier this


week, I've really nothing to add other than to reiterate how pleased we are with the rise of METRO's


shares since we announced the deal, which affirmed our perspective that a long term investment


stake in METRO will also create long term shareholder value for A&P. Overall, this transaction will


now enable us to focus greater attention resources on our core U.S. operations, enable us to more


aggressively pursue the implementation of our fresh and discount retail formats and position us to


new A&P to achieve sustainable profitability, long term growth and success. Let me also update


you on the progress of our planned investiture of our Midwest operations.


We determined that the best way to exit this market was to close and dispose all the non-core


stores in this market and then sell the remaining core operations basically intact. To-date we have


closed and largely disposed those non-core units, and are now pursuing the sale of the very viable