raw transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea


Co., Inc.
 
GAP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company’s Second


Quarter Investor Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. For your information an enhanced


webcast and PDF of the presentation is available on A&P’s website at www.aptea.com. I would


now like to introduce to Bill Moss Vice President, Treasurer who will read A&P’s safe harbor


disclaimer. Mr. Moss, you may begin.


William Moss, Vice President and Treasurer


Thank you and good morning everyone. This morning’s presentation may contain forward-looking


statements about the future performance of the company and is based on management’s


assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available. The company assumes no


obligation to update this information. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties


and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements including


but not limited to competitive practices and pricing in the food industry generally, particularly in the


company’s principal markets, the company’s relationships with its employees, the terms of future


collective bargaining agreements, the costs and other effects of lawsuits and administrative


proceedings, the nature and extent of continued consolidation in the food industry, changes in the


financial markets which may affect the company’s cost of capital or the ability to access capital,


supply or quality control problems with the company’s vendors, and changes in economic


conditions which may affect the buying patterns of the company’s customers. We remind you that


slides accompanying today’s conference call can be seen at our website at Investors webcast


event. I will now turn the call to Christian Haub, our Executive Chairman.


Christian Haub, Chairman of the Board


Thank you, Bill. Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter conference call.


Participating with me today is of course Mitch Goldstein, our Chief Financial Officer and Eric Claus,


our President and CEO who will speak to you for the first time in his new role and I know you are


looking forward to hearing his perspective and getting to know his objectives for the business which


will follow shortly. I should also tell you that Brenda Galgano who as you know will shortly resume


the CFO role is not participating today, but will of course do so going forward beginning with the


third quarter conference call. As for today’s format I'll begin with a brief overview of our results and


critical strategic accomplishments in the quarter. Mitch will follow with a more detailed rundown of


our financial and operating results, and Eric will conclude with his assessment of our retail business


at present and his immediate objectives going forward.


To begin, our results from the ongoing business outside of the unusual charges or one time gains


were unsatisfactory, in that we were unable to achieve the sales progress we wanted. On the


positive side however we were again able to improve our year-over-year EBITDA. Considering


some of the external challenges and also the many internal issues we dealt with outside of the day-


to-day business, I regard the overall results as respectable, under trying circumstances, though not


good in and of themselves.


In the marketplace, our sales efforts were clearly impacted, by the steady rise of fuel prices as


consumers look for ways to offset these sizable increases by rolling back other spending. In


addition, the unusually hot weather that persisted through the summer discouraged the outdoor


cooking and entertainment that our industry relies on for the seasonal list and this impacted meat,


poultry and other related categories. It’s also worth noting that from a year-over-year perspective,
raw transcript


Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea


Co., Inc.
 
GAP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our fresh meat business also cycled against an increase in the prior year when the low-


carbohydrate emphasize of the Atkins and related diet concepts was that its peak and since then,


many people have returned to their prior diets and meat consumption has decreased to more


historical levels.


So overall and on a comparative basis it was a challenging summer especially in the Northeast and


in those product categories. Candidly our performance was also affected by the major transitional


events taking place within the company just prior to and throughout the second quarter. Both the


management attention devoted to executing our strategic restructuring imitatives and the


anticipation of senior management and other changes related to those actions certainly had an


impact. At the same time we were entering the process of transferring our supply logistics


operations to C&S, and while this credit both to our logistic team and to C&S that the transition has


gone reasonably well it is impossible to implement such major changes in an on going business


without some disruption.


So overall and all things considered our cost control initiatives enabled us to achieve a bottom-line


result that was respectable under the circumstance, though obviously not yet where it needs to b e.


And while sales were below our expectations the comps in our core Northeast markets were only


slightly negative and stood out relative to those of many competitors.


As I look ahead to the rest of the year we still have a lot of more transition work in front of us, the


transition to C&S remains to be completed as does the cost reduction program underway to align


the size of the organization with the size of our business. Finally, the executive team will soon


finalize its operating plan for next year, and Eric will discuss some top-line elements, he is


emphasizing and putting that plan together. So the way I would characterize the rest of this year is


that it will be the set up period for fiscal 2006, marking the completion of the strategic transition we


have undertaken to achieve our ultimate goal of sustainable profitability. Let me now briefly review


the key strategic accomplishments during our second quarter. Clearly the most significant aspect


of the second quarter was the achievement of the most important element of our strategic


restructuring, the sale of A&P Canada and the transfer of our distribution operations to C&S. In


terms of both immediate and potential benefits A&P the success of the Canadian transaction can


hardly be overestimated. The impact of the proceeds on our balance sheet and on our ability to


invest in the business as needed speaks for itself. We also came away with a significant


investment position in METRO, one of the most consistently profitable retailers in North America for


the past 15 years. The addition of A&P Canada now gives them a formidable presence in Ontario


as well as Quebec, and magnifies the potential value of the investments that has already


productive.


Looking forward our presence on the METRO board and present status as a key technology


service provider provides a continuing relationship with potential benefits for both companies in the


future, and we look forward to exploring those opportunities down the road. Secondly, we extended


our long-standing relationship with C&S wholesale grocer’s systemwide and moved forward with


the transfer of operations and related facilities and equipment to them during the second quarter as


I mentioned earlier. We have again be gaining meaningful current and long range benefits.


C&S’s efficiency and the elimination of internal distribution costs will reduce our supply chain costs


significantly once the transition is complete, which as we’ve reported amounts to about 40 million in


annual savings and should begin benefitting our P&L in the new calendar year. Atop that we


expect that over time their volume purchasing capability combined with a more aggressive


approach to vendor negotiations on our own part going forward will substantially lower our cost of


goods with no adverse impact on customer satisfaction, and you'll hear more on that subject in


Eric's presentation. So briefly with regard to the midwest divestiture process we have now closed


and or sold just about all of what we considered the non-core operations outside of the greater


Detroit area, which were neither successful nor positioned well for profit and growth in the future.