corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. Thank you for holding and welcome to the Second Quarter


Conference Call with your host Dan Mahoney. Today’s conference will begin with a presentation


followed by a question-and-answer session. Instructions on that feature will follow later in the


program.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mahoney. Please go ahead sir.


Daniel J. Mahoney, Senior Vice President, General Counsel


Good morning. Thank you for joining us today to discuss The Penn Traffic Company’s fiscal 2010


second quarter and year-to-date financial results. I’m General Counsel, Dan Mahoney. With me on


the call are CEO, Greg Young and CFO, Tod Nestor, and our Vice President of Finance and


Incoming Interim CFO, Eric Sattler. After some prepared remarks, we’ll be available to address


questions from the investment community.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I must note that some of the matters we’ll discuss today are


forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by


such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risk factors set forth in


our quarterly news release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC


filings.


New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not always possible for management


to predict them, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks and uncertainties on the company’s


business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking


statements as a prediction of actual results. Penn Traffic assumes no obligation to update the


information presented on this conference call.


We will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures utilized by management to monitor the


company’s business and performance. Reconciliations of those measures to GAAP may also be


found in the yesterday’s news release.


With those preliminaries out of the way, I’d like to introduce our CEO, Greg Young.


Gregory J. Young, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Dan and good morning everyone. Before I get to the quarter results, I want to take a


moment to address the recent news that Tod has decided to leave us later this month to become


CFO of another grocery retail operator in the New York City area. While I’m sorry to see him leave,


I deeply appreciate his contributions to the company and truly wish him the best.


And while this isn’t the way I would have chosen to make the point, this change highlights


something very positive that we’ve been hard at work on, but may not be easy to see from the


outside. Specifically, I’m talking about recruiting talent and recognizing and developing internal


talent in our key corporate functions, as well as developing succession plans for key positions.
corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our incoming interim CFO, Eric Sattler is a terrific example of this. He is a 20-year veteran of the


company, who knows of the retail accounting and finance functions inside and out and will expand


his responsibilities to oversee the entire department.


Thanks to our efforts over the last year or two, Eric’s team includes both company veterans and


new talent from outside public accounting and corporate finance worlds. All of us on the


management team have worked very closely with Eric over the years and he has our complete


confidence as he assumes the Interim CFO role and broader leadership responsibilities.


The Board search for permanent replacement is well underway. While we’re moving quickly, we’ll


move prudently. We’ll take some time to find the right fit and we expect to look at candidates from


both inside and outside the company, and of course we’ll keep you updated on our progress.


In the meantime, we expect a very smooth transition, which has been underway for over three


weeks now. Tod has been working very closely with Eric and the team to ensure that all of our day-


to-day finance operations and initiatives to reduce not-for-resale expenses and drive continuous


improvement to stay on track following his departure.


Many of these initiatives continue to deliver solid returns on the second quarter of fiscal 2010,


which closed on August 1. Back in June, we said the expense control initiatives implemented since


the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 alone have reduced expenses that when annualized should cut


more than $2 million on overhead costs.


Based on the great work undertaken in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we think we can save


nearly $3 million annualized. These include our energy and environmental awareness initiatives


and our aggressive competitive bid seeking process. These efforts are ensuring that Penn Traffic


not only pays very competitive rates, but gets top quality not-for-resale goods and services. A


perfect example of this is this summer’s competitive review process that resulted in the


appointment of KPMG as our auditor.


We’re pleased to have retained KPMG in time to work with us during the second quarter fiscal


quarter close process and then plenty of time to audit the fiscal year ending that’s coming January


30. As a result of a competitive review and selection of KPMG, we anticipate receiving a high


quality of service along with a reduction in annual audit fees of at least $650,000 per year.


We’re encouraged by the progress we’re making on the cost and expense reduction side of the


enterprise, but we certainly acknowledge that this success must be carried with stabilizing revenues


and we’re hard at work on the topline.


Two very important topline initiatives are partially enabled by and logically follow our partnership


with C&S Wholesale Grocers. C&S provides all in-bound transportation and logistic services,


leverages its tremendous buying power, and owns all inventory and our warehouses until product is


placed on Penn Traffic trucks bound for shipment to our retail stores. These two topline initiatives


specifically are Penn Traffic’s SKU optimization and price optimization efforts.


With the procurement expertise of C&S now in place, we can more easily source the optimal mix of


products for our retail stores, while they also focused on the right items to support their wholesale


business. This coupled with new desktop technology from our syndicated data partner IRI, our


internal data and data from our vendor partners enables us to analyze categories for optimal


assortment changes.


In our pilot category, Salad Dressing, we eliminated 46 product variations that were under-


productive while adding 26 new Salad Dressing SKUs that address emerging trends and growth in


certain segments of the category, particularly in our value-orientated private label brands. As a


result, we’re carrying 20 fewer SKUs and the variety we do have in inventory that’s dictated by