raw transcript


Great Atlantic
 
GAP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company's Fourth


Quarter Investor Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Chairing today's call will be Christian


Haub, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. A financial review will be given by Mitch Goldstein,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I would like to now introduce, Bill Moss, Vice


President, Treasurer, who will read A&P's Safe Harbor disclaimer. Mr. Moss, please go ahead.


Bill Moss, Vice President, Treasurer


Good morning. This presentation may contain forward-looking statements about the future


performance of the company and is based on managements assumptions and beliefs in light of


information currently available. The company assumes no obligation to update this information.


These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from such statements including, but not limited to competitive


practices and pricing, including the industry generally and particularly in the company's principal


markets, the company's relationship with its employees, the terms of future collective bargaining


agreements, the cost and other effects of lawsuits and administrative proceedings, the nature and


extent of continued consolidation in the food industry, changes in the financial markets which may


affect the company's cost of capital [indiscernible] access capital, supplier quality control problems


with the company's vendors and economic changes and conditions which may affect buying


patterns of the company's customers.


Again as a reminder to everyone, there are accompanying slides with this morning's presentation


that can be viewed I believe at our web site at www.aptea.com. I would note that if you are


participating by phone, you will experience a delay in the speaker's comments and the viewing of


the accompanied slides. I will now turn the call over to Christian Haub.


Christian Haub Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and thanks everybody for joining us. Today we will discuss our financial


results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. We will also discuss our


plans for a major strategic restructuring of the company, which we announced in our press release


this morning. After Mitch Goldstein and I complete our formal remarks on those and related topics,


we will be happy to take your questions.


Let me begin by giving you an overview of our results and then discuss our strategy going forward.


We announced this morning improved fourth quarter and full year results. The final quarter of fiscal


2004 was one of our best quarters in the last 3 years. Both our U.S. and Canadian operations


made significant progress on all fronts and as a company we achieved our highest quarterly


EBITDA since the first quarter of 2002. Our U.S. business continued its performance turnaround in


the first quarter with a strong sales trend and comparable store sales that were still slightly


negative, but improved from the third quarter. Operating earnings improved substantially with gross


margins improving and SG&A declining. Both trends resulting from our initiatives to drive more


fresh sales and generating higher private label penetration while at the same time reducing


administrative overhead costs and achieving higher label productivity in our stores.


The new centralized U.S. organization structure we put in place at the end of the third quarter


immediately began to drive results. Improved promotional programs and disciplined store level


execution delivered better sales, improved margins and lower operating expenses complimented by


declining overhead costs. The already strong performance of A&P Canada accelerated in the
raw transcript


Great Atlantic
 
GAP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


fourth quarter with positive comparable store sales, improved gross margins and lower SG&A all


are contributing to very strong results. We continue to make excellent progress with our Fresh


Obsessed merchandising approach and launched our next generation fresh store format to


resounding success. The same time, our discount Food Basics business continued its come back


from a period of under performance stemming from the long running dispute we had with some of


our franchisees which we settled during the Fall of last year. A much improved sales trend


especially in the 23 take-back stores contributed to the earnings recovery of our discount business


in the fourth quarter in Canada.


Combined our improved results from both operations and our rigorous cost management across the


company produced EBITDA of $85 million in the quarter, significantly surpassing last year's results


and leading to the third consecutive quarter of year on year improvements in earnings. And as I've


said before, one of our best quarterly results in the last 3 years. These much better earnings also


contributed to our improved liquidity situation as Mitch will explain in detail, we finished the year in


solid condition with over $100 million in cash in the bank and year end liquidity exceeding #330


million. The fourth quarter was a strong finish to a year of solid improvements despite the ongoing


difficult industry environment we operate in. For the full year, we achieved slightly positive


comparable store sales. We successfully maintained market share while notably improving


earnings from ongoing operations and preserving a solid financial position.


Besides the overall performance improvement and our U.S. and Canadian businesses, some of our


most important accomplishments last year included: the successful development of the new fresh


format in our U.S. operations; a $75 million cost reduction program we announced in December;


the resolution of the franchisee litigation in Canada; and our ability to maintain adequate liquidity.


But the most important accomplishment of all was the extensive review of strategic alternatives we


undertook with our board over the last several months. This process concluded with a decision to


pursue the direction we announced today.


In summary then, the continued progress of our U.S. operations, the strong performance of A&P


Canada, and our rigorous management of expenses and liquidity company-wide all contributed to


improved results and greater financial stability in our fourth quarter and full year. We also acted to


accelerate our progress in the U.S. with our previously announced management reorganization


aimed at sharpening our merchandising and operational execution, while improving our cost


structure. And we expect to make further and significant progress by implementing the strategic


steps we announced this morning.


Let me now turn to our plans for the strategic restructuring. As I've said in this morning's press


release, all of the strategic operational and financial steps we have been taking, and will be taking,


are aimed at return A&P to profitability, positioning the company for long-term strength and success


and in turn, building the value of A&P for all the company's shareholders. The steps announced


this morning will enable us to deleverage and strengthen our balance sheet. They will enable us to


focus greater attention and resources on our core U.S. operations. They will enable us to more


aggressively pursue the implementation of our fresh discount retail formats, and they will position


the new A&P to achieve sustainable profitability, long-term growth and success.


Our board has authorized management to pursue a major strategic restructuring, under which the


company will focus on growth and profitability in our core northeast U.S. markets, and devote a


significantly greater portion of our operational and financial resources to our operations in those


markets.


Specifically, we will pursue the following initiatives: we are exploring potential strategic transactions


to unlock the value of A&P Canada; we are planning the divestiture of our Farmer Jack and Food


Basics operations and support facilities in Michigan and Ohio. We are continuing the roll out of our


fresh and discount retail formats throughout our core northeast markets and are seeking additional