corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 18, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. Thank you for holding and welcome to The Penn Traffic Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call with your host Dan Mahoney. Today’s conference will begin with


a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. Instructions on that feature will follow


later in the program.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mahoney. Please go ahead, sir.


Daniel J. Mahoney, Vice President and General Counsel


Good morning. Thank you for joining us today to discuss The Penn Traffic Company’s fiscal third


quarter 2009 financial results and our recent agreement for the sale of our wholesale business


segment. I’m General Counsel, Dan Mahoney. With me on the call are CEO, Greg Young and


CFO, Tod Nestor. After some prepared remarks, we’ll be available to address questions from the


investment community.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I must note that some of the matters we’ll discuss today include


forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown


risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or


implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risk factors


set forth in our third quarter and wholesale divestiture news releases as well as our most recent


annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year 2009 and other


SEC filings.


New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not always possible for management


to predict them, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks and uncertainties on the company’s


business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and


uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a


prediction of actual results. Penn Traffic assumes no obligation to update the information presented


on this conference call.


We will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures utilized by management to monitor the


company’s business and performance. Reconciliations of those measures to GAAP may also be


found in our third quarter news release which was released Thursday, December 11.


With those preliminaries out of the way, I’d like to introduce our CEO, Greg Young.


Gregory J. Young, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Dan, and good morning everyone. I’d like to start today’s call by emphasizing an important


point. While retailers and consumers are clearly being hurt by the recession the country is facing,


and we will report on how the economy is affecting Penn Traffic’s business, we will not use it as an


excuse. We can’t control the economy, but we can and will control how efficiently and effectively we


operate our business, react to changing trends and serve our customers.


As those of you who have followed our performance over the last year have heard, Penn Traffic


has been steadily executing its strategy for rebuilding the company, restoring profitability and value-


creating growth and positioning Penn Traffic for long-term success. We’re focused on improving


internal processes and efficiencies and lowering corporate administrative expenses. We’ve


continued our efforts to improve the value we offer shoppers and we continue to monitor store


performance and when necessary close under-performing operations.
corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 18, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our definitive agreement to sell the company’s wholesale business segment to C&S Wholesale


Grocers marks a significant step forward in our efforts to focus on our retail business and to


establish the capital structure necessary to execute our strategy for rebuilding Penn Traffic. The


$43 million all cash transaction is expected to close by the end of the year. The purchase price


includes the sale of certain wholesale-related accounts receivables of about $13 million.


While the sale of the wholesale business will lower Penn Traffic’s revenues in the short-term, the


transaction is designed to significantly improve our capital structure, profitability and operating cash


flows immediately upon closing. We intend to use the proceeds from this divestiture and the


previously-announced sale of two stores to pay down approximately $32 million of outstanding


funded debt, which will significantly improve availability in excess of outstanding letters of credit.


This is truly a unique deal between Penn Traffic and C&S.


While C&S will now own the wholesale business segment, Penn Traffic will continue to provide


warehouse and transportation services as a third-party logistics provider, as well as certain shared


services that are part of the unique service offerings to wholesale customers. And the structure is


designed to reduce total supply chain cost for independent customers, C&S and Penn Traffic while


also allowing for a seamless transition from a customers’ perspective.


As many of you know, we have built a strong relationship with C&S over the past 20 months


through previous transactions. We’re delighted that Rick Cohen and his team at C&S are the


strategic buyers of the wholesale business. C&S is a national leader in wholesale, knows our


markets and is committed to work with our successful Syracuse-based wholesale team to serve the


independent customers.


Refocusing our resources on our supermarkets, as well as addressing our capital structure is


essential to our strategy for rebuilding the company, restoring profitability and positioning Penn


Traffic for long-term success.


Given current economic conditions, execution of our strategy is even more important than when we


first began implementing it just under a year ago. By modernizing, streamlining and improving our


cost structure today while times are tough, we should be ready to emerge from this recession


stronger and better prepared to take advantage of incremental improvements in the economy as


they occur.


Penn Traffic is subject to the same market forces and challenges that the entire grocery industry is


facing. Competition remains stiff particularly from the national everyday low price discounters, as


well as regional high/low players.


In the third quarter, we’ve continued to see a trend that began earlier in the year with shoppers


consolidating trips, trading down their purchasing decisions and curbing impulse buying. In the


spring and summer, we believe this was largely driven by skyrocketing gas prices. Even with


today’s lower gas prices, we do not expect shoppers to bounce right back given the effect


unemployment, the housing market and the stock market have had on consumers’ real and


perceived economic security. This is illustrated by a trend that emerged this summer which shows a


higher percentage of our consumers doing the bulk of their grocery shopping as benefit and


paycheck cycles permit.


While certainly a segment of Penn Traffic’s customer base followed this pattern previously, our data


show that this pattern has become more commonplace among consumers during recent months.


Our response has been and continues to be to intensify our efforts to give customers the best


possible value so they can shop within their tight budgets while allowing us to maintain sales


volumes.