corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. Thank you for holding and welcome to The Penn Traffic Fourth


Quarter and Year-End Conference Call with your host Dan Mahoney. Today’s conference will


begin with a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. Instructions on that feature


will follow later in the program.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mahoney. Please go ahead, sir.


Daniel J. Mahoney, Vice President and General Counsel


Good morning. Thank you for joining us today to discuss The Penn Traffic Company’s fiscal 2009


fourth quarter and full year financial results. I’m General Counsel, Dan Mahoney. With me on the


call are CEO, Greg Young and CFO, Tod Nestor. After some prepared remarks, we’ll be available


to address questions from the investment community.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I must note that some of the matters we’ll discuss today are


forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by


such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risk factors set forth in


our fourth quarter news release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other


SEC filings.


New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not always possible for management


to predict them, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks and uncertainties on the company’s


business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and


uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a


prediction of actual results. Penn Traffic assumes no obligation to update the information


presented on this conference call.


We will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures utilized by management to monitor the


company’s business and performance. Reconciliations of those measures to GAAP may also be


found in our fourth quarter and year-end news release.


With those preliminaries out of the way, I’d like to introduce our CEO, Greg Young.


Gregory J. Young, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Dan. Good morning everyone. I thought I’d use my time this morning to spend a few


minutes highlighting what we’ve accomplished over the last year and give you a sense of where we


stand today and early in fiscal 2010.


Looking back over the past 12 months, I think it is fair to say that fiscal 2009 was a year of


important milestones for Penn Traffic. We made a number of major strides both in terms of


strategic accomplishments and the execution of key tactical changes, and as a result we have


focused Penn Traffic and its resources on the grocery retail business as never before.


During fiscal 2009, we closed or sold underperforming operations, divested our wholesale


business, enhanced our purchasing power and inventory management efficiency by outsourcing


procurement operations, eliminated the distractions of legacy bankruptcy and legal issues that have


burdened the company for a number of years, reached new agreements with key labor unions and


cut outstanding debt by nearly two-thirds to substantially improve our balance sheet. All of these
corrected transcript


The Penn Traffic Co.
 
PTFC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


actions have been guided by the strategy we began outlining for our investors and the public more


than a year ago. That strategy for creating shareholder value, rebuilding the company, restoring


profitability and growth and positioning the company for long-term success includes three key


elements.


First, we focused resources including capital investments on our top performing and highest


potential operations in our core store portfolio and grocery retail business. Selling or closing


operations of stores was never an easy decision. At the same time, Penn Traffic does not have the


luxury of carrying stores that cannot compete or achieve sustainable levels of profitability. We have


reduced our store count to ensure that we can increase capital expenditures in our core P&C,


Quality and BiLo stores. The fiscal 2009 results we’re reporting reflect an 82 store base, which is


down from the 103 we had at the beginning of the fiscal year. With the core portfolio of strong


supermarkets, supported by thousands of dedicated associates, we intend to succeed as a regional


retailer that is distinguished by value pricing, freshness, convenience and service to the customer.


Second, we have made significant progress in lowering corporate administrative expenses and not-


for-resale costs. We significantly reduced administrative expenses during fiscal 2009 and we


intend to continue our progress in fiscal 2010. In addition to maintaining a lean corporate structure,


we are getting much more aggressive on how we competitively bid and procure not-for-resale


products or services, ranging from insurance and office supplies to store maintenance and janitorial


services.


As of the beginning of fiscal 2010, we believe Penn Traffic has become a much stronger and more


desirable partner for its vendors and we now have the tools and resources in place to ensure that


we are paying competitive prices across all areas of corporate and store spending. We will


continue taking inefficiencies out of our cost structure. Those savings can then be invested into the


customer shopping experience, which contributes to restoring profitability for the overall business.


We believe that the more successful we are at reducing overhead the better off all our stakeholders


will be.


Third, we are aggressively implementing continuous improvement initiatives and best practices to


reduce costs and increase efficiency. With a smaller stronger core of grocery retail stores, Penn


Traffic is now better able to make investments in tools, training and technology to enhance


database decision making, operational efficiency and best practices.


Execution of our strategy was accelerated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 through the sale of


Penn Traffic’s wholesale business segment to C&S Wholesale Grocers. This is truly a unique


partnership between our two companies and we view the transition during the fourth quarter as a


real success. I am pleased to report that C&S has retained every one of Penn Traffic’s former


wholesale accounts. We use the proceeds of the all-cash wholesale business segment divestiture


to pay down $32 million or 62% of the company’s outstanding funded debt and to enhance our cash


position. While the divestiture lowered Penn Traffic’s revenues in the short-term, the transaction


immediately improved our capital structure, margin rates and operating cash flows.


In addition to leveraging C&S’s purchasing power to lower Penn Traffic’s cost of sales, this


arrangement is bringing up cash that would otherwise be tied up in inventory and trade receivables.


This further improves our ability to reinvest in our stores and enhance the service and value we


deliver to all customers. All of the accomplishments over the last 18 months do not change the fact


that we are faced with an economic environment that is the most difficult the country has faced in


several decades.


Competition for every shopper share of wallet has never been greater or more intense. To some


extent, the steps we took in fiscal 2009 couldn’t have come at a better time. By modernizing,


streamlining and improving our cost structure, we believe we are better positioned to mitigate some


of the impact of the economic downturn.