raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


Certain matters discussed in this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Federal Security Law. Actual results in the timing of certain events could differ


materially from those projected or contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to a number


of factors including general economic conditions, interest rates, the availability of ARM, securities,


loans, or acquisitions, and other risk factors outlined in the company’s SEC report and the Annual


Report on Form 10-K.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Larry Goldstone. Please go ahead.


Larry Goldstone, President, Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much and good morning everyone, thanks for joining the call this morning. Just


sort of an administrative matter for those of you who are interested, we are webcasting this


conference call on our website, there also a series of slides that I will reference or try to reference


as I go through this presentation. And, if you are interested, you can view those slides online again


by going to thornburgmortgage.com.


With that said, just a very quick introductory comment here before we get into some of the details of


the quarter in more specifics. Just to suggest that this was a good quarter, a solid quarter for us, I


am not going to try to oversell the quarter, because the environment continues to be a bit of a


challenge for the company, but the nonetheless, I think we are very pleased with the results that we


were able to put up this quarter. I will remind you that we have had nine Fed funds rate increases


over the last 12 months or so with the Fed funds rate and short-term interest rate going up now


about 225 basis points and we suspect likely to continue to increase over the next several months.


So, that’s been a bit of a head win that we’ve been faced with.


Secondarily, tighter spreads due to increased competition in the mortgage business in general and


that’s true both on the MBS side of the business and secondly on the origination side of the


business. So, we’ve got some head wins out there that we are sailing into, but nonetheless I think


that the quarter was a fairly solid quarter on the company’s part. We posted earnings as 70 cents a


share, that’s down from 71 cents a year ago, but as you will recall, our first objective and first


strategy is to create stability in earnings and secondarily to create growth in earnings and this is an


environment where we think stability of earnings has a lot of value for shareholders. So, we are


very pleased with the 70 cents per share that we were able to earn for the quarter.


We were able to maintain the dividend at 68 cents, that’s up 3% from the year ago period, but


consistent or stable with the last quarter’s dividend. And again, I’ll remind you that earnings did in


fact cover the dividend for the quarter. As further comment on the dividend, we did indicate in our


press release that we are comfortable with the current dividend level, we don’t have any intention or


for the foreseeable future, don’t see any reason why we would be reducing the dividend. We think


that our interest rate risk management practices and our strategies from an operating perspective


are pretty solid in there and so, consequently we don’t anticipate that there would be any reduction


in the dividend going forward. And beyond that, I just wanted to suggest that we do have


approximately 30 cents a share in undistributed taxable income. So, even if we were to have a


quarter, where we were slightly below, our earnings were slightly below the current dividend rate.


We have plenty of undistributed taxable income relative to may be in earnings short fall, where we


could use to continue to support the dividend until the environment were to change. So, we feel
raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


very, very confident and very comfortable with the current dividend level and with our ability to


maintain that level going forward.


Market capitalization at the end of quarter was $3 billion up about 32% from a year ago. Total


assets at the end of the quarter $34.5 billion, and I will definitely have some comments to make a


little bit later in this call with respect to the asset growth and where we think that’s going over time –


I am sorry, Slide 3, right?


Refer to Slide 3. Loan originations for the quarter were pretty good, $1.1 billion versus $1.13 billion


a year ago. So, that was a slight decline on a quarter-over-quarter basis, but basically origination


business continues to be pretty good than what is a pretty tough environment on the origination


side of the business. We had good growth in book value, $21.9 a share was our book value at the


end of the quarter, up 13% on a year-over-year basis. And so as I said, we remain optimistic about


our outlook for the rest of this year, we think that dividend remained secure despite the fact that we


are in a difficult and volatile interest rate environment.


Looking more specifically at the numbers. Net interest income for the quarter was $80 million, up


about 9% on a year-over-year basis. Net income was $68.5 million, that’s 18% – or up 18% from a


year-over-year basis. Non-interest income, which is servicing income and gain on sale income,


was also strong in this quarter, $2.9 million in servicing income that was up 15% from the same


quarter a year ago. So, that continues to grow at a very nice pace. And we did have gain on sale


which I know its going to be a big topic of discussion today, but we will just put the cards on the


table here, $7.7 million a gain on sale – actually gain on ARM assets for the quarter consisted of


two component parts, $5.9 million of actual gain on sale and $1.8 million of an unrealized gain in


our pipeline mark as a result of our following FASB 149.


We did in the quarter sell $729 million worth of assets, it actually makes pretty decent sense, if you


think about what's been going on with interest rates. We saw that 10-year treasury drop about 50


or 60 basis points in the quarter. As interest rates drop we are subject to increase potential


prepayment risk, it would be foolish for us not to sell some assets and take some gain, given the


fact that if those prepayments on those assets would increase, we just will be amortizing premium


and it will be a shirking asset and we have to reinvest those cash flows anyway.


Also interesting to note, while I don’t have the exact dates and the exact interest rate levels where


we bought and sold those particular assets, it is interesting to note that the 10-year treasury – well,


we were able to sell those assets when the 10-year treasury was either at or below the 4% level


and here we are at somewhere around 4.25 or 4.30 and we can now buy those same assets back


and replace the yield that we might have been giving up on a short-term basis.


So, we don’t make any apologizes for being opportunistic and intelligent and good portfolio


management business environment and so the gain definitely helped us with the quarter. Return


on equity for the quarter was 13.7 cents, that was down from 15.6% last year and 14.5% in the first


quarter. Again, the market continues to be difficult. Expenses continued to be well under control,


29 basis points of expense on assets, up very slightly, one basis point from the same period a year


ago, but expenses have come down noticeably over the last year or so, again as a result of the


formulaic approach through our management structuring.


The portfolio yield for the quarter was up about 8 basis points, 9 basis points, to 4.28 percent, up


from 4.19% in the prior quarter, but our cost of funds did increase even more, principally because


we got a lot of asset growth in the portfolio; we are putting on new long-term fixed rate liabilities,


and they are costing more money.


The cost of funds was up to 3.44% for the quarter versus 3.25% in the first quarter of 2005. When


you put it all together and add it up, we ended up with a portfolio margin of 105 basis points, down


from 113 basis points in the prior quarter. I am not sure what to say about that, I am not that