raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we


will conduct a question and answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded.


Certain matters discussed in this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Federal Security Laws. Actual results and the timing of certain events could


differ materially from those projected or and contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to


a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest rates, the availability of ARM


securities and loans for acquisitions, and other risk factors outlined in the Company’s SEC report


and the Annual Report on Form 10-K.


I would now like to turn the conference over to our host President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr.


Larry Goldstone, and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clay Simmons. Please go ahead.


Larry A. Goldstone, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you operator. Good morning everyone and unfortunately just to be clear, this is the


Thornburg Mortgage earnings call for any of you who might be on the call, who didn’t – who thought


you were joining Boeing Airlines or somebody else. Anyway, good morning everyone. Last


evening after the close of the market, Thornburg Mortgage announced a very very good third


quarter. We reported net income of 74 – oh – actually I am sorry let me stop for a second.


We are webcasting this presentation or this conference call also on our website. There are a series


of slides that present graphical information, Powerpoint-based information related to this call and I


am going to be referencing those slides as we go through this presentation. And, you can get there


by going to thornburgmortgage.com and clicking on our investor section of our site and then you


will find the conference call slides available there. So, I am going to be going starting with slide 3


for those of you who might be following along with those slides as well.


So, with that little introduction. Again, as I said, we reported net income of $74 million for the


quarter, up 28% from the same quarter last year. That translates into earnings per share of 70


cents per share versus 69 cents per share one year ago. That was about 2 cents better than the


consensus estimate of 68 cents for the quarter. We had notably no asset sales or gain on sales


contributing to earnings in this quarter and we had a minimal equity capital raising during the


quarter as well. So, this is a quite a notable quarter for the company and we are going to talk in


some detail about just exactly why although I think in [indiscernible] it’s fair to say that we’ve laid


out or indicated that we will be pursuing some strategies at the end of the second quarter that we


felt would be helpful from an earnings perspective in the third quarter and I am happy to report that


those strategies proved quite successful.


The Board of Directors elected to maintain the dividend at 68 cents a share, that’s up 1% from


where it was a year ago, but again it’s constant at 68 cents. And I guess, I also want to mention


that we continue to have a reserve of undistributed taxable income of approximately 33 cents per


share, which we could use if we needed to in order to provide some support for the dividend. But,


we don’t – we did not need to dip into that reserve during the current quarter and quite honestly for


a reasonable range of interest rate outlooks, we don’t anticipate that we are going to have to use


that undistributed taxable income going forward.


Some other highlights for the quarter, total assets ended the quarter at $39.6 billion; that’s 50%


growth in assets on a year-over-year basis, so no doubt we are growing. We had a very good
raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter for loan origination activity despite the fact that the yield curve is flattening and there seems


to be an increased preference for consumers to opt for 15-year and 30-year fixed rate mortgages


and the shorter adjusting 1 month and 6 month and 1 year ARMs have fallen out of favor, we were


still able to have or originate $1.3 billion worth of loans during the quarter; that’s up about 10% from


a year ago.


Book value per share was $21.09; that’s 11% growth on a year-over-year basis and the credit


quality of our loans that we’ve originated continues to be very good, 8 basis points of 60 plus day


delinquent loans that’s unchanged from prior quarters.


If you will turn to slide 4 in the presentation materials. The environment definitely is and has been a


challenge, I am not going to sit here and whine about how difficult the environment is, rather I think


the company is embracing the challenge and we definitely feel that we have answers and


responses and solutions to help us navigate through this environment, hopefully with relatively


stable earnings and an unchanged dividend which I think is going to be some surprise to a lot of


folks out there. But up to this point in time, with the Fed having raised interest rates 11 times and


total rate increases of 275 basis points, our earnings continued to perform exceptionally well


although not a big surprise to us quite frankly given the fact that we actively manage interest rate


risk. We do anticipate that the Fed is going to continue to raise interest rates. We like anybody


else don’t know exactly how far they are going to go, but I would say that we are prepared for a Fed


funds rate in the 4.5% to 5% range by the end of the year 2006. So, that would certainly be within


our range and realm of expectation.


The yield curve continues to flatten out there as well as float rates continue to increase. That does


have a couple of impacts on us, it does have some minor impact on the liability costs that we are


paying out there relative to the assets. And we also think that it feeds into or makes the mortgage


environment slightly more competitive than it otherwise would have been. But clearly, the


environment in the mortgage business is very competitive, mortgage products are performing very


well from a liquidity, total return and a risk perspective and consequently there is a lot of


competition for mortgage assets our there. So, spreads while not necessarily getting a whole lot


tighter in here are certainly at the tight end of the range relative to where they have been over the


last five or six years.


Also, adding to the competitive pressure is the fact that some lenders out there continue to ease


credit standards, interest for our mortgage products like the option ARM and stated income lending


or low doc and no doc lending, all pay lending are all basically competing away some segments of


what would traditionally be the prime space. I think, we are doing quite well from an origination


perspective, but it is also a factor out there. And lastly, borrowers are opting for longer days


mortgage products. The share of adjustable rate mortgages is down this year relative to where it


was last year, again because of the flatness of the yield curve. But I think our product menu


appears to be offsetting that and again, we are doing a nice job of originating and growing our loan


origination business.


If you will turn to Slide 5, we have and continue to see some margin compression. Certainly that’s


been true over the last couple of years, but I think over the last two or three quarters, we are


beginning to see some stabilization of that interest margin which is a good thing. We only had a 2


basis point decline in the interest margin between the second quarter and the third quarter of this


year from 105 basis points to 103 basis points. But, I also want to recall your attention to a new


metric, because our margins are compressing for a variety of different reasons. There is a huge


dynamic at work here, some of which is being directed and led by management and some of which


is being directed or led by the market and the environment in general. And so, we want to focus


your attention momentarily on net interest income per share, because as far as the company can


tell, this is probably the best single measure to sort out and segment out all of the moving parts that


have an affect on our spreads. You know, higher investment spreads affected, changes in


prepayment rates affect our spreads, changes in our hedging strategy affect our spreads, the