raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Thornburg Mortgage


First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this point, all the participant lines are in a listen-only


mode. However, there will be an opportunity for questions and instructions will be given at that


time. [Operator Instructions].


And ladies and gentlemen, certain matters discussed in this conference call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Security Laws. Actual results and the timing


of certain events could differ materially from those projected in or contemplated by the forward-


looking statements due to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest


rates, the availability of ARM, securities and loans for acquisition, and other risk factors outlined in


the company’s SEC Reports and the Annual Report on Form 10-K.


I will now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Larry


Goldstone. Please go ahead sir.


Larry Goldstone, President, Chief Operating Officer


Okay. Thank you John and good morning everyone. A couple of introductory procedural remarks if


you will. First of all, also joining me on the call today is Rick Story, our Chief Financial Officer and


Clay Simmons, who is our—soon to be new Chief Financial Officer as Rick Story is going to be


retiring in early May of this year. So, they are here to provide some additional support and some


help.


Secondarily, this earnings conference call also has a series of slides and the conference call is


being webcast. So, for those of you, who would like to log on to Thornburg Mortgage website and


go to the Investor Section, there is an Icon – it’s on the Investor Section, Leanne?


Leanne Gallagher, Investor Relations Manager


Yes.


Larry Goldstone, President, Chief Operating Officer


On the Investor Section of our website. You can click on the icon and you could follow along with


some slides that I will be referring to as I walk through these comments. So, with that said, we’ll get


started here.


First, I guess the overall tone [ph] of this conference call or this earnings release is; one, a very


solid operating results, another very solid quarter for the company and this is now in a period of


time where we’ve gone through a seven fed funds rate increases, a total change or a total increase


in short term interest rates of at least 175 basis points and a continuing flattening of the yield curve


and a fairly volatile interest rate environment, and that the company was able to release and report


very, very solid strong earnings in the first quarter of 2005 consistent with what we’ve been saying


is what's going to happen. So, we are very pleased with those results.


Our first quarter earnings were 72 cents a share, that's up 3% from a year ago. The Board of


Directors took a little bit of a cautious approach this quarter, electing to leave the dividend


unchanged at 68 cents per share. This is the first quarter of a new taxable year for the company
raw transcript


Thornburg Mortgage Inc.
 
TMA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and I think that there is enough uncertainty of about just exactly how far the federal reserve might


go with respect to their monitory policy and increases in short-term interest rates. And I think that


the general level of competition in the industry both for mortgage assets and amongst mortgage


originators causes the company to just want to take a little bit of a pause in our dividend increases


while we get a chance to see what's going on over the balance to this year. However, 68 cents a


quarter is 5% or a 5% increase in the dividend on a year-over-year basis.


Our market capitalization ended the quarter at 2.7 billion, that's up 7% from a year ago. Total


assets at the end of the quarter were $30.9 billion, that's up 38% on a year-over-year basis. We


had a very, very good quarter in term of loan origination activity. We originated $1.2 billion worth of


loans in the first quarter. Book value per share improved to $20.97 and once again despite the very


low interest rate environment and the competition for mortgage assets, we continue to be very


positive with respect to our outlook for the balance of this year and with the stability at a minimum


of the dividend. By the way, if you are following along the webcast, I should have referred to slide 3


as sort of the summary of all those key points.


From an earnings analysis prospective, net interest income was $83.2 million, up 19% year-over-


year. Net income is $67.5 million, up 26% from last year, and again 72 cents a share, a 3% year-


over-year growth in earnings per share.


We feel comfortable with the first call consensus range of $2.88 for the year. Return on equity did


decline in the quarter, it was 14.5% versus 16.3% a year ago, very clearly a reflection of the


competitive nature of the market that we are in today. In addition, the fact that there has been


some impact on our portfolio with respect to rising short-term interest rates.


On the plus side though, our expenses on assets did decline. We are 28 basis points of expense


on assets for the quarter, down from 40 basis points of expense on assets a year ago. So our


expense structure or cost structure is coming down, as return on equity declines, which is precisely


the way our compensation formulas work. The portfolio yield for the quarter was 4.19 percent,


that’s an increase of about 12 basis points from 4.07% in the fourth quarter. But on the other hand,


our cost of funds increased to 3.25% from 3.11 percent, so that’s about a 14 basis point increase.


So at the end of the day, the portfolio margin for the first quarter was 113 basis points, down slightly


from 116 basis points in the fourth quarter of last year.


That’s actually pretty good news for us. I think we have now seen three quarters consecutively,


where our portfolio margins have been relatively stable; I mean they are fluctuating a little bit but


not coming down nearly as quickly or changing quarter over quarter nearly as quickly as they had


been over most of 2003, and the first three quarters of 2004. So, I think that the last earnings call


we did, which was in January, I provided some direction or guidance that suggest, that maybe we


will be getting to see portfolio margin stabilization and now that we have another quarter under our


belts here, I think that, that continues to be true. It looks to me like portfolio margin have stabilized


and roughly this 115 basis point neighborhood, which is exactly where we are budgeting our


portfolio margins to be over the balance of this year. Anyway, this slight decline in portfolio margin


was due to two principal items; a lag in our, you know, the re-pricing of our traditional ARMs vis-à-


vis adjustable rate mortgages that have an interest rate to re-prices a year or less, mostly impact


years on those that have a six-month re-pricing feature or a one-year re-pricing feature and there is


just a timing difference between the re-pricing of those assets and the associated borrowings.


Secondarily, we do have approximately $1.2 billion worth of interest rate cap agreements that are


providing or hedging some of our interest rate exposure. Those cap agreements are struck – the


minimum strike price is about 3.25 percent. So, we haven’t begun to see much benefit from those


yet. So, those two items are the principal components that contributed to the slight decline that we


had in margins. We continued to be pretty optimistic though, it looks to me like portfolio spreads at


the margin or opportunities in the marketplace at the margin aren’t getting any tighter, in fact it may