raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA,
 
TOUS
 
Q4 2004 Earning Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for joining us this morning for a Technical Olympics USA, Inc., 2004 Fourth


Quarter and Yearend Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder today’s call is being recorded. On


the call today are Tony Mon, President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Keller, Chief


Financial Officer and Treasurer. Before we get started I need to get the standard SEC disclosure


out.


Some of the information we will discuss in this call is forward-looking, including but not limited to


any guidance for 2005. These forward-looking statements maybe affected by the risk and


uncertainties in our business. Everything we say here today is qualified in its entirety by cautionary


statements and risk factors set forth in our February 16, 2005, press release and our SEC filings,


particularly those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30th, 2004, and our


Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Both of which are publically available.


Theses factors and others have affected historical results, may affect future results and may cause


future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may


make. We have no obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make.


Our comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation-G.


The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial


measures and the other information required by the Regulation-G is included in our earnings press


release which has been posted on our website at www.tousa.com. At this time I would like to turn


the call over to your moderator for today Mr. Tony Mon. Please go ahead sir.


Antonio B. Mon, Executive Vice Chairman, President, CEO


Thank you very much and good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call and last


evening we released we fourth quarter and yearend results for Technical Olympics USA. Dave


Keller, will address our results in more detail following my initial brief remarks. For the year ended


December 31 that we reported with record revenues of 2.1 billion a 28% increase and a record


earnings of 119 million a 45% increase. This pro forma was driven by deliveries of 7,337 homes


including joint venture deliveries, which is a 20% increase over the prior period. Our result, for the


year and for the quarter were impacted by lingering disruptions arising for the 4 Florida Hurricanes,


the unanticipated cost were leading to performance accelerated stock options and lower financial


progress results. We will elaborate on this further.


Our Financial Services earnings for 2004 were significantly lower than those of the prior year; 8.3


million compared to 15.6 million in the prior period, resulting from costs related to the restructuring


and relocation of our mortgage business and the shift to less profitable adjustable rate mortgages.


Our mortgage business is now ready to properly serve our Homebuilding divisions and our home


buyers. We expect our capital ratio currently under 60% to begin to improve as the years [ph]


progresses to more customary levels.


Our transition from a group of regional local homebuilders into a large professionally managed


national homebuilder is now substantially complete. We have showed the sequential improvement


in earnings and operating margins that we had anticipated. It was a very busy year for us. During


the year we completed the acquisition the Gilligan Homes in Maryland, issued $325 million of


senior subordinated notes, listed TOUSA in the New York Stock Exchange, refinanced and


increased our bank revolvers and our mortgage warehouse facilities, launched our joint venture


program and closed on the Sunbelt joint venture in Phoenix, initiated a cash and stock divided and


added analyst coverage. We believe that our prospects for the future are solid. We ended the year


with a very strong backlog of over a 5700 homes, an 84% increase with a sales value exceeding
raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA,
 
TOUS
 
Q4 2004 Earning Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


1.8 billion. This backlog provides excellent visibility into our 2005 guidance of net earnings of 155


million driven by total deliveries of 9,600 homes.


Our balance sheet at the end of the year is solid with ample liquidity. Cash balances exceed 200


million and our revolver credit facility of 600 million is undrawn, but we do have significant dry


power [ph]. Sales activities at the end of the year remains as we had expected. Due to the late


openings of some of our communities and our practiced [ph] efforts to intentionally slow sales in


some of our high demand markets, to match our production rates and we anticipate new sales


order for the first quarter of ’05 will be approximately 95% to 90% lower than those in the prior


period. Our regional patterns we have commented on in the past remain essentially unchanged.


FLORIDA, the Mid Atlantic and Western regions are very strong and we continue to see


weaknesses in Texas. Colorado however appears to be stabilizing. I would like now to turn the call


over to David Keller, Dave?


David J. Keller, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Treasurer


Thank you Tony. We delivered on the fourth quarters promise and exceeded our 2004 earnings


guidance of a 170 million by posting almost 120 million in net income for the year. We earned $49


million in the fourth quarter versus 20 million last year and this is a 144% increase and represents a


76% increase over the third quarter of 2004. Our quarterly earnings for ’04 were 18 million in Q1,


24 million in Q2, 28 million in Q3, and 49 million in Q4 showing sequential improvement. In the


past 2 quarters we earned 65% of the earnings for the year. This would suggest we’ve turned the


corner and are on our way to sustained quarterly growth and consistent earnings. Our net income


for the year increased by 45%. We had record revenues for the quarter of $670 million, a 39%


increase over the same period of prior year and increase over the 507 million in the third quarter.


Our average price for closed homes was $275,000, down from $281,000 in the third quarter. This


decline in average delivery price was due to the late closings in our higher priced markets, which I’ll


discuss in a minute.


Our unit closings were 29% over the prior year quarter. Our revenues for the year increased 28%


to 2.1 billion from 1.6 billion. Although our home deliveries for the year increased 20%, we were


disappointed by lower than expected deliveries in the fourth quarter particularly in Florida due to the


hurricane disruption, in Las Vegas due to the magnitude of homes that we tried to deliver and the


construction delays that we experienced, and in the Mid-Atlantic states particularly in Virginia where


we had some regulatory delays that impeded our ability to get our homes closed. Our rate of


converting sales unit backlog at the beginning of the quarter during the quarter was 36%, which is


less than 2003 and consistent with last quarter.


Our fourth quarter was aided by gains from land sales. Our land sales in the quarter were


significant at 54.8 million with pre-tax gains of 22.2 million. We encountered a situation that


allowed us to realize a 16 million gain on the sale of a single property in Florida. We believe the


economics of flipping this property outweighed the benefits of billing the subdivision out. We had a


similar situation in Las Vegas where we realized a 4.3 million gain. After tax the gains, land gains


added $14 million to net income. As we stated previously we anticipate there will be periodic land


sales in our business.


For the year, our gross margin from home building revenues was 20.4%, an improvement from


19.7% the prior year. The sequential pattern again is important because our improvement of 20.4%


compared to 19.9% in the third quarter 19.2% in the second, and 19% in the first quarter. It shows


again that we are having success in raising our sales prices and controlling our homebuilding costs.


Our variable stock-based compensation expense was $3.2 million compared to 3/10th of a million


in the last quarter of 2003. Our total variable stock compensation expense for the year was 7.2


million compared to 1.2 million for ’03. There is an acceleration feature in couple of our option


programs that we have that was met in the fourth quarter that caused certain options to invest