raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA, Inc.
 
TOUS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for joining us this morning for TOUS's 2005 Third Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. On the call today are Tony Mon, President and Chief Executive Officer, and


David Keller, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.


Before we get started, I need to get the standard SEC disclosure out. Some of the information we


will discuss in this call is forward-looking, including but not limited to any guidance for 2005 and


2006. These forward-looking statements may be affected by the risks and uncertainties in our


business.


Everything we say here today is qualified in its entirety by cautionary statements and risk factors


set forth in our November 8, 2005 press release and our SEC filings, particularly those set forth in


our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year


ended December 30, 2004, both of which are publicly available.


These factors and others have affected historical results, may affect future results, and may cause


future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may


make. We have no obligation to update any forward-looking statement we may make.


Our comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.


The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial


measures and other information required by Regulation G is included in either our earnings press


release or Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, both of which have been posted


on our website, www.tousa.com.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s, conference, Mr. Tony Mon,


President and Chief Executive Officer.


conference, Mr. Antonio Mon, President and Chief Executive Officer.


Antonio Mon, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, good morning and welcome to our third quarter call. Last evening, we released our


third quarter and year-to-date results. The numbers, sort of, speak for themselves. We had a great


quarter. We reported record earnings of $70.3 million for the quarter compared to $28.1 the prior


period, a 150% increase. For the year-to-date numbers our earnings were $142 million compared


to about $70 million for the prior year, 103% increase.


We also moved closer to our goal moving our return equity to the top tier of our competitive


universe. On a year-to-date basis, our ROE was 24% and for the quarter it was 34%. So we're


getting great traction there. This is one of our key metrics and one of our key goals. This quarter is


the sixth consecutive quarter of improved financial performance for us. This performance was


driven by fundamental improvement in our operations and I increased land sale net earnings for the


quarter of about $20 million.


While improving operating performance, we demonstrated by the increase in gross margins of 730


basis points and 490 basis points for the quarter and for the year, respectively. And also by our


improved home building operating margin of 17% and 800 basis point increase over the prior year.


This is a latest in the sixth quarter series of improved quarterly financial results and enhanced


operating performance.


Land sales are a recurring theme in our results and they're expected to continue in indefinitely.


This has been an integral part of both our land and lap management process as well as of our
raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA, Inc.
 
TOUS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


dynamic capital allocation process. We put capital in our own markets, depending on market


conditions and we keep trying to improve our D&A [ph] generally by replacing lab position with


better ones, from time to time.


Our performance is also the result of heavy investment in people, processes and systems. We


have made, since our merger, year 2002. And also of the very many operation improve initiatives


we have undertaken. These investments are obviously now paying off and we expect them to


continue to bare fruit. Into the future, perhaps we can continue to ration up our scale.


Earlier, we had released unit information for the quarter for the year-to-date. Following the results


for the quarter were 2,600,092 homes, a 12% increase over the last year. this is a result of a


combination to of our intentional effort to limit pre-sales in some of our long construction cycle


markets and our efforts to wean out investors and poorly qualified buyers in order to enhance the


quality and profit potential of our back log.


Sales were also impacted by the number of active communities. Our sales per community through


the end of the quarter were slightly higher than the prior year, but we're excelling from fewer


number of communities, excluding the communities acquired from Transeastern that we were in the


prior year. I will comment on these later in my remarks.


Last evening, we also reduced our expected deliveries for this year, while maintaining our net


earnings guidance of $205 million. Our guidance maintains its based information [audio gap] and


we believe our net income guide is achievable on lower deliveries, based on stronger anticipated


results in some other markets as well as on our improved net profit margin. We also, last evening,


reiterated our net income guidance for 2006, of $285 million.


There is first years guidance increased slightly because of a lower and anticipated fully diluted our


number of shares outstanding. Clearly, we've been impacted by hurricanes, since August of 2004;


Florida has been impacted by a number of hurricanes of varying ferocity [ph]. Other regions of the


country, Louisiana and Houston, have also been impacted by hurricane activity. Wilma, our most


recent hurricane, came across the southern part of Florida and has affected all levels of our


operations there, including transistors.


The damage to our communities, fortunately, is believed to be minimal, and the projected financial


impact relatively immaterial. However, the disruptive impacts of Wilma and the other hurricanes in


the past are expected to continue to affect us for some time to come. South Florida is just


regaining its sense of normalcy. We still have people without electricity. We still have a lot of traffic


lights that are inoperable.


We still have a lot of homes with blue plastic roofs because of the lack of tiles. Our corporate


office, for example, was shut off for a week. Many of our divisional offices in South Florida were


shut down for 2 weeks. During that time, there was no construction activity, almost no sales and no


deliveries. As you could expect, the disruptive – lingering disruptive effects of these Acts of God is


pervasive, and are always well understood. Let me give you some color on some of the challenges


we face in Florida.


We have material shortages, particularly in concrete roof tiles. Almost every single roof from West


Palm Beach down to the Keys has some form of damage, either minor or major. This is a problem.


Concrete roof tiles were in tight supply before the hurricane, and this will further aggravate those


shortages. Labor availability, already tight before the hurricanes, is now tighter than ever.


FPL, Florida Power and Light, the electric utility in Florida, have assigned most of their crews to the


hurricane recovery effort in South Florida, and we have to spend that new electrical hookups to


most – throughout most of Florida. Clearly, you cannot get a CO [ph] and deliver at home unless


you have electric power, so that is a problem.