raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA, Inc.
 
TOUS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for joining us this morning for Technical Olympic USA, Inc.'s 2005 Second


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] On the call today are Tony Mon,


President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Keller, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.


Before we get started, I need to get this standard SEC disclosure out. SEC alert: Some of the


information we will discuss in this call is forward-looking including but not limited to any guidance


for 2005 and 2006. These forward-looking statements may be affected by the risks and


uncertainties in our business. Everything we say here today is qualified in its entirety by cautionary


statements and risk factors set forth in our August 2, 2005, press release and our SEC filings,


particularly those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,thfi, and our Form 10-K


for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, both of which are publicly available.


These factors and others have affected historical results, may affect future results and may cause


future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may


make. We have no obligation to update any forward-looking statement we may make. Our


comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. The


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial


measures and the other information required by Regulation G is included in our earnings press


release, which has been posted on our website www.tousa.com. At this time, I would like to turn


the call over to Mr. Tony Mon. Please go ahead, sir.


Antonio Mon, Chief Executive Officer, President


Thank you very much and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to our second quarter


conference call. We are pleased to be reporting powerful results but before I get into the results of


the quarter, I would like to talk briefly about our recent closing of the Transeastern acquisition.


This acquisition is structured as a joint venture between Tousa Homes and an entity controlled by


Art and Ed Falcone, the previous owners of Transeastern. Joint ventures area an important


component of our growth strategy as they allow us to sustain our capital, reduce our risk profile


while providing excellent returns. This acquisition is no different. This acquisition also solidifies our


Florida market presence. It makes us one of the top builders in the state and creates a very strong


land position in one of the most land constrained housing markets in the U.S. We are now full


loaded in the Florida market, a market we know extremely well and a market we believe offers


significant opportunities for long-term sustainable growth. We believe this growth is being driven by


solid fundamentals such as excellent population and personal income growth and the Florida


economy in itself is being driven by multiple drivers such as immigration from both abroad and from


the U.S., tourism, technology, and very high levels of new job creation. We do not this transaction


to have a significant impact on our 2005 results largely because of precious accounting


adjustments. But we anticipate that we will let approximately $35 million in net income to our 2006


results based on the delivery of 3,500 homes.


Last night we also announced the offering of 4 million of TOUS shares and 1.5 million of our parent


shares. The additional capital is designed to fuel our future growth. The issues of additional


primary shares as well as the sale of 1.5 million shares by our majority owners increases our


stock's float. Over time we believe this will enhance liquidity and will help the stock trade better.


Now I would like to talk about the results of the quarter. I will briefly run over some of the high-level


items and then I will turn the call over to Dave Keller, our Chief Financial Officer, for a more detailed


and thorough look at our quarter.
raw transcript


Technical Olympic USA, Inc.
 
TOUS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Earlier we had announced a 32% increase in total home building rates including joint ventures for


the quarter. Last evening we announced home building revenues of $660 million for the quarter, a


24% increase over the prior period. Net income was up 90% to $45.7 million. Our backlog was a


record of almost 7,500 homes, including joint ventures, a 35% increase, and our total backlog,


including joint ventures provides $2.5 billion of future revenues.


The company's net profit margin as a percentage of home sales improved 270 basis points in the


second quarter of 2005 to 7.9%, up from 5.2% in the prior period. This quarter's results, when


annualized, take us to our targeted return on equity goal, which is around 25%. The key objective


of our growth strategy has been to increase our return equity so we are in the top third of our peer


group. By any measure we had a solid quarter that further demonstrates that our strategy is


working and we are delivering all the results that we have anticipated.


We have also announced last evening that we are raising our 2005 net income guidance about


19% from $170 million to $185 million, a 54% compared to the $120 million we earned in 2004.


Last quarter we raised our guidance from $155 million to $170 million so the last two quarters we


have raised our guidance by 19%.


Our $185 million net income projection is based on revenues of $2.4 billion and the delivery of


10,500 homes, of which 2,100 to 2,400 will be from joint ventures. We have based the decision to


increase our guidance on several factors: Our strong backlog decision; number two, our improving


home building operating margins; and lastly, anticipated gains from periodic land sales. In addition,


we also provided initial guidance on 2006 results of $285 million, including anticipating results for


Transeastern of $35 million on approximately 50,500 home deliveries, with combined revenues,


including joint ventures close to $5 billion.


This represents net income growth on a year-to-year basis of 54%. I would like to take a few


moments to put our performance in context. We are not at all surprised by our results and our


prospects for the balance of the year and beyond. These results simply stand for the successful


execution of our fundamental growth strategy that we put in place before our merger in June of


2002. As I have consistently stated since then, our strategy was to use our predecessor and these


Newmark homes and Engle homes, as a platform from which to build a large, professionally


managed, national home builder and we have done just that. We've implemented a strategy since


2002 by increasing the number of active communities from 127 communities then, to 228 at the end


of the quarter, an 80% increase.


We have also, put in place the land resources necessary to support a much larger business. We


have also increased the home site that we own and control from 12,0000 in 2002 to 96,0000 at the


end of the quarter. Those numbers include [indiscernible] and represent about an eight-fold


increase in the number of home sites we own and control. Along the way, we have also invested


heavily in people, processors of systems to be able to manage our fast growing company well. I


recognize that those investments have finalized past results, but frankly, I don't believe we could be


where we are had it not been for those investments and it was something that we simply had to do.


Since 2002 we have also implemented multiple initiatives designed to improve our margins and


become more efficient as we draw from much higher sales and delivery volumes. As a point of


reference, we have already doubled our scale since 2002 from roughly 5,0000 deliveries to the


more than 10,000 expected for this year.


We continue our focus on fast growth with improved results and returns. We increased our net


income by 90% this quarter and an annualized return in equity for the quarter was 26%. A


significant improvement over last year's 17%. We will turn the call to Dave Keller and he will


provide some color in our current business conditions in our various markets.