corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Trailer Bridge 2008 Fourth Quarter and Year


End Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded


and that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode. I will now turn the conference over to


Allen Stevens, Chairman of the Company. Please go ahead, sir.


Allen L. Stevens, Chairman


Good morning. I am Allen Stevens, Chairman of Trailer Bridge. On behalf of the Board of Directors,


I welcome you to the fourth quarter and 2008 year-end conference call. This is the first call since


we have had a change of management. John McCown, our previous CEO resigned in December at


the request of the Board.


Ralph Heim, our long time President has agreed to serve as interim CEO while the Board conducts


a search for a permanent CEO. Ralph is a leading candidate for this position. The Board is strongly


supporting the present management team.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Ralph for his comments.


Ralph W. Heim, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Allen. And good morning to all from Jacksonville. Today’s remarks are prefaced with


the usual safe harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements


are not guarantees of future performance and involve the usual risk and uncertainties.


We released our 2008 financial results yesterday afternoon and will be reviewing those highlights


momentarily focusing primarily on the fourth quarter. Along this being my first time leading the call,


we are also making some minor adjustments in our format, which we hope will be helpful. With


yesterday’s release and in upcoming ones, we are endeavoring to provide more detail and context


in the actual announcement while utilizing the conference call primarily as a means to highlight the


results and then respond to your questions.


We believe this change will give you a more consistent picture of our business and performance.


The rest of our officer group is participating today as well should a question come up where they


can assist. They are Mark Tanner, our CFO; Bill Gotimer, Executive Vice President and General


Counsel; Dave Miskowiec, Vice President of Sales; Ed Morley, Vice President of Marine


Operations; Adam Gawrysh, Vice President of Inland Operations, and Robert Van Dijk, Vice


President of Pricing and Regulatory.


Recapping 2008, total revenue for the year was 133 million, an increase of 14.5% compared to the


116.2 million in 2007. Total operating expenses increased 24.1 million from 101.9 million in 2007.


Our operating ratio deteriorated to 94.8% from 87.8% and we had a net loss of 3.2 million, or $0.27


a share including a one-time compensation charge of $830,000 related to the company’s Chief


Executive Officer’s departure in December.


We have already spoken about much of the detail in prior calls, but we will touch briefly on some of


the highlights. In the first half of the year, we achieved less than desired utilization on a fifth vessel


deployed the previous fall that increased our capacity to Puerto Rico and added new service


capability to Dominican Republic.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


While encouraging growth was forthcoming from both Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, it was


not at the levels anticipated, which made the economics unsustainable. Mid-year, we made a


deployment change that enabled continued service to both markets but with a four-vessel


deployment rather than five. That turned out to be a better match of vessel capacities, available


freight and still allowed us to maintain direct service between the Dominican Republic and the U.S.,


which is key to northbound growth opportunities that we see there.


It also occurred without affecting our northbound participation from Puerto Rico, which was


potential concern initially. Our performance was further hurt by escalating increases in fuel prices in


the first and second quarters of the year, was it being well into the third quarter before our marine


fuel surcharge, intermodal fuel surcharges, we are able to begin closing the gap. We had significant


and unexpected expense as a result of the U.S. Department of Justice Investigation into the Jones


Act trade lanes.


And 2008 also turned out to be an active storm year, which impacted vessel scheduling along with


a variety of related activities and cost. On the positive side, however, much was accomplished


during the year in the midst of our frustration and disappointment. The value proposition we provide


shippers is real and we demonstrated that our innovative system can perform well and grow even in


difficult circumstances.


Our year-over-year volumes grew as there are market shares in those trade lanes we compete in.


We found ways to improve loadability and utilization on our vessels and ways to be more resilient in


changing economic times. These were attributes that will continue to service well.


Now take a few minutes and focus specifically on the fourth quarter, which was highlighted by total


revenue increasing 5.7% to 33.3 million an operating ratio of 95.7% and a net loss of 1.1 million, or


$0.09 a share. As already noted, the net loss included the one-time compensation charge related to


the departure of our CEO in December. Excluding the one-time charge, the company’s net loss was


$292,000, or $0.02 a share.


Our fourth quarter results were impacted by reduced volume southbound to Puerto Rico in the latter


part of the quarter along with increased operating expenses. The softened volume coupled with


weather related schedule disruptions resulted in one less voyage than anticipated, and increased


inland transportation, short-term equipment and marine terminal expenses.


Going into the fourth quarter results in more detail, again the total revenue for the period increased


5.7%, or 33.3 million as compared to 31.5 million in the fourth quarter of ‘07, a decrease 5.9%


sequentially from the third quarter of ‘08.


Revenue to and from the Dominican Republic was 2.4 million during the quarter compared to


400,000 the previous year and 2.2 million the previous quarter. Exclusive of fuel surcharges, total


revenue for the fourth quarter was 27.2 million, an increase of 2.5% from the comparable quarter


but a decrease sequentially of 1.1%. Our total southbound volume, including both Puerto Rico and


Dominican Republic shipments declined 0.9% over the same quarter last year but was off 8.4%


sequentially from the third quarter.


Fourth quarter typically has the highest revenue of the year for us and it was unusual to see 2008


as an exception. The most recent PIERS market shipment data for Puerto Rico confirms the


softening market situation indicating the total market as being off 8.9% from the comparable quarter


in 2007, and off 3% year-to-year. The PIERS data indicates the fourth quarter market volumes as


also being 2.7% less in the third quarter, which again is an exception.


Northbound total volume from Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic increased 4.3% from the


previous year, a decline of 12.1% sequentially. Reduced northbound was primarily related to the


temporary suspension of shipments of recycled materials whose movement is dependent upon