corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Trailer Bridge 2010 Fourth Quarter and Year-


End Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded


and that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Ivy Barton Suter, Chief Executive Officer. Please go


ahead.


Ivy Barton Suter, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. My remarks as well as Mark Tanner’s


are presses with the usual Safe Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking


statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve the usual risks and uncertainties.


Among those risks are those listed in yesterday’s press release and we suggest you focus on each


of the items listed there.


With us on the call today are Trailer Bridge’s Chief Financial Officer, Mark Tanner; and Executive


Vice President and General Counsel, Bill Gotimer.


On today’s call, we will not take questions after the presentation, since we are in the process of


documenting our refinancing and we believe that it would not be prudent to do so at this time.


We’ve announced significant progress on Trailer Bridge’s refinancing and we are pleased that this


process is moving to documentation and closure. As stated, we expect to give notice of redemption


to current note holders in the second quarter. We also expect this to be a debt-only transaction,


which will not dilute equity with the expected blended interest rate to be less than 10.25%.


We also expect this arrangement will allow us to pay down principle during the term. We’re working


hard to complete this transaction, and we will advise you when significant next steps are in place.


As I stated yesterday in the press release, our loss in the fourth quarter was driven primarily by two


factors. The first factor was charter revenue. In 2009, 93% of our charter revenue was derived from


the oil field market. More specifically, our 2010 forecast was based on 76% of the revenues coming


from the oil field market and 2010 started strong. However, in April 2010 when the BP Horizon


accident occurred, our charter revenue pipeline dried up. By the fourth quarter, we had almost no


charter revenue, yet we carried the insurance and dockage costs of three triplestack box carriers,


TBCs.


We immediately reorganized our sales and marketing efforts in the second quarter, engaged a


consultant in the projects market and invested in trade shows and sales activities to diversify our


business. These efforts paid off resulting in long-term charters for all three of our TBCs that are


currently dedicated to our charter business.


Our contracts were completed in late December 2010 with our first charter underway this March to


be followed by two charters in May 2010. At this point, 2012 looks to be a stronger charter market


than 2011. Notably, we can retrieve one of these vessels should they be needed in line of service.


The second factor that drove the fourth quarter results was our northbound liner freight that relies


on payments from the Puerto Rico government. In December 2010, there was approved legislation


for the government to make its required payments. Subsequently, it was determined by other


Puerto Rico government entities that this legislation had errors, so the legislative process restarted.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


The payment uncertainty stopped all depended shipments. Now payments are scheduled for the


second quarter. We have a number of internal and external resources devoted to resolving these


payments and we are working closely with our customers on 2011 shipments, which we expect to


occur due to the pent-up demand.


However, since our business cannot rely on the success of this particular freight, we have targeted


new accounts to replace this volume in both the Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic markets.


Traction has been positive in the first quarter.


Other unusual expenses during the quarter were approximately $450,000 related to the dry-


docking, which started in late December. Approximately $200,000 required for a substitute sailing


to place us back on schedule after weather related disruption during the fourth quarter and


$200,000 as an employment related settlement.


Overall, our southbound volumes were steady in the fourth quarter and we had a deployed


utilization of 97.5%. This utilization does not include the capacity of a cancelled sailing in late


December, which would have resulted in 94% utilization based on available capacity versus


deployed capacity. This cancelled sailing allowed us to commence the dry-docking in late


December.


Our Dominican Republic business continues to grow with quarterly volume, both northbound and


southbound, being nearly double the volumes of the fourth quarter of 2009. From a Puerto Rico


market perspective, our latest PIERS data covers the period January through November of 2010.


Total southbound container market grew 4% in 2010 versus the first 11 months of 2009.


Trailer Bridge’s southbound container market share was 14.3% in 2010 versus 15% in 2009. In


terms of total southbound cargos in the Puerto Rico market, our calculation show volume increased


6.2% from 2009 in the market and Trailer Bridge’s volume increased 9.6%.


As I’ve stated several times on past calls, our near-term strategy is not market share driven, but


utilization driven, with our 2010 utilization at 96.7% versus 2009 utilization of 87.3% during the


same 11-month period for comparison purposes.


We’ve put additional focus on our sales and marketing efforts and have increased our sales force


for both the Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic markets in the first quarter of 2011. This


initiative has contributed to the traction on new northbound accounts.


Fuel price increases exceeded recovery in the fourth quarter, although we mitigated this cost


somewhat through increased fuel surcharges in the quarter. Our fuel surcharge mechanism


provides for recovery, but lags in its ability to recover, especially when the trend is steep. This trend


has continued into the first quarter. Mark Tanner will provide you with more details on the fuel


numbers later in the call.


Our ramp construction in Puerto Rico is successfully completed and has been in operation since


March 4th with its formal inauguration on March 18th. This new structure will allow us to carry


heavier loads than the previous structure and, therefore, provides more revenue opportunities at a


significantly lower maintenance cost. This ramp represents a $6 million investment and was


completed on time and on budget.


The dry-docking of our two ro/ro barges commenced in late December 2010 and will be completed


in early April 2011. This dry-docking has met its budget of $7.2 million and its timeline.


We substituted a TBC, triplestack box carrier, to preserve our sailing schedule in the first quarter of


2011. However, we did experience some disruption in our service. Our normal weekly deployments