raw transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Trailer Bridge First Quarter Conference Call. At


this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants


are currently in a listen-only mode. I will now turn the conference over to John McCown, Chairman


and CEO of Trailer Bridge Inc. Please go ahead Mr. McCown.


John McCown, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. [indiscernible 0:55] and I have a 10 minute presentation and we will take your


questions. Our other officer are also here [indiscernible 1:00] have question come up in their


specific area. Please note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


As such we will caution that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future


performance and involve the usual risk and uncertainties. We released our actual first quarter


results before the market open this morning. Those results showed a 6.4% year-over-year revenue


increase including the higher fuel surcharges, and an improvement of first quarter net income of


$617,000. That was the eighth straight quarter where actually bottom line performance showed


improvement compared to the prior year period.


We saw continuing excellent performance in our most important segment, southbound container


loans, which showed a 1 million year-over-year revenue increase driven by higher rates as rate


restoration continues. That is before the effect of the higher fuel surcharges and continuous top


line growth evident in that segment for more then two years from the sector supply demand


dynamics began to correct.


Another segment showing meaningful growth was southbound new cars where revenue was up


$400,000 driven by more new car shipments. The benefit from those two strong segment however,


was substantial mitigated by $800,000 less revenue in other southbound segments and $600,000


less total northbound revenue all driven by less volume in the respective segments.


The driver in the other southbound revenue loss was reduced use call revenue as their volume was


down almost 50%. Some of that was represented by cars we carried for our competitive last year


while its vessel was in dry dock but with softness in that sector.


Overall, shipments of used cars in Puerto Rico was down in the first quarter and our analysis shows


that our underline market share remained fairly consistent. Northbound approximately half of the


revenue loss was reduced container volume and the other half was reductions in other volume


driven by less military activity. We do not review these first quarter volume levels in other


southbound segments where the overall northbound volume is lasting ships and we have


experienced volume rebounds in both areas subsequent to the end of the quarter.


Going back to our largest segment, the movement of container southbound we moved four tons of


1% more in the first quarter compared to the year ago quarter. Moiré importantly our revenue for


actually container load move southbound was up 6.9% compared to the first quarter of last year.


We remain focused on cash flow and we believe that a very relevant measure of that is EBITDA


particularly since our maintenance level of capital expenditures are modest and we fully expense all


glide acting [ph] cost as incurred. Down in the first quarter our EBITDA was $4.5 million, which is a


wide depth by combining our operating income of $3.5 million with our depreciation in amortization


of $1 million. That out was $2.7 million better then the similarly calculated figure for last year. It


was almost equal to the $4.7 million of similar sequential comparison to the seasonally higher


fourth quarter when we operated at 103% southbound utilization.
raw transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


At each levels we are generating cash well in excess of our desk service needs. Conforming this


our March 31 balance sheet reflected cash of $9.3 million and working capital of $11.5 million. Our


operating income during the first quarter was $3.5 million a $2.5 million compared to the first


quarter of 2004. That operating income resulted in an operating ratio of 85.5%. Both of those


measures of course were substantially benefited by the transaction we did in late 2004 as much of


the cost we acquired vessels and equipment that was normally an operating costs are now in


interest cost. After interest cost the net income was $1 million. That was a more of an $600,000 or


172% improvement from the first quarter of last year here again a substantial portion of that


improvement can be increased to the transactions we closed at the end of 2004. It is important to


note that the transactions we completed have had the expected impact of reducing operating costs


and replacing those costs with less interest expense. The net effect of the transactions was a


positive pre taxing impact of approximately $400,000 in the quarter. A minimal tax provision has


been reflected. At the end of the quarter we had $20.5 million deferred tax asset with an


accompanying 100% valuation allowance, which will effectively shield our next $70 million or so in


pre tax earnings from any taxes. As this allowance was re-assessed based upon a continuing


actual results we anticipate that valuation allowance will be released, going through the income


statement and then appearing on the balance sheet.


Well, Thank you John. Our southbound vessel utilization for the quarter was 92.2%. This was four-


tenth of the percentage point improvement over the same quarter last year producing a 3.5%


improvement in revenue. Our core southbound trailers and new vehicle shipments were up for the


quarter, 0.4% and 21% respectively. Your used car ship [indiscernible] released and other vehicle


volumes however offset much of that benefit. The yield on southbound shipments for all


categories, however continue to improve. Our northbound vessel utilization was 7.7% points of the


same quarter last year with revenue of 27.6%. One-time mobilization of a number of military units


in 2004 was responsible for approximately 220,000 of the first quarter’s revenue difference. There


was also a large nonrecurring anti-pallet move in 2004.


Hence, at the end of the quarter we have seen renewed strength in northbound volumes coupled


with several new key business awards. Contract renewal trends for both our northbound and


southbound customers continue their positive climb, the rate continue to see movement towards


the earlier higher levels. Fuel costs remain at or near record levels with their impact being offset by


our fuel annual surcharges which are working. Price per gallon for our trucks was up 30% for the


comparable quarter, while fuel for our vessels were up 59% per gallon. Our combined stevedoring


and marine terminal expense on a per equivalent load basis was up 18% from the same quarter


last year. This is primary from increased overtime hours in both Jacksonville and San Juan to get


the vessels back on schedule while with additional cargo handling equipment expense in


Jacksonville. Among transportation expense on a per equivalent load basis was improved by 2.2%


as a result of a continued good mix of rail and truck, and a reduction in our average length of haul.


Weighted [ph] miles were up almost 9%, however, due to the fewer northbound shipments already


mentioned. Regarding high vessel capacity, one of the three vessels is not currently in liner service


was chartered for much of the quarter but the other two being available. Required dry docking


mobilization prior to that charter resulted in minimal positive bottom line impact. Currently, two of


idle vessels are chartered for short-term moves this quarter. We continue to seek opportunities in


the medium and short-term charter market. In the last conference call, I mentioned building on


economic and commercial grounds and gaining in 2004 and I can say thus far that we are on track


in accomplishing that. John:


John McCown, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer


Our absolute level of performance is further buttressed by our performance relative to competitors


who also file information with the SEC. Subsequent to our last conference call and the fourth


quarter results we determine that with more precision. Crowley Liner Services and Horizon Lines,