corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Trailer Bridge 2009 Second Quarter


Conference Call. At this time I would like you inform you that this conference is being recorded and


that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Ralph Heim. Please go ahead, Mr. Heim.


Ralph W. Heim, Interim Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today’s remarks are prefaced


with the usual Safe Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve the usual


risk and uncertainties. Among those risks are those listed in our press release from yesterday.


Along with us on the call is also the rest of our officer group, should a come question up where they


can assist.


Here in Jacksonville is Mark Tanner, Chief Financial Officer; Dave Miskowiec, Vice President of


Sales; Ed Morley, Vice President, Marine Operation; Adam Gawrysh, Vice President, Inland


Operations; and Robbie van Dijk, Vice President, Pricing and Regulatory. Bill Gotimer, our


Executive Vice President, General Counsel is participating from New York.


Today we will follow the same presentation format as last quarter, wherein I will review the market


and operations, with Mark Tanner going through our financial performance. We released our 2009


second quarter financial results yesterday, which included a return to profitability with net income of


700,000, earnings of $0.05 per diluted share, 4.8 million in EBITDA and an improved operating ratio


of 88.5%.


Total revenue for the quarter was 27.9 million, which is down 18% from the same quarter last year,


but a 10% sequential improvement. This profitable quarter was accomplished despite the softened


market conditions in Puerto Rico due to improved vessel charter hire income, growth in our


Dominican Republic volumes and increased Puerto Rico northbound volume.


We are proud that the flexibility of our system and the resilience of our management team permitted


us to be profitable, even at a time when our core southbound market remained soft, and we had to


continue legal expense from the ongoing Department of Justice investigation and related class


action lawsuits.


As a result of the continuing weakness in the Puerto Rico freight market, our overall volume


southbound, which includes containers, automobiles, shipper owned leased equipment, re refer to


as SOLs, and not in trailer shipments, we refer to as NITs, they decreased nearly 12% from the


same quarter last year; however, approximately half of that year-over-year decline was in reduced


shipments for new automobiles, whose numbers were down 52% from the year ago period and


15% from the first quarter 2009.


Southbound core container volume decreased 5% from the comparable period, but notably


increased 8% sequentially with increases in both Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic.


Puerto Rico market data for the full quarter is not yet available, but we believe our 5% decrease is


markedly less than what the overall drive in market experienced and we therefore except that we


have increased market share.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Based upon the latest April data that is available that is the case. Northbound core container


volume increased 9% from the comparable quarter and 37% sequentially, due to heavier volume of


recyclable materials from Puerto Rico and improved Dominican Republic volume. Under our


system, increased northbound volume comes with less variable cost and therefore is an important


component to our results.


The Dominican Republic service continues to compliment our vessel utilization in both directions


and is solidifying its niche in our overall vessel deployment. Container volume has been remarkably


balanced with the northbound movement slightly heavier than the southbound.


Due to the over capacity on our northbound voyages, our optimal balance on Dominican Republic


trade would normally be to have northbound loads more heavily outpace the southbound loads, but


the current DR southbound levels have been a welcome assist with vessel utilization in the face of


continued weakness in the Puerto Rico market.


Overall vessel utilization for the quarter was 82.8% southbound and 31.4% northbound, compared


to 85.7% and 26.8%, respectively, for the same quarter last year. Utilization for the first quarter was


84.7% and 25.5%, respectively. Returning to automobiles just for a moment, we currently have


approximately 60 slots, or 15% of the capacity, on each of our railroad vessels dedicated to


vehicles.


At the beginning of the year there was even more dedicated vehicle space. This is committed


multilevel vehicle space that doesn’t lend itself to use by other cargos when not needed for


vehicles. As the car market has seen a recent dramatic downturn, such space has been less than


fully utilized. While there are some signs of improvement, we continue to reevaluate the proper


amount of vessel space that should be dedicated to cars.


Should car volume not improve with existing or new auto customers, we will reconfigure that space


to more closely fit the volumes that are moving. Space that is not expected to be utilized for


vehicles will be freed up and made available once again for trailers and/or NITs. When the vehicle


volumes warrant, the multilevel decking panels can be reinstalled. Also impacting our top-line


revenue has been a shortened average length to haul of approximately 10%, both quarter-to-


quarter and sequentially, primarily result of a large piece of new business this year that originates


relatively close to Jacksonville.


Operationally, we continue to perform well with our related terminal and transportation cost


remaining in line with expectations. Fuel wise, the average price per gallon for tug fuel was up 3.5%


from the first quarter while reduced 56% from the same quarter a year ago.


Truck fuel has gone the same way, with average price per gallon up 8.8% from the first quarter, but


reduced 49% from the same quarter last year. We continue to see our fuel surcharges work


relatively well in reflecting changes in our fuel cost. On our last call I mentioned upcoming dry-


dockings for two of our PVC vessels.


We completed the first of these routine visits during the second quarter, with that expense coming


in slightly below the $330,000 we estimated for each one. The second and final dry-docking is


planned for November, although we may have an opportunity to do some of the anticipated work


this quarter between charters.


Upon completion in November, it will take us to 2011 before any more of our vessels are due for


dry-docking again.


Regarding charter hire for the three vessels not presently deployed in liner service, it was a very


good quarter with approximately 85% of available days being utilized. This market remains active.