corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Trailer Bridge 2010 Third Quarter Conference


Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all


participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Ivy Suter. Please go ahead ma’am.


Ivy B. Suter, Chief Executive Officer


Hi. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us. Today’s remarks are presses with the


usual Safe Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are not


guarantees of future performance and involve the usual risks and uncertainties. Among those risks


are those listed in yesterday’s press release.


With us on the call are Trailer Bridge’s Chief Financial Officer, Mark Tanner; and Executive Vice


President and General Counsel, Bill Gotimer.


As I’ve stated in past conference calls, asset utilization continues to be one of our major goals. And


we were successful in achieving this goal in the liner service with the exception of the first three


weeks of September, where we saw softness in our Puerto Rico southbound market after the Labor


Day holiday.


During this early September period, we are not aware of any lost business from our top 50


accounts, but we experienced softness due to a reduction in our customer volume. From mid-


September to present, we have seen our southbound utilization return to the run rate we


experienced in the second quarter and in July and August of 2010. Overall yields were flat


sequentially.


In the charter area, our traditional markets remain soft, much of it driven by the downturn in the


Gulf. However, we have added additional resources to our charter sales and marketing efforts and


are focusing on new market segments and are seeing more project activity in 2011 versus 2010.


In the third quarter, we continued to see softness in our northbound recyclables business, driven by


a significant slowdown in payments by the Puerto Rico government, which has negatively impacted


our revenue and profitability.


On the positive side, our latest reports indicate that the Puerto Rico House and Senate have


approved payment for these recyclables and final approval is now awaiting signature by the


governor. Once payments are made, we expect this business to recover and bring our northbound


utilization to prior-year levels.


Our Dominican Republic business remains strong and we have seen quarterly revenue growth in


this area of 76% over prior year. Fuel price increases exceeded recovery in the third quarter,


although we mitigated this cost somewhat through increased fuel surcharges in the quarter. Our


ramp construction in Puerto Rico was on schedule for completion in the first quarter of 2011, which


will enable us to expand our heavy haul business.


In addition, we are scheduled to dry dock our two ro/ro barges beginning in early January 2011. We


will substitute a TBC to preserve our current sailing schedules in the first quarter of 2011.


Regarding our stock buyback that was announced in January 2010, we have repurchased 46,733


shares year-to-date at a cost of $163,000. In terms of our refinancing, we have engaged a financial


advisor in this third quarter.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


In summary, we continue to reduce costs and focus on yield improvements as part of our


operational excellence initiatives. Our actions have enabled Trailer Bridge to remain profitable in


this quarter and year-to-date, and also to continue to generate strong cash balances. I firmly


believe that we are well positioned for increased profitability when the Puerto Rico and charter


markets improve.


I’ll now turn the call over to Mark Tanner, who will take us through the financials. Mark?


Mark Tanner, Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ivy, and good afternoon, everyone. I’ll begin with a brief overview of the results for the


quarter and then go into a little more detail. Six-quarter trend of favorable quarter-over-quarter


bottom line improvement did not continue. The positive trend did continue strong through the end of


August, but southbound volume for the first three weeks of September dropped off significantly, and


that was enough to offset the favorable July and August results. Had the trend continued, the


results would have been an improvement over the second-quarter results.


For the third quarter revenue is 29.3 million, operating income is 2.5 million, EBITDA is 4 million,


net income is just slightly better than break-even, and our diluted earnings per share versus the


prior year is $0.14 off. Third-quarter results were also off the second quarter. Revenue is down 2.4


million, operating income, EBITDA and net income are all down by 900,000.


As I mentioned, the revenue decline was driven by lower utilization in both directions, mostly


occurring in September. When compared to the prior year, overall volume decreased by 5%, with


the southbound lane decreasing by 2%, and the northbound off by 16%. The biggest volume


shortfall was the container volume in the Puerto Rico lane, in both directions.


Another factor in the revenue decline is charter hire revenue, which is down 700,000, or 47% from


last year, and flat sequentially, indicating the continued trend of weak demand for TBC vessel


charters. We currently have all three TBC vessels that are not deployed in the liner service


available for charter.


The increased management focus on the charter business that I referred to in the second-quarter


call has produced a significant list of prospects for potential charters, but most of them are not


expected to materialize until next year.


On the positive side, compared to the prior year, southbound Puerto Rico volume for new vehicles


was up 136%, and overall volume for the Dominican Republic service was up 84% in the


southbound lane, and 59% northbound.


Fuel surcharge revenue was 4.4 million, off 7% sequentially, primarily from the volume shortfall, but


up 10% from the prior-year quarter on a 24% increase in average fuel surcharge rates.


Overall yield on an equivalent unit basis is flat compared to the prior year, with a 3% decline in yield


southbound being offset by an increase of a like amount northbound. The primary driver of the


southbound decline is the 32% drop in yield for new vehicle shipments to Puerto Rico. The


improvement northbound is primarily from a 14% yield, improvement from the DR. Sequentially,


yield is essentially flat both directions.


Operating income for the quarter is 2.5 million, a decline of 1.7 million, or 40%, over the same


period last year, driven primarily by low volume, less charter higher revenue, and higher fuel costs.


The increase in purchase transportation expense is the result – primarily the result of a shift in the