corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Ivy Barton Suter
 
– Chief Executive Officer


Mark A. Tanner
 
– Chief Financial Officer & VP-Administration


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings. And welcome to the Trailer Bridge Incorporated 2011 First Quarter


Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instruction] As a


reminder this conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms. Ivy Suter, CEO of Trailer Bridge, Incorporated.


Thank you. Ms. Suter, you may begin.


Ivy Barton Suter, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today’s remarks are prefaced


with the usual Safer Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements


are not guarantees of future performance and involves the usual risks and uncertainties. Among


those risks are those that are listed in last Friday’s press release.


With us on the call today are Trailer Bridge’s Chief Financial Officer, Mark Tanner and Executive


Vice President and General Counsel, Bill Gotimer. On today’s call, we will not open the lines for


questions due to the fact that we are in the process of holding discussions on our refinancing


package. And we believe that it would not be appropriate to provide more disclosure at this time.


As we stated in our press release and 10-Q, the refinancing package I mentioned on the last call


has not come to completion. We are actively working with interested lenders and our advisors to


refinance the $82.5 million in public notes, which are due in November 2011. We are working hard


to complete this transaction and we will advise you when significant next steps are in place.


We’ve completed our two ro/ro dry-docking and all of our vessels are back in service and on


schedule. In having back-to-back dry-docks we did experience disruptions in our schedule due to


the mobilization to and from the dry-docks as well as the substitution of a TBC, triplestack box


carriers in place of a ro/ro every other week. In addition, in the month of March this vessel schedule


did not provide our normal capacity and we had to hire an additional tug barge to transport our


freight.


As a result, we saw a decline in volume over prior year, as well as increased expenses from an


additional charter. Our $6.6 million dry-docking expense in the first quarter is significantly lower


than our prior regulatory dry-docking in 2006.


Our charter revenue was lower over prior year. Our current charter contract began in mid-March for


the first TBC. The other two TBCs are scheduled to start their charter service in May and June


respectively.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


By the end of the second quarter all three TBCs will be under long-term charter. From a Puerto


Rico market perspective, we can now report full year 2010 Peer data. The total southbound


container market grew 4% versus 2009.


Trailer Bridge’s southbound container market share was 14.25% in 2010 versus 14.87% in 2009.


As I’ve stated on several calls in the past, our near-term strategy is not market share driven but


utilization driven; with our 2010 utilizations in the high 90% versus 2009 utilization in the high 80%


over prior period.


Fuel prices increased significantly in the first quarter 2011, both the year-over-year and


sequentially. Our fuel surcharge mechanism provides for recovery but lags in its ability to recover


especially when the trend is deep. This trend has continued into the second quarter and has


mitigated on higher volume. Mark Tanner is going to provide more details on the fuel numbers later


in the call.


In summary, in the last three quarters, we’ve had significant activity focused on replacing and


refurbishing Trailer Bridge’s infrastructure. With good success in completing this work on-time and


on-budget. This positions us with the youngest fleet in our service range.


Our challenges going forward continue to be fuel prices, the rate environment in the Puerto Rico


market and the completion of our refinancing.


I’ll now turn over to Mark Tanner, who’ll take us through the financials. And then I’ll conclude with


the couple of summary statements. Mark?


Mark A. Tanner, Chief Financial Officer & VP-Administration


Thank you, Ivy, and good morning, everyone.


The overall trends for the first quarter continue to decline from the fourth quarter as a result of lower


operating revenue and increased operating expenses. Operating expenses included $6.6 million of


dry-docking expense and $2.7 million net fuel expense.


Revenue for the first quarter is $24.8 million down $4 million or 14% from the prior year period and


down $3.6 million or 13% sequentially. The $4 million decline in operating revenue from the prior


period is driven primarily by $2.8 million less freight revenue and $1.2 million less charter hire


revenue.


The freight revenue shortfall was a direct result of 15%, less volume southbound and 33% less


northbound. The yield mix was essentially flat compared both to the prior period and sequentially.


The capacity deployed during the first quarter was 11% less than the prior period due to the


substitution of a TBC every other week for the ro/ro vessels during their dry docking.


The new TBC charter hire contract and one of the TBC vessels did not commence until mid-March


resulting in a 1.2 million revenue shortfall from the prior period. The remaining two vessels under


the same contract begin their charter later this quarter. The charters are for a term of 300 days and


are at lower rate – average rates in our most recent experience.


We expect all three TBCs to be chartered for the balance of the year and in early 2012. The rapid


rise and fuel prices had a significant effect on the company’s operating results for the quarter. The


lower volume produced 382,000 less fuel surcharge revenue than the prior period despite an


increase in fuel surcharge rates.