corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Trailer Bridge First Quarter Conference Call. At


this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants


are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Ralph Heim, the President of Trailer Bridge. Please go


ahead sir.


Ralph W. Heim, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. Today’s remarks are prefaced


with the usual Safe Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements


are not guarantees of future performance and involve the usual risk and uncertainties. Among the


risks are those listed in our press release made earlier this morning.


Along with us on the call here in Jacksonville is rest of our officer group, should a question come up


where they can assist. They are: Mark Tanner, our Chief Financial Officer; Bill Gotimer, our


Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Dave Miskowiec, Vice President of Sales; Ed


Morley, Vice President of Marine Operations; Adam Gawrysh, Vice President of Inland Operations;


and Robbie Van Dijk, Vice President of Pricing and Regulatory.


On today’s call I will review the market and operations and Mark Tanner will recap our financial


performance.


We released our 2009 first quarter financial results this morning, which show decreases in volume


and revenue but an improved operating ratio and reduced net loss of $768,000 or $0.06 a share.


The softened market conditions that emerged in the fourth quarter of 2008 continued unabated


throughout the first quarter, affecting a broad cross-section of cargo types, and our volumes were


negatively affected.


Revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2009 was 25.3 million, a decrease of 16.7%


compared to the 30.4 million reported in the first quarter 2008 and a decrease of 23.9% from the


33.3 million reported in the fourth quarter 2008.


A meaningful portion of the revenue decrease, both quarter-to-quarter and sequentially is fuel


surcharge related. Net of fuel surcharges, total revenue decreased 10.1% from the year-over-year


period and 18.3% sequentially.


Our overall volume in southbound which includes containers, new and used vehicles, shipper


owned or leased units, which we refer to as SOLs, and other cargo not in trailers, which we refer to


as NITs, decreased 11% from the same quarter last year, and was down 15% sequentially,


reflecting the general contraction in market volume overall.


Vessel utilization was 84.2% southbound and 25.5% northbound compared to 72.4% and 21.6%,


respectively to the same quarter last year, which had an additional vessel in service.


Capacity utilization in the seasonally stronger fourth quarter was 92.9% southbound and 23.7%


northbound. Southbound container volume, which is our primary head-haul component decreased


8.7% from the comparable period, with very few customers being unaffected by the current


economic climate.
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Sequentially, southbound container volume was down 12%. Offsetting some of the Puerto Rico


decline wasn’t admittedly easy, but welcome improvement in our Dominican Republic volume from


a year ago.


While the Dominican Republic volume was off 24% sequentially, we believe this was seasonally


related and expect the Dominican Republic service to continue being a welcome contributor to


vessel utilization in the quarters ahead. We anticipate continued year-over-year growth in this


service throughout 2009.


Total vehicles, new and used combined, were down 36% from the first quarter 2008 and 37%


sequentially, primarily as a result of the continuing slump in new vehicle sales across most brands.


Northbound container volume decreased from the comparable quarter by 8%, but was only down


1% sequentially.


Operationally, the quarter was more positive. Vessels were once again back to their regular


Wednesday-Friday sailing days from Jacksonville, with related costs in line with expectations. Fuel-


wise prices have been holding fairly steady within the quarter. Our average marine fuel price per


gallon for the quarter was 47.8% less than the comparable period last year and 42.8% less


sequentially.


Average truck fuel per gallon was 40.7% less than the comparable quarter and 27.4% less


sequentially. During the quarter, we also successfully completed a regulatory special survey on one


of the railroad vessels. Most of the associated work was completed in early January when freight


volumes were at their lowest point.


The decision to accelerate this activity turned out to be a good one, spending less than $300,000


which is below our estimate. The second quarter will now be unburdened by this expense and any


potential impact on vessel scheduling. Both railroad vessels are now good to go until their next dry-


docking in 2011.


On this subject, there are two TBC vessels dry-dockings still to take place this year as well, one in


the current quarter and one late in the third quarter. Neither will affect our liner service and both are


expected to be routine visits in the 330,000 expense range each. When these are completed, it will


be 2011 before any more of the TBC vessels are due again for dry-docking.


Legal fees associated with the Department of Justice investigation and the associated class action


litigation amounted to 300,000, compared to 341,000 during the fourth quarter of 2008.


And with that, I’ll now turn it to Mark Tanner who’ll go over our financial results. Mark?


Mark A. Tanner, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ralph. As Ralph mentioned earlier, our total revenue was 25.3 million for the quarter,


down 17% from the same period last year and down 24% sequentially.


Approximately half of the revenue decline is directly related to lower southbound volume for both


trailers and vehicles.


The balance of the revenue shortfall is related to lower fuel surcharge revenue, which is 3.1 million


for the quarter, 2.6 million or 45% below the prior period and 49% lower sequentially.


In addition to the effect of the lower volume, fuel surcharge rates were down 42% versus the prior


quarter and 44% sequentially. On the positive side, there are two small, but bright spots in the


revenue mix.