corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome the Trailer Bridge Third Quarter 2009 Conference


Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all


participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Chairman of the company, Allen Stevens. Please go ahead,


sir.


Allen L. Stevens, Chairman


Thank you, operator. I wish to welcome you to the Trailer Bridge third quarter conference call.


Trailer Bridge is reporting a profitable quarter even in the face of declining freight markets and a


very poor economy in Puerto Rico. The management will discuss this in detail. The most exciting


event during the quarter was the selection and appointment of Ivy Suter as Trailer Bridge’s new


Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Suter has had a distinguished career with industrial companies as well


as maritime experience. She is a graduate of the United States Merchant Marine Academy and


Harvard Business School. She was selected after a long and exhaustive search by the Board of


Directors and we are very fortunate to have such a qualified person join the Trailer Bridge


management team. We look forward to her leadership to guide Trailer Bridge to new heights.


On behalf of the Board, I would like to introduce you to Ivy and turn to call over to her.


Ivy Barton Suter, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Allen. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. Today’s remarks are


prefaced with the usual Safe Harbor language. This call will contain forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking


statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve the usual risks and uncertainties.


Among those risks are those listed in our press release of yesterday.


With us on the call are Trailer Bridge’s officer group; Mark Tanner, our Chief Financial Officer; Bill


Gotimer, Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Adam Gawrysh, our Chief Commercial


Officer; and Ed Morley, our Vice President of Marine Operations.


I will review the market and operations and Mark Tanner will walk you through our financial


performance. Then we’ll open up for questions. We released our 2009 third quarter financial results


yesterday which included continued profitability with operating income of 4.1 million, net income of


1.7 million, earnings of $0.14 per basic and diluted share, $5.7 million in EBITDA, and $6.3 million


of adjusted EBITDA.


These results are favorable, both sequentially and year-over-year. Total revenue for the quarter


was 30.3 million which was down 14.4% from the same quarter last year, but an 8.7% sequential


improvement. This quarter was profitable despite the softened market conditions in Puerto Rico.


We improved vessel charter hire and grew Dominican Republic volumes as well as Puerto Rican


northbound volumes. The flexibility of our system contributed to improved asset utilization and


profitability in our core Puerto Rico business.


As a result of the continuing weakness in the Puerto Rico freight market, our overall volume


southbound which includes containers, automobiles, shippers owned or leased equipment and not


in trailer shipments decreased nearly 6.9% from the same quarter last year, but notably showed an


improvement of 12.4% from last quarter. The Dominican Republic service continued to complement
corrected transcript


Trailer Bridge, Inc.
 
TRBR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our vessel utilization in both directions. Overall vessel utilization for the quarter was 90.2%


southbound and 30.6% northbound. Operationally, we continued to perform well with our related


terminal and transportation costs remaining in line with expectations.


Fuel-wise, the average price per gallon for tug fuel was up 24% for the second quarter, but


represents a reduction of 98% from the same quarter a year ago. Truck fuel has gone the same


way, with average price per gallon up 11.8% from the second quarter, but reduced 41.5% from the


same quarter last year. We continue to see strong recovery in our fuel surcharges.


Our second and final dry docking of a TBC vessel is planned for December 2009, which will take us


to 2011 before the next dry docking schedule. In terms of charter hire, it was a very good quarter,


with approximately 89% of the available days being utilized. This market continues to remain active


and has good prospects.


Legal fees associated with the Department of Justice investigation and associated class action


litigation amounted to $369,000 compared to $950,000 last year, and $400,000 in the second


quarter.


I will now turn over to Mark Tanner who will take us through the financials. Mark?


Mark A. Tanner, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President – Administration


Thank you, Ivy. As Ivy mentioned, our total revenue was 30.3 million for the quarter, up 2.4 million


or 9% sequentially and an 8% -- on an 8% increase in overall volume driven by improved utilization


southbound at 90% and a strong 31% northbound. Average southbound yield remained steady for


the quarter on slightly lower average length of haul.


Charter hire revenue was slightly off the record pace of the second quarter level but continued to be


a strong performer in the revenue mix at 1.6 million. The revenue decline versus the prior year


period was driven by a combination of lower volume in our core southbound lanes, for both trailers


and vehicles and lower fuel surcharge revenue.


Due to lower fuel prices from last year, the fuel surcharge revenue is 4 million for the quarter, down


50% from the prior period. Fuel surcharges increased sequentially 800,000 which matches -- which


matched the $800,000 increase in the fuel cost. In addition to the effect of the lower volume, the


average fuel surcharge rates were down 49% versus the prior year, but they are up 17%


sequentially.


Northbound revenue was 3.5 million, up 7% over the prior year period, driven by a 13.5% increase


in volume that is partially offset by a 6% reduction in average yield. Sequentially, northbound


revenue was off 7% primarily due a 5% reduction in volume combined with a 2% reduction in yield.


The charter hire market for the TBC vessels continued to be active in the third quarter with revenue


reaching 1.6 million, compared to 1.2 million in the prior year period. All three vessels that are not


currently utilized in the liner service are currently on charter.


Operating income for the quarter is 4.1 million, an improvement of 1.5 million or 58% over the same


period last year and a 28% improvement sequentially, and includes 54,000 expensed for a portion


of the fourth quarter dry-docking that was incurred in Q3, and $400,000 of legal expenses related to


the Department of Justice investigation.


Fuel is up sequentially on higher average fuel prices. Marine fuel prices averaged $1.85 a gallon


this quarter, up 24% sequentially and down 49% from the prior year period. The net fuel cost for the


third quarter which is a measure of our actual fuel expense plus an estimate of the fuel cost