Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter John Hill — Chief Executive Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, CFO, Secretary & CAO, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Ronald E. Mills — Senior Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Will Green — Research Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Marcus Talbert — Research Associate, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Michael Grijalva — Associate Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Marty Beskow — Senior Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Dan E. McSpirit — Vice President, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
David G. Snow — President, Energy Equities, Inc.
Peter F.F. Kissel — Research Analyst, Howard Weil, Inc.
Jennifer West — Groundwater Coordinator, Ecology Action Centre

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Triangle Petroleum's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call with Peter Hill, CEO and Jonathan Samuels, CFO and President. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] .

It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Peter Hill to begin.

All right. Good morning, everyone. It's Peter Hill, and with me this morning I've got Jon Samuels, President and CFO. I would like to follow-on our usual format here just a few words from me on the company's position, strategic intent and general industry settings. And then following this up with Jon giving you some detail on the results of the first half of 2011 on the Q here. And just to give you some depth on our operations and general events.

What I'd like to do is start with [indiscernible] (01:06) is three points I want to make here. 2011 to the date has been some year for us. It's been a year of consolidation, real progress, anticipation and excitement as we complete the transformation of Triangle into a full long-term operator in the Bakken Oil play.

And this month of September to us is a real tipping point for the company as we take it forward. Why tipping point? We've grown our operating team in the past few months, we have a lot of quality, huge amount of experience in all the key disciplines; let it be land, exploration, drilling, completions, production and finance. And as a result of that – that team that we now put together, we've now got over 74,000 net acres as a portfolio. We just contracted a rig for a renewable two-year term. It's been fully winterized and it's currently on route to start our first 1280 well in Bakken core and McKenzie County. That will spud in late September.

An ours is being prepared as we speak. Now we plan to drill in this core area for the winter and then batch complete post the winter break up, as we believe which is better for reservoir management and is much more cost efficient.

At the same time we've got to the continuing non-operated front that we run in the platform we have there. We're currently under 96 wells, 40 of them where we've got interest greater than 2% and they are in various stages of drilling and completion. And as of the 1st of September we got 600 barrels of oil equivalent a day of net production.

So that roughly is a real milestone, we bring on this operating but at the same time we continue with the platform of our non-operations. The second point I'd like to make is that we're taking a very balanced approach to the way we develop our growth. The first of these balances is really the focus in our core operated area where, through our own operations, our own leases that we control, but through the conversion of non-operated positions into the 1280 drilling units where we got some 30 locations available to us.

This area is surrounded by success and have been fully de-risked by industry both in the Three Forks and the Middle Bakken level. So, we've got more acreage conversions in place and in the pipeline but we will concentrate in this area around 150, 101, 100 and that's the area where we will put some real focus and effort in our operations. But we shouldn't forget we've also got 42,000 net acres in the Station Prospect out there in Roosevelt County in Montana. And here we're waiting for industry to come to us. And that industry is now just one township away. There are many wells due in the fourth quarter and that gives us a great insight into what's going on in that part of the world.

We know we've got oil and produced oil in historic wells. There's no horizontal production from that part of the world. We have had offers to farm down, but we've chosen to wait and develop our own program. We've got 40 DSUs out here and – that we operate in this area, and that gives us a good stand [ph] package (04:16) of somewhat 240 odd potential locations. There is risk here of course, but we are anticipating industry coming towards us, and we got plenty of time to wait and see how that unfolds. That glass is real balanced, both in the core operated area and in that more distant part of Roosevelt County.

The third and last point I would like to make is that we intend to stay within our capability, both in the field and financially. We do have plans for two or three rigs and to take on more acreage and make acquisition. But all these will be at our discretion and timing, and Jon will give you in much more detail on that in a bit. And if necessary, we can stay within our one rig and drill out our program, select the way through 2012 and use the cash we have available of $110 million and our projected cash flows. However, we've said that our preference is to – and our key driver is to develop a joint venture partnership and use various debt instruments to help us fund our future development and growth.

We don't want to trouble shareholders at this point, we think it's absolutely inappropriate that we go to them, given market conditions and where we are today. And what – we are active in our process of finding on those – that joint venture partner, and there is genuine interest out there for us to do so. Bakken, as you're well aware, is very capital intensive and if we find a financial partner, we think this is the ideal solution and the best structure that will suit all parties.

So that is the three points I want to make. We have plenty of news flow, plenty of activity coming up through our non-operating position and our operations as we grow and with our structural development. All complement each other, to my mind, and we have time to come to good decisions with a very solid financial position.

It's been almost two years now since Jon and I started this Triangle venture. We're satisfied with where we are. We've done what we said we would do, and we've laid out our position today to take us forward into the 2012 and beyond. It is now up to us to execute and deliver. I've got no doubt in my mind that we will grow production, we will add significant reserves in the back of this year and in the next, as well as grow outstanding value for our shareholders as we unlock the very significant potential of the Bakken Oil play.

So those are my remarks, those are the things I want to sort of dwell on, and now I'll pass it onto Jon and give you some more background and detail. Jon?

Thank you. I'd like to run through some of the numbers from our 10-Q and also give an update on budget and liquidity. In second quarter of fiscal 2012, total G&A was $2.5 million, which included $800,000 of cash expense related to an aborted M&A transaction, which was terminated in August due to general market conditions.

Total stock-based comp of $3.5 million reflected a catch up of the last three quarters, as some of you may be aware, after listing on the NYSE AMEX in November, we had to wait for shareholders to approve our stock based competition plan before those awards would go into effect. That plan was approved at our Annual General Meeting on July 22 of this year. So we reported an expense reflecting the last three quarters' of stock based comp, as we have built out our team, hired the operational members that have come on board, and you're going to see a lower number on a go-forward basis.

Total Williston Basin lease operating expense of $223,000 included approximately $45,000 from 13 gross wells that didn't produce revenue in the quarter. I think as – on a go-forward basis, as production increases and the weather issues are most certainly behind us and the rest of the basin, you will see the lease operating expense number come into line with other operators on a per barrel basis. Nova Scotia lease operating expense of $569,000 was related to abandonment of wells drilled in 2008 and 2009. And we reported total production of 7,057 barrels of oil equivalent in the quarter significantly curtailed by weather, completion delays and the other thing I'd like to point out is that particularly with our non-operated wells we have a very conservative accrual revenues. So we are essentially not booking revenue until we see receive checks and these operating statements which are often delayed two months. So you – the second quarter of this year for example included very low revenue for the month of July for the bulk of our non-operated wells. So there is a one month lag built into the production numbers.

On top of that, I'd like to point you to look to our website, we have an updated corporate presentation which has an updated budget and liquidity slide in the back. We definitely felt we miscommunicated our budget in our annual presentation earlier, in the month of August. And what we really tried to convey was we are fully funded for a one rig program.

Approximately 49% of our market cap is in cash and we have no debt. That is about a strong liquidity position as we can possibly be in, and we will only increase two and three year program, when and if we secure additional sources of financing that are not dilutive. We think our stock is cheap. We have no intention at present to go to the equity markets. And so we're looking for other accretive ways to grow.

Those are all the comments I have and we can open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.

Good morning guys.

Hi, Ron.

Good morning.

Question on the production going from your second quarter level to the 600 barrels a day that you currently have, you outlined five particular wells. How many – how many total completions came online to get you to that number?

I would say that it's – it's probably five or six wells that came on very recently, some high work interest wells that were very good there were – in our presentation [ph] there's an update to this as (10:25) well. But the two Newfield wells what's really exciting about that is one our high working interest [indiscernible] (10:30) for our production and cash flow.

But probably more importantly that is extremely close to our operated position in McKenzie County, where we are moving there currently. So very excited for the operator wells coming on and I will just say as a general statement we're seeing a lot of activity across our non-operated portfolio. And what that really means is with weather issues behind the basin, the entire basin is catching up with the backlog and Q3 is going to be a very good quarter for us in our non-op portfolio, which again is going to be a very, very big quarter for the Williston Basin in general. So I'd be looking for very good numbers from us and from everyone else as well.

Okay. That leads to my question, you talk about having a number of completions in the near term, high working interest, completions on the non-operated program. What do you consider non or high working interest and what's the expected timing of those given when the most recent wells came online, you talked about a [ph] major rate (11:32) of 1000 barrels a day, I just want to make sure we're looking at the October quarter from a rational standpoint?

Yes, you know, I see a lot of those – I see a high working interest well as being, 8%, 10%, 12% and above. And we have a number of those, and that in terms of the timing of that, I would say in the next two months by the time we're on this call three months from now, we really see a significant number of our non-operated portfolio being brought on line and having IP rates, whether we are booking revenue, will be a function of the delays associated with just receiving checks, division orders, everything else. But that's really more of an accounting issue as opposed to an operational or an production issue.

We've got a number of big wells coming in from [indiscernible] (12:21), so this well is like that.

Okay. And then couple of real quick ones. The drilling rig was set to get on location by mid-September, is that still on track so that you can start drilling here by the end of the month or early October?

I believe we're planning a September 23rd spot that well site is under construction right now. So yesterday was actually a very exciting day. We moved dirt for the first time in our first location.

Perfect. And then from a CapEx standpoint you talk about the – you updated your presentation to show the $65 million operated program, $71 million non-operated. Is there any difference in those lines versus the presentation from your Analysts Day? Because I think you had a higher operated CapEx in your Analysts Day presentation.

We did, we've done in the new presentation, we really – in the Analyst Day we just put out the number for a three rig program. What we've done is divided into a one rig program and the cost associated with that and then the incremental cost – cost to increase the rig count in 2012 in the [indiscernible] (13:42) spend that money until we secure a JV partner. And if we don't find a JV partner, we're not going to spend it. There has been some concerns about liquidity over the past six weeks or so. And we really think those are unfounded and we are very happy with our liquidity position. As I mentioned before 49% of our [indiscernible] (14:00) cash is in cash and [indiscernible] (14:03) in cash and we have no debt. That puts us in the best position relative to our market cap of any company in the Basin.

Perfect. I'll let someone jump on and get back in queue.

[Operator Instructions] . Your next question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.

Good morning guys.

Hi, good morning, Will.

Good morning, Will.

I wonder if we could touch on just kind of the JV process and talk how that's going. I think I heard you mention that you've actually seen offers to farm down. Is that with the Station project, did I hear you say that correctly?

Yes, we received an unsolicited offer on our Station project, it was only for our Station project that was at a premium to what we paid actually a pretty healthy premium and we turned that down because we think that there are better deals and – we are looking for a joint – a bigger joint venture that will be Williston Basin, why there is a lot of opportunity in our core areas in McKenzie, Williams County and a lot of places and we feel the best joint venture partner is going to be a large one. And to make sure that incentives are aligned between us and them that it is – really encompasses the whole operational base.

Portfolio approach, Will, so we're trying to find someone that is going to be willing to join us in the things that we're doing across our total portfolio.

Completely understood. So it was a case of the total Station prospect. It just – it wasn't a situation where they were trying to take a bite out of maybe a couple – couple of wells or something of that sort.

No, it was a drill to earn. So one of the things – one of the reasons we were not happy with it is all the capital – we would have gotten carried on drilling, but I think that given the price we paid we are going to be able to get some cash out of it and get carried in drilling.

Okay, great. I appreciate the color there and then, I wonder if we could jump to G&A and stock-based comp. You touched on it and you had some good color in the Q. I wonder if we could just talk about – you said $2 million going forward. It's kind of a good number I believe in the Q. Is that good for next couple of quarters? Is that good for the – for the full year next year on a run rate, kind of how are you thinking about that.

Well, I mean sort of the right way to think about it is the total number of shares that are in that pool which is a little over $2 million and as of the date of the Q that was $13 million of unrecognized expense. Obviously the [ph] amount (16:47) of that expense floats with our stock price. So the expense associated with it, our stock price is higher before. As our stock price goes up, stock based comp will go up as our stock price is where it is. It would be a lower number. So $2 million is what was in the queue. I think that's a very comfortable number. But what we really have is $13 million to be expensed over a weighted average something like 1.5 to 2 years.

Okay, great. I appreciate that. And then with that said, what kind of employee, I mean – how are you guys doing on employees? Are you still in hire mode? What do you have left to add, if anything?

We have all our key senior positions filled. I think where going to see Triangle employees added will be – support roles for senior folks. For example, we have a senior geologist who is our sub service manager, we're going to need a development geologist who is going to babysit the well at night as it's growing, as we increase our reserve base, our senior production. Our reservoir engineer will need a junior person to assist with that. So I would say maybe three to five more people coming into Triangle Corp. and then really everyone else will be added [indiscernible] (18:05) on a contract basis. So, we're pretty comfortable with where we are. We don't see a lot more coming down the pipe in that direction.

All right, great. I appreciate the color, guys. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Marcus Talbert with Canaccord.

Peter, John. Good morning.

Good morning Marcus.

Good morning Marcus.

Hi guys. Thanks a lot for the clarity there on some of those expense items. I had just a couple of operational questions for you. Looking at the new presentation, it looks like you picked up a couple of 1000 or 1000 or 2000 acres there in North Dakota. Can you maybe just speak to how you organically picked that up? If it was top leasing or acreage swaps or if it's just some of the benefits you're seeing from having an actual rig at your disposal?

It's all of the above. It's all of the – a 1000 acres are in Montana. So, that's just filling in existing units in Station and that's done at a relatively low cost, something around $300 an acre. The rest of it is inside operated units in North Dakota that are really just pouring up unleased owners or small non-op holders that are interested in selling. So we increase our working interest as we go along. So it's very organically driven.

And what's surprising about it all is that we're still seeing steady flow. I mean it's not as if stuffs stopping or slowing up in any shape or form. We're still seeing plenty of things. So with book we're incredibly selective right now.

Okay great. That sounds very encouraging. And then I guess just looking at the section where you're going to kick off the operated program there was a Petro-Hunt well that I think you have an interest in that was – I guess at the Analysts Day you weren't sure if it was a Bakken or a Three Forks well, do you have any update on this?

No I don't know. We do have a small working interest in it. I don't know. I don't have that in front me Marcus.

We're still trying to track it down to see whether it is Three Forks or Middle Bakken.

Right. Would this – if this were in fact a Three Forks well would that represent the first sort of Three Forks test in that part of McKenzie County or are you aware of some others that are in and around your position there.

I'm aware of two or three that are definitely permitted and planned. I've not seen any definitive statements yet on Three Forks from the immediate area. But I know there's a goodly planned. Brigham have got some of Newfield's.

What is also interesting is in and around this immediate area I mean those Newfield wells are Bakken wells but those are absolutely fantastic well above our own internal type curve. You're seeing a number of companies permit four well pads XTO and Enerplus have both done that in and around us. So this is an area we're very excited about. There is a lot of data right now and a lot more coming our way.

I suspect very strongly over winter time you'll start to see that sort of stuff unfold Marcus.

Right.

Right. Okay, and then I guess, just one last one. You mentioned I mean, Newfield's very active there, I think Whiting is running a rig in this area. Can you just sort of provide any additional color on sort of the infrastructure in place the takeaway you guys have seeing?

Yes. There's actually a Bear Paw natural gas pipeline proposed as well as an NGL pipeline different company running in different path and those two pipes actually cross each other on one of our operated units. So in terms of infrastructure, you know this is better luck even smart, but it's about as good as it gets in this immediate area.

Is that right, okay. Would that maybe allow you to dial in a little bit of the infrastructure budget this year, given that it – it's crossing right over one of your units?

Yes. I mean I think we are planning a central facility in McKenzie County that will service all our locations – operated locations from one path. So if you actually drive out to our first operated unit once that well is brought online, you're not going to see production facilities that will – it will be all tied to your central facility that facility will begin construction this year and will obviously not be brought online until next year there is some lead time for that.

So you're not going to see dirt being moved on it. In terms of, one the actual dollars going to the ground, I would say, it's probably going to be weighted more towards the beginning of next year and the money is going out of the door, because the first couple of months of a project like that are heavily weighted towards engineering permitting et cetera.

Okay.

That has a huge impact on your actual costs and your benefit of your produced barrel, so we're spending a lot of time on developing our thinking and planning that infrastructure [ph] and that (23:14) we put in place.

Right. Certainly, it makes sense. That's all from me guys. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mike Grijalva with Global Hunter Securities.

Hey, good morning gentlemen and I thank you for all the color. Quick question for you Jon, the OpEx up in Canada is that kind of a nailing the coffin there or can we expect some more spending up there, just kind of what's the situation there?

There will be more spending – we've carried up an abandoned and liability on our balance sheet in Nova Scotia of about $1.5 million for some time really since last year. And so that is a real number that was a cash number the exact timing of that getting spent remains to be seen. But all that spend is related to abandoning and getting those sites back the way they were when we found them.

Okay, great. And one other one, the Oppenheimer JV any funding left on that or have you guys kind of depleted that?

[indiscernible] (24:17) capital so, more available there.

Can you tell us how much?

I think they called another $3 million or $4 million on the land side. I mean they are – they are already part of our wells, they want more.

Okay, great guys. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Marty Beskow with Northland Capital.

Good morning, guys

Good morning, Marty.

In relation to the Oppenheimer agreement and you're also now looking for a joint venture partner not just for the Station prospect, but it sounds like also for Williston Basin in general. How would those work together regarding the JV partner and also with Oppenheimer?

That really – it really would be separate agreements Oppenheimer partnership has been a great partnership the way that is structured is almost more like a brokerage relationship. We buy land and then pass it through them, and then we own what we own, and they own what they own. So we have an obligation to offer them 25% of what we take that's [ph] caps (25:39) and those we were just talking about, before there was maybe $3 million or $4 million of land spend left on out which is not a huge number relative to the joint venture we're looking for in the aggregate.

So you could see it working and that we got a joint venture and then we offered 25% of what the joint venture took to Oppenheimer until that $3 million or $4 million was spent, and then that would – their capital will be fully called and committed from the land side. So that will maybe only apply to the first $10 million of land that are joint venture would go out and acquire. So the Oppenheimer deal structured is in a way that it would work very nicely with a joint venture and really doesn't interfere in anyway.

And then also too, could you give us a little bit more color as to kind of the difference between the production side as to barrels per day? Maybe if you have an idea as to what your production was for the months of May, June, July, August and now you're at about 600 barrels a day. And then also kind of how does that relate to what's actually reported in the financials, because we saw a kind of second quarter then it looks very impressive on your financial basis, but operationally, production seems to be pretty strong right now. Can you kind of help us to understand that difference?

Yes, I mean a lot of the – a lot of wells, a lot of the production the increase from our Analysts Day that the 600 today has come online in last two weeks. I think one of those Newfield wells we finally got results on it last week. So it's very new, it's very fresh. We are still at a nascent stage in terms of our non-op portfolio growing and it is a small number our gross wells producing that 600, so if one of those high working interest Newfield wells gets shut in for a day for that particular day, production is going to drop. And we as layer in more wells, the sensitivity to one well will go away. I don't have the exact numbers in front me that will be produced in those particular months, but if you recall back in May, the entire eastern half of the Bakken play was under water and there was plenty of problems on the western half as well. So we're reporting a quarter – we got a lot of guys reported 45-days ago, because we have a January 31st year-end, and so you're just sort of seeing the weather related stuff on our financials today.

So if we're look at, and right now you're producing about 600 barrels a day, if we were to look at what's coming online for revenue, because you're now looking at revenue on a kind of a cash received basis. Roughly would that be on a kind of a production basis, or is that the 600 barrels a day?

I think where your question really is getting to is, we're producing 600 barrels a day when are going to receive checks from that?

Yes.

And when do we book that. And that might be three months, and for example, these two Newfield wells, this is our first production from Newfield, so I actually can't tell you how long their backlog is terms of division orders and getting checks out the door. We could get a check next week, we might not get a check for three months, and this is one of the negatives of the non-operated business model, there are a lot of positives that go with it.

And it's just a different situation for this aspect of our portfolio relative to other operators, Brigham knows exactly what they produced in the quarter, because they're operating their wells and their booking is on the [ph] crude board (29:10). We took a very conservative approach to reporting revenue so it just means it's going to be delayed a little bit. It doesn't change our cash position or our economics.

All right.

I'm sure we keep checking it Marty.

And then also to your given guidance of about 8.5 net non-operated wells by the end of 2012 what's kind of I guess the evidence or where did you look at to kind of build that model and roughly what's the kind of the timing on maybe on a per quarter basis that you see that building up?

Yes. I think that 8.5 net is one of the reasons you see forward-looking statements disclosures in presentations like this. It's hard to know McKenzie County has the highest rig count of many county in North Dakota last time I looked. So we take an estimate and based on our estimate, it implies something like 70% of our non-operated portfolio getting developed and obviously, there are circumstances that haven't happened yet that will dictate how many wells get spud in Q3 of next year.

What oil prices in January will determine how many rigs people are running and how much they are permitting. So it is an estimate, it is our best guess, and that's based on the history of permitting activity, what's getting spud and where we see the portfolio going.

Okay, all right, thank you very much.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with MDO (sic) [BMO] (30:47) Capital Market.

Gentlemens, good morning.

Good morning, Dan.

Good morning, Dan.

You spoke to still seeing plenty of flow of property deals in the Basin, can you speak to the source of that flow; is it private or public companies or both? And maybe the price range and the terms of those deals?

In terms of the source, it's all across the board. There are a number of private equity ventures that are – sort of spent their money and are looking for an exit. An operator in North Plains is running a process. For example, you definitely have these smaller non-operated guys who just can't keep up with the working capital drain, as you guys know from our own experience at Triangle, there is working capital associated with floating an [indiscernible] (31:34) portfolio, you are paying your AFEs before you're getting checks and then there is always going to be the folks who go out and try and lease 3% of the unit for X and then try and flip it for 2X, with no intention of ever owning the property.

The ranges totally vary; when you are talking about a controlling stake in the unit where you're trying to get operatorship, you know it's 50%, that's going to be worth more than something where that's a pure non-op and not the case. And then we're also just seeing a lot of deals and a lot deal flow in parts of the Basin, that six months ago, we would have [ph] set our respective stuff (32:13) in North Dakota where Chesapeake is active and permitting wells. There're stuff that's [indiscernible] (32:17) has been doing southwest of Elm Coulee that are producing some pretty interesting wells and acreage prices all across the board. So that – the range hasn't changed and it is inefficient. We definitively pay more for North Dakota core stuff than we do for extension areas, as you would expect.

Got it, got it. And then on the JV itself, recognizing that you are in the early innings of negotiating a deal, the timing of that, of such a JV, is that a 2011 event or a 2012 event?

As long as it takes, Dan. These things, as you will know, if we're looking at these bigger picture things, take time for people to get to know you, you get to know them and some of these players just take some time to understand what the Bakken is all about and what we're all about. It will happen when it happens. It's active, there's a number of players that are really interested and we're just going to work our way through it.

We can only presume that some of the folks are probably listening on this call, so [indiscernible] (33:21) our comments, something we want to do sooner rather than later and we see opportunity today. And something we'd like to get done in the next couple of months. But obviously, the deal is not done till it's signed.

Great. Right, got it, and then one last one, you used the words extremely close in describing the location of your first operated well relative to the two Newfield wells in McKenzie County. How close is extremely close in terms of distance and what's planned, in terms of the completion design? Would it be similar to how Newfield completed those two producers?

Well, it's interesting with your question is, these two Newfield wells, I believe, sort of been a spend less and focus on return on capital, as opposed to spending more [indiscernible] (34:16), et cetera. Newfield does spend more on their well, and this is – we're seeing some very good results out of it. So I think you're going to see our thinking on the completion side, and I don't want to speak for our operational team. You're going to see that thinking evolve as data comes out. In terms of distance, I believe it's in the township right next to us. It's within one or two townships so, I think maybe 6 miles, maximum 12 miles.

Yes, I'll give you – it's 150-101-21-16 is our location and the Newfield locations are 150-99-23-14, so you're 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.

They are about six sections away?

Six sections away.

Got it. Thank you.

Thanks, Dan.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Snow with Energy Equities, Inc.

Yes, good morning. I'm looking at the 74,000 net acres and I think it was $1,300 an acre, which gives you about a $93 million budget. But you're – or it implies that, but I thought your budget had been $50 million. Can you bring us up to date on how the capital budget is looking in the acreage side?

Yes, I mean the $50 million number was a budget we started in March when we raised capital. So $93 million is our cumulative spend since Triangle sort of operating in the Bakkens, you have to add up all of 2010, all of the things we did before we set that budget. What is in our presentation on our website, that I would encourage you to look at, is that we essentially have about $10 million of remaining land spend within our budget.

That was out of the $50 million?

We reduced the $50 million to $35 million, and then of the $35 million, we spent about $25 million. So there's about $10 million left. And we spoke about at our Analysts Day, it's in our presentation now, we really dialed back the acreage spend, because we have a lot of acres and we really want to focus on production and cash flow.

That is the time to convert, David.

Pardon me?

That is the time to convert.

I hear you. And I'm wondering, and I got an impression OPCO would re-up for another $25 million. I guess are they tapped out also, as to their availability or what?

I'm not sure where you got that impression, because they don't even have the fund structure in place on their side to do that, if they wanted to and our agreement allowed for it.

Okay. I'm wondering, you're slowing down the acreage and you're going to take in a joint venture, will you decrease your net acreage before you increase it towards your 100,000 plus longer-term target, or how would those two play?

You'll have to see how the joint venture progresses. Yes, if someone is going essentially farm in through a joint venture, you'll see our net number drop and then capital come in and then you'll see the acreage budget go back up and then you'll see more acreage come in.

After conversion, David. That's what we're doing.

Yes. I hear you, that would give you some cash out and that would add to the acreage or – would you add that to the acreage or to your...?

You add value.

I would encourage you to go look at our corporate presentation, which really talks about all of the questions you're asking. It would get at it. That's with the joint venture capital, we would expand the [ph] acreage (37:44) program, we would have incremental spend on acreage, and I think there's a lot of things we can go do.

Yes. Okay and how does the possibility of building a frack capability fit into that?

We're thinking about it.

It's one of the options.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.

Hi, good morning guys.

Hi.

Most of my questions have been answered, but just a couple quick ones. First of all, on the $20 million reserve raised lending facility that you talked about in your presentation, I'm just curious to see what your assumptions are on that, in terms of booked wells by year-end and then really to see if you've already begun discussions with the bank group?

Yes. We're in discussions right now. We're generating an updated internal reserve report. You're not going to see us come out of the gate with a $20 million borrowing base. It's going to be a [ph] slower burn (38:54) and you're going to see that number increase. I would imagine substantially with our year-end reserves that you will see in March or April. So, we don't need the liquidity until really later in 2012. We want to put the facility in place now, both to have a mechanism for acquisitions if we – something came across that we wanted to do in relation to our joint venture. But it's also just something that can grow over time.

Gotcha.

The facility you will see in place, I would imagine in the next two months. And then it's really a question of, what is the borrowing base out of the gate and then, what does that grow to. I think $20 million is a relatively conservative number, if you look at how much money in our budget is being put to the drill bit. I mean, if we're talking about spending $135 million in drilling over the next 15 or 16 months, cumulatively spent a bunch more than that and have 600 barrels a day of production, I would like to think that you have a much more than a $20 million borrowing base, but again, that's – the budget is conservative on purpose

We're doing all our homework so that we can get everything in place here, make sure we technically put this thing together so we understand what our PDPs, our PUD systems look like, and what we look like and what our basis is, and that is a very solid grounding in which to then move ourselves forward.

Gotcha, okay. And then, depending on where a JV comes in, if it does, what are your thoughts on a high yield offering? I know you had a slide in your Analysts Day on it, and it was part of your funding structure in 2012. Again, I know it depends on when and if a JV comes in and how much that's for, but just curious to get your thoughts on high-yield as a potential source to capital?

Yes, I'm glad you asked that so that we could clarify it. I think that was definitely a mistake I made. What I meant by that was a private placement with a single party of long-term, subordinated covenant-like debt. [indiscernible] (41:02) did their high-yield offering, something like 750 basis points is my recollection. So I would see us being anywhere from 900 to 1,000 and sort of had some indications to that effect. So, yes, obviously $50 million is not enough for a syndicated deal. We never intended to do that. It would just be a private placement with a fund that does that; big fund at an insurance company. There are a lot of folks out there that are happy to take the premium and yield and stock price liquidity in and that's been our – the nature of our discussions, at least.

Gotcha. Okay, that's all I've got. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line [ph] Donald Wilston with Energy Future Coalition (41:46)

Hi, guys. I just wanted to clear up a bit on the Nova Scotia acreage that you're holding. You've noted that you have set aside $1.5 million to clean up some well sites down there? Does that mean you're leaving the rest of the acreage?

No, quite the opposite. We have an obligation to tidy up there; what there are is two pits. They contain formation fluids, primarily brines. And we've had an obligation to clean that up in the event that we abandon those well sites. What we've done is put together a proof-of-concept program. We're actively looking at ways of bringing in partners to help us. But we've always kept that provision in the event that we – that we need to abandon those sites.

What we've been anxious to do is take those waters and re-inject them back into those wells. A key part of any shale development, shale gas development as you all know, is the disposal of fluids, waters. And we're anxious to be able to put that injectivity test in there to give ourselves a sense of what we have there. It's about 90,000 barrels in the two pits and it's not a large amount but we will be delighted to put that away. And we have been talking to the authorities about being able to do that in the foreseeable future.

And that's what's happening with it right now. And all we've done is taken down those pits to a level or two, so they don't overflow and they stay within reasonable limits. And that's reason for the spend and that's the program that we're going to embark on over the – over the next month.

So, you think those will be cleaned up possibly by year-end?

Perhaps, no. At some point it depends on the authorities.

Yes, yes. Thanks very much.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer West with Ecology Action Centre.

Thank you. The last caller actually asked my question. That's great. I wasn't aware that the two pits were present in Nova Scotia. Could you give more information on why you've decided to leave the formation waters on site and not have them treated at the [ph] Giberton (43:54) facility?

That's where we take the facility, that's where we take the fluids.

Okay.

And we've been taken it there and that's where it's been treated.

Okay. So they are at the [ph] Giberton (44:04) facility?

Yes.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.

Yes, Peter asked the question on the reserve base facility, but, Jon just to make sure I understand, the wells that you're producing say with the Newfield right not, you may not report those wells as having production in revenues until sometime two or three months since is that the process you're going to take going forward?

Well, I think private reserve, [indiscernible] (44:39) your borrowing base the reserve base facility will be somewhat fabricated from the accounting for – of those two things. I'm not a reserve base lender, but I would guess I want to see a little bit of production as they start lending against those wells. And that's really one of the reason, we just waited for it, because why it come out with a very little borrowing base when we know these wells are coming online.

No, I understand that. My question was more just from your reporting standpoint, when you report production, are you going to continue to follow your practice of waiting for the text to come in. So therefore – or if Newfield takes 60 or 75 days to pay you, you will report that production from a financial statement standpoint until that point?

We do some accruing, but our accruing is relatively light, and we just have a pretty conservative approach to financial reporting. And [ph] have a crazy notion (45:36) that we should wait till we get paid to book it as revenue.

Perfect. Thanks, just want to clarify.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (45:46) who is a Private Investor.

Good morning, I have a question regarding the wells that are going to be spudded in 2012, are the majority of them going to be positioned into a horizontal position?

You will not see anyone in Williston Basin including us drilling a Bakken at [ph] 3/4/12 (46:10) that is not a horizontal well.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Your final question comes from the line of David Snow, which is his follow up with Energy Equities, Inc.

Yes, hi in the call you mentioned an aborted acquisition, could you give us any color on that?

No we can't actually.

It's worth a try.

We're governed by confidentiality.

It's a good try.

Okay. That's all.

Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Gentlemen there are no further question.

Okay, it just leaves me, thank you for your time, thank you for your contribution and your questions. I think we've laid out what Triangle is today. We've told you about the platform the 74,000 net acres, we told you about the team, we told you about our financial strength and our balance sheet and our program going through 2011 and 2012. We just thank you for your time and look forward to talking to you again in the third quarter. Thanks very much.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.