Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter John Hill — Chief Executive Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, CFO, Secretary & CAO, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Will Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Steve F. Berman — Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Marty Beskow — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Jeff P. Hayden — Analyst, Rodman & Renshaw LLC
David G. Snow — Analyst, Energy Equities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, my name is Kayla and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Dr. Hill, you may begin your conference.

Yeah, thanks. Welcome, everyone, to the third quarter results telecon for Triangle Petroleum. With me today, I have Jon Samuels, the President and CFO; and what we'd like to do is take the format of a few remarks from me, but then turn the call over to you guys to listen to your questions, because what we've tried to do is lay out the key points of the Q and our performance in the press release we released this morning. In that way, we think Jon and I can then give you some depth and some more commentary on the results and the performance in general.

So, this quarter, to us, was a real watershed in our growth story. You will recall that we've just about – Jon and I now, with the team here, we've been in existence for just exactly two years. And so why do I say watershed, and what are the reasons for that? For those of you that have followed us over that history, we know that we've got a really quite simple strategy. And it's all linked to that. There are four elements to it. What we've tried to do is build a position of scale in the Bakken play. The second thing is we've tried to build a distinct, but complementary growth channels, both in the non-operated and an operated model. But with the real emphasis on operational aspects leapfrogging to the fore, and being the future engine of Triangle.

The third point is to accelerate the conversion of acres to resource, to reserves, to production, to cash flow, to value. That's hugely important to us. And then, the last, but by no means least, element is to maintain a strong balance sheet, and control costs through selectively pursuing vertical integration opportunities.

And on that basis, we think all four elements have made real progress this quarter. And, although they're all interrelated, the real key this quarter to us has been our operational execution where we've taken land, we've converted that into operated position, we've grown permits, we've got a 70-well gross inventory in our core area. We've delivered successfully the Dwyer well, is our first well, and we're now moving on to our second well at Larson. We've created RockPile, and we've found and laid out a very responsible forward budget and plan, to give you a sense of where our future is taking us.

So that to us is why this thing is a – this period has been a watershed. We consolidated what we've come to be, and we're taking that forward very aggressively with the – in our operational setting. So, those are the things I wanted to emphasize to you as a backdrop to the Q, and to the elements and aspects that we raise in that Q.

And with that, I think that's more than enough and let you guys just ask your questions, and we can take it from there. Back over to you.

Hello?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Will Green [Stephens Inc]

Good morning, Peter.

Good morning, Will.

I guess, first off, can you maybe talk about the extra acres you've added? I think the last update had 75,000; you're now up to 81,000. Can you talk about where that is, or is it just small working interest across?

I'll answer that, Will. Good morning. In going from 75,000 to 81,000, the 6,000, I would say, about 4,000 of that is up in our Station Prospect in Montana and the other 2,000 is in our core area. That is really going to be the end of leasing in the Station, really the final diligence stuff coming through, so that acreage getting added in. The – our land budget has predominantly been devoted to operative acreage in our core area, and that will remain the case on a go-forward basis.

Okay. And so is 81,000 a good number to be using, or is there anything else that's kind of rolling in that is finishing up on title work, and what-not?

Yeah. I mean, we have – we're leasing every day. We're not going to be leasing in areas that are as low-cost as Station on a go-forward basis. You're not going to see the numbers increase, but what we're very focused on right now is using a relatively limited land budget, it's only $10 million for next year to convert non-operated to operated. So, the way that tends to work is within a unit that we'd like to operate, we'll pick up 100 or 200 acres, we'll trade for 100 or 200 acres more and go from a 25% working interest to a 55% working interest and then deem that to be an operated unit.

Okay. Great. And then, I guess the other question I had was, can you maybe talk about the reduction in non-operated budget? Was it any one area? Was it just a bunch of smaller working interest? Is there any kind of color you can give us on a – in addition to what you just kind of laid out in the press release?

Yeah. I mean, where that really came from was wanting to a manage the two businesses as separate businesses because they really are. We want to – we're very conscientious about the macro environment that we live in, and we want to live within our means, so setting a fixed budget for that.

What we're trying to do is we try to sell a lot of wellbores and sometimes, you get offers you really like because the operator really wants that unit or someone else does, or there's some other factor, and we don't sell everything that we try to sell. So, what it's really designed to do is to create some discipline internally and create some guidance for you guys, but how are we going to do it? So we have areas that we like; we have areas that we don't like. A lot of the reduction is not coming from just turning away wells. We've only non-consented one well, in fact. It's more from trading acres such that non-op becomes operated.

Got you. And then, in terms of, I guess, helping us to think about the way those barrels flow through, you talked in the Q about you're at 800 barrels or you were 800 BOE as of last week. Can you maybe talk about, is that kind of on a – is there anything that would delay that from hitting kind of at a December 8 or whatever the date was? Is there any kind of payables that need to be done or receivables that need to be – that need to occur for you to put that to the P&L at a December 8 timeframe if that makes sense?

Are you talking about what's going to go effectively into our Q4 accounting?

Right, right, because I know sometimes, the way non-op works is it's a little bit tricky in terms of when you account it, and when you don't.

Yeah, it is, and we are put in a position where we need to accrue for a good chunk of revenue because there can be, in some cases, seven-month delay from when we stop receiving data from the operator. They'll send us rollback data, which might last a week, and then it gets handed over to another department at Continental, if they're the operator and then it's done until we get a division order and ultimately get it checked, and that stuff can be very, very delayed. So, there's an accrual process. It's starting to get better, and so I would not expect a significant amount of production to not make it into our quarter because as our well count grows, the leading-edge wells that have just recently been completed become a smaller part of the overall mix. So, I'd see no reason why that can't be included in our Q4.

Sure. So, that would be somewhat close to an accrual number, I guess, is my point?

This quarter is definitely an accrual number.

Okay.

You can see the working capital shifting as well with receivables having gone up.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

I think [inaudible] (8:33)

And congrats on all the progress.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Phil McPherson (8:37).

Hey, good morning, guys. Good job on the quarter.

Thanks, Phil, good morning.

Thank you.

I had two questions. Can you just remind us on the – I guess, we're using a 33,000 net acre number with the additional 2,000 in the core area, can you just remind us how that breaks down from an operated and non-operated? And then, you mentioned in the Q or in the press release that you were looking to, I guess, swap or sell another 2,000 to 4,000 acres, and I assume that'll be all the non-operated stuff?

Correct. So, I don't actually have those numbers in front of me. I'd, high level, say, of the 33,000 that you're mentioning, I would say 7,500 will be in the completely secured, operated category with another 2,000 to 4,000 that are prospective to be converted.

Okay. And then, the rest is non-op?

At this time, yeah.

Okay, great. And then, just a question on the RockPile, can you give us some idea of what the kind of the big picture is here, with whether you want to use a one-year or three-year, five-year of how big you want to get this thing and then ultimately, how does – how do Triangle's shareholders monetize that? Do you think that it eventually gets big enough that you – it becomes its own public entity or private equity, or what's kind of the big-picture thought process there?

Yeah, I mean, I'm glad you asked that. On the big picture, we are an E&P company, and we want to remain an E&P company. What that means is that we want to go below a 50% threshold in ownership such that we don't consolidate RockPile financials into our financial statement. So, that's definitely an objective of ours.

We see the opportunity for RockPile in the Williston Basin as being huge, far greater than what Triangle has the ability or desire to fund and far greater than Triangle work that it can provide. So, we think the model is much more of a spin-out model. I don't see us monetizing our equity in that for the benefit of Triangle's shareholders, but I do see mark-to-market changes as private equity comes in. So, could this be a public company one day, absolutely. There's a lot that has to happen between now and then, but we see a basin that is ultimately going to go to 250-plus rigs.

We were just out there last week. And you can spend two hours driving across, only a third of the basin, and all you see is rigs and people and pipe moving around. They need a lot of help and there are significant delays. So, the team we put together is a very seasoned team coming primarily out of two large service companies, and they're all going to be in place January 3.

So I think what you're going to see from us is RockPile executing on a private capital raise on the first six months of next year. In that transaction, Triangle is likely to go below a 50% equity ownership threshold; and then, from there, we will manage our investment as a board member and as a shareholder, utilizing them as a customer. Where it goes beyond that, it is early to tell. We have one spread on orders, so we don't want to get too far ahead of where the business actually is. But, yeah, we think RockPile has great potential.

Just great color.

Okay. That's it, Peter.

Yes, sure, there's also an intangible side to this because, again, looking at the bigger picture, there's something in the region of 350-plus wells uncompleted in the Bakken in North Dakota today. And that comes from the NDIC. If you're happened to be one of those unfortunates, you've put a lot of money into a wellbore, which you've not seen any benefit of.

We don't want to get ourselves in that category or get in that queue and with something like RockPile, you've got the added benefit of knowing that you've got an availability to do your completions, when you bought them, how you bought them, and in a batched way that we think is very efficient and very cost conscious.

So it benefits Triangle's shareholders, both from the capacity of having RockPile there at your side. And also from all the stuff that Jon said in terms of the value you're creating from the initial investment that we've made. So, we think it makes a huge – I mean, sense from an efficiency point of view and from an intangible way in which we get the benefit of being able to see how a well is completed when we feel appropriate.

Yeah, that's great color, I appreciate it. And just one last question, kind of switching gears to the Station Prospect. I know that at least there's been lot of talk about bringing in a JV partner and can you give us maybe what kind of the process is going on? Is it an ongoing kind of data room process or people coming to you, and is this probably a first half of the year event or a second half of 2012 event?

Yeah, I mean, we are in discussions with folks. We've not been focused solely on a Station JV, but really on a basin-wide JV, because we think the opportunity set isn't in greater place in the Station. We've received offers for people to come into Station. We think there's a lot of industry activity coming our way. Samson recently spudding core well and had some pretty exciting results on that core. There are a bunch of wells permitted.

So we have a lot of lease term on these leases. Majority of them were either five-year leases or three-year leases with two-year extensions. And we like to rock and think that there's a better deal to be done the longer we wait. What does that mean? I think that probably means over six months of the year on something like Station. It may be small, maybe some of them coming in for 10% versus a big JV, but we're continuing to work through that process.

Yeah, with the sense of what is kind of exciting and kind of good. They're at just a few miles from where we are in the blush of our acreage. So, these wells that they're drilling in 28-53 and 28-55 are going to be hugely important, and they catch a [indiscernible] (14:31) that is streaming cut – streaming oil. It's kind of encouraging and you – it's over 100-feet thick, so -

That's what you want.

Let the industry come to you and then let your position flourish and grow. So, that's the strategy we've gotten. If the right partner comes along, sure, as Jon said, we'll take advantage of it.

And I was wondering this is kind of a bigger-basin-picture question. But obviously, the Keystone XL is a big headline thing going on right now and I was just kind of what your personal thoughts are as far as what's this going to do to your ability to get oil out of the basin, and what are you guys kind of modeling for differentials going forward, and does this have any impact on it?

Well, I'll start by saying first that we are definitely not marketing guys, so check everything we say with a grain of salt. I mean, we model pretty conservatively, and we do not assume big collapses in that spread in our financials. Those are really things beyond our control.

I don't personally get too worried about Keystone. There is over 600,000 barrels a day of rail capacity getting built in North Dakota right now, which is complete oversupply. And the margins in rail are fantastic right now. In classic oil patch fashion, everyone builds at the same time, and those were unregulated businesses, meaning they have to compete with each other. There's a governor on that, which is there are actually not enough railcars to support that.

There's – if you wanted to go order one from the factory, there's a one-year backlog and then obviously, cars can move. So, places like the Utica as they pop up can suck cars out, but we see over the next 18 months, ultimately takeaway capacity from a variety of sources, pipe, rail, and other, just getting better and working our direction, and that's really when the bulk of our production is going to start. So, it's really not something that we're very worried about. We're happy with our economics today, and we think it directionally gets a lot better.

I agree with that. I mean, XL was – I think personally, it's a good thing for the benefit of North American oil and gas. When you get to a basin like North Dakota and the Bakken, this thing is going to be delivering over 1 million barrels a day at some point in the relatively near future. That is going to have an influence on the market and there's no question that Bakken will play its role in that pricing. And to us, I think this differential slowly goes more slowly, may go away relatively quickly. And on that basis, it can only be to the benefit and as long as we've got our eye on it and take advantage of it to our points of sale, and where we take our takeaway, I think that's the thing to be looking at, and that's what we do.

Yeah. I mean, the real value I think we should focus on is getting our product off of trucks and into pipe, that's far more value accruing than what is your ultimate -

Absolutely.

Method of tearing it out of the basin. And when you start selling gas and start selling NGLs at an $8 netback to your well, none of that is factored into our economics right now, so that is really where we're at.

Yeah.

Also, we can control that. We just can't control a WTI Brent spread.

Correct.

And Jon, are you kind of using the $8 to $10 differential right now, is that what you're kind of comfortable with?

That's what we model in, including transportation costs.

Okay, great.

Utilizations have been better than that, but winter is also where it tends to widen, so that's still a safe number.

Great. I appreciate it, guys. Great job in the quarter, and it looks like it's setting up for a nice 2012.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Steve Berman [Pritchard Capital Partners, LLC]

Morning, guys. Most of my questions were asked. Just one additional one, in terms of the completions, is it still your intention to start your completions in the spring, following the winter, hopefully a milder winter than last year?

Yeah, we all hope for that, Steve. Yes, that's the case. We think patch completions are much more efficient and a better way to go, and if we got five, six, or seven of them available to us, we think that is a sensible way to look at this. We're still thinking about design. We're still contemplating the mix of whether we use – or how much ceramic we use, and how much [indiscernible] (18:44) 20-40. So we're still putting those thoughts into our equation and seeing what others are doing rounding about. So, we'll have a good design. It will be properly pulled through, and we would do it collectively in the spring when you got a much better operation environment, less freezing water, less problems with getting to and from, and more efficient.

And then, is it still the plan not to drill any Station-operated wells until you have a joint venture partner? Is that still the plan?

I wouldn't link the two necessarily, but we're not going to be drilling over in the Station until we've seen – taken a good look at what industry has done. Let's see what happens as they get ever closer. Samson are doing some stuff. We know the new Brigham is going to be doing some stuff, and we know Whiting are out there, as well as Continental. So, as those people get busy in getting them, we'll see what happens. We'll bring [inaudible] (19:35). We'll take advantage of it when we think it appropriate.

It's more a deployment of risk capital, Steve, versus using other people's money. If someone – if Samson drills a great well and the risk profile changes, then that certainly changes our view on it. And if Station does end up working the way we hope it does, there's 50,000 net acres out there, you better get drilling.

Yeah. And that's for sure.

But it's the age-old battle, Steve; I'm the geologist and the ever-eternal optimist, and Jon's the one with the money. So -

Thus far, I'm winning, by the way.

[Laughter] All right. Thanks, guys. That's it from me.

Thanks.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills [Johnson Rice & Company, LLC]

Hey, good morning, Peter and Jon.

Hey, Ron.

You walked through the four reasons why the exit rate for your fiscal 2013 moves up despite a lower non-op budget. Can you walk through a couple of those in terms of what some of the experiences were on, some of the offset activity close to your operated wells, and what kind of levels of improved drilling/completion efficiencies you're building into that, that higher exit rate?

Yeah. I mean, a lot of it on the efficiency side is getting more net wellbores out of our budget than we otherwise would. We've put into our Q that we are considering adding a second rig for a three-well commitment next year, which certainly helps. But we were – we are using a conservative type curve from the offset to generate that number.

Again, we always rather under-promise over-deliver and particularly some of these new field wells that have come on recently, they have been expensive, but those are really the result of operational problems and the stall and the home are two wells in particular, that IP'd in the range of 3,000 barrels a day and our internal forecast have them somewhere between 550 and 650 in a gross EUR.

So these are really fantastic wells, well above our admittedly conservative type curve. And starting to I guess get closer to the type curves that you're seeing out of other operators or at least what they're talking about. So, I think it's our budget going further because we control it. We're trying to be more efficient, saving days by pad drilling, and it's a better well performance. So -

It's all part of the way we're going about looking at the core area we're developing around this 150, 149, Ron.

Right.

The Whitings of this world come around and start to put in good wells and new field have done good wells, then that allows us to do that. With the concentration of that, I mean, I'm looking here at seven or eight 1280 DSUs here that we've now – we're the operator of. That's a heck of an inventory there to be starting to work on and starting to show where you could put your emphasis and put your money to best work.

And it sounds like you've – you have – you just – you've received four permits. You have 11 more filed with the state. And so you appear to be able to stay ahead of the drilling rig from a permitting standpoint. Is that – am I reading that correctly? And then, as you look to swap/sell some of your non-operated acreages, the intend to continue to swap into operated or to the extent you just sell it, would it just be funding providing incremental [indiscernible] (23:23) fund drilling?

Yeah. I mean, the theme that everyone should take away from this call is operated, operated, operated. Everything we're doing is going that direction. And then, yeah, we just sell some, it is going to redeployed either into just into the Treasury for out of liquidity, which is not a bad thing in this macro environment, increasing the land budget or maybe the second drilling rig drills four wells instead of three. So, that's sort of how we're thinking about it.

And your comment on the permits is correct. We have in hand a permit for four wells on a single 1280, that's kind of the reason for the large number relative to our rig. But yes, we feel very comfortable that we have plenty of places to get with our rig and plenty of places to go in the event a joint venture allows us to expand our rig program.

Four rigs is a really good number for us. As an operating entity, it means, you're completing wells every single month the same number, so you have growth that is very predictable. You get a lot of your personnel. We would not have to expand our internal head count, so a lot of our costs that this entity already bears get spread among a much larger asset and CapEx base.

Okay. And then, from a RockPile standpoint, obviously, your initial completions will be with third-party pressure pumping, but between your dedicated – the dedicated services you will use for your program, what's the – what does your order book look like, if you want to call it that with third-party operators in the basin?

We have proposals out to a number of folks. If a third of them came back, the spread would be fully utilized, that's – again, right now, we're three weeks away from the management and operations team in its entirety coming over, so it's really a function of bonus cycles at the places they're leaving. So, I think you're going to be a lot better off, seeking these third-party customers when you have your whole team in place.

Okay, and then lastly, just a clarification on the budget. You had prior talked about an 18-month budget and last night, you talked about just the fiscal '13 budget. Is there – what are some of the notable differences if you were comparing fiscal '13 versus fiscal '13, and what you had been discussing prior?

I'm not sure I understood.

Well, before, you had talked about an 18-month budget of $185 million.

You're talking the 18-month versus the 12-month?

Right. And so now, you have a 12-month for fiscal '13 of $131 million. How does that $131 million compare to that 12-month period that was included in that 18-month budget?

Yeah. I mean, it works out to about a $20 million decrease in non-op, and that be in redeployed part predominantly into operated. So, you got to take the 18-month number and then subtract from that the 12-month number, plus what we've spent right now, yes.

Okay. And – but the increase in the operated side will eat up a good portion of what you're going to save in the non-operated, which is much more impactful anyway.

Correct. I mean, that is one of the reasons that the production guidance goes up just by a drop in the aggregate budget.

Right. Okay. That's all I have, guys. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Ron.

Thank you. Your next question is from the line of Marty Beskow [Northland Capital Markets]

Good morning.

Good morning, Marty.

Good morning, Marty.

For the additional acres that you've added here over the last few months, how much of a cash outlay was there for that, especially for the core acres in the North Dakota side? Was that mostly swapped acres of non-ops for operated acres?

Well, if we swap an acre, it would result in a change in our total acreage number because it's just one for one, so the increase is purchases. We're paying about 250 to 300 an acre out in Station and the market in the core is anywhere from 3 to 7 with an average kind of right in the middle of 5.

Okay. And what did you say was your best guess as to how much of that purchased acreage was actually operated acreage?

I would say the majority of it is because we're buying it inside the units in which we already have acreage with the intent to convert or we buy it and then we trade it.

Okay. And as far as your changes for your estimate for your non-op drilling program, what does that imply for your near-term production estimates if you're not spending as much money on AFEs, is that going to have potentially a softening effect on production over the next couple of quarters until your operated wells come online?

It really doesn't because it's back-end loaded. It's where it's going to come off and a lot of the wells that are getting completed now, these things got drilled nine months ago. And so we suffered the downside of the backlog last quarter when, man, we consented all these wells and there's no production problem. Now, we're – now, it's catching up. We're enjoying the benefits of it. So, I'm not anticipating the reduction in budget having any impact on our non-op production over the next two quarters and then obviously the operated program will more than pick up the slack.

Okay. So, with that, do you feel pretty comfortable with kind of your previous guidance for about 1,000 barrels a day exit for the current year?

I was joking on the phone with someone this morning that I actually feel a lot more comfortable giving guidance 13 months out than one month out, which is a rarity in this world, but it's the non-op business mix, so we feel good about it. But again, we have about 45 days for that quarter-ends and obviously, wells are in decline and other wells need to be completed for us to get there. So, it's – it'll be within the range, but I feel a lot comfortable about our 2013 exit rate than I do this year's.

And how about as far as – you had a pretty big increase in your production from the average for the quarter of about 450 barrels a day to 800 BOEs per day, was most of that driven by a few wells with larger working interest, or was it spread out pretty evenly?

There are some larger working interest wells that have come on, but there also has been a large number of wells that have come online. So – and we're finally, starting to get to that, a more comfortable part where we have just a larger sample set driving our production. There are definitely some recent completions that are meaningful to our production.

And could you give us some operational detail, I guess, related to the drilling of your first well? What kind of things that you learned along that process? How many days to get to total depth, and also, as far as kind of how the second well is going, if you could give us an update on that?

Sure, I mean, the first well, Dwyer, it TD'd at 20,020 feet drill depth. We've got a lateral in there of a little under 10,000 feet. We've got 30 – the 4.5-inch casing production string is set. And we've got Packers Plus in there with the expandable packers. So, we've got 31 frac stages to get ourselves through.

We're still designing the actual completion of how we're going to do that. But – so, this well is good and ready. It drilled very slick once we got into the horizontal. We followed a very good path through the middle Bakken. So, we've got a good well, good shows. We drilled it light, so we carried a nine, eight month.

And the lessons learned are we're in the deeper part of the basin here. And certainly, getting around the curve, we did a lot of learning; a lot of equipment that we've now redesigned and refilled through, a heavier drill pipe, and items like that have all been very useful to us; and we had one or two little setbacks, which is no more than you'd expect as the first well is on operation.

The rig took a bit of time to shake down with the equipment, the BOPs nibbling up, nibbling down, things like that. The draw works needed to be sold, unglued and minor items with the top drive, but nothing outrageous, Marty. I mean, it took longer than we wanted it to, for sure, but nothing was out of the norm or out of the ordinary or nothing that frankly, we didn't expect.

What I wanted from this wellbore was a good, completed well, and that's what we've got. And we still got it to complete in terms of the fracing job. But right now, it's a very good hole, and it's good and tidy, and it's ready for completion.

The last well we spudded, we've used a spudder rig, which is very efficient for us. It makes the rig move much easier. That means you can get started quicker and now that spudder rig just goes around and prepares our wells for us, which means a lot slicker and a lot quicker and a lot easier. So, we get a lot of benefit from that. And those are the general lessons.

We talk to the other operators. We're sharing stuff, they're sharing stuff with us, and there's now a few people coming into the area that are going to make it even more efficient.

Okay. And just kind of one last question, how many producing wells did you actually have at the end of October for gross and net wells?

If I got it right, 2.56 net wells, and we've got 37 gross wells, 1.63 net wells in progress. And that [inaudible] (33:24)

Right. Thank you very much, and good job.

Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Jeff Hayden [Rodman & Renshaw, LLC].

Hey, guys. A lot of my questions have been answered, just some follow-up stuff. Jon, first of all, just want to make sure I heard it right. So, on the core Bakken acreage right now, it's about 7,500 net operated acres with another 2,000 to 4,000. They have the potential to be converted?

That's our current thinking, yeah.

Okay. And where do you think your portfolio kind of evolves to over time as far as the both total acreage, as well as kind of the operated versus non-operated split?

And I'll answer the second question first, that I think we remain committed to our 70% operated and 30% non-operated long-term goal. There is significant running room in our core area, and really the limiting factor today is capital and accessing more capital. Really it's not something we want to do given macro environment and stock prices.

So where does the total acreage package go? I think our entity and our organization is capable of managing a much, much larger acreage base. So, where it ultimately ends up is more going to be a function of access to capital and the cost of the capital, and the point we're trying to make from this, it's not going to get bigger just for the sake of being bigger. We want to remain profitable. We want value to accrue on a per-share basis. I think our organization could – can more than handle 250,000 net acres in the aggregate. Obviously, there's going to be a buildup to get there, but [indiscernible] (35:15)

Do you have a dog out there?

[Laughter] Yeah. Sorry, apologize for that in the background. And just to be clear, so are we looking at – excluding the Station acreage, do you think you can get to 70% operated?

Absolutely.

Absolutely.

Okay, I mean – all right. And just kind of looking at it, it looks like based on kind of the information you guys have in the Q, your working interest in the fiscal 2013 wells, somewhere roughly about 55%. Is that kind of a good percentage to use for your operated position as a whole or should we use something different in our numbers?

We model in a 50% working interest; some are higher, some are lower. The ones that are lower are where we tend to be working on and tend to be increasing. But we run with a 50% number internally right now.

Okay, it's here. I guess – well, I think that gets everything I've got. Well, actually – yeah, I think that's all the stuff I've got. The other guys got everything else. I really appreciate it.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you.

Thank you. And your next question is from the line of David Snow.

Yeah, hi, just trying to get some color on the offset wells. The Newfield Staal and the Holm, are those Bakken or Three Forks?

Middle Bakken.

Okay. And it looks like there are about – it looks like there may be a township or two away from where you're drilling, about 10 to 12 miles?

150-99 is Holm, and 150-99 is Staal, and the only difference is the 13-24 for the Holm and 23-14.

Yeah, that's your – what you said, David, is correct.

It's about right.

And in terms of miles, what does that come to?

The number you said is correct.

They're about 10 miles or so.

Yeah. Okay. And I'm trying to get an idea of what is the net wells that you're now looking at for your fiscal '13 budget and for '12?

Well, what we put in our Q is that we anticipate drilling between 12 and 16 gross operated wells with a 50% working interest on average.

Okay. For '13?

Six to eight net, and then our non-op budget would be anywhere from three to four wells, depending on where the costs come in.

Net wells?

Yes.

Okay. So, you're talking about – and could you give us the – what '12 looks like as you finish up?

What we're going to exit the year with?

Well, for the year as a whole?

Yeah. That's somewhat a tough question to answer because it's dependent on completion activities over the next 45 days. As Peter said, we have about 2.5 net wells producing today. That might increase by anywhere from 25% to 50%, depending on completion activities.

We've got 37 gross wells in progress right now.

Okay.

And that's about another 1.5 to two net wells.

Okay. All right. And is the – the essentially all-new management team, have they drilled right in this vicinity in the – that you're drilling at in your operated wells, or is this is a step-out for them in their experience?

No, this is well within their comfort. These guys have done this stuff – John Whittington has done this for EOG for a number of years and Dominic Spencer has drilled these sorts of wells before.

It seems over east of [indiscernible] (39:27) for most of this stuff; have they drilled in this vicinity before?

EOG have got some acreage in the west. They designed and delivered some wells in the west. I agree with you, EOG is mainly concentrated in Staal -

And how are they working together, is it taking them time to develop a good -

These guys are seasoned professionals. They know what they're doing. They're great guys, and we talk every day in our big office. So, everyone knows what everyone else is doing, and they're all very committed and very dedicated folks. We've got great guys.

Yeah. Well, I have no doubt about that. I'm just trying to get a flavor as to how – it would be nice if they had been growing over in this area in their past life in a concentrated way. It looks like this is a little bit of a new part of the -

It's somewhat impossible because industry has not been drilling over here in a concentrated way.

Yeah, for everyone, David. There's no one else concentrated over here. They're just coming.

Okay. All right, fair enough. And did you say you're going to be under 50% in the RockPile as you go through next year?

Sticking to our previous comments, our intention is to raise private capital within RockPile that would likely result in us going below a 50% ownership interest that is dependent on future events.

But value goes up, David.

Pardon?

Value goes up.

And that will be shown as a separate line item in the income statement when that happens?

That would be GAAP accounting, yes.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Jeff Byrd (41:04)

Just wondering how much was spent to dispose of the saltwater in Nova Scotia, and who took that water?

It's going through a process right now. It's Atlantic Industrial Services who are taking that away on our behalf, and they're taking it to their designated ponds in Akerley and the other place just to the north in their other ponds, the big lagoons.

And so that's in the process right now?

Yeah.

When do you anticipate that to be finished?

We're hoping to get one done before the freeze sets in. So, we're draining one pond as we speak and the other pond is going to be left until after the review of the government.

And just to be clear, I think the last time that Nova Scotia talked with you guys, you were still not looking for a partner. Is that still the case?

Still looking for partners, yeah.

You still are looking for partners?

Certainly.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] At this time, there are no audio questions.

Okay. If there's no further questions, guys, I'd just like to thank you very much for listening to the call and for asking your questions and I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you all a very happy holiday. Thanks very much, and we'll see you next quarter.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.