Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter John Hill — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Financial Officer, Director & CAO, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin Bliffen — Head of Corporate Finance, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Marcus Talbert — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Philip J. McPherson — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Gail Amanda Nicholson — Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Dorothy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Triangle Petroleum Fourth Quarter 2012 Fiscal Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Your hosts for today are Jonathan Samuels, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dr. Peter Hill, Executive Chairman. Thank you. Dr. Hill, you may begin.

Thanks Dorothy. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Triangle Petroleum Fiscal 2012 Results. That's 2011 plus January 2012, for those of you who can't quite get your head around that. Those of you that had seen the press release this morning and the 10-K will see that we've got a lot to talk about here this morning in an attempt to give you some depth and flavor of where our results sit and the announcements we've just made, together with the forward-look and the excitement we've got coming forward in the next months.

With me this morning, we've got Jon Samuels, who's now the new CEO and President. I've got Justin Bliffen, who is the Head of Corporate Finance, and Mike Grijalva, who is the Vice President of Capital Markets. So, a few words from me before I then pass over to Jon to give you the gory details and the operational framework, and then we'll further then open to your questions and we will try to give you the best answers that we can.

The thing I would like to talk about just very briefly is the succession, and I want to give you some background here to why we've done this now and our reasoning behind it. The time is right for us for several reasons.

The board of directors here have been giving us a lot of thought, there's been a lot of discussion and this has been part of our plans now for some considerable time. To spare Jon blushes, Jon is, the primary reason here, Jon is ready, hugely capable and has now had, to our minds, sufficient experience and exposure in these past two years or so.

And if you recall, this – for this past year or so, that Jon has now been the President and he's been effectively doing the day-to-day operational work and responsibility. So, the board here is hugely supportive, and we're all very committed and very available to support Jon as he moves forward in his new challenge. We're all very confident. And as I said, the man is extremely capable.

The company is in a very good place right now. The platform is there, and we think we're ready to springboard off into a – into a very exciting future, and so that becomes a good time to let Jon to go over the realm and take over the helm.

The second thing is that the skills are there to support Jon, both from the technical management point of view, from the land team, from our control and finance, and from the new operational background we've now got and developed in – up there in North Dakota or Montana. So, we think the skill set is there to support Jon, and he's there and available as he moves forward.

The third thing is that I'm still around, I'm not going anywhere. I'm the Executive Chairman. I will focus on the technical side, particularly the subsurface. And I see my role now as one of being a mentor and advisor and help grow and develop the team that surrounds Jon.

On a personal note, lastly, I'm been doing turnarounds and growth strategies and stories now for the past 10 or 12 years. I've been in this business now 40 years. And at the tender age of 65, I think it is a heck of a good time to start stepping aside and let others take on the mantle and carry on growing this company. I am still hugely committed to this company. I'm still around. I'm a very large shareholder. And this company, to my mind, has been a lot of fun, continues to be a lot of fun, but has a lot of huge challenges and excitement going forward.

So with that as a backdrop, those are reasons. We think it will plan – this will fold out, and the overwriting reason here is that Jon is good and ready.

So with that, let me pass you over to Jon, and he can give you some more details and background.

Good morning, everyone. And thank you for the introduction, Peter. This is normally where I would thank Peter for his services, and Gardner Parker, our Chairman prior to Peter, for their service. But that would imply that these gentlemen's work is done and that they're going away, and that's not the case. They're still very much here, plenty to do. So, I'm going to get right into this quarter's release and what the future looks like.

Peter may have mentioned, we are in New York for a presentation of the IPAA Conference today at 2:30 pm Eastern Time. We'd loved to have anyone who can come visit. I think this a good opportunity to lay out a few simple bullet points about where Triangle is at and what is our strategic focus for the next three to five years. We are a very long term-focused company.

The first point I would make is that we are completely focused on the Williston Basin and will remain exclusively focused on the Williston Basin. Today, that is the Bakken and the Three Forks. We believe there are many other zones and other areas within the Williston Basin that we will find oil. There's 400 billion barrels of oil in place in this giant bowl in North Dakota and Montana, and that is our playground and will keep us busy for many, many years. You're going to see us stay oily, stay in the Bakken and not go anywhere else.

The second bullet point is that we are completely focused on our operated program and are de-emphasizing the non-operated program on a go-forward basis as many of you are aware.

Third is we have a great young but experienced team, and I think something very important to point out is our team is capable of managing a much larger rig count and a much larger asset base than what we have today. There's a big front-end loading to what we're trying to do, and we want to be a quality operator and a low-cost operator and that requires people, but the people are in place.

The fourth is that we are focused on being a low-cost marginal producer. We want to be profitable, regardless of where the economy sits in the cycle. We're going to get there through efficiencies and a focus on select vertical integration opportunities.

And fifth is that we're going to do our best to be transparent and straightforward to our shareholders. And to that end, a word of caution; as we execute our ambitions, and we have a lot of ambitions about operations, services via RockPile, midstream and infrastructure, as we pursue our goal of being a low-cost marginal producer, there are going to be bumps in the road, and there are going to be setbacks and other things, and we want people to be aware of this coming in to the Triangle story. What we care most about is our people and where the stock price sits over the long term, which is much more important than where it sits over the next week or months. And we encourage people with a long-term focus to think of us in that light.

What I think is the most interesting going on right now in Triangle is not what we're doing in New York or anything else, but what is going on up in North Dakota. It's – I looked this morning at our completion report, it's a balmy 20 degrees with wind chill, overcast skies outside Watford City, North Dakota. I bring it up, it's because our team, as I speak, is diligently preparing to complete our first operated well in McKenzie County, about 10 miles west of Watford City.

As our press release outlined, we're completing four – between four and five operated wells, the first in our company's history, in the Bakken over the next 90 days, bringing all those online. Our first well, the Larson 149-100, we plan to complete with 100% ceramic. We've mentioned this before, but we are planning to complete half of our wells 100% ceramic, half of our wells 25% ceramic, 75% white sands, so we can get a real data point and understand exactly what is the best way to complete these wells.

I would also point out that in our Gullickson Trust unit, we have two Bakken horizontal wells off one pad. Those wellbores are about 1,200 feet apart. We are going to complete one 100% ceramic, one 25% ceramic. Everything else in this well – in these two wells will be the same. So we're going to get a pretty darn good data point as we enter a two-rig and growing program, about what is the best return on capital way to complete these wells. That may not be the highest EUR or highest IP but the highest return on capital, and that's we care the most about.

As we mentioned in our press release, pumping operations will be performed by Schlumberger. We are on track for an April 23 start date, which is next Monday. We also plan to complete all these wells, and then release results of production simultaneously with 30-day production numbers ideally in mid- to late-June.

With that, there – we know there's a lot to talk about regarding RockPile, our acreage acquisitions, financial results, our credit facility, liquidity, non-op, Nova Scotia, other topics that you may have. We tried to be detailed and succinct in our press release, so I think it's best to hand it back to the operator, and start the question-and-answer session.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ron Mills from Johnson Rice.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Ron.

Good morning, Ron.

A couple of questions for you on – first of all, I guess, on Peter and Jon, on the management changes. Just, Peter, can you offer a couple of comments in terms of the thoughts behind it and the timing of it as right as your – in terms of making this change?

Sure. It's mainly for the reasons I've just laid out. I think we've had now – we started operating here in October, so we've had time to stabilize the operational side of things. We've got these wells ready, so now is a very good time to pass that on. So the guys are getting pretty experienced and pretty hands-on and pretty knowledgeable about how to go back doing that, so I feel very comfortable that that's good and ready.

I think commercially, we're in a good place, with the reserve base level that we've got out there and a number of other initiatives that are coming forward. I think the new guys that we've had now for this last year or 18 months, where we've carefully brought people on, I think we've got them to a skill set and a competence level and a capacity level that it's good and ready. The board have been talking about this for some time, when is the optimum time to do this. We felt that this was the time. So – and there's no doubt about it, Jon is good and ready albeit he is still young, of course, but he's not on his own here. He's surrounded by people in the organization that have got the skills necessary and is the board that is available. And one of my jobs is to make sure that the skills that we've got on the board become really available to Jon and the guys to help them through this.

It's time; you just sort of know it, you know. You don't want to leave it too long. You're not a prize fighter who has five fights too many. You're a rocket trying to get to a certain place, we've gone through the first rocket phase, the boosters are now kicking in and these guys are ready. Believe me, I know it, I've been doing this for 40 years and this is the time.

Okay.

And that's the best I can put it, Ron.

Okay, perfect. And, Jon, and in terms of the acreage swaps and acreage additions, you've added another – or added 1,000 and swapped out 700 acreage, but really more importantly, you now control six more drilling units and you're looking another couple. Where does that put you in terms of the total number of drilling units that you operate there in McKenzie County, and is that potentially going to – as we move through fiscal 2013 here, the plan in terms of potential increased activity from a one-rig program?

Yeah. I mean, today, we sit at 14 operated units in McKenzie County within tie-in distance of a gathering system in phase one and phase two. A big economic driver here is getting pipe in the ground. And the longer you lay pipe more, it costs. So, I think it's one of the interesting things about where we are, is it doesn't take much with our existing platform or our existing presence to rapidly increase these numbers and convert non-operated to operated. And a lot of these transactions, I don't want to say we don't have competition for them, but it's worth so much more to us from the time standpoint and a capital standpoint because it's just getting layered on what we have. Someone new coming in to the basin is not going to go bother with 1,000 operated acres in McKenzie County to start a footprint, if that makes sense. So...

Yeah, for sure.

We do think it's scalable.

Okay. And then, one last one and then I'll get back in line. The Station transaction, it looks like you sold 7% of your acreage to somebody for $750 an acre. Including the last 11,000 acres that you bought up there, what was your average in that acre – in that project?

About $375, including brokerage and transaction costs.

And the – any description in terms of who you sold it to? Is it a financial party, is it an industry – someone else in industry? And then, similarly, a question I asked in terms of Peter, the timing of it, why now or is that a way to potentially start moving a little bit on that area?

It is a financial partner. We will be releasing more details of who it is and the rest of the transaction later this week. We have to run this group's name through their compliance before we put it in a press release or into a filing. We signed an agreement over the weekend so we're not able to talk about it today. It is part of a larger joint venture and I don't want people to get away by and large. I mean, it's probably $10 million of acres and $15 million of drilling, and we'll be putting out details of that later this week.

Okay.

But use of proceeds, we obviously operate – operations, operations, operations. We're going to use maybe $1 million of the $3 million of proceeds to go core up in existing drilling units where we are between 30% and 50% to get over 50%. Our financial partner obviously is going to support us as an operator, so our net operated position increases. And then we take $2 million roughly and put that back into the piggy bank for the rest of our operations.

Okay, I'm going to let someone else jump in and I'll get back in the queue. Thanks.

Thanks, Ron.

Your next question comes from the line of Marcus Talbert from Canaccord Genuity.

Hi, guys. Good morning.

Hi, Marcus.

Just a quick question on the upcoming completions here. With Schlumberger starting next week, is that expected that you'll have access to their unit for the full four to five weeks or how fluid, I guess, is that situation as they move from the Dwyer to the Larson and then up to the pad?

They've committed their crude to us for five straight weeks.

Okay, terrific. And just a couple of one-off questions here in terms of some of the impairments that you spoke to. I guess there was – half of it looks like coming from the Nova Scotia, which I think were certainly expected. Can you maybe just touch on the other portion of that, that was in the 10-K from this morning?

Yeah. There were $6 million of impairment related to North Dakota, and I'll explain where that came from. A couple of areas. One, we – in our Grizzly area, which you guys are familiar with a couple of different operators there, we've had some disappointing non-op at wells, kind of 350,000 EUR type curve, they were a 350,000 EUR type curve back when wells cost $6 million. That worked and made sense. The operators in that area are sending out #10 million and $11 million AFEs. EURs are still 350,000. It doesn't make sense anymore.

So when we went non-consent on a well, PUDs that we had in that area are got taken off of our report, which impacted it. There were just some other little nuances, and I'll give an example. We have some costs associated with a well up in Williams County that has not been brought on yet but we built the pad and started drilling and start surface casing. In last year's report, there's an Oasis offset directly in the 1,280 to the south. We booked that as an offset because it is [indiscernible] (17:49) offsetting.

Interesting little rule we learned this year that if the surface hole or the bottom hole location does not directly end at your lease boundary, it does not count as a PUD according to SEC definitions. Oasis drilled their well and they drilled it north to south, so [ph] optimal (18:06) location is two miles south of our lease line being that PUD doesn't count. I cannot explain to you why that is the rule but I can tell you that that is the rule, and there were a number of little factors like that that led to it. We – it is what it is.

Okay. Now understood, thanks for the clarification there. And I guess, maybe just in terms of the Station Prospect itself, I got banged out of that first question there so I apologize if I'm asking again. But the transaction itself, was this more for the purposes of just, I guess, illustrating the value of that acreage that you're seeing right now or was there going to be a continuous program up there that you see with these types of transactions?

It's – it's part of the larger financial partnership that we will provide details on later this week. And I had mentioned before, we don't want anyone to get carried away. About $10 million of total land commitment and $15 million of total drilling commitment nationwide. The counterparties of that, we need to run a – mentioning their name through compliance, and we did not get a chance to do that because the agreement was signed this weekend. So, it's just part of a larger but [ph] for straight not large (19:21) joint venture and we are going to use part of the proceeds to core up some units in the Station area, and then we'll put the rest of the capital, probably $2 million, back into our general corporate budget.

Okay, great. And I guess, just one more from me. Going back to the non-consent that you mentioned down in Southern McKenzie County there, looking at the, I guess, just on a gross basis, the number of wells that you had participated in at the end of the year, understanding that you're spending much more on the operated side, can you kind of ballpark for me what the split was between if there were any wells that you participated in to start this year, actually in 2012, versus what you're spending on the operated front?

No, but we purchased a producing wellbore when we purchased the acreage, and then we participated in two wells last summer, and then we stopped participating last fall. So it just took this long to work its way through our reserve report. So, no, there's zero dollars in our CapEx budget going to this particular township, and we really think it's an isolated township. If you look at our mapping, there's just a big hole in Bakken.

Got it. But just thinking about moving forward here, are there other parts of the basin, maybe where there's a better pressure regime or so forth where you would continue to participate with other operators this year in terms of your non-operated budget?

Yeah. I mean our non-operated budget of $30 million, I believe, is the latest, we plan to spend that. That is a real number and we are spending that and drilling that. There's variability in the space as you know, and we, like everyone else, try to focus our dollars on the best areas. And we don't have unlimited budget; we have to be frugal with our spending and selective also. I think that's a good thing. And so, this is an area that we have de-emphasized. It's not big from an acreage standpoint. I think it's maybe 1,200 acres, something like that, and half of that's held by production.

Okay. Well, thanks, guys. Appreciate the update.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] You have a follow-up question from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice. Mr. Mills, your line is open.

Sorry, guys. [indiscernible] (22:00). On the cost side, Jon, can you walk through the fourth quarter G&A? You had a pretty big jump from the third quarter. Is there something going on on the cash G&A side? And from an outlook standpoint for fiscal 2013, is the fourth quarter – the cash run rate a good run rate or is it going to come back to a little bit lower level?

Yeah. The fourth quarter is always an increase for us because we have year-end costs that get put in to that particular quarter. I think the biggest contributor though is the start-up of RockPile. And what you have from a G&A standpoint is, today, about 30 RockPile employees and zero RockPile revenue. That's going to change in about 90 days. So I think what we need to do on a go-forward basis, I think the Triangle G&A was in line with guidance and will remain inline. RockPile is going to get broken out.

And for the benefit of those who have not heard me say it before, RockPile is a strategic investment we made to lower our costs. And we estimate we save about $1 million per well every time RockPile pumps a job. This is a business that we do not plan to be a majority shareholder of two years from now. A couple of ways that happen would be either an IPO of RockPile, a sale of RockPile or taking on growth capital once we dilute down. So, while that G&A cost is in our Q4 today without the benefit of revenue, this is really an upfront investment to get this group off the ground and we do not plan to be carrying it in our financials they're very long.

Okay. But over the next 30 to 60 days, as long as you consolidate the RockPile, you are really going to continue to show this type of G&A level? You'll just be able to offset it with the revenues, and then less the minority interest that would be going out. Is that the best way to think about it from an accounting standpoint?

Yeah. And the other thing is that there is a consolidation impact. But also, for the benefit of scale, Triangle has been recently stopped, but in Q4, it was providing a lot of the accounting and financial reporting oversight. And they are now ramping up with their own team and we'll be taking that on. So, it's not just consolidation. There was Triangle increases, but we need those for our operations anyway. So, I think the way you framed it is correct. We will start to break-out the G&A. You're going to see a lot more revenue and cash flow from RockPile relative to that G&A.

Okay. And then, on the credit facility, the $10 bond, I assume you're going to have another redeterminations here in the fall, and that will clearly have the benefit of your operated program. Between that – or with that increase, what should be a significant increase? It is in my opinion, from a liquidity standpoint between existing cash and cash flow and revolver, your budget is fully met even into next year. Am I still looking at that correctly?

The right person to answer that is Justin Bliffen, our Head of Corporate Finance. I'll let him tackle the credit facility question, and then I'll come back for the overall liquidity budget question.

Okay.

Good morning, Ron. The credit facility is a standard reserve base credit facility that we are very happy to engage with our Denver-based oil and gas division and Wells Fargo. It does have a $300 million base, a $10 million initial borrowing base, quarterly redeterminations for the first year, semi-annual thereafter, with one wildcard. We specifically set it out as such so that this reserve base can grow as our reserves grow exponentially we believe as we ship from non-operator to operator over the next year. It's a fairly cheap money at LIBOR plus 175 to 275 bps on a go-forward basis.

Yeah. It's a – I would agree. Ron, this is something that we expect to grow from a borrowing base standpoint very quickly. There's zero operated wells in that today. It's all non-op, and non-op is tough. If you can't produce gas contracts and NGLs contracts, if the wells shut in, being put on pump or being worked over, we're the non-operator, we can't explain that. You get no credit for it. So, it's something that we do expect to grow pretty quickly. And I think looking at where Triangle is today and looking at our exit rate production forecast, which we feel good about, and we have zero debt outstanding, and you guys can see the cash number in the balance sheet, so we do feel very good about the liquidity position.

Right, okay. And then, on the non-op side, you walked through the operated activity, how is the non-op – how are the non-op wells coming online in terms of timing and/or versus expectations, especially given the mild winter we had – you had, got more completions this year? Is this non-op program kind of meeting your expectations or is there been any positive or negative surprise?

I would say it's fairly middle of the road. It's not underperforming, it's not over-performing. Our expectations have been pretty low. I think that a lot of people have gotten wells completed. You guys have heard some of the problems with workover rigs and other things that had slowed some things down. And pretty usual, there's some good wells and some great wells and some poor wells and some awful wells, and that's the nature a shale play and the variability and different wells are in different stages.

So overall, I think we were probably a little bit disappointed with the non-op performance from a reserve standpoint. We've really got no credit out. For an example, there was a specific well that was shut in because it was being put on pump and our engineers basically said, well, we don't if it's ever going to produce again, so they get to zero. And I don't think there's anyone out there that thinks that when you shut in a well, put it on pump, it doesn't produce oil again, so there's some frustration there.

But I think overall it's not our focus, and worth 780 barrels a day and that could be 900 tomorrow, it could be 600 tomorrow. And it will continually increase and ratchet up. It's getting to be a big case now, which is nice. And I think there's something – 80 wells in progress, so the type of any one well next time we're on an open line with shareholders.

Okay, all right, guys. Thank you very much. I hope to see in the next couple of days.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Phil McPherson from Global Securities.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Jon, I just had one question on the Station Prospect JV. I just want to clarify. You said that I think that this is in the scope of a bigger JV on the entire basin, so the $10 million and $15 million is – meaning you might bring them in on other things that you're doing, not to be all directed towards the Station Prospect. Is that correct?

Correct. And this – with the exemption of the one thing I mentioned, potentially spending about $1 million to core up existing drilling units so that we are over 50% as a group, we have no plans to spend anymore in Station and no plans to drill any wells this year, so unchanged over there. The rest of that capital will be put back in to other parts of the Williston.

I've got you. In coring up, you meant more on the acreage side, not you're going to do any coring in the acreage?

Yeah. More like we have a 25% interest in a 1,280.

Got you.

You'd rather be at 51% interest in a 1,280

And will there be any language in the JV that requires you to – there will be certain deadline where you have to drill a well?

No.

No, okay. And has anything occurred out in that area recently? I mean, I was kind of surprised by the timing. I think we're kind of waiting for a little bit more not other operator news before you guys are going to bring somebody in. Has anything kind of occurred that has accelerated that timeline?

There's a bunch of activity out there. Samson Oil and Gas, Australia. Samson, not KKR, has a number of wells drilling. Continental is drilling a well called the Abercrombie well we are keenly paying attention to. There is – really been no results to speak of that we're aware off. So, I really think that that's a longer term. I don't think anyone well – a great well is not going to prove our acreage and a bad well is not going to condemn it. And it's really a 12-, 18-month type time horizon, and this was a part of a, like I said, a larger Williston Basin-wide event. The group wanted to put 8% to 10% of their capital and have the upside of the Station, if it works. The rest of their capital is going to lower risk stuff from the core.

Great. I appreciate the color and we anxiously wait the first four operated wells.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Tim Sommers from Sommers Building (31:31).

Hello. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

I wasn't able to get through the 10-K yet, so I might be asking a question that's in there. So you mentioned in the press release that the complete exit in 100% write-down from Nova Scotia and impediments were mentioned. What would be the – what are those costs and what are they for?

Excuse me, so the cost of exiting or the cost of the write-down or?

No, the cost of – future costs and exiting?

It's pretty minimal. We have one pond sitting out there. It's just saltwater, brine, that we just need to truck it away and get our lease back to complying conditions. So, that's not a very big number.

There's not abandoning wellhead cost?

That would be factored into that.

Okay. Yeah. What was the figure in the 10-K for that?

I think it's about $700,000 to go.

Okay. All right, thank you.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Gail Nicholson from Pritchard Capital.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Gail.

Just a couple of quick questions regarding the operated wells. And specifically, kind of your thought process on the completion side, like how much horsepower do you plan to have onsite when you're completing the wells? And then also, could you discuss the cost difference between the 100% ceramic and then the 75%/ 25% wells?

I'll start with your first question first while it's fresh in my mind. It's a little over $1 million to go to a 100% ceramic, and that was not part of our original plan. So, when we put out an $8.7 million or $9 million well for those two, we are adding a $1 million of cost. The thinking behind that is our operated area at this part of McKenzie County, or this part of our operated program, I should say, it is the deepest part of the basin. And there are mixed results out there. One of the hard things is there are plenty of wells being completed with ceramic, plenty of wells that are being completed with sand, but there are lot of other variables that go into any sort of progression analysis to see which is the better way to do it. Local and regional geology, slick water versus gel, length of lateral, where do they land in the formation, how many stages, plug and perf versus sliding sleeve, and so it's really hard to get a read.

We did our best, and ultimately we came down to we want to get a data point that really is something that we completely control. And this will also be the first set of data that I'm aware of with two Bakken wells, 1,200 feet apart, drilled by us. Everything is exactly the same except for proppant differential. And as we begin our march on a three to five years of drilling many, many, many wells, we want to know what is the best return on capital. So rather than assume we know, we're just doing two in two and we'll release the results.

Thank you.

You have a follow-up question from the line of Marcus Talbert with Canaccord Genuity.

Hey, guys. Just one more from me. Jon, given the announcement of the Caliber Midstream and the number of different infrastructure opportunities that you have in front of you, with the budget that you have on hand, maybe spending $15 million this year, which project I guess would be at the top of that list, assuming that you're going to allocate capital based on the rate of return? And then may be, if you could just touch on sort of how the existing infrastructure is in place in Williams versus McKenzie County, if you would?

Yeah. I can say that with our $15 million infrastructure budget, any money spent towards Caliber from that is going to go to salt water disposal. That is far and away the highest return on capital I think we'll get of anything in the basin, and that costs us about, call it, $4 million a well including all the facilities and everything else to do it right. So obviously, $10 million to $15 million infrastructure budget is not going to get you a gathering system,; it's not going to get you processing plant; it's not going to get those other things. There are many routes to go there. There are private capital partners that we could talk to; there are other midstream companies that will come and build it for us. There are obviously the existing players in the basin, the ONEOK, the Saddle Butte's and the like. So, we will evaluate that as – as we move forward.

I think the McKenzie County is particularly good from an infrastructure standpoint. This happens to be the smack-dab geographic center of the basin, getting a lot pipelines cross in and around our acreage. So we have some very good take-away options nearby. It's just a question of sorting out who is going to be the best solution for us. And like any good, nervous capital manager; we want optionality; we want redundancy; we want multiple pathways to get our product to market. So that's going to take some time to figure out.

Okay. Appreciate that. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Steve Emerson (36:48).

Thank you and congratulations on concluding the Stations joint venture. I'm a little surprised you're only going to announce 30-day production instead of IP?

Let me clarify. We will also announce IP rates.

Excellent.

We will just wait until we can also provide 30-day numbers, because we think the 30-day number is the minimum data point to start to look at the economics of these wells. We are planning a fairly robust IP result, including the first 50 minutes production that you can multiply through to get an early 24-hour rate, a true 24-hour rate, a seven-day number, et cetera, et cetera, and so we're going to put all the data out there and...

Well, if the rate...

So, I apologize if we – if we miscommunicated that we're only going to give you 30-day numbers.

Well, it would be great if you would take the more aggressive stance and announce a one-day rate IP. I'm sure you have your reasons, but it is not the most shareholder-friendly approach, as you know.

I think – I think it reflects our nature. We're a conservative group and we care about return on capital and long-term returns. And while I agree with you that there are other companies that have had success with aggressive reporting of early IP rates, that is a choice, it's not a right way or wrong way. And to our stated goal at the beginning of this call of the highest stock price over the long term, we want to report numbers that we think reflects the underlying economics of our wells. And I do not think you get that in 24 hours. This is a 30-year asset.

And there are no further questions at this time.

With that, thank you all for dialing-in. I appreciate the questions and look forward to updating you with operated well results in the next 60 to 90 days. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.