Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin Bliffen — Chief Financial Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jason A. Wangler — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike D. Kelly — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Jared R. Lewis — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Steve F. Berman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Jack N. Aydin — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Gabriele Sorbara — VP of E&P/Energy Research, Topeka Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Quarter One 2014 Triangle Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Rachel, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jon Samuels, Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We appreciate you taking the time to listen in. My name is Jon Samuels and I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer, Justin Bliffen. We have a lot of ground to cover today. We tried to give a lot of data in the press release. We're pleased with the quarter internally, numbers were ahead of our expectations, and are continuing to improve.

Justin will talk more about our financial result in a minute. More importantly, we want to spend a lot of time today talking about where we're going. We were excited about Q1 on the last day of the quarter. It felt like a big accomplishment internally, and already since then. Feels like our business has grown. As we try to illustrate in the press release, pretty much every aspect of our business is improving, production is up, costs are coming down. We're drilling wells faster. We're completing them more efficiently. Our EURs are increasing versus our internal model. We have one producing Three Forks well in our portfolio in McKenzie County and it continues to perform very well. It didn't have a flashy IP but it's displayed a much lower decline rate which gets us excited for the two incremental Three Forks test this year. We're beginning gas sales this week on our first operative pads which will make a meaningful impact to our bottom line.

RockPile's second spread is close to operational and our list of third-party customers continues to grow. Q2 is going to be a great quarter for them. And as you're all aware, the pumping environment remains competitive. But most importantly, RockPile is developing the reputation of excellent service quality, best in class, that's their goal and there are a lot of folks out there trying to pump. Not all of them have that level of service quality, and we think that will ultimately distinguish them in the end.

Caliber continues to make a lot of progress. We delivered fresh water for five wells this quarter and our salt water infrastructure is completely operational over the next couple months. You're going to see the rest of the pipeline systems come in, which will almost completely remove fluid handling via truck in our McKenzie County core area.

And as a general statement, we're pretty happy with our progress. We like to remind folks our E&P business is about 14 months old, RockPile is about nine months old, and Caliber is about three months old. This is the first financial period in which one profitable business did not have to subsidize the losses of a new business we've started up. You see the positive contribution from every business, and each of these businesses is set to grow.

A reminder for our strategy statement, our objective is to be the low-cost producer in the basin. We want to make money at the lowest possible oil price. We want to be sustainable over the long term. We believe the way we're going to do that is through vertical integration. We think you're finally starting to see that in our numbers and you're going to see more of that to come. And with that, I'll pass it over to Justin to review our financial results for the quarter.

Good morning. First I'll run through some quarter one fiscal 2014 stand-alone or business segment numbers. In Q1 fiscal year 2014 ending April 30, 2013, Triangle USA, our E&P business, generated revenue of $21.1 million, income of $9.3 million, and adjusted EBITDA of $14.9 million.

RockPile Energy Services generated stand-alone revenue of $26.9 million, income of $4.2 million, and adjusted EBITDA of $5.8 million. Net to our 30% interest, Caliber generated $0.9 million in revenue and $0.6 million in adjusted EBITDA.

The above segment EBITDA numbers do not include approximately $2.8 million in allocated corporate overhead costs of which $1.1 million of that is non-cash stock-based compensation. To clearly show how these business segments are organized and how revenues and expenses are allocated and eliminated between business units, please see note 3 of our consolidated financials as well as our press release which includes reconciliation tables.

Reporting on stand-alone business segments offers additional information for the shareholder. It adds transparency to how the respective businesses are performing and growing as well as providing a measure against previously stated stand-alone guidance.

Regarding the consolidated balance sheet and excluding the NGP convertible note, which we largely treat as preferred equity with a conversion feature, as of the end of Q1, we had approximately $55 million in cash and $77 million in debt of which $61 million is at Triangle USA and $18 million is at RockPile. As of the end of the quarter, Triangle USA's revolver had approximately $50 million of availability. This revolver will be quarterly redetermined for the next year, the next redetermination slated for mid-July.

On a consolidated basis, debt to EBITDA is less than 1.5 excluding the NGP note. We feel our leverage metrics are very manageable, considering we expect EBITDA to grow at a faster pace than drawdowns on the respective credit facilities. Our longer-term financing plans include accessing high-yield markets when we feel our businesses are far enough in the maturation process to garner a lower cost of long-term capital. Thank you.

Thanks, Justin. Those are the numbers you see in the press release. I mean, the high level thoughts from us as the management team are we're excited about the next nine months. We're seeing all these things fire, you're seeing the vertical integration come together and this is about cash-in, cash-out. We want every dollar that we put to work to earn the highest return on invested capital for shareholders.

And we recognize in the Bakken, our approach to that is different but we think you're going to see – the proof will be in the numbers and the numbers are coming and you're just getting a glimpse of that this quarter. So we're excited, the team is in place, morale is high, continuing to improve. We look forward to this call next quarter and the quarter after.

And with that, we'll turn it over to the operator to take Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you, sir. I do apologize. I stepped in for my colleague Rachel, briefly [Operator Instructions] Okay. So we do have a question for you. And this one is from the line of Jason Wangler at Wunderlich Securities. Please go ahead, Jason.

Good morning, guys. Just curious on the – you talked about the gas sales and then also obviously the current production the last 21 days of 4,300. Does that number have some of the flared gas in it currently, and if so, how much? And then do you have an idea of how much gas kind of incrementally we'll start to see coming on in the next few weeks and months?

Yes. We tried to balance that out and so getting away from the produced per sold number and that's narrowing as we talked about last quarter. So that 4,300 is a real number including gas that we expect to go online in the next week or two. Please don't take that number and just linear, we move it up. We're not upping our guidance for the year but that is...

Sure, okay. And then just on the cost saving side I guess with water in the oil hauling, do you have an idea what your LOE will kind of look like as we go through the next couple quarters when that's more fully integrated?

We'd be happy to talk about that more offline. I mean we're at about a $9 a barrel number right now and we're not prepared to give guidance that is coming down would probably be the conservative statement today.

Okay.

We really need to get those stuff hooked up and really make sure that our assumptions are right and we prefer to make sure we have our ducks in a row before we create expectations if that's fair.

No, that is and that make sense. I appreciate the help guys.

No problem.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities. Please proceed.

Hey, guys. Good morning.

Good morning.

Hey, just – I guess a follow up on Jason's questions there in terms of current production. You're not going to revise guidance up right now, but basically one month in your second fiscal quarter and you're now ahead of your full fiscal year guidance range of 3,600 to 4,000 BOE per day. Why not I guess bump it up from here?

The best analogy I could give I'll be like the Spurs after winning game one saying they're going to win the NBA Finals. We still got a lot of months to go and things happen in North Dakota and if you get to the mid part of the year and you're still in the same place, we would up it. But our objective from a guidance standpoint is to establish reputation of underpromising and overdelivering and until we know, we're going to materially be, we're going to stick with our current range.

Okay, fair enough. Question on the second frac fleet for RockPile, when do you expect to actually take delivery of that equipment and can you talk about your confidence in terms of having a backlog at third-party jobs to keep this fleet really fully utilized? Thanks.

Sure. The equipments in North Dakota and they've been staffing up and are training. So I think pushing the button on operations as I described is imminent.

In terms of the third-party backlog, they continue to add customers to their list this Q2 that we're in right now. They're pumping for two new customers that they've never pumped for before. They have gotten excellent feedback from their existing third-party customers and you just have to see how it goes. The pumping market is competitive out there and it is not a contract based market and it is not something where you're going to get guaranteed x number of wells over this period of time.

So our confidence level in RockPile keeping the second spread busy enough to make it a profit center, we have a lot of confidence in that. When the pricing environment bounces back, that remains to be seen. From our standpoint, we don't give a lot of thoughts to that because the same pricing trend that I'm talking about is one of the primary reasons why our AFE costs are coming down.

And so we're going to spend close to $300 million of drilling to completing wells this year and we feel like we can afford to wait. So our guidance to our RockPile management team is focused on quality, focused on safety, take care of your customers, when the market rebounds, that's when you'll be able to lock people down and they're executing on that, so we don't give a lot of guidance on it, and it's specifically because it's a tough component of our business to give guidance for. And then also this detracts focus away. I think we've all gotten a little away from what is the core focus of Triangle, we're an E&P company, we drill wells, we're producing oil, we're just trying lower the cost of that, and RockPile has the means to do that. But you look at the capital deployed, we have close to $400 million of equity we've taken in, including the NGP note and less than 7.5% of it went to RockPile and the balance has gone to midstream in E&P.

Good color, I'll jump back in the queue. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Jared Lewis with Northland Securities. Please proceed.

Good morning.

Just a little bit more on where you think you can get these well costs, you said you're not including the benefit of RockPile right now. Just – you kind of touched on it, but back half, do you think you can get these below, well below 10?

No, I mean I think we're 10 to 10.5 is our targeted range in the back half, I think when you've taken into account the benefit of RockPile and Caliber, you are below but we're trying to bifurcate so people can compare to apples to apples, what are our wells costing our E&P business and then value RockPile separately, which we think is the right way to do it.

So what we put in our press release was 10 to 10.5 and we believe that's achievable and we're going to stick by that and we think that's a pretty good number in McKenzie County where it is the deepest part of the basin, tighter rock as we've talked about and would expect proportionally lower cost in Williams County in shallower parts.

And just kind of on the guidance, I know the original CapEx budget was right around $250 million. Just kind of looking in the Q, you're up around $90 million for this, any revisions to that or some color on that?

Not at this time it's – there's kind of noise in that number. There's a lot what we know, we added a bunch of rigs and those are drilling wells and we didn't complete them. And then one of the rigs is getting laid down and the new ways have cost that carryover at year end and a bunch of fracs and then that'll be the same thing on this year end. So the wells that we drilled in December and January with our rigs won't get fracked until the next fiscal year and that was true with last year. So we feel pretty good about that right now.

Okay. Perfect. That's all I have right now. Thanks.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question is from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please proceed.

Good morning, Jon.

Good morning.

A question just on related to the Bakken. You talked about downspacing tests and in potential for up to eight middle Bakken wells per 1,280 and two to four in the Three Forks. The middle Bakken is tighter spacing than what I guess I've heard, can you provide a little bit more color on what you've seen or what the nature of those tests were to be able to throw out up to eight middle Bakkens per section or per...?

It's a good question I'm glad you asked it. We talked about our core projects in McKenzie County and it being the deepest part of the basin and I think something we shared on the thought process on our last call was our cost per well would be higher because it is the deepest part of the basin that's hotter. You need different grade tools and motors and all sorts of things like that, but for that same reason you're going to be able to achieve tighter spacing.

So, we're certainly not saying it's going to be eight wells per Bakken everywhere in the basin. But the tests we're seeing in McKenzie County, we're really talking about two separate tests where we have wellbores that are between 450 and 650 feet apart, ran chemical tracer through each stage with a distinct marker and had the production analyzed and have seen no communication problem from the two.

So that's why you see words like potential and indicate and possible, but these are real numbers and it is something that we're excited about. And when you start to think about downspacing on those levels, you really start to realize how much oil is in place here. And when you think about the traditional four Bakken, one Three Forks well per section, what that is in terms of a percentage or recovery oil in place and it's just very, very, very low. And you look at the history of other basins and, remember, the Bakken horizontal development is seven years old maybe.

Recovery rates are going to go up over time and this is – downspacing is just one element of that, long ways to go. Three Forks is another animal. But logistics have actually getting the wellbores in place. Those were all things to consider, but we felt comfortable enough with the data to update our shareholder base. We want people to take a look at what we have here, take a look at recent transactions of people buying acres right next door to us and what they're valued at and that really slapped us upside the head. We'll say that.

Right. And then can you also – I mean, this first – the remote frac that you've talked about, can you describe that process? It sounds like you can do it while the rig is still on location and – but that's also something that's new to me. How applicable is that as – across the basin in terms of being able to even with pad drilling kind of shorten the spud to first production?

Yes. Even going the other way, we don't have a lot of insight into how that technology will affect other people. But in terms of how it affects us, we want a pad drill, we want to be efficient. We want to fully develop the acres we have, the mental model that we've developed as a management team is you picture a rig, shows up on location, drills a well, finishes drilling that well, walks on its feet, 50 or 75 feet over and start drilling the next well.

On that pad, you don't have enough room for all your frac trucks and everything else. If you've seen any of the aerial photos of the frac job, you got a lot of people and equipment and everything else. So what we did successfully and safely in this operation was on the adjacent pad was where all the RockPile equipment was and you just ran a high-pressure line that was tested and connected to your wellhead. And so you're able to frac that well while you have a drilling rig running next door and a pretty great achievement for the guys.

I mean the most important thing for that is obviously safety and quality and went off without a hitch. So we were pretty excited about it. And the E&P guys and the RockPile guys really did a great job working together to make that happen and that gives us as a team a lot more optionality to batch complete. I mean you just save so much money when you complete two wells at once and logistically that can be difficult, just given the timing of the well being ready if you have a problem with one, et cetera. And so it's just another arrow in the quiver in terms of trying to lower costs, be more efficient, get our production profile consistent and predictable.

And how much of your acreage do you think is prospective to use that remote frac where you can have the side-by-side drilling pads?

Yes, I mean you can do it anywhere, right. I mean you just got to build a location and run a line. Every acre in the Bakken, you could do that with. You could – instead of putting the stuff on a pad, you could put it however far away you want to and feel you could do safely. I think it's really more of a function of how often do you need to do it and I would be surprised if we were doing that that more than a quarter of the time, but nevertheless it is a tool.

And it's interesting test for the future because if you had two rigs running on two separate pads right next door to each other, we also think there's a lot of benefits from reservoir development to fracking at the same time. I think we've talked about that in the past, how when you pump one stage, you've increased pressure in that area affected by the frac.

And so that when you frac the well next door to it, you have created a pressure barrier that's going to direct the new frac energy into a direction and touching fresh virgin rock which is a good thing. So you could also get to a scenario where you had two wells on two separate pads and RockPile is actually fracking four wells through one mobilization up, mobilization down. So, there are some interesting implications for the future. I wouldn't say we have it completely worked out. We've done it once and the primary mission was, let's do the safe way.

Okay, I have more but I'll get back in queue. Thanks.

Thanks, Ron.

Thank you. Your next question is from [indiscernible] (21:35). Please proceed.

You answered my question already. Thank you. Great explanation.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is from [ph] David Anderson of New Era Investors (21:46). Please proceed.

Hey, good morning, Jon. Congratulations to you and your team on another great quarter in executing on your plan you laid out two-and-half years ago.

Thanks, [ph] Dave (21:58).

You're welcome. I'm curious that you already talked about some of the things you're doing here in terms of technology and lower cost. One of the other things you mentioned here was the lightweight ceramic proppant, can you tell us a little bit more about what you're looking for there and what you're expecting out of that sort of test program?

Yes. I mean, the simple way to describe it is the pressures we experienced at our depth of the basin are higher pressures than the crushing strength of white sand and so you have to use a proppant. We've been going with what is kind of the Cadillac of proppants and has a cross-strength that's much higher than the pressures we're experiencing.

So the thought process is that the lighter weight the ceramic proppant is the less it cost. And so can you – in ideal world you want your profit just strong enough to last as long as you need it to but you don't pay for anymore than you need. And so it's testing applying that line and you know that'd be another couple hundred thousand dollars. And it's just something we want to explore and make sure it's going to work.

And is that applicable across most of what you're doing right now? Or any particular areas?

Well, I think it'd be highly applicable on our McKenzie County where our general stance internally is that where the strength of our proppant is higher than we need. The challenges is from a technical standpoint, quantifying that and figuring out exactly what you need.

So the implications are if you believe the downspacing test and it's 8 to 12 wells per 1,280 and you look at the number of wells we have to drill across 200 wells, a couple of hundred thousands of savings, that's – pull out our reserve report and run that through there. It could get very meaningful in a full scale development program. It's not something that's going to impact numbers in this year's 10-K. But I think what we're after here is unlocking all those oil in place and doing it in as lower cost as possible.

Our Chairman, Peter Hill, had been all over the world. This is his favorite basin, he's ever been in and he was with BP in Alaska when they discovered Prudhoe Bay and he looks at the estimates of recovery and he just thinks they're going to be multiples of what we think they are today. I think the lightweight proppant is just one tool to access those reserves that we own over there and as lower cost the way as possible, which makes them as economic as possible. And true to our mission statement of being the low cost producer and low cost commodity. Every dollar you can save your development cost, it's a dollar more profits when oil comes out of the ground.

Great. So last question then on that same vein is Caliber is up and running with your salt water disposal. How has that performed here in its first month in terms of your expectations operationally as well as lowering the cost you have on the disposal?

It's just – it comes down to leakage and do you send that cash flow out the door to someone else or do you retain it for shareholders and redeploy it. So our disposal well that we have drilled in our pumping into, I think it's doing something like 5,000 or 6,000 barrels of salt water disposal per day. I think that might be one of the more productive salt water disposal wells in the county and definitely a lot more capacity there.

So right now, we're using third-party trucks in some occasions to haul our salt water to facilities into the pipeline is up, Caliber pipelines under the Caliber facility and we're probably only about 50% on the way of really capturing all of the economics and removing trucks.

It's going to be a pretty amazing thing when we're developing wells in McKenzie County and the only trucks you needed to haul proppant really and in terms of hauling commodities. All the fluid will go through pipelines. So it's coming along. It's on time. It's on budget. It's meeting expectations or slightly ahead and we're happy with the direction.

Perfect, great. That's all I had. Thanks. Keep it up.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is from Steve Berman of Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed.

Thanks. Good morning. Jon, one follow-up to Ron's remote frac question, is it too soon to quantify the kind of savings you could see on that type of program going forward?

Yes, I think it is and I don't know if it's a cost savings measure because you actually are spending money for that high pressure line you're running. It's more of an acceleration of completing wells which – that's one of the problems with the pad drilling and ideally you park a rig and you drill four wells, but the problem is the on the rigs on location on our past model, you got to wait four months to frac into those wells and so there may be some cost applications, but I think it's more of an enabler of a pad drilling program, if that makes sense.

And is that something that really could work the best in a say, bad weather environment during the winter as opposed to any other time out there, was that any part of your thinking?

Yes, I think there are a lot of difficult to quantify but tangible benefits in terms of the optionality you have. My general sense is if the RockPile trucks can't move location you're going to have problems getting proppant to location. And we wish we could proppant in the pipeline, but that's just never going to happen so hesitate to go a little too far with how far you could apply this but I think the best way to think about it now is potential accelerator completions on a pad drilling program.

Got it. And one more of this hybrid 46 stage completion. Can you talk a little bit more about that and what you see on that possibility going forward if doing more wells like that?

Yes, I mean on the stages, you're just increasing the number of unique ports and entry points to pump fluid and proppant into rock and the more rock you stimulate, the more oil you get back, it's a good rule of thumb. We've been doing a 100% plug and perf and think about our – the design of our wellbores particularly in McKenzie, where it's deep, you're down 10,500 feet-ish and then you're drilling out 10,000 feet.

So the end of that wellbore is really, really far away and what that means through the – for the plug and perf method in the toe of the well, it's really a long process to complete it and a difficult and expensive process to drill those plugs out and if you don't drill the plugs out, you're got a restricted flow rates coming back.

So the hybrid is basically putting sleeves in the toe because there's not a large number of sleeves relative to 100% sliding sleeve job, you avoid all the problems of the declining size of the hole which can accidentally open early stage and you can lose pieces of well and those other issues.

So, in the toe, were very efficient with the sliding sleeve and then we got to plug-and-perf where your wireline runs and ultimately, your drill out runs are shorter and again, it's just targeting what's the most effective from an F&D cost perspective to develop the reservoir.

I mean there's tradeoffs you can spend money, more money and get more oil. The question is are you getting enough to just about a return on capital. And so, I think this is a step in that direction that save some time, save some cost, and you're also going to save us time on the back side in terms of the drill out flow, I mean, the well is online through more days in its first 90 days and that means better production profiles that you see on the NDIC report.

A lot of those numbers on there, they don't really you when wells are shut in. So there's a number of angles that comes out and we're happy with the results in the first one and they're going to continue to explore this application.

Okay, great. Thanks, Jon.

Sure.

Thank you. Your next question is from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Good morning, Jon.

Good morning, Jack.

I have couple of question. When following a little bit on Ronald's question, your well costs in the McKenzie 10 to 10.5, is that also factored in some of this remote trucking well saving or you have nothing in it for that?

Yes. I'm glad you asked that, Jack. We don't really see the remote fracking as a big cost saving center as much as it is an acceleration of completion for the 10 and 10.5, the decreases, general decreasing cost in the Williston Basin, our guys are getting our drill times down and every day the rig is turning, you're paying diesel, you're paying people, the sliding sleeve hybrid. So that's where the cost reductions are coming in and it's probably best to think of the remote frac as it just allowed us to frac a well a lot sooner than we would, which is why production is a little higher than maybe we all expected.

Yes. Second question I have, you drilled and completed five gross wells in the first quarter. If all of those the contribution from those wells is in that 4,300 barrels a day that you are running right now?

I don't have an answer directly for that, because the wells that we complete in the quarter, some of them rolled from the past quarter and some of the wells you drill in this quarter rolls to the next one. And the completion schedules are really driven, trying to be driven by efficiency and when wells are ready sometimes you're pad drillings sometimes you're not. I'd be happy to talk to you offline in more details if you'd like about specifically which wells we drilled when but we don't have an answer for you.

Okay. How about the third rig, when did you get the third rig and how many wells you might be drilling and completing in the second and third quarter as going forward?

I'll pass it over to Justin and probably best to think about this in the context of our full year guidance that's what we have.

Yes. So we drilled – the first question was the third rig when it came on. It came on about 75 days ago, ballpark, give or take a few days and we will be running three full time rigs for the balance of the year, Jack. We also brought on and we mentioned this on our previous call and there's a line in our press release as well today. We brought on a fourth rig, a part-time rig, that's going to be on for a period of months and that is basically to have us catch up and maintain and make our end-of-year guidance. That was always in the budget and there's no change to anything that we put out previously.

Okay. Final question, on the RockPile, can you give us an indication how is the margin holding or cost per stage is running for third party versus fourth quarter in a way?

Yes, we'll give you a brief answer and then we'd be happy to take it offline and talk in more detail. We really want to try and keep the focus on this call and future calls on the E&P business and the cost saving it provides and take third party calls offline.

The simple answer is it's an impossible comparison to make because RockPile, they do 30 stage all ceramic, plug-and-perf jobs for us that take a week. They do sliding sleeve 100% sand jobs for other people that they're doing in 24 hours. If you look at the cost per stage unless you can answer what type of proppant was used, what type of completion methodology, how deep the reservoir was, what the pressure was, how much fluid did they pump down, is it a slick water or a gel? There's a lot of noise in a kind of simple revenue per stage and it really doesn't – is not an indicator of profitability either. Utilization and number of stages are ultimately we're going to do it. So, we'd be happy to talk to you more about it after the call if you like.

Appreciate the color, Jon. Thanks.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Gabriele Sorbara of Topeka. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning. In your opening remarks, you mentioned EURs are improving, could you provide some color around that?

Yes. It's just – we put up the 30, 60, 90-day numbers on our website. You see them on the NDIC as well or some of the outsourced data aggregators. And we'd started with a conservative model internally, 500 to 550, and you're just seeing well performance, in any case, it's much higher. Also as our LOE costs come down, the wells remain economic for longer. So that's another driver when we run our Bakken wells through our Aries database, and at the day the production generates less dollars than it does LOE expense, you turn the well off.

As the costs come down and pipelines get hooked up, LOE comes down and you're producing them for longer so it's coming from a number of factors. But the most important one is we're just getting more oil out of the same wellbore as we figure out our regional geology and tinker with the recipe, if you will.

Okay, great. And that range you provided, the 500 to 550, and you said EUR is currently much higher, is that from McKenzie County or also taking into consideration some wells in Williams?

We have a lot more data in McKenzie so our bias from a data sampling standpoint is going to be towards McKenzie County.

Okay, great. Thank you for the color.

Welcome.

Thank you. Final question comes from the line of Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please proceed.

Thanks, Jon. Just one question on I guess a follow up a little bit on Jack's question but when you add this – once this second frac spread and wireline is fully operational, how should we think about trying to model it in terms of Triangle operated activity versus outside-operated activity as we – I know you provide the data in your 10-Q and also just what the EBITDA numbers are, but how should we think about modeling it from a presentation standpoint of Triangle versus third-party operated to try to hone in on your report metrics?

Absolutely. I mean the second spread is only going to work for third parties. Triangle with a number of rigs running, we don't have a number for more than one spread.

Right.

And the thing is kind of just – you're about to flip on the switch and turn it on, right? So it's tough to model. We'd really rather take RockPile accounting and RockPile third-party questions offline, if that's okay.

That's fine. I'll follow up with you all out there after the call. Thank you so much.

Thank you. There are no further questions. [Operator Instructions] Okay, there are no further messages. I'd now like to pass back over to Jon Samuels for closing remarks.

I'd like to thank everyone for joining. I wish you all a great day and look forward to chatting with the next quarter. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that now concludes your conference call for today. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Good day.