Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin J. Bliffen — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jared R. Lewis — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Mike D. Kelly — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Dan E. McSpirit — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Eli J. Kantor — Analyst, IBERIA Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Triangle Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jonathan Samuels, President and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone and welcome. We appreciate you taking the time to listen in. My name is Jon Samuels, I'm the President and CEO of Triangle. And I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer, Justin Bliffen. Before we begin, I'd like to point everyone to our forward-looking statements disclosure in our press release or presentation on our website.

As I think you can see in our press release, our business is growing across the board. Current production is up at our core E&P business and ahead of our expectations. With approximately 7,400 barrels of oil equivalent per day production, we are on track to meet a revised production guidance number of 7,500 BOE to 8,500 BOE a day for the year. As a reminder, we define our exit rate as a 21-day average, ended January 31. So about three weeks of average production, not a single day. So volumes are up significantly from the same period last year and quarter-over-quarter. We are realizing an increase in our productivity per rig and modifications to our completion design are resulting in wells with better EURs and lower capital expenditures.

We continue to see the value of down spacing as test show better results than we had expected. Over 60% of operator producing wells are connected to gas sales. Our completion techniques are improving and we are seeing some great results this last quarter. We reduced the gel pumped into our wells by 50% by utilizing slick water flushes, which result in less gel damage in the formation and a lower cost. We increased our pump rates to 30 barrels per minutes from the previous 24 to increase our stimulated rock volume. And we are currently working on two separate cemented liner test to increase isolation between perf clusters within individual stages. So lot of exciting things on the completion side of things over the next couple of months.

We have high capacity utilization in our RockPile Energy Services business and we see huge runway for growth ahead. RockPile completed nine Triangle wells and continues to grow its third party business with 19 jobs for the third quarter and a healthy backlog. RockPile will bring on its third frac spread in the coming months as demand for quality services in the Williston Basin continues to remain high. Wireline Services performance is strong and Pump Services continues to build momentum. We're continuing to see the strategic value of Caliber Midstream which currently has over 75 miles of pipe in the ground and successfully delivered water to eight Triangle fracs.

Caliber continues to make significant progress towards the build-out of its system with the gas plant expected to come online in early 2014. Caliber also executed its first third-party contract in October and continues to pursue numerous additional third-party opportunities.

As a management team, we're excited about the quarter and the robust progress of our three businesses. A reminder of our strategy statement, we are 100% focused on the Bakken. Our objective is to be the low cost producer in the Williston Basin. We want to make money for our shareholders regardless of oil prices. We want to be sustainable and profitable over the long-term. We feel strongly that our vertically integrated model allows us to execute our strategy.

And with that, I'll pass it over to Justin to review our financial results for the quarter.

Good morning. I will walk through the financial results for Q3 fiscal 2014, ending October 31, 2013. As Jon mentioned Triangle USA, our E&P and core business grew quarterly sales volumes to 626,000 BOE, 390% growth year-over-year. This would represent average daily production over the quarter of approximately 6,800 BOE per day, which is up nearly 60% from the previous quarter.

Triangle USA generated revenue of $55.5 million and adjusted EBITDA of $40.5 million. This is tracking well ahead of our previously stated guidance of $46 million to $50 million of revenue and $32 million to $36 million of EBITDA in Q4 of this fiscal year. Triangle spent approximately $79 million in consolidated operated and non-operated drilling and completion CapEx during the quarter, which includes nearly $12 million in intercompany eliminations from RockPile and Caliber.

RockPile Energy Services are wholly-owned pressure pumping subsidiary, generated standalone revenue of $66 million, adjusted EBITDA of $13 million. This is also tracking well ahead of previously stated business segments standalone guidance of $58 million to $64 million in revenue and $12 million to $15 million in EBITDA for Q4 for RockPile. In October, RockPile completed its acquisition of Team Well Services Inc., an operator of three well service rigs in North Dakota in exchange for approximately $9 million.

Caliber Midstream Partners are 30% owned joint venture generated $1.2 million in revenue and $600,000 in adjusted EBITDA, back to our 30% interest. On a consolidated basis, after elimination of intercompany profits related to Caliber's services to Triangle USA, we did not recognize income or loss from our equity investment for the three and nine month period ending October 31, 2013. As I've stated before, standalone business segment reporting offers a clear snapshot of discrete business performance, provides a measure against previously stated standalone guidance.

Allocation and elimination details can be found in note three of our consolidated financials. If the respective business segments performance continue at this pace for the remainder of the fiscal year and ending January 31, we expect to meet and likely exceed all of our previously released fiscal year 2014's standalone guidance, without any increase in our CapEx budget.

On a consolidated basis, our basic earnings per share, was $0.22 for Q3 fiscal 2014. When adjusted for non-cash and non-recurring items, which includes the mark-to-market derivative gain of $2.1 million, we earned adjusted net income per basic share of $0.19. It is important to note, on a consolidated basis, RockPile and Caliber has saved Triangle, nearly $30 million in well cost year-to-date.

We tapped multiple sources of capital over the past quarter, primarily to fund resold acquisitions in our expanded E&P drilling program. Sources included public and private equity of approximately $180 million, as well as $110 million quarterly increase in our Triangle USA reserve base credit facility. By quarter end, we had over $100 million in cash and $130 million in revolver availability, that's between RockPile and Triangle USA. The next Triangle USA revolver determination will be in January 2014.

Excluding the NGP note, which is convertible into shares of common stock at $8 per share, we have approximately $170 million in debt, leverage metrics improved over the period to 1.1 times, total debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA, from 1.2 times in Q2 fiscal 2014, excluding the NGP note. We continue to use zero cost collars and now swaps to provide more certainty around price realizations.

As of the quarter end, we had 4,300 barrels hedged for the balance of fiscal year 2014, with a volume weighted average floor of approximately $88.30 and a ceiling of $103.50. For fiscal 2015, we had approximately 3,300 barrels a day hedged with volume weighted average floors of approximately $85 and ceilings of $100.

Overall, the three business segments continued to outperform and cash generated by each will allow us to reinvest in growth without sacrificing our disciplined approach to our balance sheet. In January, we anticipate releasing our fiscal year 2015 budget and guidance figures to provide insight into next year's plans.

With that, I'll hand it back over to Jon.

Thanks, Justin. We'll open up for questions in a minute. As a management team, we continue to be excited about the growth we see and continue to see in the future. As a reminder, we're focused on building value over the long-term and really look at our business what it's going to be like 12 months from now, 18 months from now. And as we go through our budgeting process and planning process for next year, which is not quite done yet, all three businesses can double during that 12 to 18 month time period, and that's what we're focused on achieving, that's how we think we create value. So, a lot of exciting things going on. The Williston Basin remains a tough place to operate, its temperature something like negative 20 degrees right now. That makes life on the ground tough, but we're committed. We show up to work every day and we've a great team that does the same thing. So, we're excited about the future and appreciate taking time to listen in.

With that, we can turn it over, back to the operator for questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Jared Lewis of Northland Securities. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

I was wondering just on RockPile just looking at Q2 to Q3, you just kind of look at a – on a standalone margin basis, the percentage went – is down. Could you just give a little detail on maybe your pricing environment or what you're seeing that might have accounted for that?

Yeah. Actually the numbers don't really tell the truth, because we had a number of new business lines starting up. We brought on our second frac spread. We brought on wireline. There is a bunch of business segments that are expanding. And you have to staff up ahead of that, you need to train people, you need to get equipment tested and online. So, what you see in Q3 is a lot of overhead costs that we can't allocate to any well, so they end up on our income statement, they didn't generate revenue, and that's just pure build for the future. So, I certainly understand where the question is coming from, but the numbers actually hide what is very positive trend in that business, pricing is stable to up in some of their cases, with some of their customers, and overall they're doing well.

So, going forward, you'd just see kind of back to that Q2 kind of mid-20 type level?

I mean, it's kind of going to be one step back, two steps forward over-and-over again, because we have our third frac spread on order, that's going to come online in the first three months or four months of next year. So, you're going to have start-up cost related to that. So, I mean I think, as you'd see with any high growth business, you're going to see costs due to head count and other ahead of the revenue coming. So, I think, you continue to see improvement in that business overall.

Now you have to mindful that Q4 – our Q4 is the months of November, December and January, which are very, very tough operating months in North Dakota. And when it gets cold enough, you take your guys out of the field. You're still paying them while there are sitting inside somewhere warm before they work again. So, we don't want to sit here today and say Q4 immediately goes back to that, but I think if you project forward and compare year-over-year what next year's Q2 look like, we would expect it to be better than the past one, if that makes sense. So, just want to caution people against, there is seasonality in the business and if you don't take that into account sometimes it would not look great.

Okay. That helps. And I guess on a follow-up, that was kind of reflected in an increase in the G&A from Q2 to Q3 going from 7 to 10.5 or thereabouts.

Yeah. I mean that's again built for...

Yeah.

These other business lines and equipment. And this quarter, to be honest from our perspective is a little noisy, because costs are higher than what you would see. And if we're running this business for profitability of this quarter it would be a very different outcome, but we're building the infrastructure and the people to where I think it's going to be next year, which is double where it is now.

Excellent. Thank you. That's helpful. Appreciate it.

And our next question will come from Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks guys. Good morning. Hey, Jon, I know we got a pretty small sample size right now of your latest wells here with these kind of tweak completion approaches, but just hoping we could dive into that a little bit further here because, your latest four to five wells with 60-day, 90-day rates are significantly higher than what you have posted previously. And just want to get your sense on how repeatable is this and what this ultimately means for kind of an incremental uptick to EURs and just ultimate rates of return? Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks for the question, Mike. We're increasing the efficiency of our completions and you could define that really as the barrels you get out of the ground per dollar spent. So, you can drop cost get the same, recover more, spend more. That's ultimately what drives returns and that's the way we think about and the general trend is very, very positive. So, I guess you're mining the NDIC and get on you for pulling that out. I mean, you're right our wells are getting a lot better. We will not stop to talk about it because we don't think we're done. One of the big things we're trying right now is cemented liner and we're literally flowing back and have been through seven days on that first test, which doesn't put us in the position of wanting to just talk about the results.

We can tell you directionally that our well performance is getting much better than it was a year ago and then it was six months ago, and we're spending less. So, I'm really talking both sides and as we learn more about our part of the basin and we're in a unique area where completion designs that people were using in other parts of the basin, be it slickwater, be it 20/40 white sand, that's not optimal for our area. The benefit we're going to get out of our area is we think our down spacing potential is much, much higher than lot of other places. So, we're going to get a lot of wells in middle Bakken and a lot of wells in Three Forks, and the wells are getting better. So in terms of actual EURs that's the top one because you want to get some production down, you want to see what the tail looks like and that ultimately you need your third-party engineer to come in and agree with you. The trend is definitely very, very positive.

Great. That's helpful. Thank you. And then just switch gears a little bit. Just I was hoping to get just kind of a step-back and take a look at Caliber, and I think your September press release there, you talked about really first reserve upping their commitment to it and putting out some pretty exciting expansion details there too. Just, we've got the EBITDA guidance for what that business looks like this year, but just if you could frame it to what Caliber could really look like a couple of years out where you've gotten 50,00 barrel pipeline fully up and running, processing plants out. What does this look like in terms of its EBITDA potential and maybe just help with the timing of that too? Thank you.

Yeah. I mean, you look at this year's guidance, you look at next year's guidance and Caliber is the business line that we've put our guidance for next year. There is no third-party revenue in any of those numbers. And infrastructure is the name of the game particularly in the winter months in the Williston Basin. So, I mean we take a view of that over time Caliber will achieve similar results to what RockPile has achieved. And it took RockPile, if you guys remember, when we're on this call last year, they were just starting to get some traction with third parties and then you fast forward to this quarter and they are doing twice many jobs for other people as they're for us, so not quite bad, but directionally you know what I mean.

So, the key for Caliber in the third-party business is getting their system online and running because if you drill a third-party customer, why do you want to commit to a system that isn't online yet. So, longwinded preamble to answering your question, which is we think there is a lot of upside to the Caliber numbers now. How do you quantify that? We don't know what other people in the basin are going to do. I can tell you that if we achieved just the half capacity utilization of the existing system that's already being build EBITDA on an as is basis goes over $100 million, and that is not a big stretch to get there and you would still have spare capacity in the pipeline. So, the earning power of this – of the Caliber business and the Caliber system is quite large.

But, we have to go out and execute. We have to get the plant online, the pipe in the ground and Caliber has to go prove what RockPile has successfully done which is that they are a reliable third-party service provider to other operators in the business and that's not just something that only serves the needs to Triangle, which is not the case for other business, but there's only one way to approve that and that's, you've got to go out and do it. So, we're excited. I mean Caliber I think is the most – it's a right way to frame it. It's so early in the development. It's hard to put a value on it, but it has the most upside of any piece of our portfolio, relative to current expectations, you could say. So, it's something that we're getting a lot of interest in. If you guys follow the infrastructure in an LPE markets, there's really been three transactions in the Williston Basin, that's Bear Tracker, Arrow and Saddle Butte, all getting acquired at a quite generous multiples relative to what used to in E&P. If we get six or seven times next year's EBITDA, we're pretty happy. These are businesses that's trade at 15 times, 20 times and when you pay a growth premium, some of these transactions are 20 times to 30 times that quarter. So, the upside in Caliber is huge and we're 30% owner of that. You got to keep in mind that we have a warrant package of Triangle that can make us up to 50% owners of that business overtime. So, it is exciting.

Great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Our next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Hey, Jon. I might just ask one of the questions on the wells. Just a little bit more, I mean maybe a detailed question. But your 30-day, 60-day and 90-day rates on your most recent nine wells you've completed during the quarter are 40% to 50% plus higher than your prior 29 wells. How does that compare with the kind – I guess, trying to compare how you forecast or what EURs as you're using for forecast standpoint versus that kind of performance because the important thing is it's even holding up over the 60-day and 90-day rates. I'm assuming that's partly what's driving the well performance and the production which you had during the quarter and the exit rate. Those changes – do you know which are those changes will probably more impactful for those – for those rates?

Yeah. So, Ron, good question. Absolutely, as Jon alluded to on his previous question, wells are getting better. The engineers are doing what engineers do figure out ways to do it faster, better, increase reservoir optimization and also at cheaper well cost. Now, we are putting this data on our web page, 30-day, 60-day, 90-day numbers for every well, completed is very transparent and that is updated quarterly on our webpage.

To your question, yeah, we're increasing the model. I think in the past we have always met and beat our guidance that we put out there, and that's because we strive for accuracy with a touch of conservatism. Just like as differentials, our crude oil price change and we have to tweak the model. As our EURs are going up, we are considering tweaking the model higher. I can say guidance that's been out there is probably on a lower EUR well than what we will be putting into the model for next year.

Yeah. I mean, Ron, one of the biggest things is you're going to have EURs, and then you also have downtime, and one of the big drivers of productivity. We've talked before about the trade-off in terms of when you drill your down spacing well, sooner is better. One of the downsides to that is when you go re-occupy a pad, you're producing well or wells are going to be shut in.

I know.

And then that's a tough thing for us to model. So we're trying to balance out our financial guidance, our production and we're trying to do the best thing for the reservoir long term, safety through HSE has to come first. And so, we're probably more conservative than we need to be in terms of shutting in wells, but that's the right thing to do because we're actually going to host an Analyst Day next summer and then have you guys all up in the field, I think in July and you can see it. But when you have two or three wells producing and a drilling rig on that location, there's a lot going on. So...

Can you explain a little bit about how the process of the simultaneous operations and that was a pretty big impact on this quarter alone, but how that helps soften that or smooth that impact out going forward?

Yeah. I mean, if you drill three wells, frac them and those are producing, nine months later you expect each of those wells to be doing – sell 200, 300 barrels a day a piece, that's a gross number. So, I mean, if you put a drilling rig back on that location, I would say over the next three to six months you should expect 30 to 60 days of downtime that those wells aren't producing and that adds up. So, the sign offs does have a benefit of smoothing out and that was, we talked about it last quarter about our remote fracs and how that allowed us to continue producing while we completed down spacing wells and I think our team has done a great job of improving that. You saw this quarter, we put that in the press release, something like 500 or 600 barrels more produced in the quarter because of us tweaking the design, but a lot of this is new to us and it's new to everyone else. When you talk about the other operators out there that are doing this, we haven't been doing it that long as an industry in the Williston Basin. And so, there is still learning to be done and we're kind of cautious about it.

And you've mentioned a couple of times, the down spacing. What are you testing now in terms of the way you're laying out these pads in terms of potential spacing whether it be via Bakken and/or upper Three Forks and your thoughts on the lower benches?

Yeah. I mean, our – we continue to test 600-foot spacing for the middle Bakken and I've seen no communication. And we've recently tested the Three Forks and fracked two wells that were offset on the same spacing and saw no communication. So, we don't have production results from those Three Forks tests, but from a spacing standpoint, we saw no communication.

Regarding the lower Three Forks, I think you got to remember in our area, we've talked about the lower Bakken dolomite and we see that as a productive zone and we see the upper Three Forks as a productive zone. I don't think you're going to get lower Three Forks in our area, but you still have the same number of opportunities because if you can put six wells to eight wells in the lower Bakken dolomite and however many wells in the upper Three Forks, that's kind of achieving the same thing. You have three targets, middle Bakken, lower Bakken, dolomite, upper Three Forks. Other operators, other areas of the basin, they're going to have middle Bakken, upper Three Forks, lower Three Forks. So a lot of this goes to how much rock sits between the lower shale, which is a prolific source and other factors about where you are.

So, what we say in our operations meetings is each month that goes by, our inventory increases even though we're drilling wells, and the reason we say that is because each month that goes by, we got a new data point and a new test. We realize we have a lot more wells to drill than we thought a month ago or two months ago and increase in that number is a larger number than the number of wells we drilled the past month. So, it continues to be on trend with what you're hearing from pretty much everyone in the basin consistently now, which is they're going to get a lot of wells on the 1,280 when you go out 10 years, 20 years.

I've a couple more, but I'll get back in queue. Thanks.

And our next question will come from Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Folks, good morning.

Good morning, Dan.

What is the cost of a frac spread today versus, say, when you first got into the business?

Maybe 7% to 10% less.

Okay.

I am shying a little bit away from dollar terms, because it's cheaper to bring on your third spread than it is the first one where you need everything.

Right, right. And can...

So, I am thinking in terms of like the marginal cost of the spread, which was different than if we went out and priced out everything and that includes your infrastructure, your building, your – we have a parts van that goes around and services everything. When you get a third spread, you don't need another one of those.

Got it, understand. And then, as a follow-up, can you sketch for us the market size and the opportunity for work-over activity in the basin? I ask, maybe in an effort to better define the maturity of the basin and what that could mean for recovery methods other than primary, if that make sense?

Yeah. I think, you had a couple of question in there, so, let me – I'll try and answer it, and if I don't get all, let me know, then I'll give it another crack. But, I mean, for the work-over business, one of the reasons we love that is that's tied to well count in the basin versus rig count. So, today, I don't know you got 8,000 to 10,000 producing wells in North Dakota, more in Montana. And based on the current rig count this year, industry is going to add about 2,000 wells to that, and well count will be the driver of work-over business. So, in the downsize scenario where the drilling rigs go away, you repeat 2008 or 2009, for example, work-over rigs remain busy. So, that's sort of a steady state business for us. The $9 million acquisition is not huge relative to the market capitalization of Triangle on the aggregate, but it is a building block to add to, and then I think you sort of asked another question about secondary recovery and the like. Did I hear that right or you'll repeat it?

Correct.

You're not repeating that piece of your question, please.

Yeah, which is I had to ask a question about the work-over activity just in an effort to kind of better define in what stage the industry is in developing the Bakken and Three Forks in the basin? And maybe what that could mean in the out periods for recovery benefits other than primary, secondary or other?

Yeah. This is my opinion. Justin might have a different one. Our Chairman, Peter Hill, would have a different one, and other companies would have a different one, but I think we're in the second or third inning compared to a baseball game, which is very, very early. I mean the vast majority of 1,280s in the Williston Basin have zero, one or two wells in it.

Right.

Relative to the data points you hear. So just like you see, revivals in places like the Permian, the Bakken is only six years or seven years old and what the completion designs that that Brigham really pioneered a couple of years ago are only three years to four years and do it. So that's dangerous to bet against technology and to try and put a cap on it and our internal view is there is going to be much more over time, although they are going to be bumps in the road. People are going to try things that won't work, try something else that will work, things that work, you got to then work on the per unit cost and make economic sense, and that will be the trend over time. But our kind of view is E&P is a great technology leader. It's one of the big bright spots of the energy economy in the United States and it's kind of on the Moore's law curve up. It's getting better.

Right. Got it.

When you start to hear some stuff about other operators and we don't talk about their businesses, but people trying CO2 floods and water floods and other things, and we leave it to those companies to talk about their business, their part of the basin, but you haven't even started to touch on secondary.

Right. Understand. Thanks, again.

Yeah.

Our next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Just a follow-up on something else you mentioned. Jon, in terms of November to January and the weather, the recent weather, has there been any impact on any of the operations at this point? Or I'm assuming that Caliber helps offset some of the weather that's come in there so far?

I think Caliber is going to help offset some production operations, and we have a lot more storage or essential battery, and so you have more swing. But our crude oil still touches a truck at some point in its value chain and – I don't care what you tell someone when it's negative 20 degrees outside, it's tougher to do anything. So yeah, I mean, I got to think it's slower up there and we also want people to be safe. You got to slowdown, you got to drive slower, or everything slows down. So I don't think that changes our financial guidance for the quarter or the year end or gives us any concern about hitting our exit rate far from it, but that's life in the Williston Basin. It's one of the reasons the opportunity exists in our business model.

Right. And then, can you remind us in terms of the marketing of your crude, what are your current price realizations relative to WTI given the Clearbrook price points widened out now? How much do you sell your pipeline via rail and how are yours currently – how is your crude currently priced via WTI? Because most people there are achieving high realizations than what Clearbrook would suggest, just trying to give a better sense of Triangle.

Right now, it's moving towards around a $14 differential off of WTI. So it has widened out. We've seen this before. The dip is noisy and volatile. What I can say is as Caliber continues to build out its network and its system. The dynamics will shift over the coming year. As you can imagine, when you have a number of wells, that are over a large 200 square mile footprint, feeding volumes to one truck-loading delivery point, we have some negotiating leverage in dealing with some of the trucking companies. So that works to our advantage now. And then of course in the future, Caliber will be building takeaway up to – interstate takeaway up in Alexander and beyond. So moving those hydrocarbons down the critical part of the hydrocarbon highway, which is that gathering and transportation up in the Bakken is an extensive and piece of it, which Caliber will start to control. But right now $14 diff is what we're experiencing.

Is that – or some of those benefits factored into – either Jon and Justin, you talked about eventually or potentially generating $100 million plus of EBITDA in Caliber in terms of the build out of that system?

Caliber just gets paid to transport a molecule from A to B.

Right.

They don't own any commodity price risk. So that's just pure transportation charges. Now that transportation charge that our E&P business or other E&P customers pay that's getting a barrel further down the hydrocarbon highway, closer to the interstate takeaway. So if you eliminate a truck, you put oil in a truck, you're going to have shrinkage, you're going to vent to atmosphere, you're going to have accidents, drivers on road. So, I think you're going to see margins improve in Triangle. The E&P side is going to have a much better marketing clout. We're going to have more barrels in a centralized place in connection to the pipeline a lot of optionality as the system gets built out, but the differential – Caliber is immune to the differential, Caliber doesn't care.

Right. And then lastly, what are – you mentioned cost improvements as well, what are your current wells running from a cost standpoint and where are those down from?

It depends on what well on a pad you're talking about. The first well is still going to be $11 million something like that. The third and fourth wells are going to be down to $10 million. And that's just because we're building our pads to hold 8 to 12 wells. So, besides that way, we have flow lines for it, all the connections, tanks, et cetera. Something like a 10% cost decrease, and that's before any benefit from RockPile, Justin already mentioned, that RockPile saved us $30 million today, which is another 10%, 15%. Caliber hasn't even gotten started yet.

Right. All right, guys. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from Eli Kantor of IBERIA Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Good morning.

What pieces of the RockPile business are included in your fourth quarter standalone guidance? And what kind of contribution would you expect from those units or business lines that are excluded or are yet to come online?

Yeah, we don't have – we're not prepared to kind of break that out right now. I mean, the second spread is up and running, so that's obviously going to be factored into our Q4 numbers. But to be honest, we'd rather take that question offline.

Okay. In the operated well results table you posted on your website, how many of those wells targeted Three Forks? And do you see any difference in productivity between Three Forks wells and offsetting middle Bakken wells?

Yeah, we only have one Three Forks well that has made it into the presentation online, I believe. I'm trying to think about what wells are on confidential status and what wells aren't. We have the one Three Forks well, wasn't in our best completion on it and you're seeing a lower EUR there. We don't think that's necessarily indicative of what you're going to get out of that in the future. I thought that table said whether it's middle Bakken or Three Forks, but I might be mistaken. Yeah, that's a good point. We'll update that.

Okay, that's all I have. Thanks, guys.

Sure.

And our next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

And Justin, just from a RockPile standpoint, Triangle operator represented 32%, 33% of the third quarter activity. Given your activity levels and with the two spreads right now, is that still a pretty good representation of Triangle versus on-op activity for RockPile or how do you foresee that changing going forward?

I mean, Ron, I'll take this. I mean Triangle as a percent of jobs and as a percent of revenue, is going to continue to shrink over time. RockPile's long-term target is that Triangle is less than 30% from a revenue basis. The leading edge months for RockPile's, so you take the month of October in Q3 is much, much better than the first month of that quarter, and that's really the second spread getting online and then going to 24-hour operations. And so, the leading edge is much better than the quarter indicates.

But make no mistake, I mean, the goal of RockPile is to get Triangle down to, frankly, as low of contribution margin as possible. That's what going to drive the most value for that business in an exit scenario.

Right, understood. Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude our question-and-session. I would like to turn the conference over to Jonathan Samuels, for his closing remarks.

Thank you all for your time. Appreciate you listening in and look forward to visiting with you next quarter. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.