Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin J. Bliffen — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Peter Kissel — Senior Equity Analyst, Howard Weil
Steve F. Berman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Jared R. Lewis — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Dan E. McSpirit — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Jason A. Wangler — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Brian D. Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Co. International
Stuart J. Gillespie — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Eli J. Kantor — Analyst, IBERIA Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Triangle Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Erica and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]

I will now like to turn the call over to Jon Samuels, Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone and welcome. We appreciate you taking the time to listen in. My name is Jon Samuels and as she mentioned, I'm the President, CEO of Triangle. I'm joined today by Justin Bliffen, our CFO. And this is an exciting time for Triangle and we have a lot we can discuss today. We'll try to get a bunch of data in the press release and also try to get that out a little earlier to give people more time to digest.

As you can see in the press release, our business is growing across the board. We're pleased with the quarter internally. It feels like a big win. It's reflective of a team and the assets we have in place and all the hard work that has gone in over the last couple of years. Q2 already seems far away though as we gave an update to our current production and where the business is headed. As we announced in our press release, current production is around 6,500 barrels a day and we're on track to meet our production guidance for the year, and frankly, we're ahead of it. Sold volumes are up significantly year-over-year. More than half of our producing wells are hooked up in selling gas and we expect 100% would be hooked up by year-end.

We continue to see efficiencies in our development program and our spud-to-spud cycle times are shortening and downtime is mitigated. Our completion techniques are improving and we're experiencing meaningful test results. There is more to do when you continue to execute, but our E&P business is strong. Our oilfield service business RockPile Energy Services completed 8 Triangle wells and 10 third-party wells this quarter and currently has a backlog of 14 wells.

RockPile expanded its business to include Pump Rental Services, which offers Pressure Pumping Services and Pressure Testing Services and Cased-Hole Wireline Services. Overall, RockPile is doing great. Caliber Midstream is moving forward quickly with their construction project. They continue to deliver fresh water via pipeline to a Triangle operated fracs which lowers truck costs and congestion on our pads, improve safety conditions and effectively mitigates weather constraints on completion jobs. Crude gathering lines and gas gathering lines are fully operational for five producing wells.

We're seeing the benefits of our integrated model as our core E&P business. Caliber Midstream and RockPile, all have record quarters. We feel like Triangle is executing on our strategy and we have a great runway for growth ahead of us.

A reminder of our strategy statement, we are 100% focused on the Bakken. Our objective is to be the low-cost producer in the Williston Basin. We want to make money for our shareholders regardless of oil prices. We want to be sustainable and profitable over the long-term. We feel strongly that our vertically integrated model allows us to execute our strategy.

With that, I'll pass it over to Justin to review our financial results.

Good morning. I will briefly run through our Q2 fiscal 2014 financial results for Triangle's business segments. In Q2 fiscal year 2014 ending July 31, 2013, Triangle USA, our E&P business and core business grew quarterly sales volumes to 394,400 BOE, representing 277% year-over-year growth. This represents a quarterly average daily production of 4,287 BOE a day.

Triangle USA generated revenue of $34.6 million and adjusted EBITDA of $24.7 million. Triangle spent approximately $68.6 million in consolidated operated and non-operated drilling and completion CapEx during the quarter. This number includes or is lowered by our $11.5 million in intercompany eliminations from RockPile and Caliber. Thus far we are certainly on track to meet our previously released fiscal year 2014 guidance and budget.

RockPile Energy Services our wholly-owned subsidiary completed a total of 507 stages completed in Q2 on both Triangle and third-party wells. RockPile generated standalone revenue of $44.3 million, and adjusted EBITDA of $11.5 million. Caliber Midstream partners, our 30% owned joint venture generated $1.1 million in revenue and $0.7 million in adjusted EBITDA net to our 30% interest.

We believe reporting on standalone business segments offers additional non-required information for the shareholder. It adds transparency to how the respective businesses are performing and growing as well as providing a measure against previously stated standalone guidance. On a consolidated basis, we are in $0.12 per share when adjusted for non-cash and non-recurring items, mainly a mark-to-market derivative loss and securities held for investment gain, we earned $0.19 per share. We earned $0.43 cash flow per share.

The balance sheet is in great shape. We have over $100 million in cash excluding NGP notes consolidated debt metrics have improved quarter-over-quarter from 1.4 times to 1.2 times. We have decided to hold off on pursuing the second lean option which was previously disclosed and talked about due to the pristine condition of the balance sheet. Regarding hedging, we predominately use zero cost collars to protect cash flows. As of the Q2 end, we had 3,350 barrels hedged for the balance of calendar 2013, that's calendar year 2013 with a volume weighted average floor of $88.50 and ceiling of $104.

For calendar 2014, we had 2,700 barrels a day hedged with volume weighted average floors $83.50 and ceilings of $100. Subsequent to our quarter end, we have increased hedge volumes with recent crude futures market price action and we'll continue to do so opportunistically as borrowing base redeterminations allow for greater hedging capacity.

Overall, our leverage metrics have improved and our liquidity, cash flow protection and profitability has greatly increased. Our longer-term financing plans likely include accessing the high-yield markets when we feel our businesses are far enough in the maturation process to garner lower cost to long-term capital. Thank you.

I'll turn it back over to Jon.

Thanks, Justin. Let me open up for questions here in a minute. I mean the general feeling over here is, we're on or ahead of plan. Things are going great. We're executing on our asset base and we're excited about what we see, obviously gave a pretty robust update about a month ago and a lot of information in the press release and the 10-Q. So, happy to take questions and appreciate your guys' time. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Peter Kissel with Howard Weil. Please proceed.

Yes, hi, guys and congrats on a good quarter and the recent transactions and thanks for taking my questions. I guess, initially, what are your long-term plans for RockPile and Caliber, clearly good businesses. But is the goal to build them to a certain scale and sell them or is it really just always going to have a home in Triangle due to the efficiencies that you're currently seeing?

Hey, Pete, good morning. Thanks for dialing in and those are good questions. Those are things we think about a lot over here, I mean, you got to step back to what's the thesis, what the philosophy, I mean, RockPile and Caliber were created to lower our cost, improve our returns in our core E&P business. We spent 90% of our capital historically on E&P and more than 90% on a go-forward basis will be E&P. So what do you do with those and I think it remains to be seen in the future. In all scenarios, we want to see cash flow from RockPile and Caliber ultimately benefit E&P. Now the question is how do you do that? You could obviously sell these business as you could spin them out, they could just turn into entities that pay dividends up to their parent that gets reinvested in the E&P business or is used to pay down debt, buyback stock whatever the Triangle board deems to be the best use of proceeds.

So I mean, I think it's a little early to answer the question of exactly how you accomplish monetization, but I think we feel pretty comfortable saying that those are entities that as they grow and become free cash flow positive, they want to be giving distributions, they want to redeploy their cash flow into their own growth. And again, the objective is to increase shareholder returns in our core E&P business and the best thing to do is to keep it and pay a dividend to the parent. We can do that if someone walks in and makes an offer that accelerates three, four, five, six years of savings at once and you have to look at that too.

So I appreciate you asking the question, because, you can get a little lost reading our press releases and our filings, RockPile and Caliber [ph] recreate (9:21) and exist just to lower our cost in our E&P business to improve our returns. You really see that this quarter. I mean, we put a lot of information in our 10-Q by design on purpose. There's reserves information, there's information you normally only see in a 10-K regarding the number of wells gross and nets, spud and completed. There's detailed break-out of spend between land, operated, non-operated. That's there, so people can go calculate what our F&D costs are and you don't have to do all the math to see that RockPile, right, and Caliber combined right now are saving us 13% to 15%. We see that growing to 18% to 20% over time and you think about a $20 a barrel F&D cost, if that's reduced 20% to $16, that's just a huge move in the spectrum of how the business is performing compared to our peers, so not really a bad outcome that we see.

No, that's great answer. Thanks, Jon. That's helpful. And then just one quick follow-up. Production appears pretty far ahead of schedule certainly versus our numbers here at 6,500 barrels a day for the last 21 days or so. Is there any reason to think that fourth quarter might be a little slower than expected or is it exactly that it's just exceeding expectations right now and it's just a good read across through the rest of the year?

I think it's the latter part. I mean, our wells are doing well. When we were giving guidance we're doing downspacing tests, we're testing out 46 stage completions. We don't know how those are going to work out beforehand, so we forecast conservatively. And the part of the beat is that these things are all working. We're not seeing communication on our 600-foot test. Our 46 stage hybrid completion has a better result than our other wells and generally we're increasing our EUR even though costs are coming down. So we're not prepared to up guidance formally for the year. But if you're a betting man, it starts to become a pretty good bet.

Got you. Okay. Thanks, again, for taking my questions.

Yeah. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Steve Berman with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys. Jon, you made a brief comment about the downspacing. Could you talk a little bit more about that? I mean, it's become a real buzzword in the Williston Basin. Just your thoughts on what you might do there in the future. And also the remote frac you had done, you're doing more of that going forward? And anything else on the kind of call it new initiatives side as we look out over the rest of this year and into next year?

Sure. Yeah, I mean, the tests that we've been talking about from a downspacing perspective is really focused on the middle Bakken primarily. We're drilling well bores 600 feet apart. And just for quick reminder on what that means, our drilling spacing units, DSUs as we call them, those are a mile wide, 5,280 feet. So when you put Bakken well 600 feet apart, that's how you can start to think about, six, eight, 10 wells per section. And we've now drilled several of these downspacing tests and continue to see no communication between these well bores and no performance impact as we flow them back. We don't have a ton of production history, which is why we don't really go out and pound the table, but everything we see thus far is very positive. We've also tested this 46 stage hybrid completion, sliding sleeve plug-and-perf and that was also successful and looks like it's resulting in a better frac. I mean, our conversations around here are how many stages do you get to before its diminishing returns from a cost standpoint and I think we are starting to get to the upper end of where that makes sense.

You mentioned the remote fracking side, I mean, again, that's really just a tool that's going to allow us to complete wells while the rig is on location if we choose to. It will certainly help with the downspacing, but again not – don't really see that as a big technology initiative that's going to dramatically change things. I think it makes the life in the field easier and makes life in the field safer, but it's not really going to show up in the financial statements, doesn't save us money. You can always go drill somewhere else and not have [ph] the same (13:58) ops issue. So definitely an operational benefit, but more of a tactical benefit than a quantifiable financial benefit.

And any near-term plans to test any of the lower benches of the Three Forks or you're going to just watch the industry do that?

We do have some Three Forks tests. We're drilling several Three Forks wells this year. One thing we have not talked about in the past in our area is what we call the lower Bakken dolomite, which is a 25-foot thick unconformity unique to our area, that's just chock-full of oil and whether you want to call that upper bench of the Three Forks. It is a unique zone in our area, and we think that's why some of the others if you've seen some on M&A recently in our zip code, I mean there's been a bunch of M&A. But some of the recent transactions that are right in and around us, we think that's what people are after in addition to the Bakken. So we have high hopes for the Three Forks and this unique zone, we haven't completed a well in it yet and we're not sure that's the right thing to do. And so we're going to continue to look at it. But our general approach from a capital deployment standpoint is conservative one. We don't want to risk a lot, and we do think a lot of other people are going to drill it. So we'd rather roll that over time. What we know for sure is our middle Bakken on 600 foot spacing works. And that means we have years and years and years of drilling inventory. So, why risk a ton of capital on the Three Forks if you don't have to is kind of our initial read on it.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot, Jon.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of Jared Lewis with Northland Securities. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys. Nice quarter. You mentioned and you just talked about the M&A in the area. Just wondering kind of your thoughts obviously there's a big sale of non-op kind of just what your thoughts are with your non-op and just some of the other opportunities out there what you're seeing?

Yeah. I mean, I think I know the transaction you're referencing. It's not a – we just saw it last night, we don't really have any thoughts to share on the call. There's been several billion dollars of M&A in the Williston Basin over the last six months and definitely interesting times. So McKenzie County has more permits, more production than any other county in North Dakota. Lot of people are paying attention to it, and I think it's all good for Triangle and the other operators in the area.

Good. Good. And just real quick on – as you hook up the gas, your gas wells to Caliber, can you kind of quantify what that means for sales like what percentage increase here and going forward?

Yeah. I think you are looking at a 15% to 20% uplift in top line from hooking all wells up to gas sales and capturing all the BOE.

Got it. And is that reflected in your guidance right now?

It is reflected in the guidance and historically it's – for this past quarter, as we said in our press release, 53% of our wells are now hooked-up to gas and many of those were hooked-up over the quarter and towards the end of this past quarter.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks. Nice quarter.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Thank you, folks. Good morning.

Hey, Dan.

In earlier question, it was asked about the future of RockPile. Could that future include other basins or regions that is expanding the geographic reach of the business?

Yeah. I mean, I think it's really – I think that's a possibility. I mean, if you put yourselves in the shoes of equity on a RockPile, what you want the RockPile is the best thing for that business and they've opportunities to expand in other basins, you'd certainly want them to pursue it and be as successful and grow as much as they can. You have to take that in the context of how do they fund that. And if you look at our often-repeated core strategy, we are a Williston Basin focused E&P. Triangle should not be funding their growth into other basins. So you'd have to be looking at some sort of outside capital, be it equity or debt to RockPile specific to fund that. That situation is certainly not here today. RockPile got their second spread up and running halfway through the last quarter. That's $44 million of revenue. It really doesn't reflect the full quarter with spread two, and both spreads are fully sold out right now.

They have more customers wanting to work from than they have capacity on the calendar. So, I mean, I think before you start thinking about another basin, you start thinking about a third spread in the Williston. And as you guys know, there is economies of scale in that business. So the third spread does not cost as much as the first spread does. So I think it's a good question and I don't think that's something that's going to be on the table this year, but from a high level, we certainly want RockPile to grow and succeed where they can. I think they have a great team and they could be successful in other basins. What they have done in North Dakota is repeatable, but time will tell.

Got it. And then on the hybrid frac. What are you modeling or even estimating for recoveries per well with the hybrid frac and maybe could you sketch for us how that compares to prior completions with other techniques?

I think we're going to – commensurate with the start of the NFL season pun on that question. We have about 30 days of data on one well. So I think to draw the EUR conclusions would not be responsible.

Okay. And spud-to-spud and spud-to-sales today?

About 15% to 20% better than this time last year. So in terms of days, that's six, seven, eight days less of our 28% to 29% average.

Okay. Great. And then, lastly, if I could, the rig count post the acquisition thinking more of the out period several quarters out. Just asking really for modeling purposes, whether or not there is a meaningful increase in the rig count in the out periods?

We haven't set next year's budget, but meaningful with one more...

Right.

Is not meaningful then it wouldn't be meaningful. I don't see it's going on four rigs next year.

Got it. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills with Johnson Rice. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning, guys. On the production side, the 6,500 barrels a day versus the 5,600 you were at about a month ago. Is that a function of just recent completions and where do you stand in terms of upcoming well completions and the timing of additional wells given where you are relative to your original plan?

Yeah. I think it's a mix of – we have completed some new wells since we put up the 5,600 number. We're also, our wells are performing better than we modeled in terms of decline rates and that's helping part of the acquisitions are a little more than what we thought. You don't necessarily know until you get in there and start operating them. In terms of what we have coming up, we have another seven gross wells. I don't know the net number off the top of my head that are ready to be completed in the next 45 days and we're completing two wells on what we think is one of our best units right now, today, we started.

I mean, is there any way in terms of the breakdown besides – between just how much is that related to flush production, but I was going to drive to what you just touched on is, how much of this is related to your well performance and how does that well performance compare to what you've been using from a type curve standpoint as you've discussed your guidance in the public forum?

Yeah. I mean, look, the decline curve of a single well is pretty close to the decline curve of any operator's portfolio if they stop drilling and completing wells. So I don't care who you are, if you lay down your rigs and stop fracking, you're going to be rapidly producing less next month than you are at this month, that's just the nature of shale plays. I mean, so our production is going to include some flush production just like anyone else's. I don't think that it's more weighted to flush on our case than anyone else's. I mean, I think our wells are performing better. I think we've been – it's really a confluence of factors. I don't have a weighting for you, but we model conservatively.

Our mantra is under promise, over deliver. The ops team is doing a great job, improving well performance. Our production team is doing a great job, reducing downtime. And it's really just across the board. And we ought to put in the context of how long we've been doing this drilling and completing wells. April of 2012 was our first completion. So we're getting a handle on it.

And then lastly between the – there's been a lot of consolidation in your particular part of the basin lately with Whiting and yourselves and Oasis and others. Where does the consolidation opportunity stand right now with the recent transactions? Is that really taking most of the bigger packages off, which in essence should then really drive more value and highlight the value on the guys that already have positions in this Southern Williams, Northern McKenzie County area or am I overplaying that a little bit Jon?

I don't think you're overplaying it at all. I mean, it's kind of funny you say that. We – about a year ago, we have this map internally that we have used from an A&D standpoint that kind of has every unit wins McKenzie County and we attempt to color code it by who we think the operator is going to be. And a year ago, there were a lot of colors. Particularly in our area there were a lot of different colors, pretty fragmented, pretty chopped up, and we just redid this map recently. There was a couple of transactions, obviously the big $1.6 billion transaction last week, a week or two before that, there was a $260 million transaction and all this stuff is taking colors off that map and when we look at it today, there's really not a lot left to buy, one was A&D focus. And I know a lot of people have talked about public M&A and whose going to get bought next and it really hasn't materialized among where are the big public M&A transactions since Brigham and Bakken only.

But some of it requires this consolidation on the asset level as well for...

Totally, I mean that, yeah, exactly. And why are you going to go, if you're a big consolidator, why are you going to go to all the trouble of public M&A when you could go bid on an asset package?

And that's why I'm asking the question because if a lot of the asset M&A in this area seems, it just seems to me from what I have heard a lot of the packages and/or deals that were out there and now we're focused on, as you said, a smaller subset of public companies that just probably makes them more attractive and I just wanted to gauge your response to that whether or not it was – if I am missing something or if I am chasing something down the right rabbit hole? But...

I think you're definitely down the right rabbit hole. And it's an interesting question for the Triangle board, if that – if you see those sort of valuations rising and you look at the stock price and you see a very substantial disconnect between the two, what do you do with that?

Yeah. All right, everything has been answered, but thanks again and congrats on what you've done.

Thank you.

Thanks Jon.

Your next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich. Please proceed.

Morning, guys. Just – most of my questions have been answered as well. Just curious as far as Montana, if you guys are – I know you've got plenty to do over North Dakota. Is there any plans there? Are you even, as you guys were to stock with, Ron, is there even possible that to move along just to focus more on North Dakota, just your thinking as you go forward there?

Yeah. We're actually working on next year, doing a small amount of exploration out there. I don't want people to take that word and run with it. Our concept is to go out and drill some vertical wells. There's a number of formations that have been prolific producers and we're something like less than $10 million of total CapEx for the three to four well program that would also log and core the Bakken and the Three Forks. We think that's pretty good use of capital. And you look at this year's budget, midpoint, $450 million, something like that, $10 million out of $450 million is a very little percentage to progress a pretty big acreage position. So that's what we're working on right now. We want to pick some locations. Well 3 will probably be contingent on the successes or failures of Wells 1 and 2. But there is a lot of potential out there. I mean, we don't talk about it a lot and we don't want to get people too focused on it, but there's a lot of oil out there and an argue of why you've not seen as much activity out there is really because so many people have would to chop in North Dakota, a lot of acres, a lot of units, people are drilling 11, 12, 13 well pads in North Dakota. Looking at anyone's rig count, they don't have enough capacity and why would you go do exploration on a large scale if you don't have to? So that's kind of our thought process now. We haven't finalized anything. And we're still going through our changing review.

I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Gamble with Simmons & Co. Please proceed.

Yeah. Good morning, guys. Jon, I was wondering, you mentioned the spud-to-spud time is coming down. I was hoping you could give us relatively current look at AFEs and what you're seeing from a trend standpoint there?

Yeah. On a gross basis, our AFEs are moving towards our target of $10.5 million, what we said in the past. If you look at this past quarter, they're probably more like $11 million. But as we test the lightweight ceramics and some of these other things we're doing, we're also going to have some contracts rollover on the pumping side on the drill, on the rig site. So, we kind of standby our long-term goal. There's $10 million to $10.5 million gross AFE before the benefit of RockPile and Caliber.

What do you think the magnitude of change on those contract roll over is going to be specifically?

Not huge. I think they're like 8% to 10%.

Great. And then on the – I guess on the discussion about Montana acreage, are you – is that something that – something you're seeing from other guys or hearing from other guys as to drilling in that area or you think you're going to be, I don't know, drilling those three or four wells purely based on your own specs and having to look at offset data after effect?

We talk to other operators where our interests are aligned and a lot of people are pretty keep it-close-to-the-vest. So I mean, I think it's going to be more homegrown work. We have a lot of data. Remember, our McKenzie County position is the deepest part of the basin and then it's like a bowl as you move to the outer edges. Our team has a lot of experience in the eastern part of the play, the pinch-out area, the partial on Sanish field. So this is really just an extension of that, and a ton of data out there as well, so I don't know that we necessarily need collaboration. There's a lot of public data available and we'll acquire our own data with our first vertical well, which will obviously core and log the entire formation that we're looking at. There is a bunch of seismic lines out there and a 3D shoot that we're interested in, so that might be something we collaborate with someone else on in terms of buying a license to 3D.

And then the 21 existing wells that were part of your offset paid back in June, you picked up some working interest and that was part of the discussion during the quarter as to how quickly you're growing things, that working interest I think was up about 20% from last quarter on those existing ones. Is that something that you think is going to continue? I mean, some of them are maxing themselves out, but what do you see the trend on those wells moving forward?

Yeah, it's – I mean, it's hard to predict the working interest increase due to non-consent, which is largely where the question is.

Sure.

We have seen anything from 10% to 35%, 40% and we kind of model somewhere in between there, more on the lower end. But yes, we expect to see some continued working interest on non-consent and, thus, increases in our operated wells.

Well, that's great. Great quarter, guys. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stuart Gillespie with Wells Fargo. Please proceed.

Hi, good morning, and thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to dig into the production beat a little more. You guys had prereleased that 3.9 MBoe/d to 4.1 MBoe/d number and then came in at 4.4 MBoe/d. Does that have anything to do with non-op or is it mainly just as you guys have said, wells performing better than expectations?

Yes. So we came in at closer to 4.3 MBoe/d, but non-op was certainly a big piece of that. Remember we came out with that updated mid-quarter guidance in the context of our deal and our acquisition and so forth and a raise, and you certainly have to meet those numbers when you're putting out numbers in the context of a raise. So as we often do around here on every front is try to be a touch accurate with a touch of conservancy, which is exactly where we shook out.

Great. And then with RockPile, you mentioned the 14-well backlog, is that all third-party or is that a mix of third-party and Triangle?

It's a mix.

And with the third-party jobs, can you guys give any estimate, is it looking forward going to be more of the $1 million to $1.5 million that we saw this last quarter, any color there would be helpful.

I think that's going to be – they're going to run the full gamut of completion types in the basin as the customer base grows. And that's going to be from the jobs they do in less than 24 hours that are not expensive, sliding sleeve, sand, all the way up to some pretty big jobs that are more typical in the deeper part, so you're going to see all types.

Okay. Thanks a lot. That's all I got.

Your next question is a follow-up question which comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Thank you, again. Back on the subject of A&D, are there more trades to be made where you can include non-operated leasehold in the aggregate consideration like the last transaction? And what about continuing to use stock as currency on future deals? And then lastly, the third part to this question here, along those lines, where do you see operatorship a year from now?

Those are mouthful.

Yeah. Sorry.

So the first one A&D and trades, is that right?

Right.

Yeah. I mean, I think it's starting to get thinner. We've traded a lot of our stuff where we can. We're obviously going to be more familiar with our part of the basin and areas that we're not active. So can't necessarily speak to some other counties where Triangle is not a leaseholder or at least a meaningful one. I think in our area, it's getting pretty thin. I mean, we've worked hard and we know other folks out as well. But I'm not sure that there is a lot of new units that we can – what we care the most about is going from a non-operator in unit to operating that unit.

We then care second about is increasing our operator working interest in a unit, probably more of the latter, being able to increase your working interest, and I guess that would go to the A&D side. I mean, we have plenty of liquidity right now. Typically, in the past, where we've issued stock is where there's some sort of valuation gap, a seller says, this lane is worth this. We say if that's true then okay, you should be really happy taking this with the upside and that's kind of how we meet in the middle. We don't necessarily need to issue stock in any of these recent transactions to finance the deal, plenty of liquidity to do that.

And your third question was about operatorship, do you mind giving more detail on the question please?

Yeah. Just where do you see operatorship kind of the percentage of what's operated today say a year out from now?

For us or...?

Right.

Yes. Sorry, we're talking more broadly about the basin. I think it's going to – it'll tick-up, but you're not going to see any sort of doubling or anything like that.

Okay, great. And then maybe if I could just a last question here. You spoke about accessing the high yield markets as an option to finance growth, any early thoughts on the price you could raise such capital?

When you say place, you mean what cost of capital, is that what you're referring?

Right, exactly.

I mean, look there is – you can look at all sorts of different transactions over the last 12 months to get an idea, but I'm not going to give you a number today. It's going to be consistent with the market and industry standards and as we've been saying now for a number of months, we'll explore that next year at the right time and as always the right cost of capital.

Yeah. I mean, the hard part for us is we don't need the money. You obviously like the term and the covenant package on high-yield, but you are trading 3% debt for something we can all agree is a lot more than 3%.

Got it.

It's tough to swallow until you need it or unless you have really some fundamental worry about long-term crude prices that makes you want to lock in that borrowing capacity for a 10-year period. Today, we don't need it.

Got it. Thanks again.

Your next question comes from the line of Eli Kantor with Iberia Capital Partners. Please proceed.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Quick question on LOE. It looks like on a per unit basis, you saw a pretty nice reduction quarter-over-quarter. Wondering where you see that metric trending long-term, if there is any low-hanging fruit to pick in terms of new installations – infrastructure installations?

Sure. So briefly, with LOE, we over-accrued slightly in Q1 because of – we're basically going off of previous – our first six to nine months of operations, and there was a slight accrual reversal. But as far as go-forward, we're looking at somewhere in the $7 to $9 range.

I assume part of the reduction in the second quarter is also due to the installation of new oil and gas processing facilities. When do those come online and what would LOE have looked like if you had a full quarter's benefit of each of those facilities?

I mean, I don't know that that's really the cause of it. I mean I think you just have a growing production base in that core area with a bunch of those being fixed costs. So, I mean, our – kind of standby range is $7 to $9 a barrel. And some months are going to be better than others depending on weather and other factors.

<Q – [06VHHP-E Eli Kantor]: Okay. Fair enough. I'll leave it with that. [Operator Instructions]

And we have no further audio questions.

I think we can conclude the call. We appreciate everyone dialing in. We look forward to updating you on Q3 in about three months. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. Everyone may now disconnect. And have a great day.