Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joe Magner — Vice President, Capital Markets, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin J. Bliffen — Chief Financial Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Dominic Spencer — President, Triangle USA Petroleum Corporation
James Evans — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, RockPile Energy Services
Stephen F. Berman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Tarek Hamid — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Brian David Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Company International
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Dan E. McSpirit — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Paul Grigel — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc.
Gordon Douthat — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Gail Nicholson — Analyst, KLR Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Triangle Petroleum Corporation's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2016 Conference Call. As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

At this time, I will hand the call over to Joe Magner, Triangle Petroleum's Vice President, Capital Markets, to discuss forward looking statements.

Thank you, Denise. During the call, management may make forward-looking statements based on their current views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results expressed or implied in light of a variety of factors, including factors contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. The company may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures during the call. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in the earnings press release available on the company's website at www.trianglepetroleum.com.

Additionally, we have posted a revised corporate presentation on our website that includes new data that may be referenced during today's call. The presentation includes information on historical well performance and updated rate of return analysis for our targeted Middle Bakken well under several different commodity price scenarios.

At this time, I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Jon Samuels. Please go ahead, Jon.

Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining. With me today is our Chief Financial Officer, Justin Bliffen; Triangle USA's President, Dominic Spencer; RockPile's Executive Vice President, James Evans; and of course, Joe.

To start, I would like to welcome all Triangle shareholders to the call as well as Triangle USA noteholders. We will begin today's call with a review of Q2 financials. Justin?

Thank you, Jon. I will now walk through the financial results from the second quarter fiscal year 2016 which ended July 31, 2015.

During the quarter, Triangle produced just over 1.2 million barrels of oil equivalent, equal to approximately 13,500 BOE per day, which represents 29% year-over-year growth and only a 2% quarter-over-quarter decline. We generated approximately $110 million of consolidated revenue in Q2 that was essentially evenly split between Triangle USA, or TUSA, and RockPile. Our adjusted revenue, including cash receipts for settled hedging transactions was $127 million. TUSA and RockPile had stand-alone segment EBITDA of $48 million and $7.8 million (sic) [$7.9 million] (02:41), respectively.

On a consolidated basis, our first quarter adjusted basic and fully diluted earnings per share was a loss of $0.01. Due to the drop in commodity prices over the last year, Triangle recorded a $206 million impairment on a consolidated basis. This impairment was non-cash and was impacted by reduced development plan as well as the previously discussed decline in commodity prices.

We finished Q2 with just under $46 million in consolidated cash and total liquidity of approximately $287 million, which included almost $178 million available under TUSA's credit facility, and $63 million available under RockPile's credit facility. We feel good about our current liquidity and leverage profile. As always, we will continue to monitor and balance our liquidity needs and capital allocation decisions.

During the second quarter, we opportunistically repurchased and retired $3.6 million face value of our outstanding 6.75% senior notes for approximately $2.5 million, bringing the amount of our outstanding senior notes that we have repurchased and retired to just over 5% since late last year.

As of July 31, TUSA's senior debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio stood at 0.8 times, which is well below the 2.75 times covenant limit. Though no longer a covenant ratio, TUSA's total debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio stood at 2.8 times, which has essentially been flat for the past five quarters.

RockPile's total debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio stood at 1.4 times at the end of the quarter versus a 2.75 times covenant limit. Current ratios and interest ratios at both subs remain well within or above respective covenant requirements. Subsidiary stand-alone leverage metrics remain strong, which is really what matters when it comes to managing and monitoring our overall leverage.

Please recall that the NGP convertible note held by our parent company does not count as debt for any of our credit facilities and does not have any maintenance covenants or require any cash interest payments, making its effect on our leverage covenants and liquidity negligible.

Overall, we continue to be well-positioned to manage through the downturn. Our liquidity remains ample, and the headroom we have under our various financial covenants enables us to navigate through ongoing volatile commodity markets. We believe we have a number of options available to us that could provide added flexibility over time.

On the financial front, our primary objectives have not changed. We remain focused on protecting the balance sheet, maintaining adequate liquidity and maximizing return on capital through the disciplined deployment of capital.

With that, I'll hand it over to Dominic to review TUSA operations.

Thank you, Justin, and thank you to everyone on the call today. As Justin noted, we delivered production at TUSA of just over 1.2 million barrels equivalent for the quarter or 13,500 BOE per day, putting us on a clear path towards meeting our revised full-year production guidance.

In addition to strong production, our continued efforts in value engineering and improved efficiencies have yielded further savings to completed well costs, with our most recent AFEs coming in at $7.2 million.

During the second quarter, we transitioned to a one-rig drilling program and took advantage of minor upticks in commodity prices to complete nine gross or 6.6 net operated wells. We have subsequently taken advantage of the optionality that we purposely built into our operations and released our one remaining drilling rig. This flexibility allows us to focus our capital for the remainder of the year where it is most effective and gives us complete control of the timing of that spend.

As of today, we have completed two additional gross wells during the third quarter. The completion timing of the remaining 18 wells in inventory is largely dependent on commodity prices as our first half production is ahead of guidance. These decisions are made with a laser focus on balance sheet management and preserving the option to generate free cash flow by deferring completions, as dictated by our covenant and liquidity priorities in the current commodity price environment.

Our full-year capital budget remains unchanged, and we anticipate spending within the $150 million to $175 million that we outlined earlier this fiscal year. That said, our backlog of uncompleted wells positions us to take advantage of any positive trends in commodity prices. We can accelerate our completion program and add drilling rigs if it makes sense, or we can defer completions over the next nine months to 18 months in a lower for longer scenario, which Jon will discuss in more detail later.

As we discussed on our last call, our high-graded drilling and completion program and continued improvements to our completion designs are delivering strong well results, with each of our Middle Bakken wells completed year-to-date performing above our target 630 MBOE type curve. Our hybrid slickwater style of completions continues to deliver strong well performance, with the most recent design iterations focused on further reducing gel usage, resulting in both additional cost savings and improved well performance.

Additionally, these completion designs have yielded approximately 50% better cumulative production over the first 60 days in our Britt and Simpson DSUs when compared with analogue wells completed by notable offset operators using large volumes style of fracs.

We continue to evaluate and modify our completion strategy in order to drive improvements in individual well economics. Our most recent test incorporated an increase in stage count from the standard 31 stages to 45 stages for a 10,000 foot lateral, delivering a 17% improvement in 30-day cumulative production.

We're pleased with early term performance of this 45-stage design and we plan to continue to evaluate the comprehensive impacts of these targeted design changes on EUR and then the subsequent impact to per well IRRs once we have more sufficient production history.

Our goal is to both increase our target EUR on most productive acreage and to increase the number of locations in our portfolio that meet the 630 MBOE goal. A slow development pace this quarter and previous quarters coupled with higher than anticipated workover and saltwater disposal costs brought our lease operating expenses to $9.14 per BOE for the second quarter. On this backdrop, we have adjusted our full year production – or LOE guidance to be between $8.50 and $9 per BOE. LOE has been and will continue to be a focus area for us.

We expect the benefits of previous equipment installations designed to reduce the frequency of workovers to begin materializing over the second half of the year allowing us to drop of our workover costs from current levels. However, this full year guidance reflects appropriate go-forward numbers, which is consistent with LOE levels of offset operators in our area of operations as their well bases age.

On a positive note, the increase to our LOE in the quarter was largely offset by a substantial reduction in both G&A and our crude oil differential. Our marketing strategy, combined with the compressed differential in the basin, yielded a 36% improvement in our differential from the previous period, with our second quarter differential averaging just $4.92 per barrel.

Pipeline continues to be our preferred means of transporting our barrels out of the basin, however, we continue to evaluate alternatives as the marketing landscape changes.

Last two quarters at TUSA have been focused on creating a solid foundation for our execution in the coming six months. The focus over the next two quarters will be continuing to manage the health of our balance sheet and preserving liquidity. This strategy positions us to weather an extended period of depressed commodity prices and gives us the flexibility to transition to playing offense in a favorable market condition.

With that, I'll hand it over to James to review RockPile.

Thanks, Dominic, and good morning to everyone on the call. The second quarter of fiscal year 2016 was a challenging one for the oilfield service industry as activity levels continued to decline in the face of tremendous headwinds. I'm proud of the effort put forth by our team and their continued focus on providing best-in-class service quality, which enabled RockPile to deliver another quarter of record volumes and deliver a significant quarter-over-quarter improvement in financial performance. Thanks to all of our employees across the organization for their significant contributions to a successful quarter.

RockPile's stand-alone second quarter revenue of $69.4 million was down 14% versus the first quarter. Second quarter adjusted EBITDA of $7.8 million (sic) [$7.9 million] (10:59) was up 109% relative to the first quarter, as our cost reduction initiatives caught up to pricing and enabled EBITDA margins to improve to 11.2% from 4.6% in the first quarter. Third-party revenue was 71% of total revenue in the quarter versus 82% in the first quarter.

In the second quarter, activity continued to decline as the number of active rigs in the Williston Basin fell 28% while the inventory of drilled but uncompleted wells held relatively steady. The challenging competitive dynamics we have discussed previously continued throughout the second quarter as we witnessed numerous bids for spot work go below breakeven and, in some cases, below the variable costs associated with executing the work.

To work at these levels, we believe service companies are deferring maintenance expenses by cannibalizing stacked equipment and burning through stockpiles of aged inventory, which, in many cases, has been written off. These trends are by definition unsustainable and should ultimately result in a stronger recovery once the market returns.

Revenue per stage fell 15% in the second quarter, driven by continued efforts to help clients reduce their completion costs through design improvements along with the impact of the competitive environment on pricing. RockPile completed a record 1,811 stages in the second quarter, outperforming fracturing services on non-Triangle wells and 39 third-party wells in the quarter.

Our goal of profitably growing market share remain on track as RockPile's share of completions in the Williston Basin for the three months ending June 30 was approximately 16%, up from 14% in calendar year – in the – in Q1 of calendar year 2015 and 7% during fiscal year 2015. Our initiatives to drive costs and inefficiencies out of the system continued in the second quarter and contributed to our margins more than doubling despite revenues declining 14% sequentially.

SG&A expenses for the quarter were down 25% and are down 36% from Q4 levels of last year. We expect to see costs continue to decline in the second half of the year, [ph] but cost and (12:57) improvements are likely to be more modest going forward.

As we have noted in prior calls, RockPile's conservative balance sheet provides our company with a great deal of flexibility in this market. We finished Q2 with total leverage of only 1.4 times debt to last 12 months EBITDA. Maintaining a healthy balance sheet will continue to be a top priority for RockPile and we see no near-term balance sheet issues.

Turning to the outlook, our visibility for the balance of fiscal year 2016 continues to be extremely limited as clients digest the recent commodity price volatility. We expect utilization will remain our key challenge for the second half of the year, given the depressed levels of activity, the current competitive environment for spot market work, and the onset of cold weather operations in the Williston Basin.

From a macro perspective, the backlog for uncompleted wells in North Dakota has remained roughly flat at 850 wells, while the number of active frac spreads operating in the basin continues to decline. We now believe that there are fewer than 20 frac spreads active in the Williston Basin.

We expect to see continued reduction in the supply of available service providers due to the lack of maintenance CapEx, cannibalization of existing fleets and rising leverage levels across the industry. With over 40 uncompleted wells in backlog per active frac spread and 70 highly efficient rigs adding to that backlog in each day, we believe the long-term trend for completions activity relative to supply remains positive in the Williston Basin.

Despite our optimism for the future, the market remains very challenging on the ground today, and we are managing the business accordingly. We are focused on the cost and capital disciplines which are a requirement to be successful in this environment.

And we are tackling near-term utilization challenges with a focused effort on delivering our clients a sustainable cost advantage through our focus on safety, service quality and innovation. We believe that these fundamentals are the foundation of success in any market and recognize that any near-term challenges we face point towards a stronger recovery once the market returns.

With that, I'll pass it back to Jon for his closing remarks.

Thanks, James. Before continuing on to the Q&A portion of the call, I would like to provide some brief thoughts and general commentary regarding our current position in the context of the market backdrop. While we're pleased with our second quarter results which we believe demonstrate the sustainability and viability of our business model in a $60 world, commodity prices have materially worsened during the last 60 days as you're all aware.

In a sub-$50 world, our primary focus shifts back to balance sheet integrity and preservation of liquidity, the same themes we discussed last December in our Q3 call nine months ago. We operate off a basic thought process that oil prices below $50 are insufficient to meet future demand requirements.

We also recognize, however, that the duration of time required for sub-$50 oil to balance demand and supply of higher prices is impossible to know. Although we attempt to be students of history, each downturn is different and any thesis regarding the timing of a true cycle recovery is merely a discussion of probabilities, not certainties.

To quote an excellent research report recently published by Simmons, while we believe that oil prices are currently mispriced, duration of the current [ph] purgatory (15:56) threshold question, not how much lower oil prices will fall or whether they'll eventually recover to sustainable levels required to secure [ph] forward (16:04) supply growth. We agree wholeheartedly with their assessment.

Because we are unwilling to risk the business or frankly any unnecessary or unjustified changes to our capital structure or share count that would prevent Triangle shareholders from fully participating in the future recovery, you will see us largely take a conservative approach over the next couple of quarters or all the way through calendar 2016 as dictated by commodity prices.

To us, conservative means CapEx discipline. On that front, we're in a very good position. We are currently running no rigs but have approximately 18 high working interest wells waiting on completion. That gives TUSA complete control over capital spend and, as a result, production. Necessary, TUSA could complete a well every two to four weeks for the next 9 to 18 months and generate free cash flow that could be used to reduce debt, build a war chest or [ph] play off ends for (16:50) distressed opportunities that will become actionable if the current pricing environment persists.

And based on what we know today in our current cost structure, that scenario has us exiting fiscal year 2017 which is almost 18 months from now with no covenant or liquidity issues at TUSA even at $45 WTI pricing for the duration. That gives us legs to endure end of January 2017 is approximately 31 months beyond the July of 2014 cyclical peak oil price. I would add that 31 months will be five months longer than the longest peak-to-trough down cycle in the last 35 years, which began in 1998 and directly contributed to the subsequent bull market in energy.

That bull market proved to be one of the most prolific, if any, on record. The further the pendulum swings one way, the further it swings the other. Please don't treat this discussion as formal guidance. We're not telling you. We are definitely running zero rigs for 18 months and we are certainly not trying to predict the timing or magnitude of any future bull market in energy. We are simply trying to demonstrate that we have options that get us to the other side of this down cycle and provide a reminder that it is important to maintain perspective on the cyclicality of our industry as tough as that is today given the widespread and near universal negative sentiment towards the sector.

We understand that production growth and isolation is often highly correlated with sentiment. Production growth is good; production declines are bad. We do not share that point of view. With our asset base and experience in the Bakken, production growth is simply a matter of spend. We could complete our remaining inventory over the next few months and show significant growth in Q4. We could add back three rigs and reach 20,000 barrels a day in the next two or three years.

Does that make it a good decision? We would say no. So, production growth taken in isolation is really not a relevant metric to our business particularly when we have three verticals to which we can deploy capital plus the opportunity for acquisitions and, of course, the option to retire our debt or buy back stock. We believe we should allocate our precious liquidity to the highest return opportunity, and that is what we will do.

To expand on the original thought, since we have no true drilling commitments, any incremental CapEx beyond zero rigs is then discretionary and will only be spent if the environment and resulting return on capital is justified. I will add that because maintenance expense is included in the RockPile P&L, RockPile go-forward CapEx is largely discretionary as well.

We will give more details about our formal plan for next year in due time usually around the December to January timeframe, as we have historically. We expect the next three months to be active for the market and we'd like to incorporate all available information into our formal plan all in an effort to continue our track record of under promising and over delivering.

We understand that the current environment is as difficult for the investment community as it is for us and we very much appreciate the continued interest of everyone who took the time to dial in. We certainly don't have all the answers. We try to know what we don't know and position ourselves accordingly with the best interest of our shareholders and other stakeholders in mind.

I would like to conclude this portion of the call by reaffirming our commitment to Triangle and our continued confidence on our business model. Down cycles are a fact of life in the oil business, and we believe we are well-positioned to not only survive but also thrive in the other side. We will continue to monitor market conditions and we'll continue to do our best to navigate them successfully.

That's all for the prepared remarks. Operator, we can begin the Q&A portion of the call.

Certainly, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Steve Berman of Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Morning, everyone. Maybe for Justin; the DD&A rate was way down. I assume that was due to the impairment charges. Can you give us some thoughts on what to expect going forward for that number?

Yeah, Steve, you're absolutely right. DD&A is down largely driven by the impairments in the business over the last couple of quarters because of the commodity pricing. We actually did add some disclosure to our Q, both in the accounting principles as well as the MD&A about future expectations around impairments if oil pricing continues. So, I would point you to those two areas, but if you have future impairments because of commodity pricing low and lower, then that will be reflected in a lower DD&A rate over time.

And then on the differentials, that was one of the tighter numbers we've seen coming out of the Bakken. Can you continue to keep that $5 or so going forward here?

Something that's largely out of our control. We're seeing a big push of barrels from rail back to pipes with – I would expect some volatility in that number, but on the TUSA front, we're certainly doing everything we can to keep that differential as tight as we can on a go-forward basis.

All right. Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from Tarek Hamid of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Can you talk a little bit about your expectations for the fall redetermination process? I'm sure you've had a few of those discussions, but sort of any clarity you could give would be helpful.

Sure. So, we go through that process in October-November, generally about a month behind most of our peers, again because of our fiscal year, which is a month behind some of our peers. A big part of that process is, of course, driven by the bank debt, the bank forward curve that is used at that time. We don't know where that bank debt is going to be at that time.

So, all that being said, we feel good, confident about where that borrowing base will be. We've run some numbers. I think there's a good chance of it being flat, but there are certainly no guarantees flat to even slight up. But, again, it's largely driven by many assumptions, the most important of which is the forward curve. We'll run through that reserve base at the time we do that redetermination. And the bank debt forward curves are changing every couple of weeks.

Got it. And then – I think you have talked a little bit about sort of further liquidity options down the road. Can you maybe talk, elucidate a little bit about what some of those options might be? Are you thinking about kind of secure debt issuance, asset sales, sort of kind of what's the realm of the possible?

Yeah. I mean, it's anything and everything, and we talked about that in December, and there's disclosure in our 10-K about that, but we have three different business lines. We have real estate holdings obviously, capital markets as you mentioned, debt markets. So, I think there are a lot of options. I mean, as Justin said, unless oil goes down a lot, we expect our borrowing base to stay flat, so we don't really need to do that, but we certainly have the option to as needed.

Great. I'll set back in queue. Thank you.

Our next question will come from Brian Gamble of Simmons & Company. Please go ahead.

Morning, guys. Wanted to chat a little bit about the CapEx numbers and just your expectations for the back half of the year. James, you talked about utilization is one of the issues on the RockPile side from the completion schedule. You obviously have a nice inventory [indiscernible] (24:27) to work with, looking across and thinking about activity levels there as well as what you can spend and still be cash flow breakeven or maybe even positive for the back half of the year. What does that mean for total second half completion schedule?

I think we're a little confused. Are you talking about TUSA CapEx or RockPile utilization?

Well, both. I'm talking about total completions both based on keeping your – keeping RockPile working to the extent that you want to, as well as availability from the TUSA side to spend the dollars to get those wells completed.

Yeah. I mean as far TUSA impacting RockPile, I mean it obviously contributes, but we largely deferred most of our Q1 completions to Q2 and did a large number because we saw a rebound in oil to sort of that north of $60. So, even in that very active quarter, I think TUSA was like 20% of revenue, it's the number off the top of my head. I don't have it in front of me.

So, really, the big driver of RockPile EBITDA is going to be third-party activity. There's a huge backlog, and it's a question of timing and willingness to complete wells. So, we don't have a lot of visibility right now, as James said, but we didn't have any visibility 90 days ago when we were on this call, and Q2 turned out to be a really good quarter. So, it's just really tough to say on that side.

Regarding TUSA CapEx go forward, there's probably some capitalized recompletions and small amounts, but if we completed no wells for the rest of the year, we would still beat the midpoint of our production guidance for the full year, and we carry that big backlog into next year. So, TUSA CapEx over the back half of the year can be very low if we want it to be, which is kind of the point because with prices where they're at, we really have no motivation to flush-produce wells into a low WTI world. So, I don't know if that answered your question or not, but we're sort of toggling between two things.

No, that helps. And then on that point, if you didn't complete any wells for the back half of the year, what sort of base production decline rate would we be looking at walking into calendar year 2016?

We think if we did nothing, we'd be between 11,000 BOE and 11,500 BOE per day at the end of January. But remember, that number can climb back to 13,000 BOE in a matter of a couple of weeks as soon as we start completing wells.

Great. And then maybe one other question, clearly working on the cost side, AFEs came down a bit quarter-over-quarter. You look out – you talked about sub-$50 world staying in balance sheet integrity mode. What sort of oil price or visibility on oil price increases starts to at least allow a rig to be contemplated bringing back into the mix?

It's a good question and if oil price was the only variable, it'd be easier to answer. I mean one of the things about service is right now is we largely view the pricing environment as unsustainable. So, if AFEs stay flat, I think you get north of $60 you're definitively going to see drilling activity out of us. Again, we're unique; we can allocate capital to any of our three businesses and have showed a willingness to repurchase bonds and common stock in the open market. So, I'm comfortable saying above $60. It's between the $50 and $60 range where you kind of got to dig in and do some work and look at the bigger picture.

Great. Appreciate the color.

Our next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Just a question as it relates to CapEx. I know the total CapEx budget hasn't changed. You've dropped your last remaining rig. Is there a bias for the lower end or maybe even a lower TUSA CapEx given the no-rig activity or what should we read into the CapEx in this kind of price environment?

I think that you read into it, Ron, that it's building in some optionality for TUSA in the back half of the year and then we're preserving some of that dry powder to respond to adjustments in commodity price accordingly. If nothing happens, we complete no wells for the back half of the year, I expect to be underneath that capital spend. But really too early to give any firm guidance in that direction given that we don't know where commodity prices are going to shake out.

Okay.

Ron, I'll add to that. Like just the volatility has been incredible. I mean, to think in a 90-day period, oil can be $60 and it can be $38. That's pretty wild. There's a big difference between those two numbers.

No, I agree.

Ron, I know you know what oil prices are, so you tell me what they are and we'll tell you what we'll spend.

I'll shoot you an email offline.

Thank you.

Hey, you also talked about on the discretionary side, the TUSA is really all discretionary. Can you just remind us where you are from an acreage capture standpoint across your Bakken position? Is all of it HBP that you consider core, or is there at some point over the course of fiscal 2017 where you have to put a rig back to work for acreage purposes?

Any of those acres that we care about, i.e., what we would call core, Ron, are held by production currently, so no lease expiration concerns with relation to our drilling schedule.

Perfect. And then on RockPile, I know back in April you had talked about the margins turning positive again, and here in the second quarter, the margins were much more positive than we expected. I guess, on the cost-cutting side from RockPile, is most of the cost-cutting that you hope to achieve already in place, or is there still more to come, creating, all else being equal, some continued strong margins in that business, at least better than what, I think, most people are looking for?

Yeah, I think there are – Ron, I think there are continued cost opportunities going forward. I do expect them to be smaller than what you've seen to-date. As we noted, Q3 pricing will be lower as you get a full quarter of some of the decreases that we saw in Q2, so that'll offset things. But back to Jon's earlier comment, I mean the real driver will be utilization, and given Jon's comments on the recent volatility in the last 90 days, I think it's just very challenging to forecast utilization at this point. So, really tough to give a view on the margins without having a view on utilization, and that's kind of how we see it.

James, I think you mentioned you think there's down – you're now down to industry-wide plus or minus 20 frac spreads in the basin. Where was that in terms of number of frac spreads, and any additional color in terms of what you talked about, the cannibalization and when things get better, how limited is it to get back to basin-wide where we were from a frac spread standpoint? I think that's a good leverage position for RockPile.

Yeah. I think current level of spreads operating is somewhere in the neighborhood of a third of where peak levels were, maybe south of that, actually. And on the cannibalization front, I just – I think it's drawing on a number of things. When you look at some of the pricing metrics that we're seeing, you have to assume that maintenance charges aren't baked in there because that's really the only way we can see those working.

And of course, if you look at across the landscape, there's a large number of service companies with a lot of stacked equipment, so, it only makes sense that you would assume in an environment where every dollar is critical that they're going to be using that stacked equipment rather than repairing or maintaining equipment as it goes down.

So, I think that's healthy and that's what needs to happen to balance the supply and demand in the market. It's a bit of a painful process when you're going through it and you don't have that availability of stacked equipment to cannibalize, but ultimately, I think that's what you need to see for recovery. Of course, there's no new equipment entering the market and so we agree that for those who are able to maintain some market share in this environment it points to a much positive future once the market turns.

And then maybe just the last ones on guidance, twofold. The RockPile G&A guidance that remains out there has been unchanged, although the first half cash G&A at RockPile is pointing more towards a $22 million to $25 million G&A versus the $27 million to $29 million. Should we expect that RockPile G&A, the first half, to be a better guide than the guidance?

And then on LOE, the increase, I understand, is saltwater disposal and workovers, any color as to how much is workovers versus saltwater disposal, and does that saltwater disposal side start to improve with Caliber now fully operational?

Ron, I think you're using all your questions for the next three quarters here.

Well, then, I won't even dial in.

Those are good questions, Ron. On the first one, RockPile G&A. Yeah, that's a good pickup. It is trending lower than some of the guidance we have put out there and some of the guidance you seen in the corporate presentation. We think that if this market persists that that trend in RockPile G&A, lower, will also persist and we will come in much lower on both RockPile G&A and corporate-wide G&A than previously forecasted. As far as the LOE breakdown, I'm going to turn it over to Dominic.

Ron, when you look at our LOE, I'd say roughly about $1.40 to $1.50 is associated, on a per BOE basis, with our workover costs, anticipate that that's going to hopefully come off over the coming quarters as we anticipated.

And then the saltwater disposal for us, much like many operators up there, that's the largest component of our LOE, and I expect that that's probably going to persist over time. The saltwater disposal is something that for every barrel of oil we produce, we're bringing up an associated barrel to barrel-and-a-half of saltwater and have the disposal costs associated with that. So I anticipate that that's going to kind of persist in our LOE going forward, which is the reason for the $8.50 to $9 BOE guidance for the back half of the year.

Perfect. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Ron.

The next question will come from Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Folks, good morning and thank you for taking my questions. Last period, I asked about the current deal flow in the Williston Basin and whether or not it was comprised of leasehold that meets the company's economic threshold. You answered very little meets that threshold. How has that changed, whether it would encourage or discourage you from playing offense in this downturn?

It's improving. From a pure acreage standpoint, we've, over the last 90 days, have seen a number of deals that are in core area. Some of that's non-op, so we're not going to participate in that. But there has been some operated opportunities popping their head up as well. So, the trend is favorable.

Okay. Great. And then at the top of the call in your prepared remarks, you mentioned IRR sensitivities in your presentation. Are those returns presented on a fully loaded basis, that is, did they include cash G&A, cash interest and maybe presented after tax?

No, those are at the wellhead, Dan.

Okay. So if that's the case, then the economic limit just – and speaking more about the industry and not necessarily specific to Triangle, the producer incorporating those other items, it tells me the economic limit is even much higher, that higher prices – much higher prices are needed.

Yeah. I mean, I think that you're hitting the nail on the head, and every individual company, once their economics look as good as possible, that you're talking about an industry in North America that in 2013, the last full year of high prices for oil returned something like 7% return on capital.

So when you fully bake everything, yeah, those costs need to get layered on. If you're far enough along, taxes need to be paid, and those are real costs. I mean, that's really the foundation of our integrated model, and why we want RockPile and Caliber in the mix. But yeah, you're right, I mean, that's exactly what's going to fix low oil is you're starting to see it in the numbers. Year-over-year production in the United States is falling, month over month is declining as well, and it's just a matter of time before those two lines cross.

Right. I don't disagree. And then lastly here, on oilfield services, you talked about bids below breakeven at least for spot market work. Appreciating that's not sustainable, how long do you expect that pressure to last, and what does that mean for RockPile's own market share?

Yeah. I think that's a good question. I wish we knew the answer with regards to how long that it's going to last. I mean, obviously, there are some very large dynamics going on in the industry that are contributing to that, and ultimately, we expect to see some resolution to some of these issues, the Baker-Halliburton merger, for example, in the next six months, which I think could contribute to some resolution. But it's very, very tough to say how long it's going to last and so we're planning for it to continue to for some period in time and hopefully we're surprised to the upside.

Market share for us, I think we said on prior calls, we want to maintain market shares as long as it makes economic sense and that's the way that we're approaching it. And I think on some of the work that we're seeing go, it's hard to understand how to make economic sense of the winning bids on that work. So, a little bit tough to forecast, but it's a good question and I wish we could answer it because it will certainly help us out in our day-to-day strategy.

Yeah, I mean I'd add to that, that predatory pricing environment existed all the way through Q2 and didn't impact market share or profitability in that quarter, not to say that it won't in the future. We're also seeing third-party customers, they don't want to come back to a world with two frac options. So, the relationship matters, competitive dynamics matters and we are getting work. Often we're not the lowest bid, but there's a bigger picture and they're looking over at the full cycle. QHSE, partnering on supply chain and that's the type of value that RockPile's trying to bring not just to -you want to go and get into a fistfight with Halliburton and Schlumberger, that's going to be a losing strategy for us.

Got it. Thanks again. Have a great day. [Operator Instructions]

The next question will come from Paul Grigel of Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. I want to get your thoughts on hedging as you guys took off a couple thousand of oil hedges in August and just get your thoughts going forward, and then also how does potentially adding on hedges impact the borrowing base and playing into those thoughts?

Sure. Thanks, Paul. We took some, not all of a relatively small [ph] Cal (41:16) 2016 $60 swap hedge position off on the recent lows when oil approached and touched $38 over the last few weeks. We believe the $9.5 million we collected today will exceed what we would collect on those hedges over 12 months next year, meaning that we fundamentally do not believe oil will average below the roughly $47 that we monetize for all of next year. The liquidity today is meaningful and we believe we will have opportunities to re-hedge at those levels or better in the quarters ahead.

As far as the impact on borrowing base, the hedges are not as, in my opinion, not as meaningful on the impact of the future borrowing base than one would anticipate, certainly, if you're hedged at or near the forward curve. If you had $100 swaps in large volumes over many years into the future, yes, those would be more meaningful in this oil price environment for borrowing base collateral. But that is not the case here. So, we think there will be continued volatility in the months, quarters ahead, and we will try to take advantage of those opportunities to re-hedge at higher levels.

Great. And then just on – you mentioned liquidity in there, how do you balance maintaining a strong liquidity position, as well as repurchasing debt, at least in the near term, or stock, if that may be the case?

Very carefully. It's a serious question. It's more art than science. I think that we're definitively leaning towards the conservative side. I mean, we could be a lot more aggressive than we've been, but you wouldn't want that to be the thing that got you in trouble.

And then just as you guys go into the back half of the year and into 2016, how do you deal with the impact of a growing non-consent on the operated program and how should we view your working interest in the wells going forward?

I think that's one of the reasons you're seeing that rig go down because our non-consent rate was higher this year than what we thought it was going to be when we did our budget last November, and we drilled the number of net wells that we planned with fewer gross wells. So, non-consent rates are really high right now, and that's fine by us. It really just adds to our years of inventory, and with service margins where they're at, you're not giving anything away there.

Thanks for the time.

Our next question will come from Gordon Douthat of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Jon, you mentioned a $60 level would be a level at which you'd look to potentially return a drilling rig. And I'm just trying to get a sense for the drilled uncompleted wells, at what level and what factors go into your decision to complete those over the next few months?

Yeah. I mean, if you're going to treat the drilled wellbore as a sunk cost, the cost to complete those wells is a wildly positive economic decision. And it really comes down more to managing the production base RockPile utilization and how we can help that be smoother to the extent necessary, and then looking forward at what would covenants look like under different scenarios, what is total leverage under different scenarios, and you really have five or six different things you're going to manage here. There's give and take between those things. I mean obviously completing all 18 wells next quarter would be really good for RockPile and that would be very not good for TUSA at this price level. So I think it's hard to articulate over the phone, but those are just some of the variables that we're managing to.

All right. Thank you.

The next question will come from Gail Nicholson of KLR Group. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a question on RockPile. You have multi segments: spreads, wireline trucks and the workover rigs. When you look at those three kind of services that you provide, does any one have higher margins versus the other or have higher utilization rates?

With respect to the margin side of things, that's a dynamic question and it changes period to period. So, I don't think – we largely view our services as being an integrated solution for most clients, and so we don't necessarily think about it as one service being more profitable than the other, and again, that will be tough to answer because it just depends upon the environment.

With regards to utilization, the workover business is stronger right now than on the completion side because we're really levered to a lot of remedial-type work there, and that's ongoing. So, you tend to see that be a kind of cyclical business, and that's what we're seeing today. And the margins on workover tend to be a little bit stronger because it's more service-oriented, speaking in general terms.

And then just with the workover aspect and the aging well population in the Williston, do you feel like there might be an appetite for increasing the number of workover rigs that you have in your arsenal?

It's something that we think about. I think it goes back to Jon's earlier comments. We're trying to manage, take advantage of the nice economic opportunities while being conservative on our capital deployment decisions as well. So, it's something that we think about. I think it's a good question and there's probably some opportunities to do that. But that's probably all we could comment for now.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude our question-and-answer session. The Triangle Petroleum Corporation's second quarter fiscal year 2016 conference call has ended. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.