Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joe Magner — Vice President, Capital Markets, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin J. Bliffen — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Investor Relations, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Dominic Spencer — President, Triangle USA Petroleum Corporation, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
James Evans — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, RockPile Energy Services, LLC
Stephen F. Berman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Jason A. Wangler — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Tarek Hamid — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Kyle Kirk — Analyst, Credit Suisse
Brian David Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Company International
Dan E. McSpirit — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Triangle Petroleum Corporation's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2016 Conference Call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I will hand the call over to Joe Magner, Triangle Petroleum's Vice President, Capital Markets, to discuss forward looking statements.

Thanks, Denise. Good morning and welcome to Triangle Petroleum Corporation's first quarter fiscal year 2016 conference call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

During the call, management may make forward-looking statements based on their current views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results expressed or implied in light of a variety of factors, including factors contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. The company may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures during the call. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in the earnings press release available on the company's website at www.trianglepetroleum.com.

Additionally, we have posted a revised corporate presentation on our website that includes new data that may be referenced during today's call. The presentation includes information on historical well performance, an average target middle Bakken well profile for our fiscal year 2016 operated development program, and associated rates of return on capital given several different commodity price scenarios.

The presentation also includes information specific to RockPile and provides added details on the outlook for Williston Basin completion services and the potential impact of RockPile market share and business prospects which we view as highly positive despite the current completion service pricing environment.

At this time, I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Jonathan Samuels. Please go ahead, Jon.

Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining. I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer, Justin Bliffen; Triangle USA's President, Dominic Spencer; RockPile Energy Services Executive Vice President, James Evans; and Joe Magner, our Vice President of Capital Markets.

To start, I'd like to welcome all Triangle shareholders to the call, as well as Triangle USA note holders. We will begin today's discussion with comments from Justin on the financial results for the quarter, after which Dominic will discuss Triangle USA's results and outlook. James will then cover results for RockPile and I will provide some closing thoughts on the overall business outlook for the Triangle family of companies. After the prepared remarks, we will take questions from listeners on the call.

With that, I'll pass it over to Justin.

Thanks, Jon. I will now walk through the financial results from the first quarter fiscal 2016 which ended April 30, 2015. Triangle produced just over 1.2 million barrels of oil equivalent or 13,775 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the first quarter which represents 69% year-over-year growth and only a 7% quarter-over-quarter decline.

While TUSA completed five gross wells during the quarter, two of those wells came on near the beginning of April and three came on at or near the end of April, and thus, none of those recently completed wells contributed for the entire period.

Based on better-than-expected production through Q1 and the fact that our completion activity will be picking up as planned, we have increased our fiscal 2016 production guidance range to 11,500 Boe to 13,500 Boe per day from 11,000 Boe to 13,000 Boe per day previously. The new midpoint implies year-over-year production growth of 9% from actual fiscal 2015 production.

During the quarter, we generated approximately $118 million of consolidated revenue with $48 million from Triangle USA and $70 million from RockPile, or $138 million of adjusted revenue, including cash received for settled hedging transactions.

TUSA and RockPile had standalone segment EBITDA of $46 million and $3.5 million, respectively. These results were delivered in an April 30 ending quarter which saw an average realized price per Boe of $38.97, which was down 54% year-over-year and down 16% sequentially and represented the lowest realized oil and gas pricing in the history of Triangle.

On a consolidated basis, our first quarter adjusted basic and fully diluted earnings per share was a loss of $0.09. You will note that our basic and fully diluted share count for this quarter were the same. The consolidated adjusted map is broken out in a reconciliation table in our press release, as well as our corporate presentation.

Due to the drop in commodity prices over the last several quarters, Triangle recorded a $192 million impairment on a consolidated basis. This impairment was non-cash and was impacted by a reduced rig count in our operated and non-operated acreage, as well as the previously discussed decline in commodity prices.

We recognized an income tax benefit of $53.4 million for the quarter after applying a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets which led to the reversal of our net deferred tax liability. Given the impairment recorded this quarter, the amount of accumulated NOLs for federal tax purposes and the possibility that we could recognize additional impairments in future periods if commodity prices remain at current levels or decline, we do not anticipate having any additional income tax expense or benefit for the fiscal year.

For additional detail, please see Note 2 income taxes, in our Form 10-Q.

We will, however, be able to utilize these net operating loss or NOL carryforwards to offset potential cash taxes owed from future asset sales or strategic transactions. These NOLs provide Triangle shareholders with valuable tax shields as we seek to realize full value from the sum of the parts, net asset value of our various businesses.

Turning to the balance sheet, we proactively sought and entered into an amendment for TUSA's existing senior credit facility. During this process, we were able to modify certain covenants to further enhance TUSA's financial flexibility in the midst of the current commodity price environment. We believe these modifications provide us with enhanced flexibility and durability as we navigate the current environment, and further increase the strength of our balance sheet. We feel very good about our current liquidity and leverage profile, but continue to monitor our position and any opportunities that present themselves.

We finished Q1 with just over $50 million in consolidated cash and total liquidity of approximately $305 million, which included almost $204 million available under TUSA's credit facility, and $51 million available under RockPile's credit facility. Subsidiary stand-alone leverage metrics remain strong and within previously stated goals. As of April 30, TUSA's senior debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio stood at 0.7, which is well below the new 2.75 covenant limit. Though no longer a covenant ratio, TUSA's total debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio stood at 2.7 times, which has essentially been flat for the past four quarters.

RockPile's total debt to EBITDA leverage ratio stood at 1.2 times. Please recall that the NGP convertible note held by our parent company does not count as debt for any of our credit facilities and does not have any maintenance covenants or require any cash interest payments, making its effect on our leverage covenants and liquidity negligible.

On the commodity hedging front, we continue to utilize zero-cost collars and swaps to provide more certainty around price realizations and underlying cash flow. For the remainder of fiscal year 2016, we have an average of approximately 5,000 barrels per day hedged with volume weighted average floors of just over $80 per barrel. And for fiscal 2017, we have 2,750 barrels per day hedged at an average of just over $60 per barrel. Please see our 10-Q and latest corporate presentation for additional details on our hedge positions. We will continue to look for opportunities to adjust our hedge positions subject to market conditions.

Overall, we are well positioned, we have ample liquidity and added covenant flexibility to navigate through ongoing volatile commodity markets. We believe we have a number of options available to us that could provide added flexibility over time and our primary objectives have not changed: remain focused on protecting the balance sheet, maintaining adequate liquidity, maximizing return on capital and positioning the company for post-recovery earnings growth.

With that, I'll hand it over to Dominic to review TUSA operations. Thanks.

Thank you, Justin, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today. I would like to, first and foremost, take a moment to commend the TUSA team on their ability to very rapidly adjust to what has been an extremely volatile past six months. As commodity prices deteriorated, the team quickly implemented cost-cutting measures, pursuing service price reductions and implementing value engineering across our operations.

These diligent and expeditious initiatives have delivered the incremental per well cost savings that we indicated were forthcoming during our fourth quarter call and required to remain competitive in the current environment. Leading-edge AFEs are now trending under $7.5 million per well and marking a 6% savings from Q4 and a 28% reduction year-over-year.

As Justin indicated, our primary focus at TUSA continues to be protecting our balance sheet, maintaining adequate liquidity and delivering strong rates of return from our operations. Reduced AFE costs, combined with enhanced well performance, has allowed TUSA's development program to successfully adapt to a lower commodity price environment while simultaneously protecting our leverage profile and liquidity metrics.

As discussed in our updated corporate presentation, which can be found on the Triangle website, our budget calls for average Middle Bakken EURs of 630 Mboe this year, resulting in a return on capital in excess of our target at $60 oil, including the effect of G&A and other TUSA overhead, while excluding the impact of non-cash impairment charges. This reset of our cost structure only serves to increase our confidence in our business and our ability to thrive in any economic environment, which benefit from enhanced rates of return at the TPC level when considering the benefits of our sister company.

During the first quarter, we took advantage of gaps in RockPile's schedule to complete 5 gross 3.3 net wells. Our strong fourth quarter momentum and this increase in completion activity allowed us to exceed our production guidance for Q1, delivering 1.2 million barrels equivalent for the quarter or 13,775 Boe per day, representing 69% year-over-year growth. As Justin indicated, our strong production, coupled with our team's historic execution, gives us the confidence to raise budget guidance for the year without a corresponding increase to our capital budget.

Our Q1 LOE and workover expense came in at $8.89 per Boe, driven by seasonal cost increases and higher-than-normal number of wells completed in Q3 and Q4 that required conversion to artificial lift without a corresponding number of new well IPs to offset the downtime and cost on a per-unit basis. There were other non-recurring factors that impacted lease operating expenses in Q1. However, we don't consider them material given we expect to be back on track in Q2 within our previously announced full-year per-unit LOE guidance.

Despite an increase in LOE for the quarter, our cash operating expenses decreased to $18.55 per Boe, down 24% from the $24.38 reported in the first quarter of last year. These year-over-year cost reductions are largely driven by operational efficiencies related to infrastructure planning and aggressively managing our company's G&A expenses, which were down substantially more than 40% at the TUSA level with no material changes to our personnel or operational capacity.

On the completion front, our slickwater test well continues to perform in line with its analog wells, which were completed with our historic hybrid slickwater style of fracs. We plan to constantly monitor and evaluate well results to determine whether or not slickwater will deliver longer-term outperformance when compared to our standard completion designs. And until the data suggests otherwise, we don't envision slickwater as a part of our near-term completion strategy. Nevertheless, we plan to continue our industrious review and implementation of varied completion techniques as we believe that well performance relative to capital spend can and will continue to improve over time.

We remain focused on maximizing value on both sides of the F&D equation as well as focusing substantial effort on improving netbacks. Over the past quarter, our marketing strategy has made significant progress, closing TUSA oil differentials to $7.68 per barrel for the quarter with visibility on even lower numbers in the coming months. We have secured transportation for NGLs at the exit of Caliber's gas plant into a nearby liquids line, improving our transportation cost and netback for that commodity stream as well, while continuing to remove trucks from the road. We will remain diligent in pursuing the best market and therefore price for each of our commodity streams.

We anticipate that our run rate capital spend will decrease substantially in the remainder of the year as we settle in at our reduced activity levels and begin to realize $7.3 million AFEs. As stated on previous calls, we plan to drop our second rig during Q2, with all activity focused in our core acreage where we can capitalize on the infrastructure and associated efficiencies that we have tactically integrated into that area.

With that, I'll hand it over to James to review RockPile.

Thanks, Dominic, and good morning to everyone on the call. The first quarter of fiscal year 2016 was challenging for RockPile, but I'm pleased with the progress we made in an extraordinarily difficult operating environment.

Despite the challenging market conditions, RockPile achieved record levels of activity and significantly increased our market share. My thanks to our best-in-class team for their efforts and contributions to our success.

RockPile stand-alone first quarter 2016 revenue of $80.1 million was up 31% year-over-year and down 27% sequentially. EBITDA of $3.5 million was down 75% year-over-year and down 80% sequentially. EBITDA margins were 4.4% in the first quarter versus 16.1% in Q4. Third-party revenue increased to 82% of total revenue in the first quarter, up from 79% in Q4.

Our backlog as of May 22 stood at 27 wells including 22 for third parties and five for Triangle. Oil and gas activity across our areas of operation declined at an unprecedented pace throughout the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, resulting in a highly competitive and challenging pricing environment.

RockPile responded to deteriorating market conditions with significant cost-reduction efforts and a laser focus on supporting our existing client base with best-in-class service quality. We will begin to see the full impact of those cost actions in the second quarter and expect to benefit from those reductions for the balance of the year.

Despite our best efforts on the cost front, the pace of the declined activity, rapidly increasing competitive pressure and challenging weather conditions outran our own cost control measures and pressured first quarter margins. In order to better frame our quarterly performance, I will comment on several key factors that impacted the quarter.

First, we saw a significant price compression in the first quarter as clients responded to the deteriorating commodity price environment and our competitors began to bid work at breakeven or worse in order to maintain utilization.

Additionally, clients across the basin made significant changes to their completion designs in an effort to reduce well cost. Revenue per stage declined by over 40% quarter-over-quarter, with pricing and design changes accounting for the lion's share of that decline. To provide context, utilizing Q4 design and pricing, we estimate pro forma revenue for Q1 would have been in the $140 million to $150 million range versus an actual $81 million. Based on discussions with our clients, we believe average realized pricing will likely bottom in Q2 if it has not bottomed already.

Second, drilling and completions activity across the Williston Basin declined substantially. According to the latest data available to us, the North Dakota rig count has declined by over 60% from the peak. Moreover, a 17% year-to-date increase in drill but uncompleted wells further reduced the volume of completions work available to stimulation services companies.

While there is substantial and growing backlog of wells waiting on completion, and ever fewer frac spreads operating to complete them, we expect the environment to remain challenging until Williston Basin operators decide in the aggregate to begin to work through the largest backlog of wells waiting on completion we've seen in the history of RockPile, at least relative to the amount of horsepower operating in the basin. Despite the steep decline in activity, RockPile was able to keep all four crews nearly completely utilized, while achieving all-time highs in terms of wells and stages completed for the quarter, resulting in meaningful market share gains.

During the first quarter, RockPile performed fracturing services on five Triangle wells and 50 third-party wells. Importantly, RockPile secured a one-year commercial agreement with a Tier 1 client, which we believe is a reflection of the outstanding service quality our team is delivering.

Based on North Dakota Industrial Commission's completions data, we estimate RockPile's share of completions in the Williston Basin for the first three months of calendar year 2015 was approximately 15%, including a record 29% share of North Dakota completions in February. RockPile achieved these market share gains despite operating one spread outside of the Bakken for a portion of the period.

Third, our cost reduction efforts cannot keep pace with the top-line pressure we face. Our cost structure improved over the course of the quarter with margins strengthening each month as we ran through legacy costs in our supply chain, implemented cost rationalization efforts and negotiated lower pricing from our suppliers.

These efforts are continuing with the focus towards capturing efficiencies, optimizing our logistics and working with our partners to find cost savings opportunities, all with an eye towards ensuring we can be successful in a lower activity environment. The net effect of these factors for Q1 results were down meaningfully from prior periods, but performance did improve each month as cost declined and utilization increased.

In April, RockPile generated over $5 million in EBITDA and completed 730 stages, the highest number of stages in a single month in RockPile history, demonstrating that we can be profitable in this market now that supply chain costs have begun to catch up with the top line. The key is maintaining utilization, which is admittedly a higher hurdle than what we have faced historically.

Turning to the outlook. While our visibility for the balance of fiscal year 2016 remains limited as operators' plans continue to be fluid in the face of a dynamic commodity price backdrop, we have continued confidence in the midterm prospects for our business, as the backlog of wells waiting on completion continues to grow while at the same time many of our competitors stack equipment or leave the basin all together.

In recent discussions with potential clients, [ph] return in (19:20) outlook is improving for the first time in months as clients indicate an interest to increase activity levels if WTI stabilizes above $60 per barrel. Additionally, higher planned activity levels from Triangle will help the utilization relative to Q1.

With regards to pricing, we expect our average realized pricing with existing clients to bottom in Q2, with trough full-quarter pricing occurring in Q3. To provide some context, numerous clients have begun to express concern that further concessions from today's levels could lead to under-staffed service crews, poorly maintained equipment and ultimately higher completion cost due to lost time in the future.

To that end, we're increasingly seeing clients turn to us for solutions that provide sustainable cost reductions including re-engineered completion designs, efficiency initiatives and the introduction of new technologies. As noted previously, RockPile's conservative balance sheet provides our company with a great deal of stability and flexibility in this market. We finished Q1 with total leverage of only 1.2 times EBITDA and over $55 million of total liquidity. We remain focused on maintaining a healthy balance sheet and see no near-term issues related to leverage or liquidity.

Last quarter, we noted that while the down phases of the commodity cycles are never pleasant, they can present opportunities for well managed service companies to position for success in the next cycle. We continue to believe this period presents a unique opportunity for RockPile to position the company for success going forward with the full support of the Triangle family.

From a macro perspective, with an estimated 26 active frac lease in the Williston Basin and the rig efficiency operators are seeing, the balance of well inventory to frac supply in the Bakken is trending favorably. As a result, operators are beginning to actively seek relationships with the highest quality service providers in the basin, so we are keenly focused on business development initiatives that will position us for our next phase of growth, including the opportunity to establish long-term contracts with our growing Tier 1 client base.

The primary challenge in Q1 was cost structure relative to pricing and, for Q2, it'll be utilization as operators continue a wait-and-see approach on well completions. That said, we believe there will always be opportunities for service companies that deliver clients a sustainable cost advantage through an uncompromising focus on safety, service quality, and innovation. So that's where we are focused, delivering best-in-class execution for our clients and ensuring that our costs are competitive with anyone in the industry. We believe that's a formula for maintaining some of our market share gains and long-term success in one of the key oil basins in North America.

We remain bullish on the long-term prospect of unconventional oil and gas and the unique capabilities that our team can deliver to our clients. We also recognize that any challenges associated with navigating near-term utilization issues will pay off when our customers begin to work through an estimated 40 wells per spread backlog or 78 rigs adding to that backlog every day.

With that, I'll pass it back to Jon for his closing remarks.

Thanks, James. Turning back to the broader business and our outlook, my observations of the current environment are relatively unchanged from Q1. We are in a dynamic market and our different businesses each face a unique set of challenges and opportunities.

We communicated in the last call that the current environment favors midstream while E&P has positives and negatives. Services clearly has the toughest market backdrop. That thesis has largely played out. Caliber has been our best-performing business unit year-to-date, with a big Q1 beat relative to budget with $10.5 million of EBITDA in the quarter despite a record low of Triangle activity. The major drivers behind that are the completion of the Phase I and Phase II system, as well as continued growth with and acceptance by third parties, with a number of contracts with Tier 1 customers operational, signed or pending.

There have also been a number of positive developments since our last call. Commodity pricing has improved substantially, with current netbacks over 20% higher than last quarter before the impact of hedging. Capital costs at TUSA have continued to fall, with long-term cost structure improvements in E&P more than offsetting any loss of RockPile margin over the near term.

From my perspective, what is happening at RockPile represents a huge opportunity, although it doesn't seem that way when you look at the financial results from the quarter. Remember that the number of frac spreads operating in the Williston has declined from 72 to 26 and yet RockPile still has all of its crews operating. Generating numbers like 30% market share in February and 15% for the quarter overall with April as a record month means to me that RockPile is a true market leader when it comes to quality and delivering our product and service that customers want in the basin. So I look at that very large and growing backlog of wells waiting on completion and remind myself that there are only 22 third-party spreads competing with RockPile for that work.

The table is set for a highly constructive rebound in the services market in the back half of the year unless something radically changes in the market such as a double dip in commodity prices. The goal of RockPile will be to keep as much market share as possible, which may be ultimately constrained by our equipment.

On the crude front, we're focusing on a few items and trying to not focus too hard on a number of items. To start with the latter, we try to not pay too much attention to U.S. crude production when considering the global market for crude.

As the saying goes, not everything that counts can be counted and only in the oil business in the U.S. do we, as an industry, focus so much on 6% of global supply. Yet it has been the fastest growing and most talked about category in oil over the last few years, but given the sharp drop in rig counts, it is only a matter of time before that changes or at least the growth part.

We have also taken note of the substantial reduction and/or delay of international projects as well as the deteriorating political and military situation in Iraq and the broader Middle East. OPEC is still pumping crude at record levels despite a number of members having navigated a very difficult economic and social backdrop, to put it gently.

And lastly, broadly speaking, the rest of the global economy is healthy and growing, at least according to the IMF and related authorities. That growth may be spotty and uneven, but it's still growth. Meanwhile, low oil prices have stimulated demand growth both here at home and overseas.

You put it all together and something has to give. It's just a question of what and when. That doesn't mean we think oil is going back to $100. Absent geopolitical events, oil may not see $100 for some time. We certainly do not believe however that $60 WTI is a sustainable price for the industry to meet global demand over the next few years. When you combine that with the clear bottoming in service pricing and a midstream business that is performing very well and the next two to three quarters could get very interesting, given none of these factors are priced into our stock.

As a reminder, our thesis at Triangle for the last 18 months has been that our sum of the parts is more valuable than the business as a whole. And to realize our share price objectives, we need to sensibly separate our business in a tax efficient manner and ideally with as few shares outstanding as possible. The timeline we have consistently given for that separation is late 2016 and early 2017. So frankly, the longer oil stays down this year, the higher prices will have to be in 2016 and 2017 to meet rising global demand absent any major economic changes, all other things being equal. So given our position, liquidity and the ability of our balance sheet to endure, we continue to have a high degree of conviction that our business plan will pay off with all shareholders benefiting. From our perspective, any challenges we face this year will only serve to strengthen our position when it matters most.

With that, I'll turn it back to the operator and we can begin the question-and-answer portion.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Steve Berman of Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. A two-part question on production. Number one, I'm wondering if any of the solid production beat was a result of higher working interest, because in several basins with low oil prices there's been some companies that are non-operating partners going non-consent. I wondered if you saw any of that. And part two is just directionally quarter-by-quarter, where you see production going to get to your new guidance for the full year. Thanks.

Yeah, Steve. This is Dominic. To answer part one of your question, I would say, yeah, higher working interest and non-consents in our operated wells did drive our operated production a little bit higher for Q1. Regarding the remainder of the year, we anticipate our activity to start to normalize throughout the rest of the year, dropping down to a one-rig program, and we'll layer in completion activity throughout the remainder of the year to hopefully provide a somewhat balanced production profile throughout the rest of the year. And again, kind of guiding towards that guidance that we just let out of 11,500 Boe per day to 13,500 Boe per day total for the year.

Okay. Thanks. That's it for me.

And our next question will come from Jason Wangler of Wunderlich. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning. Was curious, over at RockPile, obviously getting so much of the work and really ramping up the market share from a couple of different angles. Is there – are you guys competing more on price there? Is it just simply just getting more of the work from the customers you have or just kind of how that dynamic is shaping up, because obviously you've made some pretty nice strides.

Yeah. Jason, I would say that in this market, you have to be competitive on pricing, but I don't think that we've won any work due to our pricing. Really I think we noted that we secured a contract with a Tier 1 client, that's been very helpful for us. We continue to get work with existing clients and our team has just done a great job getting stages put in the ground. So while pricing is important to be competitive, I think it's more a reflection of clients having the ability to high grade their providers for the highest service quality service companies in the basin, and we're benefiting from that.

And then just – are we going to stay focused only in the Bakken now? Is that the plan? I know that previously there was some work done outside of the basin. Is it now just trying to maybe frankly do a – kind of become a leader in market share there now that you kind of have that opportunity from the macro perspective?

Yeah. I mean I think that our view with RockPile is, the equipment's on wheels, and we'll work in any basin where there's profitable work. I mean, ultimately, when you look down the road and think of RockPile as a stand-alone company, the more basin diversification it has, the more product diversification, the more customer diversification, the more valuable it's going to be.

So, from our view, it's really just a question of timing and how do you leg in that responsibly. And I think you want to do it when you know you have work, which is a little more challenging as folks in basins that we might think about entering are fighting just to keep their spreads busy. So you'll see that over time, but nothing to report as of today.

Great. I'll turn it back. Thank you.

And the next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I'm just curious if you could spend a couple of minutes on the appendix slide walking through the EUR increase for your Middle Bakken within kind of 10%, 15% type increase. In particular, interested in the current completion design improvement and the high grading of activity and how you guys see that flowing through to – it's not only reserves, but the production profile and how that's included in the guidance?

Yeah. Ron, Dominic Spencer here again. I mean, you were the one that pointed out our fiscal year-end 2015 net PUDs, so this bridge kind of helps tie that together, the bridge therein going from the net year-end PUD on our books to the 630 year-end or fiscal year target EUR for Middle Bakken wells is driven by largely – that excludes our non-operated portfolio, an uplift in EURs resulting from improved completion enhancement designs which we continue to see as an ongoing project and benefit to us here at Triangle, and then, also just targeting some more strategic areas of our acreage position, which I think are somewhat pointed out on slide 9 on our map there to deliver higher EURs through the remainder of the year. So really completion design benefits as well as high grading our programs throughout fiscal year 2016 being the big driver there.

Okay. And then, for James on RockPile, I think you pointed out the April EBITDA was over $5 million versus the full quarter of just $3.5 million. And so, when you talk about pricing potentially bottoming and utilization being, I guess, the biggest risk here in the second quarter, but is April more of a better run rate which is closer to what your fourth quarter which would be more similar to what your fourth quarter EBITDA run rate or how should we think about the flowthrough of the – even if there's incremental supply chain cost improvement?

Yeah. I think – so April was a record month. Yeah, I think our ability to sustain that going forward is largely dependent on how our clients treat the record number of uncompleted wells in the basin. The backlog numbers that we put out reflect the fact that our clients simply have less visibility. There's a lot of desire from clients and we're hearing very positive feedback for the first time in months to go out and complete some of that backlog, but they're waiting on the green light from above. So we think having some stability around $60 is going to be helpful in that front and could lead to a very improved utilization, but saying today that we can maintain April utilization for the balance of the year, I think, would be pretty aggressive at this time.

And, Ron, there is actually an interesting slide we added to the deck that talks about RockPile. It has monthly – I think its stage is completed over the last couple of years and it also shows the number of wells completed in North Dakota. And I think the stage count slide by month. I mean, what it shows you that even when it was go-go times and there's a lot of rigs running, you still have variability month-to-month and that's just naturally due to scheduling. Obviously, you're going to have down time occasionally and nothing works perfectly moving from location to location. So that probably continues to be the case. And then I think from our perspective, the big driver is going to be how many wells do you – people complete in a month.

Right.

February and March were very little months, I think something like 50 wells for the whole state. So in those months even with 30% market share, that was an EBITDA-negative month. And so it's really going to be driven by what do these folks want to do. Now, eventually, they have to complete this backlog. There is a year clock ticking and other factors. So for us, it's a when not an if. But over the near term, any month-to-month prediction gets kind of tough.

Right. And then, Jon, maybe you mentioned at the end of your comments about monetization timing of the different businesses still kind of late 2016, 2017. You also talked about Caliber having, I think, $10.5 million of EBITDA in the first quarter, which I can't remember what it was in the fourth, but I want to say it was $2.5 million or $4 million something like that. How do you think about the potential monetization of them or particularly on the growth of Caliber and what that EBITDA profile looks like with Caliber as that system is becoming more and more operational?

Yeah. I mean, Caliber is really interesting and the last quarter interesting as well. I mean, you have this relatively fixed sum cost in Phase I and Phase II with a lot of spare capacity in the system. So, as third party sign up and come in really with very minimal capital spend, profitability in cash flow can increase substantially. And this is something I think that we always felt was the case, but you got to complete the system before people get to be here to sign up for it. So now that it's finished, it's online, it's operational, it's performing well, it's a well-engineered system, it's a well-built system. They're having a lot of success with third parties. So, we see the profitability ramped at Caliber as being pretty steep. We see that a business with a lot of value in terms of timing and monetization. We're going to stick our 2016-2017 timeline, but I think that you know that we're all capitalists here and if someone came along tomorrow and offered us a good price for any of our business units, we're just after the share price objective.

All right. I'll let me someone else jump in. Thanks, Jon. [Operator Instructions]

The next question will come from Tarek Hamid of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning.

On the – you talked a little bit in the prepared remarks about well costs, AFEs, leading edge at $7.3 million for May. Is that sort of where you think it's effectively going to bottom for the year, or do you think there's still a little bit more reduction as you roll into 2Q and 3Q?

As it stands today, Tarek, we're kind of looking in building that $7.3 million AFE into our model, but our team will continue its approach as it has historically in finding ways to deliver better wells with less capital. So, our plan contemplates $7.3 million AFEs, and our push on our personnel is that they'll continue executing as they have historically.

And then I think in the slide, you show kind of a $6.3 million consolidated AFE for the parent. Is that $1 million differential effectively the sort of synergy benefit from the broader enterprise?

This is Justin. Yes, that is correct.

Thanks for everything about that. Great. And then just last one for me. Sort of as you look out forward to the fall borrowing base redetermination period, have you kind of ran kind of – have you done any math sort of running the current strip through to see kind of where the borrowing base would stand, and do you expect it to be – kind of redetermine at the same level, or do you think there's some downside kind of just given where the strip is?

Yeah. This is Justin again. We have done a lot of work and math around that question. In our recent amendments to our credit facility, we took out some borrowing capacity. I saw that as borrowing capacity. That was really phantom capacity, capacity that we weren't ever going to tap into and I was happy to trade that away in order to get some covenant release that we discussed in our prepared remarks.

So I think that was a very conservative redetermination. And we are still completing wells and growing reserves. So, although we won't know until the work is done and run through the bank syndicate, I am confident that that borrowing base will at least stay flat and if not grow, and I think it's actually going to grow.

That's great. Thank you, guys, very much. That's my last question.

And our next question will come from Steven Karpel of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. This is actually Kyle Kirk stepping in for Steven. Just a kind of bigger picture question. You guys have done a pretty good job setting up liquidity across the businesses. But in terms of growth going forward, it kind of seems like you guys are treading water a little bit. Obviously, that's a large part of that as a result of the current environment. But going forward, can you talk a little bit about what potential strategic opportunities you guys see there in the near, medium term?

Yeah. I mean, I think on the growth question, there's two ways to look at growth. One is in absolute number and then the other way is the per share number. And that's where we've chosen to deploy capital into buying back our stock, reducing the share count, and improving growth on a per share basis. Even if the overall organization is flat, you are experiencing growth at the per share level.

In terms of strategic opportunities, for every deal you see us do, we look at 10 and we got a lot of deal flow right now. So we've always been focused on the past on accretive deals. We have a general view that our stock is cheap and it's not just noise. We've been buying our shares back at prices higher than where it is today. So we believe that and are putting our money where our mouth is. So there are a lot of opportunities out there. There are folks without the same liquidity position, I think there are a lot of private companies that are sort of end of their tenure from a funding perspective and/or the management team signed up in 2009, 2010 for a three-year to four-year deal, and here it is, five years later and they're in the trough of the cycle.

So there are a lot of opportunities and it's really just going to be a question of cadence and funding and what happens in the macro environment, stocks tend to move before businesses recover. I think the business recovery is underway and a lot of stocks have bounced back. So from a public to public, some of that stuff looks expensive. And then from a private side, there are a lot of companies we look at, they have significant high-yield positions that are relatively young. And typically those debt instruments become puttable in a change of control, which could be pretty unappealing to refinance. So we have a lot of dynamics, but again, we'll focus on the per share number and that's really all we care about. If it's a smaller company, so be it. If we find growth opportunities, we'll pursue those as well.

Yeah That makes a lot of sense. And then really quick, you touched on it really briefly. But in terms of Caliber, I think like last quarter, you said it was ahead of your guys' expected internal budget. Does that change or did that change at all kind of your initial thoughts on potential sale or do you think it's – I mean, you did say it's 2016, 2017 timeframe, but any thoughts around accelerating that process, or starting it?

Not for today's call. I think as a normal practice for us and everyone else, we wouldn't comment on M&A processes. And again, we see a lot of potential in that business and are happy to hold it. And the flip side is if someone walks in tomorrow and puts an offer down that we think is a fair value for the business, we'd consider that as well. So we'll report back when there's something to report, but I would encourage people to not look too much sooner than 2016, 2017. If it happens, you should be positively surprised versus if it doesn't happen, you're negatively surprised, if that makes sense.

Yeah, totally. Thanks a lot, guys. That's it for me.

The next question will come from Brian Gamble of Simmons & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I appreciate all the detail, especially on the RockPile, James, it was a great run through. On the TUSA side, you gave the fiscal 2016 target of that 630 Mboe level. How many of your 650 locations do you think fall into that part of your bucket?

Yeah, we'd say about 50% fall into that 630 Mboe type curve and we're looking around – we think another 20 or 30 are lower EURs, but also lower costs like different completion designs, sand instead of ceramic, things like that, so we'd need a similar F&D objective.

The similar rates return for those, you're saying the cost benefits versus the loss on the EUR would essentially mitigate...

Exactly.

Okay.

Maybe it's $100,000 less EUR, but $1 million less capital cost or whatever the math is.

And then what do you think about the remaining, call it, 25%?

It needs higher prices. I think that that's pretty consistent with everyone in the basin.

Okay.

A big part of that, if you recall, is the Marathon acquisition, which added a lot of acres, but we were saying back then when oil was $100 that, again, 10,000 or 12,000 of those acres we'd never drill and develop. So we paid PDP for that and the rest of our inventory. I mean, really I think anything we've subscribed substantial land value to in an acquisition fits that target, and then there's stuff that you just pick up along the way that you have as part of your inventory, but it's not going to get developed at $60 oil.

Great. And then on the RockPile side, I know you mentioned a lot of comments, pricing bottom in Q2, a lot of variability month-to-month. Anything you want to say about May that may give us a little bit of just reflection on how strong April was?

I don't think we have any comments on that. I mean, looking at any given month just really isn't useful. You've asked that same thing for the last quarter. February was a terrible month, and then April was a positive $5 million.

Yeah. That's fair. I just want to make sure we didn't get too far out. I agree. I think the variability month-to-month can be quite dramatic and just wondered...

Yeah. I don't think any specific comments, but we'd be happy to talk about it on next quarter's call.

Okay. I think that's about it. I appreciate it, guys.

Thank you. Brian.

The next question will come from Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good morning. How much of today's deal flow is comprised of leasehold that meets the company's economic threshold, at least as defined by recoveries of 630 Mboe for 6.3 million?

Undeveloped leasehold?

Right.

I think there's very little of that left in the basin.

Okay. And then turning to RockPile, how quickly could RockPile add a spread? Do you believe it's necessary to add a spread in order to retain the increase in market share, and what is the cost of such a spread versus, say, 12 months, 24 months ago?

Well, I think if you recall, we had originally planned to deploy a fifth spread this year. We worked with our vendors to put that on hold and have taken a portion of the equipment but not all through the first quarter. I think, for timing, we could be up and running with that spread in 60 days, if we were to get a mandate for that. We don't need the spread today to maintain the market share that we have, but certainly we're being opportunistic about deploying that. If you just go out to the market and buy the equipment today brand-new, you wouldn't see a significant reduction in pricing. It might be in the order of 10% to maybe 15%.

But I would say that our internal estimate is that somewhere around between 10% and 20% of all horsepower in North America is in some level of flux and could be available. And certainly, buying used equipment right now, there's ample opportunity to do that. A number of service companies have commented on the pricing that they're seeing and I think we would be in line with that – it's not at levels that we think is attractive at this moment, but could be – could quickly get there. So we're monitoring that -included in the deal flow Jon was talking about is a number of service company opportunities and we're on top of those. And we'll be proactive when we find something that we think makes sense for the Triangle family.

That's great. I appreciate the color and the texture there. Then lastly here, where do you see liquidity and leverage sitting at year-end maybe assuming strip pricing and no change in CapEx?

Yeah. So we haven't forecast leverage or liquidity. We really only forecast production across the businesses, but in great shape. We just amended our credit facility at Triangle USA and well below strip pricing that gives us ample leverage headroom for many quarters and years to come. And liquidity, as you see in our filings, we're sitting on north of $50 million of cash at the parent. And that's by design, we have always historically sat on some cash at the parent, still have ample liquidity on our two main respective credit facilities.

And as I have commented earlier, I think there's a good chance that at least one of those credit facility grows liquidity in the coming quarters.

Great. And I'll sink one more in. If you were to realize additional cost savings in the field and that translate into lower AFEs here going forward, do you increase activity or do you bank those savings?

I think you have options, I mean – this is Jon – and my opinion is that, if you see AFEs go down, that's going to be the re-engineering. It's not going to be the pricing concessions, because a substantial number of our vendors are breakeven or losing money. So that portion is totally unsustainable. In a way, we're in a pretty interesting situation that we didn't necessarily predict, but a good situation which we've been able to increase our working interest in our operated units pretty substantially through trades, through some people have just given us well bores, non-consents, what have you.

So when you look at our gross and net well budget for the year, I think we'll hit the gross number. We have complete control over that. The net well number, obviously changes and then what we complete is up to us. So, we'll have a decision point really at the end of the year did we want to just complete more wells, and then you'd spend more money and then you'd probably have a production beat versus the high end of guidance if you want to keep CapEx where it's at or under.

So there's a number of factors at play. But I think what's good news for us is that we've really already spent so much money on drilling, a good number of net wells that we could really lay down a rig, complete two wells a month for the next, call it, all the way through the end of next year and really with minimal CapEx requirements, because we're not spending drilling dollars, maintain production, and being a free cash flow positive position.

So I think that's a highly defensive position. I don't think that positions us to react to any upside or turn, but it is a good defensive position to be in. So that equation of how many net wells do you complete, how much do you save, what did you bank it, I think we'll be in a better position to make that decision in the fall, and probably talk about it on December's call when we still have a couple of months left in the year.

Much appreciate it. Have a great day. Thanks.

Sure.

Our next question will be a follow up from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Real quick. Maybe a follow-up to Dan's question, when you look at CapEx given the higher working interest, is it too simplistic or is it fair to say that your higher working interests have really offset some of the cost savings, so that your total CapEx remains about the same although you get the benefit of the higher ownership?

Well, I think it's a mixed bag. I mean, because if you have a well drilled last October that's sitting there, waiting an inventory to be completed, it doesn't matter what the new AFE is on the drilling part...

Right.

...but our work interest may have gone up and now completion costs are down. So, we would realize that portion. So it sort of works out to a blend and there's not any one answer. But AFEs and costs in general are a rolling number and costs really started to drop off in the Bakken in February and March and April, and so now you're seeing those flow through.

And then, I guess the follow-on is when we look at your pace of capital spending, is it – now that you're dropping the rig, but it sounds like your completions that started maybe a little bit sooner than what you may have thought two or three months ago, is the capital spending expected to be pretty flat over the remainder of the year?

I think our capital spending, Ron falls off substantially from Q1 spend as we transition from a four to a two-rig program and completed some wells. I would just say we're still trending towards our previously announced full-year capital guidance.

Perfect. Thank you.

And at this time, we will conclude the question-and-answer session. The conference has now concluded. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.