Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jonathan Ryan Samuels — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Justin Bliffen — Chief Financial Officer, Triangle Petroleum Corp.
Jason A. Wangler — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Steve F. Berman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Jared R. Lewis — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Eli J. Kantor — Analyst, IBERIA Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 Fiscal Year 2013 Triangle Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Matthew, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

And now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Jonathan Samuels, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you and good morning everyone. Welcome to the Triangle Petroleum fiscal 2013 earnings call. My name is Jon Samuels, President and CEO, and I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer, Justin Bliffen; our Principal Accounting Officer, Joe Feiten and several other members of our team.

Today, I want to cover a number of topics. First, we want to provide you with a review of our fiscal 2013 progress and financial performance. Overall, we're really happy with what we as a company have achieved this past year. Sometimes even we forget that one year ago, we just started flowing back our first operated well. RockPile wasn't yet operational and Caliber didn't yet exist. So, when we look at the growth in revenue and reserves that we achieved this year, which is really our first year of operations, we're pleased with it. We'll get more to that topic in a minute.

Secondly, we want to provide some context around the delay in filing our 10-K and the changes to how we account for RockPile. The good news is it's done and behind us. There's no cash impact and no changes to our past financial statements that we anticipate on a go forward basis. We'll talk more about that in a minute.

And the last topic we want to talk about, which we think is the most important is the current operations update. Yesterday was the last day of our first quarter and already Q4 feels pretty far away, given what we've done in the last three months. We've set some ambitious goals for ourselves as a company this year and are very pleased with the progress. We feel good about our guidance and feel like we're beginning to fire on all cylinders. We're – the table is set for rapid growth across all our business segments this year and we're excited about it.

Before we get into that, I'd like to turn the call over to our CFO, Justin Bliffen, who is going to walk you through some of the highlights from fiscal 2013.

Good morning. I'll briefly run through the standalone business segment operated and financial results for fiscal year 2013, which ended January 31, 2013. Triangle E&P, also known as Triangle USA, grew sales volumes 415% from 94.9 MBOE in fiscal year 2012 to 488.2 MBOE in fiscal year 2013. We increased proved reserves approximately 900% from 1.5 MBOE in fiscal year 2012 to 14.6 MBOE in 2013.

On a standalone basis, the E&P business segment generated approximately $40 million of oil and gas sales and $25 million of adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2013. On a consolidated basis, we spent approximately $168 million with $146 million being spent on operated and non-operated drilling, and $23 million being spent on acreage acquisition. This CapEx number was, of course, reduced by $12 million due to income generated by RockPile, which will be discussed further later in the call.

It is worth noting the TUSA or Triangle USA credit facility was recently syndicated and has increased from $10 million to $110 million over the preceding 12 months.

RockPile Energy Services, our wholly owned subsidiary, commenced operations in July of 2012 and completed 17 total wells in approximately 500 stages. On a standalone basis, RockPile generated $57 million of revenue or $21 million on a consolidated breakdown and $10.5 million rather of standalone adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2013. This includes approximately $4 million of G&A costs spent before RockPile completed their first well this past year. RockPile incurred CapEx of approximately $29 million on property and equipment.

On our consolidated statement of operations in the press release, you will notice $6.3 million of other expense. This is related to non-cash interest expense of $1.4 million for NGP notes, discussed previously, and unrealized derivative loss of $4.9 million. Please reference our form 10-K, note 4, segment reporting or reconciliation tables in our press release for additional details. Thank you.

Thank you, Justin. I'd like to spend a couple of minutes now talking about the SEC review and the delay in our filing and the change in our RockPile accounting principle.

Now, the SEC review process, it was normal course. You guys are aware every public company is reviewed by the SEC every couple of years, Triangle is not special in that regard. Triangle was last reviewed in 2010, so we were due and the timing [ph] a little latter (5:13). Frankly, this wasn't great and we weren't able to resolve it before our 10-K was due, which is why we filed late.

The good news is it's behind us and there is no outstanding comments or issues, so [indiscernible] (5:27) and really there are no direct consequences, legal or otherwise, to filing for this extension. So it was unpleasant, you guys didn't like the delay any more than we did, but it is behind us now and really there is no consequences for it.

Regarding the RockPile change in accounting, really the question here is what do we do with RockPile's income. It's a good problem to have. This is an expense that we would incur no matter what if we're drilling wells. It's just a question do we pay that money to a subsidiary that shareholders own or do we pay it to a third party. So, the question of what we do with RockPile income, there is two choices for that, either it goes on our income statement or it is a reduction of CapEx.

There is a rule written in the early 1980s that essentially says if you're an E&P company and you own a service company, you can't recognize income for services that you provide to yourself. And as you guys know, we were not recognizing income for Triangle's working interest share of any wells that RockPile fracked, but we were recognizing income for non-operators and non-consent interest in our unit. The real problem was the rule was silent on that. It was written in a time period that you didn't have horizontal wells being drilled in North Dakota with forced pooling on 1280 spacing and it's just silent, so it's subject to interpretation. We had – our interpretation, our auditors agreed with us. The SEC at it and they had a different interpretation. Of course, we're going to comply with what they say and so we had to restate our 10-Q.

To us, it's really not that big a deal. RockPile is recognizing this income and we're realizing the cost savings regardless and whether it's income on the income statement or reduction in CapEx, it really doesn't change the thesis. The whole point of the vertically integrated model is to be the low cost producer. And wherever it flows through, again the cash in the bank account, that's what matters. So, all things considered, we're fine with the outcome. It was unfortunate there was delay.

We ran through a couple of numbers that I thought would be worth talking about because we certainly ask ourselves the question, is dealing with this RockPile accounting worth it. And we went through our reserve report. If you actually developed all the wells in there, we – by our math, at today's prices, we generate – we would spend over $1 billion fracking wells. So if RockPile is at 15% margin, RockPile is going to save us $150 million, if it's a 20% margin, that's $200 million.

This is, of course, over a number of years, but considering there is $29 million of equity invested in RockPile to realize those sort of savings, it is meaningful and it is important to us and we believe in it, so truly understanding if you were are frustrated with the delay and frustrated with the change in accounting, but I think if you spend the time to look at the issue and look at the numbers, you'll agree with our assessment that it is worth it, and so we're going to continue on with the path that we started on a couple of months ago.

Moving on to an operational update, things are going really well. Our most recent production over the last 21 days has been 3,700 BOE a day with total sold volumes of 3,200 BOE. The last seven days, that number is closer to 4,000 BOE. The reason for the delta between the produce and the sold and why do we include that number? We are planning to commence operations at the Caliber gas plant in August, which at this point is not that far away. We were talking about it last year and it's really far away, at this point, it's four months from now, so you're going to see that gap narrow. We're still in a phase of our business where you're going – where production is going to be lumpy. Please don't take 4,000 barrels a day and straight line it or increase it, because we're going to have time gaps between when we frac wells, we're still drilling multi-well pads.

RockPile will frac two wells for us. They did so in the beginning of April, then they take a couple of weeks off, and they are going to frac two more wells for us next week, then there will be another break. So this is one of the benefits of the capital raise we did a month or two ago with NGP and going to a three to four rig program is it really increases the frequency that we're completing wells. That's going to smooth out the production profile and also result in a lot of efficiencies because our crews are going to be better utilized in North Dakota, which is an important part of it.

Today is May 1. It's the first day of our second quarter. We have about 21 operating wells producing today. In Q1, we got five wells. In Q2, we fracked eight to 10. By the end of August, which is only four months away, we're going to be selling the majority like of our gas, as I mentioned. All that falls to the bottom-line.

We're adding a fourth rig this summer to drill while the weather is good. We're anticipating three to four additional wells really as a result of efficiencies and costs coming down. There is no change in our CapEx to add that rig.

RockPile is just now receiving its second frac spread, and third-party activity remains strong. The performance for Triangle and for others has been fantastic from a quality standpoint. Caliber is on schedule with its buildup. When the system is finished, we're going to substantially increase our efficiency, at the same time reduce our costs and increase cash flow. So things are on track.

Well, the most exciting parts to us internally here about our model, RockPile is in its third quarter of operations, Caliber is really just starting its first, is we are taking what is either CapEx or LOE expense for everyone else and we're converting it to cash flow savings for us. And we think when you get to Q3 and you see that flowing through our financial statements, it's going to be a powerful model and we're excited about it.

One of the most exciting things right now is we take a very long-term approach to this business, as you know. We were talking about next summer last year. It was very far away. The tie is here. We're going to frac eight to 10 wells over the next three months. All Caliber business lines will be up. RockPile is going to be running two spreads. So in the next two quarters, you're going to see some substantial growth as we move towards meeting our guidance. We're excited. We need to continue to execute. There is a lot to do. But as I said before, the table is set, and we have the team and the funding in place and the growth is exciting.

I'd like to close out our prepared remarks by just reminding people about our core business strategy, and rearticulating what it is we're trying to accomplish here at Triangle. We are 100% focused on the Bakken, and we want to do the best job possible developing our assets in the Bakken. Our goal is to be the low cost producer in North Dakota. That brings a lot of challenges, weather, lack of infrastructure, and in general a very tough operating environment from people, housing, flooding, you name it, you guys have read about it, it's a tough place to do business. We take a very long-term approach with this basin and our asset base, and for us being the low-cost producer remains owning and controlling key parts of our value chain.

So if you look at us, which means understanding our vertically integrated model, i.e. RockPile and Caliber, keep in mind what we're trying to do. We want our E&P business to add reserves at the lowest possible cost per barrel and we strongly believe RockPile and Caliber are key components to achieving our goal.

We have five-year development timeframe where we're really converting hundreds of millions of dollars of expense, either CapEx to drill and complete wells or lease operating expenses, and the cash flows that we can reinvest in our drilling program. And over time, it's going to make a big difference to reserves, production and cash flow on a per share basis. So, we think it will drive stock performance over the long term.

So, we appreciate your patience and your interest. Please dive in, call us, ask questions, we want to help you understand the accounting. We want to help you understand where we're going, and we think the more you get to know the story, the more you're going to be excited about what's going to happen over the next couple quarters, because we grew revenues from $8 million or $9 million in 2011 to $95 million last year and it's going to go from $95 million to over $300 million and the funding is in place for it. So, we're excited for what's going to happen this year. We know we need to execute and we are solely focused on that objective.

With that, I'll turn the call back to the operator and take questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jason Wangler from Wunderlich Securities. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Just on RockPile, just going forward and understanding how the accounting works and I'm sure each quarter is going to be different. Is there kind of rule of thumb or something you could give us an estimate on? I guess for even the first quarter of $24 million to $26 million, how much of that work as on a percentage basis is with you guys versus third party just to kind of give us an idea for modeling purposes on the income statement?

Yeah, I'm going to let Justin answer that question, he's closer to those numbers.

Yeah. I wish I could tell you that there is a solid rule of thumb. The reality is it depends. It depends on the – how many Triangle USA jobs are being completed, how many third-party jobs are being completed, what the working interest of the Triangle respective jobs are and what kind of jobs they are, whether – for us, all of our completions are more or less a similar design and cost structure. Whereas in the third party, there is a wide range of – everything from a small refrac to another 23,000 total measured depth, 30-plus stage horizontal frac, plug-and perf, ceramics, et cetera, so unfortunately, no.

That number that we spoke to is a standalone guidance number, obviously, and that will be apparent on our standalone financials which we will be making available to the public via our website, but what you will see on the intersegment breakdown table takes into account the TUSA and other eliminations – excuse me, the Triangle USA and other eliminations. So...

I think in Q1, the midpoint of our guidance is $25 million of revenue for RockPile, and I believe that's about $20 million from Triangle-operated wells and $5 million from third-party wells.

Okay. And maybe just to maybe ask it a different way for the second quarter, you talk about 12 to 15 wells for RockPile and you're looking at 8 to 10 wells for Triangle. Would all of those be done by RockPile?

Yeah, right now RockPile is doing all of Triangle's work and we see that continuing on a go forward basis. And I think the most helpful way for you guys to model it and we can brainstorm about ways to be more helpful and give you guys more information to help model. We understand exactly what you're asking is, I mean, RockPile fracs cost between $4 million and $5 million, depending on where the well is. So when you look at the full year guidance for RockPile, you know how many wells Triangle is planning to complete. We've announced that and $4 million to $5 million per well.

That's helpful. [indiscernible]

(17:02) Triangle so the balance is going to be third parties. I mean really what we're going to see is the majority of RockPile income is not going to be in the Triangle income statement. And really the only – from our perspective, unfortunate aspect is the accounting is all that RockPile G&A is still there. So if you look at this quarter, you have RockPile G&A, you don't have any income to offset it [indiscernible] (17:27) cash impact, our CapEx decline by the same amount, but I understand where that's – why you're asking that. And I don't know if that's helpful, but we can hopefully [ph] really soon... (17:34).

No, it's helpful that you do break it out obviously with the two standalone businesses because that obviously is much more impactful. And then just last thing just with RockPile, the second crew, when do you think that they'll start ramping up and start fracking some wells.

I think pretty soon here, May or June. I think July is the target for 24 hour operations.

Perfect. That's all I had. Thank you, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you for your question. Your next question comes from the line of Steve Berman from Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys. Just a couple of housekeeping things first. In your February ops update, you gave preliminary Q4 numbers of 2,250 for production, 1,950 for sold volumes. There is a number in the 10-K of 2,099 which was called production, but I came up with the same 2,099 but it seemed to be a volume number. So I just want to get down to the bottom of what the 2,099 BOE a day is, is it volumes or is it production?

It's total sold volumes. So production was higher but what we reported in the K is what we sold.

Okay. And then in your press release, Jon, you said projected Q1 production was 2,550 BOE a day, what does that translate into in terms of sold volumes?

That's the sold number.

That is a sold number? [ph]

Probably (19:10) we should have specified. Yeah, that's 2,550 BOE a day is our estimate for actual sold volumes in Q1. Trying to help you guys out [ph] with that item (19:22). The only reason we put the produced number above was just again to illustrate the fact that, well, without a doubt, when it comes on, there will be a pretty big step-up in production the same day.

So that 3,700 BOE number is more like an exit rate for the quarter as opposed to the 2,550 BOE which is an average...

This 2,550 BOE is the actual average for the quarter.

Right. So actually the 2,550 BOE now compares to the 3,200 BOE kind of exit rate?

Yeah, and that's what I was sort of alluding to in the prepared remarks is that this is going to go away, as we add rigs, but right now we frac wells and then there is a gap between when we frac the next well, and during that time your production is declining. Frac two wells and production jumps up and then it declines.

As we get to our fourth rig, that spacing is going to stop and RockPile is literally going to move from one pad to another to another to another and not have these breaks, which is why we added a second frac spread so they could service the third-party demand, but that's why you kind of see that delta.

Okay. Then in terms of when do we get to the point where you're only reporting one number, because in August we start to see always wells hooked up and hopefully the ... [indiscernible]

(20:36) is operational.

Okay. And then, Justin, you may have touched on this a little bit, but the reported EPS for the – for Q4 was $0.20 loss, but there's – I guess things got some – there is derivative loss and these start-up costs. What would adjusted EPS number be? Because I keep coming up with different numbers for that.

It should be approximately minus $0.04, But that's taking out the noncash derivatives, loss on derivatives, stock-based comp and, yeah, essentially those two items.

Okay. And those start-up costs, was that..?

We did not subtract those.

You did not, okay. And then last question, I will let else go, what's your most recent wells drill and complete costs, what are they running?

On an [indiscernible] (21:43) basis, they are around $11 million in McKenzie County; $1 million to $1.3 million less in Williams County.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Jared Lewis from Northland Securities. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

On RockPile, just looking at the K and the G&A, there is $11.8 million, Can you just guide what onetime is, and what we can think about that number going forward?

Yeah. So, you look at that number, RockPile spent just around $4 million in G&A before they fracked a well. So when we put out their adjusted EBITDA internally, we exclude that because we're trying to get a sense of what are they actually generating on a per-quarter basis. So that cost will be ongoing. What really is not going to happen again was there was a start-up cash bonus program for RockPile guys, and the simple way to put it is they knocked it out of the park and it's a bonus that shareholders should be happy to pay given the performance. That's not going to happen again. So...

Okay. So, we won't see that with the second crew coming on line?

No.

Okay. And on the drilling program, you got three in McKenzie, the fourth. is that going to go to McKenzie as well?

I'm not – actually, I don't know off the top of my head where that's going to drill its first well. There are wells in Williams County on our drill schedule. I have to look at it to see where it's going to start up.

Okay. Okay.

We can get back to you after the call, if that's helpful.

Yeah. No, no. That's fine. And just on the RockPile, again, I know, in the February call, you kind of gave some margin-type guidance as it – how should we look at that given the accounting change going forward?

Yeah. Yes, I mean, the accounting change should have no impact on the RockPile guidance. I mean, our – we continue to believe the right way to look at RockPile is on a standalone basis, and we give guidance to that effect. So you have standalone revenue guidance and standalone cash flow guidance, and that's going to be your margin. Again, if you're RockPile, whether it's income on the Triangle income statement is irrelevant. RockPile margin is RockPile margin, and Triangle shareholders own that.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks. I'll jump back in. I appreciate it.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from the line of Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please proceed.

Jon just one or Justin maybe for you just one financial follow-up on the RockPile cash G&A for the fourth quarter. I understand what you're saying about the start-up cost, but the RockPile cash G&A in the fourth quarter was quite a bit higher than where it was in the third quarter. When you look at it going forward what – especially now that you have a second rig coming in, what's a good run rate for that RockPile cash G&A, and I'm just trying to make sure that that fits into the EBITDA guidance that you had previously provided for fiscal 2014 for RockPile?

Yeah, thanks, Ron. I would say that a ballpark run rate G&A number is approximately $4 million a quarter for RockPile. And again to echo Jon's early comments, that bump up in our fourth quarter RockPile G&A was at the conclusion of hitting end of the year milestones in order to get that business from ground zero, one employee, up to the business that it is today.

Okay, so bonus related then?

Because you won't see – in other words you won't see that increase in 1Q to 2Q and so forth.

Okay, perfect. And then when you look at your operated drilling program, obviously majority is there in McKenzie County. Are you still focused and plan on continue to do 100% ceramic down in McKenzie and the ceramic white sand mix up in Williams or how are you thinking about future completions as you gather more data in the play?

We're definitely going to continue with ceramics in McKenzie County and the blend, I mean we want our well cost to be as low as possible. We are going to experiment what this year is using some lighter weight ceramics that are cheaper and seeing if we get the same results. So that saves $400,000 to $500,000 per well in ceramic costs in McKenzie County.

Okay. And then the – you talked about adding that fourth rig for three to four wells and CapEx doesn't change. You also referenced that there it was drilling and just cost efficiencies were part of that. Is part of that also related to the fact that the way you are having to reduce your capital cost for the RockPile related?

No, it's – we got levers to pull regarding our CapEx, because we have wells to go drill that have different working interest, we have some locations that are an 80% organically, some locations that are 30%. So what we spend is obviously going to be very different between the two.

So we looked out at the schedule. We were definitely conservative when we started the year, and remember, we planned this a couple of months ago, a number of costs have come down. And our drill times are down, our team is doing better. They're figuring things out for our area, RockPile efficiencies are up. So we just looked at it across the portfolio and felt very comfortable adding three to four gross wells and not changing the CapEx.

And if you add those three to four gross wells over the summer months, what's the – what are you guys modeling from drilling to completion time, and I'm only bringing it up, because I assume it's more conservatism, but it seemed to me if you drill an incremental three to four wells, that the fourth quarter rate that you guys have had in your most recent presentation including today's has not yet changed. It's somewhat, if I'm thinking about it correctly, the drilling of those wells could have some impact on your numbers by the fourth – fiscal fourth quarter.

For sure. I mean we look at [ph] – we try to (28:53) look at about where our production is relative to our guidance. Obviously, there is a big contributing factor at back half of the year is the gas plant coming online. So we would rather leave our guidance where it is and then beat the number versus bring it up today, which just leaves you more room for air, but I think your instincts on it are spot on.

And does the guidance then for the fourth quarter, that includes the impact of Caliber and the gas sales?

Correct.

And the 3,200 BOE versus the 3,700 BOE barrels of current production at least as referenced in your press release, is all of that delta related just to the flared gas?

Yes, it's not all in McKenzie County. There are units in Williams County that will be hooked up to other gas processing systems. But yes, that is the delta.

Okay. And then the – finally, just on the liquidity position, your – you have the $65 million in cash, you have the $110 million available under the revolver, I believe. Can you just correct me in terms of what current liquidity is of – if I'm incorrect there and then as you look out over your program, it looks like that gets you into fiscal 2015?

Yeah, we have – in our presentation, we have a slide that covers this and have $134 million of total liquidity today. And we think that grows – the liquidity grows faster than the CapEx spend really from the credit facility. And then as we've mentioned in the past, our plan is you got to get past some certain threshold to access high yield markets. I mean definitely it needs to be an offering over $200 million to $225 million for it to make sense.

So where does your production have to be, but high yield is certainly part of our long-term financing plans given where rates are. So the likely outcome for this year as you see production increase, you see the bank facility increase, if you needed to, if you felt tight, you could take on a bank's second lien at a high yield, which would improve the liquidity position. We don't need to do that right now. And then at some point, high yield is the lowest cost, long-term funding for us.

Okay great. And then...

When we model it internally, we're actually pretty comfortable.

And then lastly, just with RockPile, you're going from one to two frac spreads. When you have your two frac spreads operating and you have a full-time three rig program and that may increase going forward, but based on that from – if you're looking at RockPile standalone, what do you think the split will be between RockPile – I mean sorry, Triangle operated program versus non-operated, percentage wise?

Our guidance this year – really it's going to be a question of utilization and what will RockPile achieve. Our guidance for them, you guys can work it out based on the metric that we gave before, $4 million to $5 million frac cost per well and the number of wells Triangle is doing this year and the total RockPile revenue. [ph] If you were to (32:26) question of how successful RockPile is at sourcing third-party work, we've given the guidance that we're comfortable with, where Triangle will not fully utilize one spread, so RockPile will have an entire spread available plus part of the one that is fracking Triangle wells when we don't need it available for third-party work.

I mean that's what I was trying to get it. I mean it seems like if you have two frac spreads, that you would be somewhere between 25% and 40% on Triangle operated, I just didn't know if that would have jived with what you would have provided?

Yeah, I mean the delta is that a lot of the third-party work RockPile is doing right now is for areas of the basin that their customers are not pumping ceramic and it's plug-and-perf. So I mean, RockPile did 90 stages for an operator in 72 hours last week, which we believe is a record, sliding sleeve, it's sand. It costs less. They're doing them a lot more quickly and it's just a different type of completion. You can't do that in McKenzie County. You won't get the production that we get.

Right.

Service intensity in McKenzie County is a lot higher than other parts of the basin. And right now, RockPile's third-party work is coming from some of those areas of the basin that are lower service intensity.

And then as you go forward for RockPile, it sounds like anything you operate, you won't be able to recognize income, it'll be a reduction to your full cost pool. If you don't have an interest in a well that RockPile completes, you can book – you can recognize the income. The third bullet point, I'm just curious, if you have a non-operating interest in a third party well that RockPile completes, what are the certain circumstances that limited income can be permitted or how have you been directed on that?

I was given a really sophisticated answer and I didn't really understand it, to be honest. It's complicated. Essentially, the total amount of income has to exceed Triangle's total cost to develop a well or something like that. So if we had a 10% working interest and it was a $10 million well, and so, our cost was $1 million. RockPile could recognize any income from that well over $1 million.

Got you.

So that will go to the full cost pool. I might have just gotten that completely wrong. I'm not an accountant. I think the simpler way to guide you is that we do not foresee a scenario in which that's going to happen...

Okay. Great. Thanks.

...thus unlikely to recognize any income would be the simple model point. That changes if they pick up work in an area where we have a big non-op interest, we'll certainly communicate that.

Perfect. Thank you for all the answers.

I tried Ron, I couldn't figure it out.

Well, I couldn't hear that obviously. Thanks.

Thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen, your next question comes from the line of Eli Kantor of IBERIA Capital Partners. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning guys.

Good morning.

I was hoping you could talk a little bit about what the service cost environment looks like in the Williston Basin. Last year, many of the Williston operators reported well costs reductions that were at least partially driven by a decline in service costs and with gas prices recently increasing and potentially gas directed drilling activity increasing, have you seen any change in service availability and have you modeled any potential increase in RockPile's revenues or EBITDA associated with the potential of tightening in the market later this year?

To your question first, there is – our assumptions – we stand by our guidance. So the guidance we've put out is our view on what RockPile will generate in the current environment. I think the general trend you're talking about, which is service prices down now and a perception out there that there's going to be tightening in the back half of the year is something that people talk about. I hear that a lot as people – the general story I hear from lot of folks is people busted their budgets last year, laid down rigs. You're going to see those rigs come back in good months.

Obviously, that's a dynamic environment and a lot the companies operating in the Bakken have choices of where they spend capital and put their rigs, including gas plays. So I do not have any comments on the gas market and what that's going to do with the Williston Basin service supply, but that's certainly a factor that will influence it.

Regarding the overall cost environment, I'd definitely say that there's more service availability. There is – lot of people were building last year and stock is kind of built, and so it's available. There's a lot of capitalism going on with people starting up new companies and providing services. We continue to kind of believe that quality services are constrained. There might be more people calling you, but that doesn't mean they have the supply chain, people and everything they need to perform at a level that's going to be additive to our overall development program, but it is impacting pricing.

At the top of the call, you had mentioned that frac costs that RockPile charges to its customers ranges between $4 million to $5 million per well. Do you assume that stays flat for the duration of this year?

That's what RockPile charges Triangle. Other customers, totally depends on their well design. RockPile has done fracs for folks that took less than a day and were $1 million.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you for your questions, ladies and gentlemen. I'd now like to hand back the call to Jonathan Samuels for the closing remarks.

We appreciate all of you joining and we look forward to updating you on Q1 results in the middle of June. Thank you.

Thank you for joining today's call, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes the presentation.