corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Trico Marine Services Investors Call. This call


is being recorded. And at this time, I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer,


Mr. Geoff Jones. Please go ahead, sir.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


I am Geoff Jones, CFO of Trico, and I will start with our forward-looking statements. Statements in


this conference call regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits from joint ventures,


partnerships, projections involving revenues, operating results, forecasts from operations,


anticipated capital expenditures, and other statements which are not historical fact are forward-


looking statements.


Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors detailed in the company’s Forms


10-Q and 10-K, registration statements and other filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. Should these risks or uncertainties materialize, or the consequences of such a


development worsen, or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may


vary materially from those expected. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly


update or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or


otherwise.


Now our CEO, Joe Compofelice will review the first quarter operations.


Joseph Compofelice, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. The first quarter results reflect our continued focus on executing our long term


strategy, and that is in terms of our existing fleet, which I will talk about first, moving them to


markets that have higher rates, higher EBITDA margins, and long-term contract stability. In the first


quarter, 85% of our revenues were international. Let me talk about, kind of, what that means when


we move a boat out of the Gulf of Mexico to markets like West Africa and Mexico. Those two


markets are very strong. We expect them to be grown through the next several years, if not longer.


When we move a boat from the Gulf of Mexico to one of those two markets, we improve the


EBITDA per boat per day 2 to $4,000 – 2 to $4,000 a day higher than the Gulf of Mexico, that’s in


terms of day rate. And because, usually within the first 90 to 180 days roll on to term contracts, we


are talking about utilization that’s virtually 100% set for any downtime associated with dry-docking


or maintenance and repairs. During the quarter, we mobilized three additional vessels out of the


Gulf of Mexico to West Africa.


Now the downside in terms of short-term numbers is that these mobilizations are expensive,


obviously not much in Mexico, a lot more when it goes to West Africa, and a whole lot more when it


goes to China. I would say since we are down to 14 vessels in the Gulf of Mexico, but that’s going


to 12 by the middle of June and possibly less than that, I would say we are probably 80% through


the incremental cost associated with mobilizing vessels out of the Gulf of Mexico to international


waters. It cost us a little bit extra this quarter, and I think, Geoff has the number, but that was a – it’s


a series of non-recurring costs that we took some of in ‘07, or some of in ‘06, a lot in ‘07, a lot in


‘08, and by the end of ‘08 that will be gone.


I think, also important in this first quarter is that our joint venture in Southeast Asia called Eastern


Marine – as a reminder it’s a 50-50 joint venture with COSL, the publicly controlled subsidiary of


CNOOC, had it’s first quarter of profitability since inception. This is about when we expected it to


happen, but all of the boats in that market are virtually on ticket, and everyone, especially COSL is


happy that that happened. And we still are focused on eliminating those boats on a timely basis that
corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


are not good earners, and so in this quarter we sold four, either old or non-earning Gulf of Mexico


vessels, but that’s not our existing fleet.


In terms of the new builds, as you have seen in our press release, we are announcing two new


contracts. They are for Grupo CFC, a long-time large contractor, for – in Mexico for Pemex, and


those two vessels are scheduled for delivery, one in the second quarter, one in the third quarter.


They were contracted at very good rates. So now all of the new builds scheduled for delivery in


2008 are under long-term contracts, and they are either two-year contracts with a one or two year


option, or three-year contracts with a one or two year option. Everything else that we have on order


is scheduled for delivery in 2009. I think, pretty much like everybody else in the business, we saw a


little bit more slippage in the 2009 deliveries, and we are working hard to keep closer to their


projected delivery date. But if you look at the peak of deliveries for all of the new builds, whether


they are OSVs or subsea service vessels, it really comes together in the four quarters between the


second quarter of this year and the end of the first quarter of next year. This is a huge delivery and


it’s just burdening all of the shipyards. But again, everything – the most important thing for us right


now is that everything in 2008 has been contracted and we are starting to focus -- although you


never want to focus too early on contracting the 2009 vessels.


We made more progress in improving our financial flexibility for future transactions. We feel very


focused in the fourth quarter, excuse me, in the first quarter. We closed the new $50 million U.S.


credit facility in January. We closed, after the end of the quarter, a new $100 million subsea credit


facility for the construction in progress left on the vessels we bought from Active Subsea -- we


bought with Active Subsea.


In terms of our market, let me make a few comments on those. The North Sea was stable, I would


call it solid. It’s not the – peak is always tough when you come up a quarter like the fourth quarter


‘07 which got record rates in the spot markets for North Sea anchor handlers, so it’s always tough


to follow an act like that. I try not to compare it to a peak like that. I just look at in relation to our


expectations. We would call it a strong quarter in the North Sea. We expect a dozen or so term


contract rollovers between now and the end of 2008, and we feel good about those renewal rates.


We think they are going to be at the upper-end of our expectations. And even though we continue


to de-emphasize the Gulf of Mexico and it only represents now 10 to 15% in the last couple of


quarters of our worldwide EBITDA.


Utilization started improving towards the end of the first quarter, where our boats were – other than


being in transit or in for repair and maintenance or a dry docking, getting close to 100%. And then,


since the end of the quarter, we’re quoting higher leading edge rates and we’re getting them. So,


again it’s a less important market, remember 87% of our revenue is outside the Gulf of Mexico, but


still with 10 to 15% of the business in there, we’re happy to see those rates improving and I don’t


think that’s a surprise to everybody. The analysts have been writing about that, expecting that for a


couple of quarters now. And in West Africa and Mexico, our two fastest growing markets, our rate


continues to strengthen, utilization is virtually 100% except for dry-docking. So again we made


good progress, we met expectations in the quarter, we continued moving our vessels to better


markets at higher rates and better utilization and we continue to put our balance sheet in position


for any possible future expansion. So having said that Geoff would actually over the – some of the


details for the first quarter ‘08.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Earnings per share is $0.73 for the quarter on charter hire revenues of $58 million compared with


earnings per share of $2.08 on charter hire revenues of $63 million for the fourth quarter of ‘07. As


you may recall the fourth quarter earnings per share included $0.89 related to the effect of


legislative changes to the Norwegian Tonnage Tax rules in December ‘07. So the real comparison


sequentially is the $0.73 versus $1.19 as compared to the consensus estimates of $0.46. The