raw transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TMAR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Trico Marine Services' Third-Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. This call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like


to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Geoff Jones. Please go ahead, sir.


Geoff Jones, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Matt [ph]. Good morning. My name is Geoff Jones; I'm the CFO of Trico Marine Services.


And before I begin, I would like to read our legal disclaimer.


The statements in this conference call regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits


from future joint ventures, projections involving revenues, operating results, forecasts and


operations, anticipated capital expenditures and other statements which are not historical facts are


forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors


detailed in the company's Form 10-Qs and Form 10-K, registration statement and other filings with


the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties


materialize or the consequences of such a development worsen, or should our underlying


assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or


expected. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


I'd now like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Trevor Turbidy, who


will give you an overview of our operations.


Trevor Turbidy, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Good morning and thank you, Geoff. Also with me on the call today are Rishi Varma, our General


Counsel, Ned [indiscernible], our Corporate Controller, and Mike Wallace, Vice President –


Emerging International and Head of Global Marketing.


As this is my first opportunity to address you as Trico’s CEO, I want to thank the Board for this


opportunity and its confidence in our team; that we have made remarkable strides since they have


joined the company, and I am confident that under this stewardship and with the ongoing


cooperation, we will continue to make additional progress. I also want to thank our team for all the


hard work, which is critical to this union company so they recruit benefit for improving market


conditions. I also want to thank our shareholders for their support and we are very optimistic about


our prospects due to our delevered balance sheet as a result of our recently completed equity


offering.


With that, let me talk a little bit about the third quarter. The third quarter was very positive quarter


for Trico and exceeded our expectations and was bolstered by continuing strengthening in the rate


of utilizations that we experienced in the first half of 2005. While we see the current market as


attractive, as evidenced by our third quarter earnings, we also continue to see positive side for


improvement in the near term. We are delighted to report earnings per share for the third quarter of


$0.81. This is an increase of over $0.47 over our second quarter earnings per share. I mean it’s


an understatement to remark that a 140% increase in net income feels pretty good. Operating


income was 15.2 million for the third quarter representing a 68% increase over operating income of


9.1 for the second quarter of this year.
raw transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TMAR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our financial performance has been characterized by increasing day rate and utilizations in all


markets, improving cash flows and liquidity, lower debt and significant progress on initiatives that


are focused on reducing our cost structure. Just after the quarter ended, we closed our equity


offering and received 95.8 million in proceeds, net of underwriting discounts. After the application


of proceeds from the offering, Trico have 47.2 million in unrestricted cash and 16 million in net debt.


Where we tend to be very judicious about leveraging the balance sheet, we recognize that given


our spot exposure due to our US shallow gold position, our business doesn’t lend itself to significant


leverage at this point.


While this may appear to be overly cautious to some, we believe this strategy will allow us to have


the financial flexibility and resources to capitalize on opportunities should they present themselves


in the future.


Also, I want to address the impact that hurricanes, Katrina and Rita had on our business and our


employees. We did have two vessels with insignificant damage, but all of our vessels included the


two I mentioned remained under contracts during that time. The company’s headquarters at


Houston, Texas was not damaged from Hurricane Rita, unfortunately our office in Homeland did


suffer minor flood damage which has since been completely repaired.


This did not impact our operations there due to the dedication and hard work of our employees at


Homeland, so I wish to thank them for that. Unfortunately, we did not employ the suffered


damages to their homes and property. As a result, the company organized a hurricane relief


program to help our team members, by providing financial assistance during this difficult time.


While we keep the exuberant about the damage and devastation that the hurricanes caused, they


did have an undeniably positive effect on our business and our outlook. We believe the inspection


and repair work should keep our vessels active and busy for a number of quarters, given the scope


of work to be completed in the Gulf of Mexico. While, day rates in advance to both hurricanes were


improving, due to increased activity in the Gulf, the hurricanes moved charter rate even higher due


to increased demands for our vessels. To avoid too much duplication, I will now turn it over to


Geoff Jones to give you a more detailed update on our financial performance, our balance sheet


and our liquidity.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Trevor. First of all, as Trevor said, we are delighted to be reporting positive earnings per


share for the third quarter of $0.81 a share on a diluted basis. In terms of revenues, our charter


higher revenues of $43.9 million were our highest quarterly charter higher revenues since the third


quarter of 2001, growing 10% sequentially over our robust second quarter 2005 revenues. This


strength is driven by increased dayrates and utilization in all of our key market. North Sea class


vessel dayrates averaged $16,637 a day with utilization of 92% in the third quarter 2005 compared


to $16,147 a day with the utilization of 89% in the second quarter 2005. The impact of the strong


market conditions in the North Sea during the first 9 months of 2005 was somewhat lessened by


the fact that we have 14 of our North Sea class vessel under medium and long-term contract.


In our press release, we’ve also included our October dayrates and utilization by class and an effort


to give everyone a more correct picture of the rate and activity environment. In October, dayrates


for the company’s North Sea class vessel averaged $17,139 a day with the utilization of 100%.


Dayrates for the company’s Gulf class supply boats averaged $6,367 with utilization of 62% in the


third quarter 2005 compared to $5,727 a day and utilization of 58% in the second quarter 2005.


This represents an 11% increase in dayrates on a sequential quarter basis.


When we are referring to our Gulf class utilization, we are speaking about our total fleet or 48


supply vessels, 15 of which were cold-stacked at the end of the quarter. Utilization of actively


marketed vessels in the Gulf during the quarter was approximately 94%.