corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to the Trico Marine Services second quarter


conference call. Today’s conference is being recorded. And to get it started, I am pleased to turn


the floor over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Geoff Jones. Mr. Jones, you may begin sir.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, I am Geoff Jones, CFO of Trico and I will start with our forward-looking statements.


The statements in this conference call regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits


from joint ventures, partnerships, projections involving revenues, operating results, forecasts from


operations, anticipated capital expenditures and other statements, which are not historical facts are


forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors


detailed in the company’s Form 10-Q and 10-K, registration statements and other filings with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or the consequences of such a


development worsen, or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may


vary materially from those forecasted or expected. The company disclaims any intention or


obligation to publicly update or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information,


future events, or otherwise.


Now Joe Compofelice will sort of view the second quarter operations.


Joseph S. Compofelice, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. I am Joe Compofelice, Chairman and CEO of Trico and I will start off with


some brief comments about the macroeconomics of the business and what we see going forward.


Notwithstanding the special cost issues that we preannounced in the second quarter, we are happy


to report that everything else seems to be and I would say in exceptionally solid shape.


Day rates in our major markets are very stable and in the Gulf of Mexico, even edging up slightly.


Utilization of our vessels in all of our major market is very high and any softness we reported in the


second quarter is not the result of demand softness. It is a more a function of the effect of having so


many dry dockings, which Geoff will talk more about in a second, with so many dry dockings going


on in the same time, which of course leaves less boats on ticket.


Our operating costs around the world are stable. They are not increasing. They have not changed


materially over the year and we do not expect any material movements in our costs for the rest of


the year, again with the exception of dry-docking.


Everybody on the call is pretty familiar with the new build schedule that is out there and this


obviously is having a direct effect on labor, parts and also having an effect on availability in yards,


in order to get maintenance and classifications completed. So Geoff will go over some of the


detailed numbers now for the second quarter.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Reported earnings per share of $0.29 for the quarter on charter hire revenues of $57.9 million,


compared with earnings per share of $0.95 on charter hire revenues of $68.7 million for the first


quarter of ‘07. Our charter hire revenues in the second quarter of 57.9 million were $2.8 million less
corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


than in the first quarter. About 69% of our second quarter charter hire revenues for international


was 50% from the North Sea, 14% from West Africa and 5% from other international areas. The


remaining 31% was from the Gulf of Mexico.


For our North Sea class vessels, day rates continue to be strong averaging $23,885 for the quarter.


The impact of those strong market conditions in the quarter was lessened by the fact that during the


quarter, we did have four North Sea class vessels in dry-dock. And so second quarter utilization of


86% was lower than the prior quarter. The good news is that we now have over two-thirds of our


planned North Sea class dry-dockings for the year behind us. And also as our contracts are over,


we expect to benefit from higher rates going forward. SEDSTOP


From the period thus far in July day rates for the company’s North Sea class vessels have held


fairly steady in excess of $23,700 and utilization increased to 90%. We anticipate continued


strength in the North Sea market and expect the utilization to continue at higher levels with the full


contribution of these vessels and as the construction season progresses. We are also pleased to


see stability in the markets for our Gulf class vessels resulting in average day rates for vessels and


time charter remaining steady in excess of $9,700, similar to the previous quarter. The utilization of


our actively marketed Gulf class vessels in the second quarter remained consistent with the first


quarter at 81%.


July month to date day rates are around 9,600 and utilization of actively marketed vessels


increased to 91%. We remain optimistic about the Gulf. All of our 183 supply vessels in the Gulf of


Mexico are working at day rates in excess of $9,000 and the leading edge day rate in the Gulf is


$10,000. We now have 10 vessels in West Africa. We have seen an increase in activity in the West


Africa and expect day rates and utilization in the region to continue to improve. In Southeast Asia,


the first five previously stacked vessels arrived in China to work in a joint venture. As China reports


record growth we continue to be elated with the prospects for offshore operations in this exciting


market.


In summary, going forward we see activity increasing and day rates improving in all of our


international core markets. We reported operating income of $5.3 million for the quarter compared


to $20.8 million for the first quarter of ‘07. As I alluded to you earlier in the month, direct vessel


operating expenses increased $5.6 million in the second quarter compared to the prior quarter due


primarily to maintenance and classification costs for the quarter of $8.8 million, about half what we


would expect for the full year. Mostly due to M&C on the four North Sea class vessels mentioned


earlier. In fact in the first half of 2007, we completed M&C work on 21 of the 27 vessels, that is


78% of vessels scheduled for the whole year. And we expect M&C for the remainder of ‘07 to be


substantially lower.


On the Northern River, we opened the moonpool, added a taut wire, made improvements to


commendations and installed a crane pedestal, and this resulted in a five-year contract at attractive


rates with Bluestream. As we had also indicated previously, G&A costs did increase by 3.2 million


from the first quarter, primarily due to costs related to a proxy contest, pursuit of acquisition


opportunities that they did not lead to completed transaction, and relocation and strengthened


security related to our West Africa operation.


Costs associated with severance will also result in an increase in G&A in the third quarter, including


non-cash equity compensation expense of $1.7 million. Our effective tax rate for the second quarter


was 47% driven by the mix of international and U.S. income and alternative minimum tax in the


United States. The effective tax rate for the six-month period was 42%, however that is not nearly


as important as our cash tax rate of almost 7%, which is indicative of our cash tax rate for the


foreseeable future. Remember, we still have a $120 million in NOLs, which will last us for a few


years.