raw transcript


Trico Marine Services
 
TMAR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Trico Marine Services conference call. This call


is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Trevor Turbidy. Please go


ahead sir.


Trevor Turbidy, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Good morning. My names is Trevor Turbidy. I am the CFO of Trico. I’ve got to go through our


legal disclaimer. Just want to mention at the outset the [indiscernible] in this conference call


regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits from future joint ventures, projections


involving revenues, operating results or cash provided from operations, anticipated capital


expenditures and other statements which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.


Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors further detailed in the company’s


Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, Proxy statement, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or the consequences


of such development will worsen or should an underlying assumption prove incorrect actual


outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. The company disclaims any


intention or obligation to update publically or revise the decision, whether as a result of new


information, future events, or otherwise. I would now like to turn the call over to our Chairman and


Interim CEO, Joe Compofelice who will give you an update on our operations.


Joseph S. Compofelice, Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you Trevor. I would like to thank everybody for calling in this morning.


This is our first quarterly conference call and earnings update in some time and there is several first


that happened during this quarter. It’s our first chapter out of Chapter 11, while we weren’t in there


for very long. I think it was quite fast. We accomplished what we intended to accomplish with that.


We reduced our debt from over $400 million prior to exiting Chapter 11 to a level that’s under $140


million at the close of the first quarter on a net debt basis. It’s a 65% reduction in our debt. Our


annual interest rate as a result of that process dropped from about $30 million to about $8 million a


75% reduction and this for Trico is the lowest level of debt, gross debt or net debt that it has had


since 1997. This is the first quarter of increasing revenues since the fourth quarter 2001.


Revenues in the first quarter increased 62% over the comparable quarter in 2004.


This is the first quarter of really increasing average day rates in each of our major markets where


we operate; the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. When I complete my comments, I will let our


CFO Trevor Turbidy review rates and utilization in more detail. The first quarter, I will give you


some commentary just kind of characterizing that quarter in general; we saw very strong sport


market rates in the North Sea, and in the North Sea kind of steadily strengthening term market


conditions. We saw steady progression in improving rates in the Gulf of Mexico and improving


activity in rates in Mexico itself which is becoming more important to Trico where we have roughly


10 vessels in operations. On a spending note, notwithstanding higher intended spending in the


markets that we are focused on rolling in Nigeria and Mexico and a chart for stock option expense


associated with brands made concurrent with the restructuring, our continuing operating expenses


have been reduced and we are focused very much on reducing them. Planned asset sales added


somewhat to our first quarter cash flows, but importantly the prime contributor, the fist cash flows


was really strong operational cash flow. Trevor again will go through our current liquidity position,


but cash flow is very good. And finally our balance sheet is in far better shape than it’s been in a


long time. The restructuring not only reduced debt, there is a lot of cleaning of your balance sheet


associated with fresh start accounting. Our financial statements are a bit confusing from am
raw transcript


Trico Marine Services
 
TMAR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


accounting point of view with not only fresh start accounting but a revaluation of assets that’s


required when you come out of chapter 11. But we have several members of our accounting staff


on this call, in case anybody has any questions regarding details of fresh start accounting, which is


something like I said, you just don’t see everybody. On a going forward basis we are trying to be


real clear about our strategy. We’re interested in strengthening our balance sheet, improving


liquidity and reducing debt. Again, we accomplished an awful lot during the chapter 11 process, but


this is a very cyclical business and in my opinion, anyone in this business should have a very, very


low level of debt and we believe less debt than we have now. So we’re very focused on continuing


to reduce debt. We reduced quite a bit of cost during the restructuring process, but we’re very


focused now on continuing that process. We have efforts going on studying best practices and


appropriate spending levels in the area of repairs and maintenance and plastication costs and we


are doing the same thing in terms of direct vessel operating expenses. Most of our boats are in the


relatively mature market of the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea. As I indicated previously, we are


moving more boats into Mexico. We see real good intermediate term 4 or 5 years sort of term,


positive growth characteristics in that market. That market is influenced a lot right now by


construction activity with Pemex’s construction program for platforms going forward. We consider


West Africa where we’ve only had a minor presence in the past, and important growth market. And


we expect to make more progress expanding into that market. And while we don’t have anything in


Asia right now, we are very focused on studying how best to enter that market. We consider it


probably around the world having the best long-term growth characteristics and also stability


characteristics of any really major geographical market in the world. We are focused on upgrading


our fleet. This is a highly competitive business. We are going to try to optimize our fleet by selling


older under-utilized vessels, replacing them with new and more technologically advanced vessels


that have the capabilities our customers require in each specific region. That’s an important part of


our strategy to kind of get that number in terms of the age of our fleet down. We continue to see


strengths in all of the markets we are operating in terms of rates. You will notice in our 10-Q and


also I believe in our press release we talk about rates for the month of April, the first month after the


end of the quarter, but it’s a month that we’ve completed our numbers on prior to filing the 10-Q, I


mean completed the numbers in terms of rates and utilization. And you can see from those


numbers that the implication is that the first quarter North Sea numbers were actually stronger than


what we were seeing in April. We don’t consider that necessarily indicative of anything other than


the fact that the spot market for Anchor Handlers in the North Sea was just exceptionally strong.


You can see from the first quarter and April number in the Gulf of Mexico that we are continuing to


see improvements in rates in that market. I’ll the discussion back over to Trevor, who will fill in a


little bit more information on rates and utilization, talk about liquidity and touch on some of, what is


unusual and different accounting requirements in the first quarter. Trevor?


Trevor Turbidy, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Joe. Before I get started, I want to introduce our General Counsel and Director of


Corporate Governance, Richie Bachmann [ph] who joined Trico last week. Richie had a


distinguished crew in the legal field practicing for several years in New York law firm advising


clients and corporate finance securities and general corporate matters. Richie joins us from a


Houston based public company where he served as securities counsel and director of corporate


governance. While he don’t be with Trico short time, we are thrilled with his contribution already


and his ideas and believe he is going to be significant asset to the company. Welcome Richie.


While 2004 was a challenging year in the OSV industry, and particularly for Trico, we are delighted


to report that our first quarter operating performance was the company’s best since the first quarter


or fourth quarter of 2001. We completed our restructuring emerging from Chapter 11 protection on


March 15, 2005. As a direct result of our lengthened negotiations with our creditors, we were able


to coordinate a prepackaged plan of reorganization thereby minimizing our disruption to our


business, customers, vendors, and employees and maximizing the enterprise value of the


company. As a result of the restructuring as Joe alluded to, we’ve reduced our liabilities by 275