corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to today’s Trico Marine Services Fourth Quarter and


Year-end Conference Call. Just a reminder, today’s call is being recorded. At this time, it is my


pleasure to introduce Mr. Geoff Jones, the Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Jones, please go ahead, sir.


Geoff A. Jones, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. I am Geoff Jones, CFO of Trico, and I’ll start with our forward-looking statements. The


statements in this conference call regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits from


our acquisition of DeepOcean and CTC and other joint ventures, partnerships, projections involving


revenues, operating results, forecasts from operations, anticipated capital expenditures, and other


statements which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.


Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors detailed in the company’s Forms


10-Q and 10-K, registration statements, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


Should these risks or uncertainties materialize, or the consequences of such a development


worsen, or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially


from those expected. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise


such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


And now our CEO, Joe Compofelice, will review the fourth quarter operations.


Joseph Compofelice, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for dialing into our call. This morning, I’m going to comment on our


overall results, what we see as the general market outlook for 2009 for each of our three


businesses, the status of the integration of DeepOcean and CTC, and then I’ll comment on our


deleveraging strategy.


We’re pleased with the $0.30 earnings per share we just reported on revenues of $178 million. We


continue to be affected by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against our major billing currencies


as most of our revenues are – and expenses at this point are in non-U.S. dollars, but our reporting


currency is U.S. dollars. Had the exchange rate been constant between the end of the third and the


end of the fourth quarter, our results would have been $24 million higher in revenues and $4 million


higher in EBITDA. We’ve been stuck with that effect all year, and – but the important thing is that


this phenomena has little real economic effect and virtually no cash effect.


Going back to the fourth quarter numbers, we voluntarily – during the quarter we voluntarily


accelerated a significant drydocking of a very large vessel so as to not interfere with bid


opportunities in the first half of ‘09 for the vessel. And we continue to mobilize vessels to better


markets.


In the past, this has been limited to mobilizing vessels out of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. And we’ve


been pretty successful on that. I think we’re down to 10 or 12 boats in the Gulf of Mexico. We now


anticipate moving certain vessels out of the North Sea.


In any event, the combination of that accelerated drydocking and vessel mobilizations ahead of


schedule increased our costs in the fourth quarter by $3 million, but we expect to benefit from that


in the second half, excuse me, the first half of 2009.
corrected transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Let me talk a little bit about our subsea businesses, DeepOcean and CTC. It’s clear to all investors


at this point that Trico has become a subsea service company. In the fourth quarter 75% of our


business was in the subsea sector. This is where we want to be, especially in the current market


where things are soft.


In weak periods in the oilfield service industry, commodity-oriented markets suffer more damage


than technology-oriented markets. A perfect example of this is the current weakness in the North


Sea spot market for anchor handlers as well as PSVs.


The Subsea segment continues to have very strong demand outlook for the next few years. You all


may have seen new reports from Quest Offshore in terms of new tree awards. In our case, we


closely track the number of subsea wellhead and tree installations. And we expect those


instillations in ‘09 and 2010 to match the peak installations in the year 2008. Tracking wellheads


and trees are the primary indicators of subsea activity, and our work around those trees happens a


little bit before they’re delivered in terms of site preparation but are driven primarily by installation


work following delivery.


Now of our subsea business, about 50% is driven by OpEx spending for inspection, repair and


maintenance and 50% by CapEx spending. So the deliveries not only are strong in 2009 and 2010


but those deliveries add about 15% to the installed base. So all of our acquisition dollars have been


prejudiced in favor of capturing OpEx spending by – OpEx spending for subsea installations of all


type.


The inspection, repair and maintenance spending by our customers has not – is typically not


affected by economics. It’s affected by the regulatory environment. It’s affected by the customers’


own safety standards and most importantly, it’s affected by the need to maintain cash flow from


existing production. So that spending is far more consistent than their CapEx spending.


So again, the bottom line to us here is unit volume growth. And again, installations we think are


going to be strong. We know that. That stuff was ordered last year and the year before. And even


looking at the Quest reports this morning the forecast of new awards while they show a little bit of a


dip in ‘09, the ‘09 new awards are still a very strong number. And I think they are showing about a


20% increase when you combine 2009 and 2010.


And when we acquired DeepOcean and CTC, they were traditionally North Sea centric business


models. This made sense because the North Sea by far has been the world’s largest subsea


market. The part of our acquisition strategy is to use our broader global footprint to expand out of


the North Sea. So, we’ll comment on that as we talk about each of CTC and DeepOcean.


Starting with CTC, in the fourth quarter, they had the strongest – they had strong results, excuse


me, since the acquisition in December of 2008. In the third quarter, they reported their highest


revenue and now in the fourth quarter, it’s their second highest revenue and EBITDA and so still an


excellent quarter. Most importantly, in terms of working with them to take the business model out of


the North Sea, in the fourth quarter, their business mix was – in terms of revenue, was 44% in the


North Sea, 22% in Asia, 21% in Brazil and 20% in the telecom business.


During the fourth quarter, CTC booked almost $100 million of new contracts. And again, speaking


to the breadth of geographic spread, a good deal of this is outside of the North Sea, in Asia, in the


Mediterranean and actually includes some work for the military sector. So, this part of our strategy


for CTC has been working.


We’ve also been working with them to look at their engineering capabilities and broaden what they


are bidding on to more than just trenching. And in the fourth quarter, their trenching revenues, their


traditional business only accounted for 26% of their revenue. And in terms of the new $100 million


of recent contract awards, only 43% is trenching.