raw transcript


Trico Marine Services Inc
 
TMAR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day every one and welcome to the Trico Marine Services Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over


to Mr. Trevor Turbidy. Please go ahead, sir.


Trevor Turbidy Chief Financial Officer


Good morning. My name is Trevor Turbidy. I am the CFO of Trico Marine Services. I have our


General Counsel sitting my right all way [ph] we have a legal disclaimer. The statements in this


conference call regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits from future joint ventures,


projections involving revenues, operating results or cash provided from operations, anticipated


capital expenditures and other statements that are not historical facts or forward-looking


statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors detail in the


Company’s Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, proxy statements and other filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or the


consequences of such a development worsen, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect,


actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. The company disclaims


any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise the statements, whether as a result of new


informations, future events or otherwise. I now would like to turn the call over to our Chairman and


interim CEO, Joe Compofelice, who will give you an update on our operations.


Joe Compofelice, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you, Trevor. With me on the call today is Rishi Varma, our General


Counsel, Geoff Jones, our Corporate Treasurer, and Mike Wallace, Vice President of Worldwide


Sales and Marketing. The second quarter was a very strong quarter for Trico. It exceeded our


expectations and was bolstered by continued strengthening in rates and utilizations that we


experienced in the first quarter of 2005 when we completed our restructuring. Since that time, our


financial performance has been characterized by increasing day rates in all markets, improving


utilization in all markets, improving cash flows and liquidity, lower debt, and significant progress on


initiatives that are focused on reductions in our cost structure. While we see the current market as


attractive, as evidenced by our second-quarter earnings, we also continue to see positive signs for


improvement in the near term. First, reporting positive earnings per share for the second quarter of


$0.34 a share on a fully diluted basis is very satisfying, to say the least. This is the first time Trico


Marine has done so since the second quarter of 2005.


In terms of revenue, our charter hire revenue grew 55% over the same quarter of last year and 7%


sequentially over the already strong first quarter 2005. This strength is driven by the continuation of


high rates for our North Sea class vessels along the lines of the first quarter, and a 11% increase in


our average day rates in the Gulf of Mexico, and virtually full utilization of our actively marketed


vessels worldwide.


Our operating income of $9.1 million for the second quarter compares to about a $9.3 million


operating loss last year, when we exclude the non-cash charges for impairment and assets held for


sale, so roughly an $18 million swing in operating profit. That improvement, in our opinion,


validates our strategic plan going forward as much, if not more than our revenue improvement.


Trico is committed to improving internal efficiencies while growing the business at the same time.
raw transcript


Trico Marine Services Inc
 
TMAR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the interest of duplicating a bunch of comments on the financial information that's in the report, I’ll


turn it over to Trevor, who will talk about area performance, our balance sheet and our cash flows.


Trevor?


Trevor Turbidy, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President


Thanks, Joe. We are delighted to announce that the Company reported net income of 3.6 million or


$0.34 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2005. As Joe briefly highlighted, this is the first


time since the second quarter of 2001 that the Company has recorded net income or earnings per


share. As you can see in our press release, we have an unusual financial table presentation in the


form of solid black lines splitting the balance sheet, income and cash flow statements. We present


the predecessor company for the three months ended June 30, 2004 and the successor company


for the three months ended June 30, 2005. This is mandated by a fresh-start accounting treatment


in connection with our reorganization, which was completed on March 15, 2005. In connection with


our emergence, we have adopted a number of changes in accounting policies that may make


comparisons to prior periods difficult.


As you saw in our press release, we reported charter hire revenues for the second quarter of 2005


of 39.9 million, up 55% from 25.7 million in the second quarter of 2004. As compared to the prior


quarter, our combined revenues of 37.5 million, we had 7% sequential growth in revenues from


quarter-to-quarter. As Joe highlighted earlier, we've been the beneficiary of dramatically improving


rates and utilization in all asset classes worldwide. Specifically, day rates for the Company's Gulf


class supply boats averaged $5,727 a day with the utilization of 58% in the second quarter of 2005,


compared with $5,193 a day with the utilization of 52% in the first quarter of 2005.


Things important to note, that we’re referring to our Gulf class utilization, we are speaking about 48


vessels, 16 of which were cold-stacked at the end of the quarter. Utilization of active vessels


during the quarter was approximately 93%. We've been deliberate and consistent about increasing


our bid rates for vessels in the US Gulf. We unstacked 3 vessels during the second quarter, but


that was to replace vessels that have been mobilized out of the US Gulf. We recognized that the


US Gulf offshore supply vessel market is quite sensitive to slight changes in vessel availability. So


for the near-term, we are focused on increasing day rates to drive incremental revenue and


EBITDA rather than unstacking a number of vessels from our cold-stack fleet.


We've also included our July day rates and utilizations by class in an effort to give everyone a more


current snapshot of the rate environment and activity. In July, day rates for the Company's Gulf


class supply boats averaged $5,965 a day with the utilization of 63% or 94% of the actively


marketed vessels. So, as you can see, day rates have increased steadily from the first quarter and


utilization of actively marketed vessels is basically at full capacity.


North Sea vessel day rates averaged $16,147 a day with the utilization of 89% in the second


quarter of 2005, compared with $15,777 a day with the utilization of 89% in the first quarter of 2005.


The impact of very strong market conditions in the North Sea during the first and second quarters of


2005 was somewhat dampened by the fact that we have 14 of our North Sea class vessels under


medium or long-term contract.


In July, day rates for the Company's North Sea supply boats averaged $15,699 a day with the


utilization of 91%. Crude line handlers' average day rates of $2,208 a day with the utilization of


89% in the second quarter of 2005 compared with $2,223 a day with the utilization of 91% for the


first quarter of 2005.


As you might recall from our first-quarter earnings call, during the application of fresh-start


accounting, the Company was required to record all contracts that were in-process at the exit date,


at fair market value, based on estimated normal profit margins at that date. As such, an asset for