raw transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Trico Marine Services First Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to the


Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Geoff Jones. Please go ahead, sir.


Geoff A. Jones, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Amanda. Good morning. As Amanda mentioned, my name is Geoff Jones and I am the


VP and CFO of Trico Marine Services.


Before I start, I would like to read our legal disclaimer. The statements in this conference call


regarding business plans or strategies, projected benefits from future joint ventures, projections


involving revenues, operating results, forecasts from operations, anticipated capital expenditures


and other statements which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Such


statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors detailed in the Company's Form 10-Qs


and Form 10-K, registration statements and other filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or the consequences


of such a development worsen or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual


outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. The Company disclaims any


intention or obligation to publicly update or revise such statements, whether as a result of new


information, future events or otherwise.


I'd know like to turn call over to our President and CEO, Trevor Turbidy, who will give you an


overview of our operations.


Trevor Turbidy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you, Geoff. Also with me on the call today is Rishi Varma, our General


Counsel, and Mike Wallace, Vice President-Emerging International and head of Global Marketing.


Before I get started, I want to introduce our new Director of Norwegian operations, Bjorn Anderson


[ph]. Bjorn has a distinguished career in the offshore support vessel industry from his early days as


a master Mariner to his involvement with Ramoy and Marine Resource Group. Bjorn joins us from


Sea Brokers, a leading North Sea broker where he was President of its US arm. I am confident


that, with his commercial, technical and marketing skills, Bjorn will make a profound impact on our


organization and we couldn't be more delighted that he has joined our team. Welcome, Bjorn.


I would also like to welcome Mike Babin, our Director of Human Resources. Mike, like Bjorn, is a


veteran of the offshore vessel industry, having worked with Rigdon Marine as their Vice President


of Administration and prior to that as Vice President of Torch Offshore. Mike brings a level of


environmental, safety, quality and security that our customers demand and that we require. While


he has only been here a short time, he has already made a positive impact on our company, and I


look forward to working with Mike to implement certain changes within our global organization. We


are delighted to report our results for the quarter, which we think were superb. As you've hopefully


noticed in our press release, we reported earnings of 82 cents per share on net income of 12.4


million for the first quarter. This is the highest reported EPS and net income in our company's


history.


Operating income for the quarter was 19.6 million and represents our highest operating income


since the second quarter of 1998. We posted first-quarter charter hire revenues of 50.5 million,
raw transcript


Trico Marine Services, Inc.
 
TRMA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


which is the highest first-quarter revenues we've ever posted. We continue to be aggressive with


our Gulf of Mexico pricing in response to tight vessel availability, robust activity in this market, and


our significant repair work related to the hurricanes, yet to be completed. We also made progress


on rejuvenating our fleet by competing our new build contract for the MT6009 and an option for a


sister vessel.


I want to spend a few minutes discussing the markets, and Geoff will provide more detail in his


presentation. For the first quarter, our Gulf Class supply vessels posted the highest quarter


average day rates in our history at $10,200 a day, as contracts continued to roll over and we


pushed day rates in response to this tight market in the Gulf. We have 46% of our Gulf of Mexico


vessel days committed, but these are subject to cancellation provisions; they are not non-cancel


like our North Sea contracts. It does give a good indication on where the market is headed, though.


Day rates on these contracts are not locked and are subject to escalation.


Currently, 85% of our Gulf of Mexico supply boats are working at or in excess of $11,000 per day.


It's the first time since the third quarter of 2001 that Gulf of Mexico revenues have exceeded our


North Sea revenues with 48% of our charter hire revenues coming from the Gulf of Mexico and


37% being generated by North Sea operations.


For the quarter, our North Sea class vessels saw a decline in day rates with a modest decline in


utilization. As I mentioned during our last call, January day rates for our North Sea class vessels


had dropped significantly due to a lack of rig moves and bad weather. This seasonal softness


continued into February, as anchor handlers competed directly with PSVs for cargo runs,


pressuring day rates in both classes of vessels. I'm delighted to report that the rates for these


vessels rebounded meaningfully in April to approximately $18,000 a day with near-capacity


utilization.


While I'm reluctant to temper such positive news and a strong financial report with concern, I want


to ensure that we give the market the best picture of the challenges that we and our industry face


and what we see on the horizon that makes us nervous. The most significant issue – near-term


issue that our company is facing, and I suspect everyone in the industry is facing, is labor. While


this is a global issue due to the resurgence of activity in every OSV market, it is particularly acute in


the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf Coast remains incredibly tight for qualified crew, and we, like our


competitors, are forced to respond to this market but increasing crew compensation. We are facing


crewing challenges crewing all of our Gulf of Mexico supply vessels and we've dramatically


intensified and widened our recruiting efforts to relieve this critical issue.


The long-term issue that we are worried about is the significant number of new builds currently on


the order book. Over 200 new builds are scheduled to be delivered over the next two years. While


we are certainly encouraged by the significant number of rigs under construction or slated for


delivery, we recognize that we are in a very cyclical industry, which has been prone to overbuilding


in the past. We are comforted by the fact that the vast majority of new builds had been committed


to by either large, public, US or European companies, or established private companies who should


act rationally. That being said, we are in a strong market and we've conducted ourselves in a


manner so as not to impair the recovery in any market in which we operate, and we intend to grow


our business and rejuvenate our fleet in a prudent and fiscally responsible manner.


We are committed to rejuvenating our fleet, but we're not inclined to attempt to do so all at once.


We previously indicated that we preferred to acquire speculative new builds rather than add to the


order book. As we made clear in our last call, we believe the market for spec vessels had


increased to a level that necessitated our exploring other alternatives to such exorbitant prices.


Packages of vessels traded at prices over the quarter we were challenged to comprehend, and we


instead chose to contract for medium-sized PSV, the MT600p MKII, which we believe will be


capable of servicing all of the international markets in which we operate and which we intend to


operate in the future. We also have an option for a sister vessel for purchase at a later date. We