Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lee Roth — Investor Relations, The Piacente Group
Christopher Scott Hisey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Min Chung Cho — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Jeff Martin — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
John B. Rogers — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Theodore R. O'Neill — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Saagar S. Parikh — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Liam D. Burke — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the UniTek 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Lee Roth, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Ally, and once again, good morning, everyone.

Before we get started, I'd like to review the customary Safe Harbor language which is in effect for this conference call. Statements made during the call and in response to your questions that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions including expressions using the terminology such as may, will, believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts, forecasts, and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical fact are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the factors discussed in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and which can be viewed at www.sec.gov.

Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made on the call. As a result, the actual results may differ materially from any financial outlooks presented today. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking information in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call.

During this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics including EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the company's earnings press release which was issued yesterday following the close of trading.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to our CEO, Mr. Scott Hisey. Scott?

Thanks, Lee, and good morning everyone. Yesterday, after the market close, we reported results for the third quarter of 2011. As we discussed in the press release, it was a tremendous quarter for our company on many levels. We are very excited to tell our shareholders that we have grown revenue, EBITDA and net income to record levels while further executing our growth and diversification strategy.

We reported revenue of $121 million for the quarter, an increase of $14 million or 14% over the previous quarter and 10% over the same period in 2010. This was the highest quarterly revenue total in the history of our company. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $14 million, also a record representing an increase of 41% over the previous quarter and 47% over the same period in 2010.

Our EBITDA margin was over 11%, which we believe demonstrates strong execution and proof that our scalable platform enables us to grow profitably. Our current backlog remained strong at $971 million, and we anticipate that it will continue to grow as there are many open bids that UniTek is currently participating in.

Before we discuss the individual performance of our fulfillment and E&C segments, I want to take a moment and update everyone on the tremendous progress that we have made with our proprietary PROS management system. We believe that our technology-driven approach to service delivery is a key differentiator in our performance, and I have a few examples that we want to share with you today.

During the quarter, our broadband cable technician base grew by 21% over the same period in 2010 without any adverse impact to margins in our fulfillment segment. Most companies that experienced the type of growth that we have will experience some level of margin pressure. This pressure can come from the timing of on-boarding personnel and vehicles with simply not being able to match a technicians' training and skill set to a specific job during the growth cycle. Our systems are built to allow for rapid analysis of information, which affords our operations teams' better data and quicker reaction times. In spite of the growth and seasonality of any service business, we have been able to constantly improve our business and our capabilities as we grow.

Our continued investment in technology and, more importantly, the culture of accepting and deploying key performance indicators down to the technician level has given us the competitive edge that we will continue to exploit and leverage as part of our long-term strategy. Second, and most importantly, we have developed technology tools within the PROS management system that greatly enhance our company's performance.

Although some businesses generally experience quality and performance issues during periods of growth, we have developed quality control systems that leverage the same wireless and online technologies we are deploying for our customers. Our adaptation and deployment of these wireless and online tools enable our managers to better track quality and enhance our billing processes.

We continue to rank at the top of all of our customers' internal quality reports, and we believe we are extremely well positioned to leverage this type of high-quality performance for future growth. I cannot emphasize enough how important it is that our technology-driven service offerings are a key differentiator for UniTek.

Now, I'll discuss the performance of our segments during the quarter. In our fulfillment segment, for the third quarter of 2011, revenue in our fulfillment segment was $83 million, an increase of 12% over the same period in 2010. Gross margin was 25%, an improvement of 530 basis points over Q3 2010. Gross margin improvement of $6.1 million was a direct result of the continued improvement in our processes and volume leverage. This organic growth has come from our ability to meet the highest level of customer expectations allowing for additional opportunities to expand our technician base in both new and existing markets.

We continue to see a trend of consolidation of fulfillment vendors among the broadband cable operators that we worked for. UniTek's ability to deploy a skilled workforce and manage all aspects of the customer experience is a key element of our success. Our ability to deliver a positive customer experience from scheduling through completion, post-connection service and maintenance has put us in a very unique position in the industry. Our quality and reporting tools have also led to request for our services from potential customers in other markets. We view these trends as favorable to our strong organic growth expectations for 2012 and beyond.

Our E&C segment had revenue of $38 million during the quarter, which is a 7% increase over the same period in 2010. Gross margin was 12.4% which was a slight increase over the same period a year ago. As we've discussed during our last earnings call, we closed or were in the process of closing several non-strategic wireless projects where UniTek was not a prime vendor. As the business has now been positioned to work in only longer-term primary vendor projects, we anticipate strong margin improvement in 2012 and beyond. Basically, we made a decision to move away from opportunities early in the year to better position the company for continued growth and success in the longer term.

UniTek continues to expand our relationship with AT&T, other carriers and OEMs, as well as Tier 2 wireless operators as a primary vendor. The shipping strategy that we implemented beginning in the second quarter has allowed UniTek to demonstrate our resources, quality processes and ability to execute on a much broader scale. We believe we're in a much stronger position to win new business from carriers and OEMs based on our demonstrated ability over the last two quarters.

Our public safety element of E&C segment performed extremely well during the third quarter. We anticipate the Pinnacle division will meet their expected targets and continue to add tremendous value to the UniTek platform. We continue to leverage opportunities to grow the business and explore synergistic benefits that will enhance our expansion efforts in the future.

Now, I will discuss our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2011. We anticipate revenue of approximately $120 million in the fourth quarter and maintain our current EBITDA guidance of $14 million. For the full year 2011, we expect revenue of approximately $440 million which represents an increase of 9.4% over 2010.

Adjusted EBITDA of $44 million represents an increase of 47% year-over-year and a 10% EBITDA margin for the full year. We believe this to be an amazing accomplishment given the general market conditions.

It's been a very exciting year since we joined the NASDAQ global market and completed our public offering. During this past year, we've continued to grow and diversify our business while deploying innovative technology to enhance our performance. We have not only positioned our company for strong organic growth in both of our reporting segments, but we have also successfully refinanced our debt and consolidated our capital structure to achieve this growth while lowering our interest expense.

This concludes my prepared remarks. I'll now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Ron Lejman. Ron?

Thank you, Scott. Today's discussion will be focused on the results for the third quarter of 2011, our expectations for the balance of the year, and finally, additional information on our positioning for growth in 2012.

As many of you know, the consolidated results are segmented into fulfillment and engineering & construction, where the fulfillment segment aggregates our broadband cable and satellite installation services and the engineering and construction segment aggregates our services in the wireline and wireless telecommunications markets. It also includes the Pinnacle acquisition, which was finalized early in Q2 of this year.

Revenue for the quarter was $120.9 million, a 10% increase over the $109.5 million from the prior-year period. Revenue in our fulfillment segment increased 12% year-over-year from overall market growth in our satellite and cable businesses. Both of these segments' components grew double digits over the prior year with the cable business growing more than 15%. As Scott mentioned earlier, we believe the cable business should continue to show strong growth through market consolidation trends, as well as from our recurring investment in technology, which will continue to drive quality performance and enable differentiation with our customers.

Our engineering and construction segment revenue increased 7% year-over-year, as increased revenue in the wireline division and growth from the Pinnacle acquisition more than offset the decline in our legacy wireless business. We continue to restructure our wireless customer base in Q3 as discussed on the previous conference call.

The wireline business remained strong with a revenue increase of more than 37% year-over-year. Over 77% of wireline business from the third quarter is recurring with multiyear contracts including maintenance and construction. We are able to secure additional markets for wireline customers in the third quarter, further expanding our presence in this recurring revenue market segment.

Additionally, we expect this segment to remain strong in 2012, given the high demand and bid activity related to the continuation of government stimulus funding. The Pinnacle business continued to grow and leverage UniTek's infrastructure and ability to reach a broader customer base. We expect our geographic and service offering expansions to deliver ongoing growth in the public safety marketplace in 2012.

Looking at customer concentration, our top five customers in the third quarter were DIRECTV 48%, Comcast 15%, Verizon 8%, Charter 4% and Rogers 4%. Backlog grew by over $13 million quarter-over-quarter to $971 million with $50 million of fulfillment growth offset by some minor run-off in the wireline and Pinnacle businesses. We have approximately 94% of remaining projected revenue for 2011 in hand.

Although we are not yet giving guidance for 2012, we currently have approximately 15% more backlog booked for 2012 than we had booked for 2011 at the end of Q3 last year. As is typical in the wireless industry, we are currently participating in various large-scale project bids which if obtained will develop our share of wireless carrier spend in 2012. Additionally, we are also finalizing the timing and terms of certain project awards, which are not yet included in our backlog.

Gross profit from continuing operations for the third quarter was $25.3 million or a gross margin of 21% compared to $18.8 million or 17% in the prior-year period. Gross margin also improved compared to the second quarter 2011 gross margin of 20%.

The third quarter is our seasonal peak for the fulfillment segment with the improvements reflecting both continued operational enhancements as well as the benefits of volume leverage. Specifically, the third quarter fulfillment gross margin improved from 20% in 2010 to 25% in 2011. We believe that a majority of the margin improvement will be sustainable over the long run as volumes continued to increase through consolidation and incremental technology and productivity projects drive period-over-period improvement.

Gross margin in our engineering and construction segment was 12% in Q3 2011, essentially flat when compared to the prior-year period. The E&C Q3 gross margin performance reflects the higher contribution from the Pinnacle acquisition, the impact of increased volume in our Wireless business and the near-term margin pressure on our legacy wireless business as we work to create a sustainable model for our large carrier wireless customers.

Selling, general and administrative costs increased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2010 to $12.2 million in the third quarter of 2011. The increase in the third quarter is similar to the prior quarter year-over-year results for 2011 and includes incremental cost related to the Pinnacle acquisition, as well as overall infrastructure investments related to our growth.

Due to the significant changes in our business over the last 12 months, including the public offering, NASDAQ listing, tender offer and Pinnacle acquisition, we feel that looking at quarter-over-quarter SG&A trends provides a better gauge for this metric. On a sequential basis, SG&A, net of stock compensation expense decreased $600,000 in the third quarter of this year as compared to the second quarter. SG&A, net of stock compensation and transaction cost was approximately $11.2 million or 9.3% of revenue for Q3 2011 compared to 10.9% in Q2.

As discussed on our second quarter call, we anticipated this cost as a percentage of revenue to improve in the third quarter as we continue to leverage our scalable infrastructure and shared services platform.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 47.4% to $14.1 million for the quarter ended October 1, 2011, compared to $9.5 million for the prior year. The year-over-year increase was primarily related to a higher volume and margin in our fulfillment segment, partially offset by higher SG&A costs. In the first three quarters of 2011, we generated EBITDA of $30 million, exceeding our entire year 2010 performance. This is obviously a substantive achievement, and we will continue to target double-digit EBITDA growth in the future.

Net income for the third quarter 2011 improved by $6.3 million to $2.4 million from a net loss of $3.9 million in the third quarter of 2010. The year-over-year improvement in net income is attributable to the increase in EBITDA and a $2.6 million of lower interest expense from a combination of the payment of debt in the fourth quarter 2010 and the lower interest rates that resulted from our Q2 debt refinancing. These improvements were partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes of $1.2 million, resulting primarily from the establishment of a deferred tax liability related to the amortization of intangible assets from prior acquisitions. A significant portion of this provision is non-cash.

Net income after certain non-cash adjustments for third quarter of 2011 was $5.8 million, reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $800,000, non-cash interest expense of $200,000, and non-cash amortization expense of $2.4 million.

For the third quarter, net cash income per share was $0.36 based on 16 million shares outstanding. Total income was $0.15 per share. The earnings per share results were in line with the Q3 guidance we provided in August.

At the end of the third quarter, UniTek had cash, cash equivalents and unused revolver line availability of approximately $13 million with $30 million of unused revolver remaining. Although working capital build associated with our sequential revenue growth consumed much of the cash generated by our EBITDA, we remain well capitalized for growth in 2012 and beyond.

Additionally, our sustained quarter-over-quarter revenue run rate should generate strong operational cash flow in the fourth quarter. Our existing debt currently consists of $75 million revolving credit facility and a $100 million term loan.

In addition, subject to certain terms and conditions, the term loan and revolving credit facility include accordion features of $50 million and $25 million respectively. Our target leverage ratio for year-end 2011 remains approximately three times trailing EBITDA.

For the full year 2011, revenue guidance remains at $440 million. The company expects adjusted EBITDA for 2011 to be $44 million with a net loss per share of $0.61. Net income after certain non-cash adjustments is expected to be $11.6 million or $0.73 per share on approximately 16 million shares outstanding. These projections include the effects of the Pinnacle acquisition for three quarters and lower interest expense related to the debt refinancing.

Overall, our results for the third quarter came in ahead of expectations and we are entering the fourth quarter in position to achieve our goals for the year, as well as continued success in 2012. The most impressive achievements of 2011 to date are how we redefined the wireless business and positioned our fulfillment segment for continued growth in the consolidating cable services space. The success of these efforts becomes clear when considering our current backlog position for 2012, which reinforces our growth strategies around business development opportunities in our core markets.

We thank you all for your continued support and look forward to speaking again following our Q4 results to provide you with an update on key strategic initiatives, and more importantly, continued execution on our stated objectives.

This concludes our remarks, and we thank you for your time today. We will be joined by Peter Giacalone for question-and-answer session. Operator, we are ready for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Min Cho of FBR. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Scott and Ron. Congratulations on a strong quarter.

Thanks.

Thank you, Min.

Couple of questions here. First, in terms of the head count increases in broadband, can you tell us the actual number of the cable technicians you have now?

There's about 1,000 technicians in the field. We increased about 200 technicians during the quarter.

Okay. And I see that Charter has now made it up to your top five customer list. Can you just talk about if that is really a function of the consolidation that you're seeing, or did you win some new markets just based on your current relationship?

It's really a little bit of both. We did some new projects, and we're asked to join some new markets. And we consolidated some of the markets that we're in.

Okay. Ron, do you have a 12-month backlog number?

Yeah. I do have a 12-month backlog number, although we're not actually giving it yet until we give guidance for next year.

Okay. So you'll provide it for 2012?

Yeah.

Also, in terms of the restructuring activity in the wireless sector, I mean, is that pretty much done, or can we expect some more impact in the next quarter?

Some of that may depend on some of the bids that we have open right now. So as an example, we participated along with a lot of vendors in an opportunity with AT&T. When the final awards are announced strategically, we may move a few offices and move some resources around. Some offices that we have opened may not be necessary. We may need to expand in other areas. So for the most part, we took most of the restructuring that we needed to do and stopped most of the work in the middle of Q2 and during Q3. So I think we're in pretty good shape with that.

Okay. And then in terms of your AT&T opportunities, obviously, you're in negotiations, so you probably can't talk too much about it. But can you just update us on the timing? I believe it was in the next couple of weeks or so, but if you could just update us there. And then, just the opportunities that you're seeing now with Sprint, we haven't heard too much about the network vision in the last couple of weeks. So if you could just give us an update there, that would be appreciated.

So on the AT&T front, as I said earlier, we started working for AT&T during this calendar year. All indications are that we performed very well. And there's no reason to believe that we won't have a continued opportunity to participate with AT&T hopefully on a larger scale that's been a pretty significant objective as a company. As far as Sprint goes, they've awarded the work to the three larger OEMs: Ericsson, who is a pretty significant customer of ours, and Alcatel-Lucent and Samsung. We have relationships with all three, some obviously stronger. And we're literally in discussions right now and working through bids and markets and resources for 2012. So as some of our peers talked about, there was some pause and some think steps going on in Q4 that are all basically positioned in everyone's resources for 2012 and beyond.

So we feel like we've strongly positioned the company, particularly during the last six months as we moved away the smaller projects and really just focused on larger projects where we could showcase our ability to do work in a turnkey fashion.

Okay, great. Thank you and keep up the great work, guys.

Thanks, Min.

Our next question comes from Jeff Martin of ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeff.

Good morning, Jeff.

I was curious if you could give us the revenue contribution from Pinnacle for the quarter?

Yeah. I think we actually put it in the Q. It's about $10 million.

Okay. And then, in terms of success rate historically on the wireless side, could you refresh our memory what your win rate typically is and if you expect that to be consistent with the activity that you're bidding on now?

Well, I'll say this not tongue-in-cheek, but our win rate was historically too good in fact, because as we were working as a second sub to a lot of companies we were – our previous strategy when we acquired BCI was to take a lot of the smaller projects and take pieces of projects as a second subcontractor. We've now completely repositioned the business where we're only looking at prime contracts, larger projects, projects where we can take control from [ph] site ack (25:47) all the way through to the completion and maintenance afterwards.

So, our win rate is going to really be a by-product of what we produce during this quarter, and we've had a very focused attack on projects we know we can do well in. We have some pretty deep customer relationships. We've demonstrated quality. We've demonstrated – we've had the capital structure. As Ron will get into DSOs and things later during the questioning, we've done a pretty good job of managing the working capital build which means we understand how to build. So, I really feel like our win rate as we start to give guidance for 2012 will be indicative of the stuff that we worked on during the last two quarters.

Okay. And then was there any impact from the Sprint work stoppage in the quarter? And if so, can you quantify it?

Not really because we turned that off in Q2. So, a lot of the projects that we were working on primarily as a second sub, we pulled back from because we're bidding a lot of these projects as a primary vendor. So, we positioned ourselves earlier. So, we don't have a real big revenue impact. As Ron said, 94% of the revenue we anticipate in Q4 we already have in hand. And we look at the wireless business from a perspective of we've taken it down to where we needed to put it so that we can position it for primary growth in 2012 and beyond. And we look at it like we're going into 2012 with a great workforce, systems, processes, quality. We think we have a good understanding of that business now, similar to how we understand the fulfillment business. And we really believe that the company is positioned for growth now with these projects as a prime vendor.

And then, on the wireline side, 37% growth is fantastic. I'm just curious how that breaks down between municipal broadband and maybe a vendor consolidation on more of the traditional cable installation side?

So, it's not as much on the municipal side. It's more our participating in turf projects and winning some bids and winning some new projects that have allowed us to grow the business. There hasn't been a lot of consolidation on that side. I mean, it's pretty much been consolidated. It's really a by-product of our being able to grow the business since we are now a full turnkey. We're starting to win turfs regularly. So, even though wireline capital spending may not necessarily grow over the next year or two, we'll grow because we're bidding on more projects as other contracts come up for bid.

Okay. And then final question. You mentioned, Ron, in your prepared remarks expect double-digit EBITDA growth. Is that how we should preliminary think of 2012?

Yeah. I think the things that you'll want to consider when looking at 2012 is the fact that this restructuring of our customer base on the wireless side has put downward pressure on that E&C segment. And two of the pieces are performing very well. And as that wireless piece gains traction, really based on a lot of this headway that Scott mentioned in terms of our focus on large wireless customers, you'll see that segment's margin improve and, therefore, drive the EBITDA growth as well in 2012 above and beyond just revenue growth.

Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from John Rogers of D.A. Davidson. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Congratulations on the quarter.

Thanks, John.

Thanks, John.

Couple of things. First of all, in terms of the revenue levels that you're talking about for the fourth quarter, can you give us some sense of the fulfillment versus E&C growth that you're expecting?

Well, John, it's not a lot of growth. It's really...

For the first?

For the first...

For the first quarter of...

No, fourth quarter.

No, fourth quarter.

For the fourth quarter, I'm sorry.

Of the 120.

Yeah. So, the easiest way to answer that is when you look at the revenue being effectively flat quarter-over-quarter, the fourth quarter is typically seasonally lower for us. And what's happening there is the E&C business is it has growth aspects to it, really, on the wireline and Pinnacle side that are offsetting the seasonably slower fulfillment business in that same quarter.

Okay. And...

So, it's mix, John, really. If you talk about the revenue, it's really a change in the mix a little bit.

Yeah. And, I guess, that's what I'm trying to understand a little bit is with the E&C business growing in the fourth quarter, does it get to a point where it's generating operating profits and positive EBITDA?

Well, I think a lot of that is really going to depend on the pressure when we start to get awarded contracts for 2012. So as we get into late November, early December, and a lot of these projects that are coming out are awarded, we'll see what ramp schedules are and how the build schedules are and what amount of projects people want to bring back into '11 and how violently they want to ramp during the first quarter of 2012. I mean, the ultimate goal here since we understand the seasonality of the fulfillment business, is to really build the engineering and construction segment into something that can be countercyclical to the fulfillment business, and that's really what we're trying to achieve.

And, John, just to build on what Scott said, that operating income breakout that we do is just allocated corporate cost. So, a lot of that loss is a function of how we're allocating those costs. So, I think that when you look at 2012, you'll definitively see that turn positive. But, really what's driving that is the scale of that business right now and the amount of allocated costs that we're giving it.

Okay. Because it seems to be – I mean that's where the leveraged points are and at what point do we start to see substantial growth in earnings out of that segment? Because it seems like in 2012 that could be a big turn for you.

Well, you got to remember that, in this segment itself, there was minimal contribution to EBITDA from the Wireless business, so that actually put a pretty good drag on things. So, we hit the guidance and the numbers where we thought we're going to achieve with pressure on that Wireless business. As we start to get more traction and we start to have projects where we start to know in 2012 we'll have extra amount of towers that we're working on, we'll be working in this turfing area. We'll start to have some real runway in front of us in wireless, and we'll be able to manage the cost and manage the timing and really put optimization in that we didn't have this year.

Okay. And in term – right now, there isn't much in backlog from that Wireless business, is that right, until you finalize your agreements with AT&T?

And the other OEM, that's correct. I mean, there is approximately $40 million, $50 million in – I guess in the next 12 months, and it's really the next 9 to 12 months that we have in hand right now.

Correct. Okay. And then one other housekeeping item. Next year, non-cash compensation – expense stock compensation, what is that expected to be? Do you have a schedule for that?

It's about – it's the same as it is now. So the Q3 stock comp expense will be our run rate on a go-forward. The issue in Q1 and Q2 was the accelerated vesting schedule related to the tender offer, and that's – we're through that now. So, it's baselined to current quarterly rate.

Okay. And then, lastly, in terms of acquisitions, any thoughts on the opportunities out there? Are you seeing opportunities or anything that interest you?

There's certainly some things out there. I mean, we're approached all the time. I mean, quite frankly, we really believe our stock is trading well undervalue right now. So, looking at deals where we would use stock in a transaction is not very attractive for us. And as I've said a thousand times and I'll continue to say, we are only interested in lowering our leverage, not increasing it. So, we're not really looking at transactions where we would take on more debt. Fortunately, based on our performance, there's been some pretty significant organic growth opportunities, and that's been a great focus of our company right now. So, we'll still do acquisitions. We're very good at them. We look at them all the time. But we really want to be very thoughtful about how we approach them. And, quite frankly, executing on a significant amount of organic growth is really our objective right now.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Theodore O'Neill of Wunderlich Securities. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good quarter. I was wondering, in the press, we've been seeing that the AT&T T-Mobile merger may or may not happen. And I was wondering, do you see that in any of the projects that you're bidding on with AT&T or T-Mobile? Do you see anything going on that would suggest that they're either hedging or waiting for a conclusion on this before certain things happen?

Well, I wish I could really answer that with some clarity. But honestly, I don't know. I know that the projects that we're bidding, that we're working on, really do not include any T-Mobile augmentation that would probably have to occur. So, we would see that all as incremental if the transaction were to go through or some sort of transaction. The good news is it's either going to go through or it's not. And either way, that network is going to have to be upgraded in some manner or form. So, I think that's good for all of the companies in this sector.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Saagar Parikh of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Congrats on a good quarter.

Thank you very much.

Hey, Saagar. How are you?

Doing great. So, a lot of the questions have been answered. The one thing I wanted to ask is related to your DIRECTV business. DIRECTV reported, a couple of weeks ago, they had tremendous results, great cumulative subscriber base, nice growth. And also, I just wanted to see how much of that played into the fulfillment growth? I know, you mentioned some vendor consolidation on the cable side. Just wanted to see the upgrade from DIRECTV and where you guys see that going forward.

Well, we think that the DIRECTV business is obviously great for us. When they have a great quarter, we're always happy about it. And we continue to perform extremely well for them. We don't see any real impact other than the fact of we work at some fairly large markets. And as it gets busy and seasonality and Sunday Ticket and all of things they have that kind of drive upgrade in service and new installs, we participate that based on our share. So, we feel really good about that business and they continue to do a great job.

Great. And then, I'm sorry if I missed this, but utilization in your wireless end market, I don't know if you guys mentioned that or if you would want to mention that. But I would assume that as your projects are ticking up, it's going to help improve your margin profile?

Yes. So, that will certainly help. We did reduce some head count and move some people out of the company during Q2 and part of Q3. But we also did carry resources in anticipation of some of this work that's going to be awarded. So, we really felt like we struck a pretty good balance. We feel like we have an opportunity to really optimize and grow the wireless segment as we start to get awarded work for 2012.

Sounds great. Well, again, congrats on a great quarter.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Morning, Scott. Morning, Ron.

Morning, Liam.

Morning, Liam.

Ron, Scott mentioned earlier in his remarks, he discussed in a little more detail the working capital. You had some pretty heavy needs obviously with the step-up in revenues. But could you give us a sense as how working capital shake out for the rest of the year?

Yeah. Our DSOs were approximately 61 days compared to 64 days in Q2. I think we expect that to really be sustained. So, in other words, I expect the EBITDA to generate more cash in Q4 than it generated in Q3, operational cash flow really due to the working capital build, both in E&C and also in fulfillment where we had substantive growth. Additionally, DIRECTV has extended their payment terms by about a week. And so, that impacted us by $5 million in Q3. That's a one-time event that will not recur.

And as you wind down some of these projects on the wireless side, do you anticipate any collections issues or anything?

No. I think we've been through – like in anything that you're winding down, there's always minor issues. But we've been through the brunt of that, so we don't expect anything substantive.

Great. And then, Scott, on the AT&T side, in terms of provisioning, do you see any provisioning challenges as that potential work comes rolling in?

Well, I certainly feel like we build a great front-end machine. And we've been working very diligently during the last several months to really build a base of people that will join UniTek as this work comes in. So, we feel like, from a TARP perspective, when we get awarded a turf going into that area, we have the reputation and the ability to not only hire some great existing people but also to bring some of our own folks in. So, that's a nice problem to have when you get a ton of work and you have to bring people in. Historically, that's really been one of our core strength is our ability to deploy people pretty rapidly. So, we look forward to that opportunity. And I think that's something that we're pretty well-positioned for, Liam, as we get into next year and beyond.

Great. Thanks, Scott. Thanks, Ron.

Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from [ph] Curtis Keglovitz of Berkshire Investment (42:31). Please go ahead.

Hey, guys, good job. [ph] Curtis Keglovitz from Berkshire Investment (42:33). What kind of growth are you seeing in Canada as compared to the U.S.? What percentages are going in that direction?

The Canadian growth – we don't see a dramatic growth in Canada, although we do see similar opportunities on the consolidation front in our cable business. So, Rogers is looking at some vendor consolidation. We expect based on our focus on quality leveraging those same things that we do in our satellite in U.S. cable businesses. We're leveraging those same tools in Canada, allowing us to outperform the competition and really be in a great position to take advantage of those consolidation trends. But outside of that, I don't see that market growing rapidly.

Okay. So, there's no real big push in that direction as far as opportunity for different growth as compared to the U.S.?

Correct.

Okay. Very good. That's all I need. Thanks very much.

I'm showing no further questions at this time and would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Scott Hisey for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. I'd just like to take a moment and thank everyone for joining our call today. Our company continues to perform well. And we look forward to an exciting fourth quarter and really coming out with some great news for 2012 in the near future. So, thank you, everyone, for joining our call and we look forward to talking to you soon.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.