Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lee Roth — Director, The Piacente Group, Inc.
C. Scott Hisey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Peter Allen Giacalone — Chairman & President, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Alexander John Rygiel — Co-Head of Diversified Industrials, FBR Capital Markets
Jeff Martin — Senior Research Analyst & Director-Operations, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Liam D. Burke — Director, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
John B. Rogers — Head of Institutional Equity Research, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Aram Fuchs — General Partner, Fertilemind Capital
Thom Waye — Founder & Managing Partner, Sigma Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the UniTek 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only-mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Lee Roth of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Alli. Good morning everyone and once again thank you all for joining us today for the UniTek Global Services second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. With me on the line from management are Scott Hisey, Chief Executive Officer; Ron Lejman, CFO; and Peter Giacalone, our Chairman.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that the statements made during this conference call and the subsequent Q&A session that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions including terms using this terminology such as may, will, believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts, forecasts and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical facts are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the factors discussed in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report and Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is available on our website and at www.sec.gov.

Various future events and factors may cause the actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made on this call. And as a result, the actual results may differ materially from any financial outlooks presented today. The company takes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call, Wednesday, August 17, 2011.

During this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics, including EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to GAAP, please see the company's earnings release, which was issued yesterday following the close of trading.

With that, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Scott Hisey. Scott, go ahead.

Thank you, Lee and good morning everyone. Yesterday we announced the results for UniTek's second quarter and updated our revenue and EBITDA guidance for the balance of the year. On this call, we will review our second quarter results, the company's performance and update everyone on the execution of our strategic plan.

During the second quarter, we made progress towards several of our key strategic initiatives, which included expanding our footprint with AT&T, moving our Wireless business away from smaller, lower margin projects towards more profitable, higher visibility business with nationwide carriers and expanding our backlog through new turf agreements and additional growth in our Fulfillment business.

This strategy has helped expand our margins and keep our EBITDA performance on track despite a decline in Wireless revenue, and we expect that this approach will pay significant demands going forward. To be clear, our reduction in revenue guidance reflects our expectation of reduced Wireless revenue for 2011 only and considers the possible effects of the Verizon work stoppage and the selective dismissal of certain wireline projects that have historically either produced low margins and tied up working capital beyond acceptable levels.

Given our recent success in entering the turf arena, we believe it is prudent to focus on these quality revenue initiatives as we continue to position UniTek for 2012 and for strong organic growth beyond.

Revenue for the second quarter was $106 million, an increase of 2% over the previous year. Adjusted EBITDA was $10 million for the quarter, which is an increase of $2.2 million or a 26% increase over the second quarter of 2010. This increase in adjusted EBITDA is attributable to substantial margin improvement in our Fulfillment segment and a contribution from the Pinnacle acquisition.

During the second quarter, we began to accelerate our strategy to move our Wireless segment to larger carrier build-outs with longer-term recurring revenue from the small project, bid-centric model of the acquired BCI. Effectively, we have now run off most of the smaller, lower margin projects, which has also allowed us to improve margins on reduced revenue in the segment as we transition the company to participate in a nationwide wireless network buildout.

As an example, our backlog of projects related to AT&T was about $1 million as of August 1, 2010. Our current backlog with AT&T related projects is over $22 million and growing, which demonstrates how well we are executing this strategy. To give you additional evidence of this success, our pipeline for new wireless projects is in excess of $350 million and we remain both confident and excited about our progress in this business.

We have also focused our adjusted EBITDA guidance for the year to $44 million, which will represent a 47% increase year-over-year and also represents an EBITDA margin of 10%, which we did not expect to reach until 2012. Our backlog remains strong at $957 million and is increasing primarily to national turf agreements and continued consolidation in our Fulfillment segment. Our backlog increased by $22 million from the previous quarter and has increased over 30% from the previous year. This is indicative of increased customer demand for UniTek services.

Our Fulfillment segment performed extremely well during the quarter. Gross margin percentage improved by 22% over the previous year. This margin improvement was due to several factors. First, every year in the second quarter, the Fulfillment business typically goes through a heavy ramp period. This is in anticipation of summer residential relocations and our customer's typical marketing season. Our shared services model effectively onboarded 412 new employees with minimal expense during the second quarter. This is a testament to our systems and processes.

Second and most importantly, our employee churn has been significantly reduced due to strong employee relations, field leadership, and execution. We believe that our employee retention and their success is a differentiator and a key driver of our performance and long-term strategy.

We continue to see vendor consolidation in the Fulfillment segment. As a top performer, UniTek has many opportunities through bid pipeline and acquisition targets to continue to grow this segment. As our gross margin improvement will suggest, we continued to enhance our operations and seek to consistently improve the margins as we scale the business.

Our E&C segment continues to perform well as we execute our strategy to exceed customers' quality expectations and grow our Wireless Services business with the larger carriers. From a service perspective, we have performed well at both AT&T and the other OEM providers. Our backlog in this area is increasing as well as we demonstrate our performance and our resources.

As everyone is aware, the U.S. is going through an unprecedented cycle of wireless upgrades in both the commercial and the public safety sectors. We're currently exploring multiple teaming agreements with other long-term partners, which have the capacity to be substantial growth drivers for our Wireless segment.

Our Pinnacle acquisition is now fully integrated into UniTek. With our nationwide presence and bonding capability, Pinnacle is now able to pursue larger scale projects. And we're excited about the future growth of this business as the pipeline of new opportunities, coupled with strong performance, is creating great visibility into their future success.

Now, I will discuss the outlook for the third quarter and the balance of 2011. For the third quarter of 2011, we expect revenue of $120 million. Adjusted EBITDA will be approximately $14 million. The EBITDA is in line with our previous guidance. As I've stated, the change in our forecasted revenue is associated with our strategic decision of runoff smaller lower margin projects and focus on increasing our backlog with major carriers. In fact, we're presently ramping our Wireless business to execute orders that we have recently received. This will also result in continued margin improvement.

For the full year, we expect revenue of $440 million. Our adjusted EBITDA expectation is $44 million based upon the execution of our current in-hand orders. Again this represents a 47% increase over the prior year, of which approximately half is organic. We're very excited about the future of our company. Our strong margin improvement and growing backlog are testaments to our dedicated employees, all being focused and committed to executing our strategy to build long-term shareholder value.

Finally, I want to restate our acquisition strategy for our shareholders. Along with our strong organic growth, UniTek has had a successful history of sourcing and executing strategic acquisitions, in order to enhance shareholder value. Our model is to add quality companies to UniTek that would be accretive to our long-term value without increasing our debt leverage ratio. Like the Pinnacle acquisition, when we can add either a new service offering of quality customer or participate in an industry consolidation event, we will explore these types of opportunities.

Recently, an opportunity that we explored became public, that's an offer that we had to Multiband Corporation was rejected by their Board. We strongly believe that the combination of the companies would have considerable strategic, customer, and synergistic benefits that would create tremendous incremental value for shareholders of both companies. Additionally, we believe that our offer represented a significant premium to Multiband shareholders, while meeting the criteria of UniTek's acquisition strategy.

As we've stated in our press release on August 8, we're now currently in discussions with Multiband on this combination. We've never wavered on our desired goal to build the company to over $1 billion of revenue and double digit EBITDA with strong recurring cash flow and long-term revenue visibility. We will continue to explore these types of opportunities as UniTek has the platform, balance sheet and resources to meet and exceed these objectives.

This will conclude my prepared remarks. I would now like to turn the call over to Ron Lejman, our CFO, who will discuss our financial results in greater detail. Ron?

Thank you, Scott. Today's discussion will be focused on the results for the second quarter of 2011, our expectations for Q3 and the balance of 2011 and finally an update on the overall operating results.

The consolidated results are segmented into Fulfillment and Engineering and Construction, where the Fulfillment segment aggregates our broadband cable and satellite installation services and the Engineering and Construction segment aggregates our services in the wireline and wireless telecommunication markets including the Pinnacle acquisition finalized early in Q2 of this year. Total revenue for the quarter was a $106.4 million, a 2% increase over the $104.2 million for the prior year period.

Revenue on our Fulfillment segment increased 3% year-over-year from overall market growth, mainly in our cable business. Our Engineering and Construction segment revenue was flat year-over-year as increased revenue in the wireline division and growth in the Pinnacle business was offset by the impact of customer restructuring in our legacy wireless business.

Although this customer change in the wireless business impacted revenue in the short-term, we fully anticipate this move being instrumental in delivering our long-term growth objectives. The wireline business is ramping rapidly as expected with the revenue increase of over 47% year-over-year, as we continue to see strong demand in this segment.

Over 75% of this wire line business in the quarter was recurring with the multiyear contracts including maintenance and construction. The top five customers in the second quarter are DIRECTV at 44%, Comcast at 17%, Verizon at 9.4%, Bell Aliant at 4% and Rogers at 4%. As Scott mentioned earlier, backlog grew by over $22 million since the end of Q1 with the growth from various new cable fulfillment project locations, additional RUS work and AT&T and Ericsson wireless work offsetting runoff from a wireline maintenance contracts some of which are up for renewal in the fourth quarter of this year.

Although, we believe they will be renewed, they are currently not represented in the backlog. We expect this addition by year-end. Currently we have 95% of our remaining projected revenue for 2011 in-hand. Gross profit from continuing operations for the first quarter was $21.6 million or a gross margin of 20.3%, compared to $16.7 million or 16.1% from the prior year period.

Second quarter 2011 gross margins continue to increase in large part due to operational improvements in the Fulfillment segment, where gross margins improved from 19.4% to 23.7% quarter-over-quarter. Gross margin also improved sequentially compared to the first quarter of 2011 gross margin of 19.9%. The improvements in the Fulfillment segment gross margins continue to reflect our continuous margin improvement with deployment of technology and our stringent culture of cost management.

Inventory controls, fuel usage and drive monitoring are a few examples of our cost management focus. Additionally, our technician base is incentivized to produce a high quality work product and our rigorous score carding gives clear visibility to performance objectives for the entire team.

Gross margin in our Engineering and Construction segment was 14% in Q2, 2011, compared to 10% in the prior year period. The Q2 gross margin in this segment also increased compared to the Q1, 2011 margin of 5.7%. The Q2 gross margin increase reflects the higher margin contribution from the Pinnacle acquisition, the impact of increased volume in our wireline business and our continued efforts to lower ongoing operating costs, while building the sustainable performance model for our large carrier wireless customers.

Selling, general and administrative costs increased from $9.2 million in the second quarter of 2010 to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2011. The single largest component of this increase in the result is an incremental $1.1 million related to the Pinnacle acquisition, which will be a base cost, you'll want to factor into all future expected SG&A spends specifically related to this purchase.

We will continue to explore savings as we fully integrate Pinnacle into our wireless business as well as invest in our growth initiatives developing the UniTek Pinnacle presence in land, mobile, radio opportunities across the U.S. An incremental $700,000 of SG&A is related to higher stock compensation expense from the tender offer completed in January 2011 as previously discussed.

The second quarter SG&A also includes $400,000 of transaction related cost for acquisitions, excluding these items SG&A cost increased by $1.7 million year-over-year related to higher compensation costs, public company cost and continued reinvestment in our personal and infrastructure as we continue to aggressively grow our national presence across various business components. These investments include quality control, safety and other administrative costs necessary for our wireless expansion.

SG&A adjusted for stock compensation cost and transaction cost was approximately 10.9% of revenue for the second quarter of 2011 versus 8.5% in the second quarter of 2010. We believe this quarter will prove to be a bit of an anomaly as we continue to develop our infrastructure for the growth in wireless spend and our new Pinnacle acquisition's expansion. We expect this cost as a percentage of revenue to improve in the coming quarters and be approximately 9.5% for the full year, not including stock compensation expense and transaction cost. Adjusted EBITDA increased 26% to $10.1 million for the quarter ended July 2, 2011, compared to $7.9 million for the prior year. The year-over-year increase was primarily related to the higher volume and margin in our Fulfillment segment, as well as improved margin in our E&C segment, partially offset by higher SG&A costs.

Net loss for the second quarter 2011 increased by $300,000 to $6.4 million from a net loss of $6.1 million in the second quarter of 2010. The second quarter 2011 net loss includes a $3.5 million non-recurring expense related to the early extinguishment of the company's debt as we previously discussed. Without this one-time charge, net loss would have improved $3.2 million year-over-year. The year-over-year improvement in net loss after this adjustment is attributable to the higher EBITDA of $2.1 million and lower interest expense of $2.8 million from the payment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the lower interest rates resulting from the debt re-financing. These improvements were partially offset by higher provision for income taxes of $800,000 and $400,000 of merger transaction costs.

Net income after certain non-cash adjustments for the second quarter of 2011 was $1.9 million, reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $1.1 million, non-cash interest and debt extinguishment expenses of $3.8 million and non-cash amortization expense of $3.3 million.

For the second quarter, net income after certain non-cash adjustments was $0.12 per share on 16 million shares outstanding. Total loss is $0.40 per share.

At the end of the first quarter, UniTek had cash, cash equivalents and revolver line availability of approximately $22 million. On April 15, we completed a refinancing of all our existing debt with a $75 million revolving credit facility and a $100 million term loan. We estimated that the new facilities will provide an annual cash interest expense savings of approximately $3 million.

Additionally, the maturity profile improves significantly, as we expect that our earliest required refinancing event would be in 2016. Subject to certain terms and conditions, the term loan and revolving credit facility include accordion features of $50 million and $25 million respectively. Our target leverage ratio for year-end 2011 remains three times trailing EBITDA. Our capital structure is strong and well positioned for the expected growth remaining in 2011, 2012 and beyond.

For 2011, we are refining guidance on revenues to approximately $440 million. The company expects adjusted EBITDA for 2011 to be approximately $44 million with net loss per share of $0.61. Net income after certain non-cash adjustments is expected to be $11.6 million or $0.73 per share on approximately 16 million shares outstanding. These projections include the effects of the Pinnacle acquisition for three quarters and lower interest expense as a result of the debt refinancing. The main difference between this and our previous guidance range are revenue, the reduction of revenue is driven by the impact of customer restructuring in our legacy wireless business. Although, this number is lower than previous range, it represents a strong profitable base fueling 2012 growth at a better profit margin.

EBITDA, although at the lower end of the projected range, represents a significant improvement in the margin due to previously discussed successes in technology tools, efficiency objectives and Engineering and Construction customer mix. Various below the line items, a majority of which are related to the Pinnacle acquisition, including interest expense as well as capital lease payoffs and higher D&A all related to finalize purchase accounting.

For the third quarter of 2011, we expect revenue of approximately $120 million and adjusted EBITDA of approximately $14 million. The third quarter revenue projections include consideration for our wireless customer concentration shift and ramp up of various new wireless customer projects and fiber builds in the wireline division. We are excited about the prospects of our new customer relationships, improved capital structure and expected 2011 financial performance and look forward to speaking again in the future.

This concludes our remarks. And we thank you for your time today. We will be joined by our Chairman, Peter Giacalone for the question-and-answer session. Operator, we are ready for questions.

[Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from Alex Rygiel of FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Alex.

Good morning, Alex.

Good morning.

And thank you for all the detail on the conference call, it was very helpful. Two questions, first, could you give us a little bit more color on the new award activity in the quarter. It looks like it was about $130 million in 2Q much better than your revenue burn of $106 million, but could you break down that $130 million either by end market or customer, could you just give us some clarity on it?

Sure, about high level, about $22 million or so in the wireless business, some offsets to that in the wireline business as we talked about the maintenance construction contracts were negative, a detriment of about $7.5 million, so that full E&C piece is about $13 million of the $22 million. And then the balance is our backlog growth in cable and satellite.

Great. And then at what point in the coming quarters might we see AT&T crack the top five list?

Alex, this is Scott, I will take that. So the cycle with AT&T was we're awarded a turf agreement in January. We got through their systems and processes to be issued work about mid second quarter and we're starting to execute on work orders received now. So from an expectation standpoint, we're performing very well, and talking about new opportunities. So, we expect in 2012 within the first half of the year that AT&T should crack our top five customers.

And then lastly, you disclosed that your pipeline for wireless project opportunities is about $350 million, can you give us a little bit more detail on that number?

Certainly. So a lot of the transition from the acquired BCI was moving that company from a business that bid either one segment of a project, either the site acquisition or the construction or possibly the engineering, moving that business into a full turnkey capability. We are now recognized as a company that could go in and as an example, take 200 sites and build – go from site acquisition through turnkey construction all the way completion and turnover. That was not a core competency before. So our pipeline is increased not only because of that capability but because we are demonstrating right now that we can take full sites and turn them over. So our range of opportunities are increasing as a lot of these customers are looking more towards larger companies that can actually do a turnkey project. So that's an important transition for us. It's the same transition we made with other customers through the years, and it was an important strategic development for UniTek to be recognized as a customer that can do that.

That's great. That's very helpful. I'll get back in the queue.

Thanks, Alex.

Our next question comes from Jeff Martin of ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning. First, I was curious if you could kind of walk us through the process of the change in revenue guidance specifically, what led to the acceleration on a wireless transition and to bring guidance down from a quarter ago. I mean something had to have happened where something caught you off guard.

No, I'm not sure that I'm going to use the word off guard, and I know this is probably a source of frustration for a lot of folks, which is why Ron and Peter and I are going to go in depth in the questions that we take in our availability over the next couple of days for calls on this matter.

It was frankly common sense. We had a lot of smaller projects where we were doing a piece of a project either site at or just construction where we had a lot of dependencies not only on other vendors but on smaller companies that we were working for with this business.

We had an opportunity to move away from those projects where we had people traveling and we had excessive expenses and lower margin and really tying up our working capital to move to higher ground, which is getting large projects, getting POs that essentially had another zero on the end of them, which was really important for our strategic development.

We really believe that by taking a lot less projects that were smaller and problematic and lesser margin, we moved the company to higher ground, which is in full turnkey, large-scale projects, which is essentially where this company has always thrived. When we're given an opportunity to control our own destiny and take a project turnkey, we've always been successful. So we had the opportunity to make customer commitments based on our resources and allocate them to those projects for the balance of this year and more importantly in 2012.

So that's why we made that migration. And we knew all along that it was going to improve our margins. I mean, we are very proud of the fact that we got to 10% EBITDA, in some cases 20 years ahead of some of our competitors out there. So, we feel really good about the decision to move from an operation standpoint, and we're happy to spend as much time as we can on this call and in subsequent discussions with our shareholders discussing the revenue profile and what it means to the future of the company.

So then are there additional contracts within E&C that might fit that same profile that you haven't addressed yet?

There're a lot of things we have there in development stage right now that we'll be happy to discuss as they develop in the coming quarters.

Okay. And then --

Specifically, some OEM relationships and some things that are going to come into view here in the next quarter.

And then in terms of your third quarter guidance, could you help us get an idea of how that breaks out between Fulfillment and E&C, the $120 million revenue guidance?

Sure that guidance is about $76 million Fulfillment, and the balance is E&C.

Okay. And then could you give us a little bit of detail on the consolidation in Fulfillment? Are you seeing consolidation specifically on cable? Is that across the board on Fulfillment? A little more detail will be helpful. Thanks.

There is a lot of consolidation activity on the cable side. The satellite side has pretty much been consolidated already, so there's some opportunity there. But on the cable side, we see our largest customers moving towards a model that reflects an employee base, an in-house technician with company vehicle and really SLEs, the service level expectations, around quality and performance that we've been capable of delivering for years. So the model is more conducive to the larger employee-based company, and that suits well for us.

A lot of bid activity is going on right now as we see a lot of this movement really moving towards 2012. And the smaller vendors are really starting to kind of be moved out in favor of the companies that can deliver on longer-term agreements.

And then I wanted to touch on cash flow real quick and then I'll free the line up. But you generated, from what I can tell, about $3.6 million of free cash flow in the quarter, and I expect you're anticipating you'll remain free cash flow positive assuming no acquisitions. Can you address what kind of debt you think you can pay down over the next 12 months with your free cash flow?

So, as Scott suggested, we still have high expectations for growth in 2012. I would expect that most of that free cash flow will be re-invested in working capital growth as we drive second and third quarter growth into the first half of 2012.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

So, we don't expect to pay down a lot of debt. We expect to actually continue to grow the business aggressively.

Got it. Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, Scott. Good morning Ron.

Good morning Liam.

Good morning Liam.

Scott, you talked about from the beginning of the year reallocating resources and specifically techs to the AT&T projects. Are you anticipating better or worse productivity as you've sort of accelerated the movement from the smaller, piecemeal projects to the larger, integrated projects?

So, the main thing that we're dealing with really is the timing. So the way their PO process flows, a lot of the work for 2011 was allocated to existing vendors early on. And their 2012 process is actually going on right now. So we see the majority of our shift to be incremental work that we can pick up towards the end of 2011. And the way the model works, we will do the site acquisition and the permitting work early on. And we anticipate that the construction revenue, which will be significantly higher with better margins, to occur in 2012. So the model and the ramp is going to work in a cycle that is really more conducive for next year's growth.

Okay. And on the wireline side, the business grew year-over-year. Is there a lot of stimulus money underlying the backlog in wireline, or are you just seeing more turf deals?

It's primarily related to our participating in turf bids and starting to win them. The stimulus projects, we maintained all along that we're probably going to bid somewhere between six and 10 of them, and we're going to win two to three. And we've won two to three. We never really made a huge emphasis on the stimulus work because in our mind it was potentially spotty. We took some solid projects with good long-term customers, who had the money, let's say, in the bank and we're continuing to pursue some opportunities around the RUS projects.

But we're not really going after a lot of them. We're really focused on growing the recurring revenue and these longer-term maintenance contracts. And as they become available every year it'll be contracts that expire, we not only expect to renew the ones that we have, which are currently not in our backlog, because technically it'll runoff. But we also expect to participate in other opportunities particularly around the markets where we already operate and pick up additional work.

Great. And Ron, one last question on receivables. As you runoff some off these smaller vendor – customers, do you anticipate any collection issues?

We don't anticipate any collection issues that we have and already reserved for. So there isn't a lot of expectation that we won't be able to collect the receipts and anything that was or is suspect has been reserved. So I feel very comfortable in our current AR balances.

Great. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from John Rogers of D. A. Davidson. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, John.

Good morning.

Good morning, John.

A couple of things, just clarification, in terms of the cash flow what are you planning now for CapEx this year?

We're still maintaining our 1% of revenue or less. It will be between $4 million and $4.5 million.

Okay.

Remember, John...

Yeah.

Less – probably half of that is system reinvestment and the other half is maintenance. So we don't have a big CapEx burden and it's something that we can control if necessary. But we feel that's a great investment. It's really blended to our current productivity and the great gross margins that you're seeing. It creates that sustainable model. So we anticipate continuing to spend that 1% a year on revenue to continue to improve our gross margins as we go.

Okay, okay. Good. And then in terms of the wireless business, I guess, Scott, looking out in the 2012, is there a revenue level, where you start to get substantial improvement in margins or is it s a question of just taking these margins and spreading over a much larger revenue base?

I think our margins certainly will improve with scale.

Yeah.

It's something, John, from a basic timing perspective, we're a little bit late for the wireless game in that some of our peers are a couple of years ahead of us in being in this space. We have to remember we're seven years old and we are a $440 million company. And we see tremendous opportunities in that space. We felt that we took a solid year, we got to know it, we got to understand it and clearly the higher ground is where a lot of our peers participate in these longer-term big projects. So we're now positioned to go head to head with our peers and demonstrate our performance versus theirs. And I think that's where you're going to see us growing that business. And really from a margin standpoint as we prove it in fulfillment and in wireline, when we get scalability, we are really conscious about controlling cost. We demonstrated that we can be a company of choice for hiring new employees and vendors. So we really believe there is going to be some great benefits and scale for us.

Okay. So and as you start up with or ramp up with AT&T, do your margins – do you have to invest anything in margins or do they – are they at that level right away, I guess, is what I'm asking?

Well – so, it's a dual-edged sword, so, of course there will be some investment cost, but the margins are higher than the smaller one-off projects that we've been doing. So we don't anticipate margin erosion based on the new projects with the larger carriers that we are starting, but there will be some reinvestment cost and investment cost in the growth that we'll be able to articulate on calls like this and dialogue that we have.

Okay. But as it ramps we should see higher margins than what we're seeing right now, is that fair?

That's fair.

Okay. Okay, great. Thank you.

Thanks, John.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Aram Fuchs of Fertilemind Capital, please go ahead.

Hi, just two accounting questions for Ron. You mentioned this unbilled revenue. Can you talk about the test you use to define when you can issue an invoice and move it into AR? And then a question about just the calculation on insurance reserves, it's going up about $1.5 million. I'm curious about what's the math behind that and what's the business case as well?

So, we'll start with unbilled. As you know, we do I think a pretty good job in our Q of disclosing our processes, but we have – unbilled is treated differently in the various businesses that we have. So on the wireline side in the E&C, so we only have a majority of our unbilled, almost all of it's in the E&C business. And on the wireline side that's almost every contract we have, I would say over 95% of all the revenue is unit based. And so we perform a unit, we incur the cost and we recognize the revenue associated with that. It's very clean from a process perspective.

And additionally on the wireless side that is broken into two pieces, both site acquisition and construction. Site acquisition is typically on a full turnkey project, is 25% of the revenue, 75% is construction. On the construction piece, it's recognized on a cost incurred basis, so percentage of cost completion method. And on the site acquisition side, we develop unbilled as it pertains to milestones. So any – vendors differ, but milestones could be from five to seven different milestones in a particular site acquisition project and we'll bill accordingly.

And this is Scott. I'll take the insurance piece. On the insurance, we'll see some of the cost accruals going up a little bit because of increased employee accounts and really just projecting out as we move away from our wireless model that had a lot of contractors into it to a more self performed model. We're also increasing our employee counts in our fulfillment division as we have the opportunity to increase our workload we are onboarding more employees so that will account for some upward adjustments but they're not substantial.

Yeah really it's a function of the structure. So we've been we have a high deductible insurance policy or effectively we're self ensured for claims, and we have a stop loss of $350,000 per claim. And so what happens is since we have that in place for two years you build reserves to a steady state. So you'll see those reserves build until the middle of this year. So and then typically in the industry between 30 and 36 months, where that stabilizes and you have a flat reserve that will be – only grow with respect of the growth in your employees and/or revenues.

Great. And then, Ron, in response to the CapEx question, you mentioned that guidance for 1% of revenue in CapEx and you said half in system reinvestment and half in maintenance.

Yeah.

What's the difference there between system reinvestment and maintenance?

Well, we have some great materials on our website to talk about our PROS system and we have various score-carding metrics that will differentiate us from our competitors. It's reinvesting in that PROS, integrating into Oracle and really developing incremental systems for our wireless business. One of the things Scott mentioned is that what's allowed us the ability to transform into these larger customers is our excellent quality and that's really driven by our system investment.

So our PROS system, the integration to our financial system in Oracle the continued reinvestment in that is that system component I talked about as well as various little things like GPS systems, we have a second phase drive monitoring system, which has allowed us to actually better monitor fuel utilization. So we're very focused on those type of expenditures. That's what I call system expenditures. And then the second half, in the maintenance piece, it's really tooling and other things that are required to be replaced and manage the ongoing business.

Great thanks for your time.

Our next question comes from Thom Waye of Sigma Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Hi, Scott, Ron. Good to speak to you guys. And though with slightly less projected annual revenue, the number still seem to be performing and generating cash which in this environment, we are very pleased to see.

Thanks Thom.

As far as the M&A strategy is concerned, Scott, you know there are very many of us out here that would like to see the Multiband merger acquisition happen for a number of reasons. It would build revenues to greater than $700 million with over $60 million of EBITDA, with $150 million of debt. It takes both companies and makes them a real juggernaut in the industry. However, when you look at your company and their company, you are both trading at relatively low multiples to EBITDA, so even if you make that merger, do you think that moves the dial on the multiple and how people perceive the company, because one, there's not a lot of additional diversification that comes with that – those entities being together? And two, if that does not happen, do you continue to pursue more acquisitions in that same segment? Or do you think you look for more diversifying acquisitions?

Okay that was a quite a lot Thom. And let me say that we pursued that opportunity, because we felt there were huge synergies in the businesses and opportunities to increase the margins and enhance the margins through scale. And when you see the margins in our fulfillment business, and I will say that both companies performed extremely well for our mutual customer. There were a lot of reasons why that opportunity made sense. We – I'll say we're disappointed that they didn't want to even have any discussions about it, but there were a lot of reasons why we believed that we had a pretty fair starting point in discussions, they didn't, so we moved on.

I will say from an overall acquisition strategy, as I said in my prepared comments, we're looking for opportunities, where we can grow revenue moving to other areas of the business, maintain strong margins, but the one thing we're not going to do particularly with the economy where it is and certain businesses not being able to dial in the CapEx of their future. We're not going to make a bad investment just in the name of doing an acquisition right now. So, I will say that from a perspective of where UniTek is at, we have strong stable great customers and we have opportunities to grow with those customers and grow our margins, which we've done.

And we have several targets that we're always looking at from an acquisition standpoint. And I believe that – our only focus and priority is increasing shareholder value. And that's going to happen by being very smart about the acquisitions we do, having companies that we can integrate, having companies where there are synergies. I think the Pinnacle acquisition is a good example of a smart, well fought out acquisition that made sense, was easily integratable and can grow. So we're going to continue to look at those opportunities. And as far as other opportunity, as I said, we looked at it, we thought it made sense, we thought we picked the great starting point and it didn't materialize, so we moved on.

Just a follow-up question to that. So, Ron said that you're going to continue to aggressively pursue growth and not use free cash flows to pay down the debt. And he mentioned earlier that he's going to target future debt for 3x EBITDA. So one could imagine as you are growing in the business, debt continues to grow and that's fine ostensively. If that – if those moneys aren't going for acquisition, when you say aggressive growth, can you define in what arena you believe that will come from?

Well, Thom, the one thing that we've always maintained in the road shows and when we've talked with investors is the strategy around balance. So the fulfillment business that we're very good at and we've proven we can grow has tremendous cash flow. And the E&C side although there is a longer-term maintenance component, a lot of this work over the next three to five years, this heavy construction work does consume a lot of capital. So the line of credit, the facilities that we have in place are anticipating a working capital build in those spaces we significantly grow those revenues. The balance where we – we'll plan to not increase debt substantially is to contiguously build our fulfillment business, which is what we're doing. And I'll let Ron go on from there.

Yeah. I think, Thom, I just want to clarify. So, Jeff's question was specifically related to the next 12 months. And so in the next 12 months, we have great opportunities and we expect to reinvest in the business and in working capital. We don't expect to pay down material pieces of debt, but that reinvestment will in itself drive that leverage ratio down. So given nothing else and just growing the business organically and creating EBITDA, you're going to see an improvement at year-end 2012, substantively better than the 3x that you're going to see at the end of the 2011.

And so that will – that leverage ratio decline will actually occur naturally as we reinvest in the business. And we think – and you and I have had this conversation before, we think that's the best usage of our cash today is reinvesting in this growth engine that we're continuing to improve margins on sequentially, which we get both organic revenue growth and also EBITDA growth. And so that's the long-term strategy and what we've talked about and we haven't swayed from that at all.

Great. Well, I appreciate it. It was very good to hear that follow-on that you expect to continue to drive that down, get it to 3X and continue driving that down. So we look forward to seeing it and look forward to seeing the full-year results on target. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Thom.

Our next question is a follow-up from Alex Rygiel of FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Could you quantify the revenue contribution from Pinnacle in the full year 2011 revenue guidance of $440 million?

Sure. That business, as you know, it's large projects, so there is some timing risk, but it's between $28 million and $30 million.

Perfect. Thank you.

Our next question is a follow-up from John Rogers of D. A. Davidson. Please go ahead.

Hi, thanks. Just one minor follow-up. Scott, you mentioned the impact of Verizon on your business. And can you put a little more color on that? I mean, in some sense I thought that would create some opportunities for you as well, but ...

John, it's really a product of the timing of the strike. So if they're out a week, there is really, it's not really that big of a deal. If they're out two months, it potentially could inhibit our ability in some markets to get work orders as they shift those resources to the markets where the strike is impacting them. If it's three to five months or a year or longer, then we'll have – based on our performance with Verizon through the years and where we rank on their scorecards, we will have opportunities to grow revenues hopefully substantially based on it shifting with the work that needs to be done in the strike.

So it's really a timing factor. I mentioned it because it could impact the revenue number, which we kind of accounted for in lowering to a little bit lower than our lower end of the guidance. But we didn't have any impact on EBITDA because we feel we're ahead of the game on this, we understand where the margins are, and those assets will be deployed in a manner where we don't expect it to impact margins if it does impact revenue.

Okay, thank you. And then in terms of your business with AT&T, at what point does that go into backlog? I mean what's the next step there?

Some of it's in backlog now as we get POs --

It's in backlog for the end of the second quarter or backlog?

It's in backlog now, today.

Okay, so it's in the $957 million?

It's a small piece right now.

Okay.

We are just starting to build it to where we hope it could be.

Okay.

We have visibility on projects that are in backlog, what Scott was alluding to in the pipeline commentary. And those are projects that we have visibility on. We know they are coming. We're actually planning from a resource perspective. But what we put in backlog is work that we have specifically designed for a particular location, typically PO, sometimes at least some written documentation of where the work is and exactly what the scope is. And so that's our guideline for booking wireless backlog.

All right. So that's the $350 million? I guess, I'm trying to understand...

Yeah, that's the visibility for future projects that are in backlog today.

Okay. And at what point would that go into backlog? I mean is that --

As we receive POs, we transfer them from pipe to backlog.

Right. Okay.

Firm confirmation from the customer.

Okay. Thank you.

All right. Thanks, John

I'm showing no further questions at this time, and I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. We believe that UniTek in the second quarter continued to execute our strategy. We've improved our margins. We positioned the company to continually grow with some of the best companies in the world. We feel very secure in our decisions and our processes around driving EBITDA and driving margins and really running a great business.

I know from a revenue perspective, a lot of folks had questions on the strategy and the timing and I think we will do a better job in the future in communicating. And as I offered earlier in the call, we are always available to take calls and talk to our shareholders and explore this in greater detail. So to the extent that anyone wants to follow on or have follow-up questions, Ron and Pete and I will be available for questions. We look forward to keeping everybody in the news as things develop and look forward to our next call next quarter. Thank you, everyone.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.