Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lee Roth — Investor Relations, Piacente Group
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Daniel Joseph Yannantuono — Interim Chief Executive Officer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Liam D. Burke — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Alexander John Rygiel — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Saagar S. Parikh — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Jeff Martin — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Tristan J. Richardson — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Aram Fuchs — General Partner, Fertilemind Capital
David E. Cohen — Co-Founder & Managing Director, Midwood Capital Management LLC
Phil Anderson — Analyst, Pinnacle Fund Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the UniTek 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Lee Roth. You may begin.

Thank you, operator. And once again, thank you all for joining us. This is Lee Roth with Piacente Group, UniTek's Investor Relations counsel. With me on the line from company management are Mr. Ron Lejman, Chief Financial Officer and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO. Also joining us for the Q&A session is Mr. Dan Yannantuono, CEO of UniTek's Direct Sat Division and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that statements made during this conference call and the subsequent Q&A session that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions such as expression that use the terminology will, may, believe, expect, plan, anticipate, predict, forecast, and other such expressions which may otherwise reflect something other than historical facts are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including those discussed in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2011 which was filed on March 7, 2012 and available on the SEC filings section of the company's website and also at www.sec.gov.

Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made during the call. As a result, our actual results may differ materially from any financial outlooks or projections presented this morning. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call, May 10, 2012.

Finally, during this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics including adjusted EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to their comparable GAAP measures, please see the company's earnings press release which was issued yesterday following the close of trading.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to our CFO and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO, Mr. Ron Lejman. Ron, go ahead please.

Thank you, Lee, and good morning everyone. I am joined today by my partner in the Office of the CEO, Dan Yannantuono. I would like to update you on our first quarter financial results and other business achievements, as well as our progress towards full year objectives. Dan and I will be available for questions after the prepared remarks.

As an organization, we have always been strong at execution and our first quarter successes demonstrate this competency. During the quarter, we captured new growth opportunities, built our backlog and increased our book-to-bill ratio to almost 120%. These accomplishments speak to the quality of our people, processes and technology and clearly validate our four pillars of growth, which include, one, our specialty wireless or Pinnacle business; two, longer term prime relationships with wireless carriers; three, cable vendor consolidation; and lastly, four, fiber infrastructure builds for various data demand needs.

Revenue for the first quarter was $108 million, a 19% increase over $91 million in the prior year period. We remain excited about our future growth prospects as we not only replaced consumed backlog, but added an incremental $20 million. Our 2012 booked backlog at March 31 was over $485 million versus $465 million at the end of last quarter. Specifically, revenue on our Fulfillment segment increased 9% year-over-year primarily from the growth in our cable fulfillment business, which grew 38% over the first quarter of 2011.

In order to further reinforce our strength in the Fulfillment space, we recently purchased a small East Coast cable fulfillment provider, expanding our geographic footprint and improving customer diversification. This small acquisition was purchased at a very attractive multiple of EBITDA, immediately accretive to our current trading multiples and was easily integrated into our fulfillment platform. We plan to continue to take advantage of similar opportunities as our customers look for large, reliable, high-quality solutions to meet their customer service needs.

Revenue in our satellite business was down 2% from the prior-year period. Virtually all this decline is due to unseasonably mild winter in the Midwest and Northeast, which reduced the typical number of service work orders. We remain confident this business will continue to perform well as our largest customer ramps marketing efforts in the second half of the year and our ViaSat customer continues to gain traction in satellite Internet services with their new efficient product offering Exede.

Our Engineering and Construction segment increased revenue 41% year-over-year as increased revenue in the wireline division and growth from the Pinnacle acquisition more than offset lower revenue in our legacy wireless business due to our new project ramp ups. We are excited by our largest wireless customer's increase in planned spending in our turf over the next 12 months by over 30%, which has yet to be included in our backlog. This recent win is a reflection of our customer's confidence in our ability to scale and execute.

Additionally, our specialty wireless business, Pinnacle, was able to more than replace the World Trade Center project's first quarter backlog consumption through various new awards, a clear indication of the sustainability of this business, as well as an evidence of its continued growth prospects. The World Trade Center Communications Hub, a $37 million project, continues to remain on schedule and within budget.

Gross profit for the first quarter was $18 million or a gross margin of 16.6% compared to $14.5 million or 16% in the prior-year period. Fulfillment gross margin declined from 19.9% in 2011 to 18.3% in 2012 as we grow this business in both cable fulfillment and satellite Internet services. This year-over-year change was expected as our cable concentration increased as a percentage of our Fulfillment business, and we incurred various startup costs related to our new ViaSat territories and the integration of the cable acquisition in early March.

We continue to expand our productivity projects and the use of technology in the Fulfillment segment, specifically in our cable business, in order to improve long-term margins. This includes the continued deployment of handheld devices, consolidated dispatch support, proprietary scorecards, GPS and other productivity improvement initiatives.

Gross margin in our Engineering and Construction segment was 13.6% in Q1 2012 compared to 6.6% in Q1 2011. This strong year-over-year margin improvement reflects the higher margin contribution from our systems integration work and increased volume in our wireline business. And it's also a function of operational improvements, demonstrated by a 40% increase in sequential quarter-over-quarter E&C margins.

Selling, general and administrative costs increased from $10.9 million in Q1 of 2011 to $13.1 million in Q1 of 2012. As in our prior quarters, this increase includes incremental costs related to the Pinnacle acquisition as well as overall infrastructure investments related to our growth. On a sequential basis, SG&A net of stock-based compensation was down to approximately $11 million or 10% of revenue compared to $11.5 million or 10% of revenue in Q4 2011. This SG&A spending trend includes investment in technology deployment across the business platform to continue creating custom tools which enhance our productivity and the overall service offering.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 14% to $7 million for the quarter ended March 31 compared to $6.2 million for the prior-year period. This year-over-year increase was primarily related to the higher volume across both business segments and improved margin in our E&C segment, partially offset by higher SG&A cost primarily related to the Pinnacle acquisition.

Net loss for the first quarter of 2012 was $9.8 million compared to $7.9 million in the first quarter of 2011. The year-over-year decline is primarily attributable to the $4.3 million of restructuring charges recorded in the quarter related to the previously announced management changes, offset by the higher adjusted EBITDA and lower interest expenses. Additional restructuring charges of $1.2 million will be incurred throughout the remainder of the year as previously discussed.

The net loss after certain non-cash adjustments for the first quarter of 2012 was $4.9 million reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $2.1 million, non-cash interest expense of $300,000 and non-cash amortization expense of $2.5 million. This does not include $900,000 of booked tax expense, which will not be paid in cash this year and could be added to the cash in an income number as a better representation of true cash flow.

For the first quarter, net cash loss per share was $0.30 based on 16.5 million shares outstanding. Total loss from continuing operations in Q1 was $0.57 per share, equal to previously issued guidance.

The Pinnacle business is performing exceptionally well both from an operational execution perspective as well as our ability to replace project backlog and grow the business at an aggressive rate. Correspondingly, the earn-out objectives for the first year were met. As most of you know, on March 28, the company entered into an amendment with the sellers of Pinnacle Wireless to limit the number of shares issued under the asset purchase agreement to a maximum of approximately 3 million shares. The company has completed an initial calculation of the one-year earn-out as of March 31 and the estimated amount earned is $29.7 million. Based on the amendment, approximately 2.1 million shares will be issued as part of the earn-out. The $7.1 million fair value of these shares as of March 30 has been reclassed from a liability to an equity – to equity in Q1.

In addition, since the number of shares earned is now known and fixed under amendment, GAAP requires 2.1 million shares be included in our outstanding share count for EPS calculations as of March 28, even though the shares have not been issued yet. The limit on the maximum number of shares under the amendment will result in an incremental $4.3 million cash payment as part of the Pinnacle earn-out to be paid in Q2. There are no further payments due to Pinnacle under the agreements after the total cash earn-out is paid.

At March 31, UniTek had cash, cash equivalents and unused revolver line availability of approximately of $9.8 million with $16.4 million of unused revolver remaining. In May, we completed an incremental draw of $20 million under the accordion feature of our existing term loan agreement. The interest rate, maturity date and other terms of the term loan did not change.

The funds will be used for the scheduled payment of $1.9 million for the recent cable acquisition completed in Q1 and for the $4.3 million in incremental cash required under the amendment to the Pinnacle Wireless purchase agreement. We plan to use the remaining funds to reduce the outstanding balance under our revolver creating approximately $12.6 million of incremental liquidity for working capital and other cash obligations. At the facility close, our current liquidity was over $30 million in cash and cash equivalents.

For the full year 2012, we continue to expect full-year revenue of approximately $500 million, representing growth of 60% over 2011, primarily organic. Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 is expected to be approximately $50 million or growth of 18%, with a $0.14 net loss per share. The projected net loss for the year has increased mainly due to higher interest cost related to the incremental term loan and higher stock compensation expenses resulting from a change in investing terms of our RSU grants.

Earnings per share after certain non-cash adjustments is expected to be approximately $0.72. This $0.72 per share includes a charge of approximately $0.22 per share for income taxes, which will not be paid in 2012. Or the company will be creating almost $0.94 per share in cash after all cash charges, a very compelling level given our current stock price.

Cash flow from operations net of working capital needs, the management restructuring, and the Pinnacle earn-out is still expected to be approximately $22.5 million for the year. For the second quarter of 2011, we expect revenue of approximately $115 million with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $12 million, a net loss per share of approximately $0.02 and earnings per share after certain non-cash adjustments expected to be $0.19. As with our full year expectations, this includes an income tax charge of $0.05 per share which will not be paid in 2012.

We are building a reputation of delivering consistent, predictable performance and growth through our relentless pursuit of execution, leveraging our technology tools, proprietary scorecards and custom systems, as well as our scalable shared services platform. We believe these results strongly support our expectations for 2012, as well as our long-term success.

This concludes our remarks, and we thank you for your time today. I will be joined by Dan Yannantuono for the question-and-answer session. Operator, we are ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] First question is from Liam Burke of Janney Montgomery. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, Ron.

Good morning, Liam. How are you today?

I'm fine, thank you. In your guidance off of the first quarter results, there is an implication of a step up in gross margins. Without getting specific, do you see margin lift in both businesses? Or are you looking at Fulfillment being relatively stable with most of the contribution coming from E&C.

Most of the margin accretion for this year will come from E&C. So we continue to improve our wireless margins and our wireline margins through volume leverage. So those two are the main drivers of our gross margin improvement. The Fulfillment business continues to improve, but the mix towards cable will keep it flat for the year.

Okay. And on the acquisition front, you made two during the quarter, is that right?

Correct.

Okay. And could you give us a little more detail? Are they distressed acquisitions or were they going concerns that you just wanted to add a little territory?

One was a going concern. There's two. One is materially smaller than the other. The larger one was a going concern, and we were simply expanding our geographic territories at a very attractive multiple. And the second one was what we like to refer to as a tech buy where we really were just buying technicians in a particular geographic areas, which is typically cheaper for us than training grassroots technicians.

Great, and then just real quick on the free cash flow, you mentioned your expectation was for $22.5 million in cash flow from operations for 2012?

Without adjusting for working capital, yes.

Without working capital, okay. And CapEx this year will be roughly $5 million?

Correct.

Okay great. Thank you, Ron.

Thank you, Liam.

Thank you. Our next question is from Alex Rygiel of FBR. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, Ron, Dan.

Hey.

Good morning Alex.

Could you expand a little bit with regards to the activity, what you're doing with the AT&T right now, the pace of work orders, how they has been coming in over the first few months? More color would be appreciated.

Sure. So as expected in all of our wireless work. It typically starts with the site acquisition component, which is a longer lead time and lower revenue as of percentage of the whole project, typically less than 25% of the total spend. So I think revenue for AT&T in the first quarter was something like $4 million. That'll ramp towards the original 50 we talked about, and I think it's relatively clear from the press release that those incremental expenditures that we mention, that 30% increase, is for that customer. And we expect some of that this year and some of it in the first quarter of next year.

So we continue to execute on that contract. I think we're currently on schedule and we are ahead of schedule in all of projects for AT&T. And therefore have the opportunity to do even more work for them. So generally speaking, the contract is going well. We spent a lot of time and effort in putting in the appropriate infrastructure to execute, and we're basically witnessing the benefits of that upfront investment in both systems and people.

And the 30% change in the planned expenditure, is that AT&T 's budget for your geographies and therefore does that translate into the potential that your $50 million forecast could be upsized by 30%?

Correct, and that's not their budget. That's work has been given to us directly. So there are – there is one other player in the turf, but that's directly been awarded to us.

That is very helpful. And any other comment with regards to other wireless customers and their order activity and expectations over the next couple of quarters?

We think that there's still quite a bit of opportunity both for this year and next year to continue to grow that business there. There is a lot of activity on 4G expansion, and we've seen – we've both signed additional work with other carriers, as well as we see opportunities to expand what we've currently signed. Examples of those would be ALU, Clearwire, players like that.

Great. And congratulation on expanding backlog in the quarter. Can you talk a little bit about your mix of backlog and how that's evolved, if it all, over the last 90 to 180 days?

Sure. I think it's really in mind our backlog mix is really in line, certainly the 12-month backlog is in line with our current expectation on revenue. So the only gap between what we'll actually do in revenue and our current backlog is typically the flow work that we get in the wireless side. Other than that, the other three divisions all of that work is in hand for the next 12 months.

And looking out over the next 12 months is there any reason to believe that your working capital needs would increase or change, outside of the increase in revenue? In other words, is there any kind of odd customer mix that's occurring that could change your DSO days and whatnot?

Well, the system integration work and the specialty wireless work that we do in the Pinnacle side, as that grows those working capital days are typically longer simply because you're working with municipalities and they have a little bit longer pay cycle. So we do expect some DSO creep as we pursue that type of growth. Now, that is offset by very attractive cable fulfillment growth and satellite fulfillment growth. And so we expect a balanced increase in DSOs but nothing dramatic.

Very helpful, thank you. I'll get back into queue.

Thank you. Our next question is from Saagar Parikh of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning, Dan. Morning, Ron.

Good morning.

Good morning.

How are you today?

I'm doing great. Real quick, back to your Alex's backlog question, could you give us the three-year backlog and then maybe a small explanation of why you guys have changed from a three-year to a 12-month?

Sure. The three-year backlog is 1065, so it's up about 20 – it's actually 1066. It's up about $20 million, the same increase that we have in the 12-month backlog. So we're going to migrate -- we're happy to share the three-month backlog which people on a regular basis, but we really want to migrate to a 12-month backlog in order to give everyone a better visibility on how we're building and growing the business. So I think it's a direct reflection of our ability to grow both this year and next, and I think it's a great way for people to have visibility as to the progress we're making on our key growth initiatives.

An example of that would be this recent 30% increase in the AT&T turf, as well as a couple of other wins and a Pinnacle verbal win that we haven't converted to backlog yet aren't even in this growth. And so we already have experienced some backlog growth in Q2. And I think it's just a great example of how this business and the current strategic direction of the company from a growth perspective can really be demonstrated to the Street on a quarter-to-quarter basis by looking at this 12-month backlog versus something else, which the three-year can cloud your perspective .

Okay. Perfect. And then another follow-up on the 30% scope increase-and I apologize if I missed this-but was it related to AT&T expanding scope in that region or was it you guys capturing a contract from the other provider in the area?

It's mainly expanding their spend in the region. So they're definitely expanding what they're going spend in the Northeast where we're currently located.

Okay. Perfect. And then last question from me, can you walk us through from what you know the board's reasoning for the accelerated RSU grants and why the vesting terms have changed?

Yeah, I think the rationale was simply to align it with a more market acceptable rate. So the old RSU grants vested over a four-year period, which wasn't even in line with their length of service. So I think it made a lot of sense to change it. It's more appropriate given what other Boards do, and they were simply aligning their compensation with what's considered industry practice right now.

Okay, perfect. Thank you very much.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeff Martin of ROTH Capital Partners. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Hey, good morning, Jeff.

Ron and Dan, could you give us an update on the search for a CEO? Is that still in process? Have you whittled it down to candidates and any idea on timing of an announcement?

Yeah, there is a special committee set up, search committee set up for that. They are following a process. They've seen candidates, continue to see candidates. And I think the process is going very well. And the expectation is over the next 60 to 90 days, similar to what we've discussed in prior calls, they're on that time track. I think one of the important things also to note is that they aren't using time to determine when they're going to make their choice, but really looking for the absolute best candidate for the position. And so I think the search is going well and progress is being made, and we'll continue to follow that process until the right leader is selected.

Okay. And then on the AT&T turf expansion, is that 30% incremental to this year? Will you see essentially $15 million incremental to AT&T for UniTek this year?

Yeah, it's actually over 12 months, and so part of it will flow into next year. One of the reasons why we left everything the way it was is because of all of our businesses, the wireless business is the least predictable in terms of timing on when the actual revenue will come through. And so some of it will definitely be this year, some of it will be next year. Instead of trying to predict exactly when it would occur, we left it out with the expectation for it to effectively be within the next 12 months, and hopefully sooner.

Okay. And then do you care to take a stab on what you think your debt level will be at the end of the year?

Yeah, I think it will be similar to what we have today. So it will be the incremental $7 million that we've added. We should give back some of the working capital that we built through the second and into the third quarter. And as you know, we fund the entire cash portion of the Pinnacle earn-out, outside of the equity true up, that $15.2 million we'll fund out of operations. And so net-net, the debt will be where it's at today or potentially a little bit lower.

Okay, when you say that's funded out of operations, are you given some flexibility on when the timing of those payments to Pinnacle is?

No. We will pay that money in the second quarter. My point, and thank you for allowing me to clarify, my point is that by the end of the year, if we do have an uptick in debt both from working capital increases – well, we will have an uptick in debt from working capital increases and making that payment, that we'll actually have paid that back down to where it's at today at year-end.

Okay. Okay. And then are there any acquisitions on the near term horizon that you see affecting or maybe accounted for in your $500 million revenue guidance for the year?

No. That $500 million and $50 million of EBITDA is independent of any incremental acquisitions.

Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from John Rogers of D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is Tristan in for John. Just curious, guys, in terms of AT&T in the first quarter versus what you guys have said previously and then also what you've talked about today, it suggests that revenue from this customer should ramp throughout the remainder of the year. And I know you talked a little bit about site acquisition and so it's slow at first and then ramps quickly. Is that just a function of just the work you're performing on site? Or is there some seasonality to the projects? Could you just talk a little bit about that progression a little more?

Sure. So the site acquisition work is all of the upfront work we have to do. If there's more weight on the tower and we're doing a 4G upgrade, we have to put structural improvements. Typically reinforcement, you have to get a design for that, get the required permits, do all the things necessary to actually put the upgraded antenna and upgraded equipment in the hut. And so typically that will ramp through the year, and you'll see a much bigger second half than the first half, because 70% to 80% of all the revenue dollars on an upgrade for a particular location is construction-related versus site acquisition. So the site acquisition is a much smaller piece and typically has a much bigger lead time. So that's really what you're seeing here. The dynamic is that work started in January, actually it started a little bit in December and then it started full steam ahead in January, and it will ramp aggressively through the year as we execute on the construction in the second half of the year.

Okay, thank you. And then on the Fulfillment side, you talked about satellite and cable both growing, but then in terms of the margins, cable should somewhat offset potential margin increase. Could you tell us what's going on in cable, just generally the nature of that business is different versus...?

I think the general margins in cable are lower than our satellite business and so it mixes our gross margin down. As we build scale and the vendor consolidation continues to occur, you'll see those margins converge. Additionally, we do a lot of our development work with both technology tools and process changes, scorecards in satellite which we then apply to our cable business. And so you'll see the impact of that as we continue to improve those margins through the leveraging of technology and enhanced management processes, whether it's technician scorecards or GPS-related productively tools. So that impact will improve the cable gross margins. In the short-term you're seeing it mix our Fulfillment margin down a little bit just based on its dramatic growth, I mean, 38% year-over-year. So it is impacting our mix.

Okay. And then would you say that between satellite and cable which is growing faster for UniTek?

Cable.

Okay, okay. Thank you guys very much.

Thank you, Tristan.

Your next question is from Aram Fuchs of Fertilemind Capital. Your line is open.

Yeah. Can you talk specifically about this use of the accordion? It looks like you had to – I had two questions, one specific. The transaction fee looks like 6%. Can you give us details on that? And one more strategic, that's obviously pretty expensive debt these days, and you don't have much of a spread when making these acquisitions. It's difficult to determine if they're accretive from just looking at your public accounts. I'm curious is the management team and Board, are they happy at where the leverage is and this debt? Or are we looking forward to something in 2013 where the debt might start to be decreased? Thanks.

Sure. Great question, thank you for that. So first of all, there is 4 point OID, which is market by the way, so when we did the debt at the basically the same levels, the same costs that we did last year with a slightly higher OID. And I think the rates are very competitive. None of our debt rates have changed. And we continue to be seen very favorably in the marketplace on the debt side given our long-term contracts and the very predictable and consistent nature of our cash flow.

So the debt levels we will manage, as I mentioned, and we are at a higher leverage ratio today than we'd like to be. And by the end of this year, we should at about 2.8X. We'll continue to drive that down next year as we grow EBITDA. And those levels will be in the mid-2s which I think is very reasonable on both the comparison to our competitors, as well as the market expectation, and especially given the fact that we have so many long-term contracts and so much recurring revenue.

So all that said I think that the company's strategy is to continue to manage that, but also not to forego growth opportunities. And so some of these acquisitions that I talked about, we're buying from, let's say, 1.5X to less than 3X all-in railing EBITDA after the benefits of integration into our shared services platform. So I think that we're – the acquisitions that we're making are definitely in the best interests of our shareholders and the incremental debt is nominal, which will be paid down over the next 12 to 18 months given the great multiple that we're paying.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from David Cohen of Midwood Capital. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. I just want to confirm in your outlook on the AT&T revenue, you did $4 million in Q1 and you expect that to ramp to $50 million. Is $50 million a run rate or is $50 million a full-year recognition for 2012?

For AT&T?

Yeah.

The full-year recognition is expected be $50 million and obviously will be higher than that now given this win. This 30% increase will be in addition to that.

Okay.

Some of that will be in 2012 and some of it will be in 2013?

Right. And just curious, you don't have to say by how much, but how, relative to let's say an internal forecast or budget given that AT&T is sort of always it's unit pricing based upon, I don't know if it was I think 150 towers in phase one. I mean, there's sort of a lot of sort of units of production, unit pricing against that, things you don't control. You have to go up against local zoning boards to get approval on siting. What is the sort of degree of accuracy in sort of near term predictability of revenue there? Were you above budget? Were you on budget in AT&T in the quarter?

We're actually we're ahead of budget on AT&T in the quarter, and in Q2 looks to be that way as well. In terms of the pricing, it's very well-structured from a wireless perspective. So it's unit-based pricing. There is order of magnitude 350 price drivers. And so the actual detailed unit pricing is relatively discrete, and so there isn't lot of risk in any one item. When you blend it together it's really diversified across the entire project. So we're very satisfied that we managed that well and that we have the appropriate analytics and processes in place, like we do in every other business, to really focus on how well we're executing and when there – where there is an issue and there are always issues in different price lining, line-item prices, how we manage those issues. And so that's really a function of being good at operational execution. It's being able to take the volatility in items like that and be able to manage it so that you have a consistent and predictable cash flow in the end of the day.

And one final question, you've given us – obviously we have Q1 – you've given us a window on Q2's EBITDA level. That leaves about just over $30 million to be achieved in the second half to achieve your annual guidance. What should we expect to be the sort of cadence between Q3 and Q4? I think historically there's been some Q4 seasonality last year, particularly you maintained some costs to support the AT&T ramp. Are we likely to see Q4 seasonality at the same degree we've seen in the past? What can you say about that?

Yeah, I think the relative seasonality between Q3 and Q4 we will experience again this year with potentially a little bit more revenue in Q4 than we've historically seen, just given the nature of the AT&T work. So generally speaking though Q3 will definitively be our strongest quarter for the year.

Great. Thanks guys. Good luck.

Thank you. The next question is from Philip Anderson of Pinnacle. Your line is open.

Hey, Ron, good morning.

Hey, Good morning, Phil. How are you today?

Yeah, I'm okay. Thanks. You mentioned a verbal win at Pinnacle. When we take that plus a 30% increase in AT&T, would that be factored into your current 12-month backlog? And if not, how much of that equate to in total? And as a consequence of whatever that total is, should we expect to see backlog grow again in the June quarter?

Yeah, I would expect to see it grow again. The AT&T win is not in the backlog, nor the verbal win that I mentioned from Pinnacle. And so you're looking at anything from 20 – in the $20 million range of incremental backlog that we've seen build in Q2 that isn't represented in that number that you're looking at today.

Wow, okay. That's great. It's all I can do is increase my own tax return. I know very little about corporate tax accounting. Can you help us understand or at least me in particular the $0.22 that relates to a tax that you won't pay this year, will that tax ever be paid? What's the deal and why it's not paid this year?

Yeah, sure. We have a big NOL, or a big tax shield, which will shelter our income really for 2012, 2013 and 2014. We weren't going to pay any material cash taxes until 2015. So what you're seeing there is the fact that we have to zero value the deferred tax asset from an accounting perspective, which means that we are showing taxes on our income statement that we won't pay until sometime in 2015 or after. And so therefore that tax shield is really a non-cash impact in the very near future, which is why I'm adding the $0.22 to the $0.72, really showing $0.94 of cash net income per share when taking that into account for 2012.

That's interesting. The $0.94, because when I think about it, I was looking at Mastek and Dicom this morning, they're trading for between six and seven times EBITDA. UniTek is trading for about 3.7 times EBITDA, if I do my math correctly, or just over 3 times EPS when you factor that non-cash tax expense. As the acting CEO, why do you think there's such a valuation disconnect between UniTek and what are regarded as pubic company comps? And what can we do about removing that valuation discount?

Sure. I think I'll start with what we're doing first. Predicting what the markets doing at any point in time is always difficult, so I'll spend most of my time talking about what we're doing. I think that's the most important, is the path forward.

So the company has weathered the leadership change very well, both from a customer basis and an organizational basis. And so we have passed that. And I think the market, just based on results for Q1 and our expected results for Q2 and the fact that we continue to create successes outside of the financial, outside of direct financials is just a testament to the fact that the company, the leadership, and the processes and systems are working very well. We'll continue to execute, improving our gross margins, and additionally supporting incremental revenue growth for 2013.

Outside of those execution-focused items, I think you'll find us spending some time in the marketplace here over the next three to six months getting to conferences and other venues telling the story because I think it's a powerful story. And the business model is very competitive. And the more we can get in front of potential new investors, the more it'll help our stock and really the story get out onto the Street. And correspondingly that should support our stock price over the long term.

Are you going to be in New York anytime soon?

Yeah, we'll be in New York the end of May with FBR and also in Boston at the end of May.

Great.

We have a couple of conferences in June, both in New York, Credit Suisse on June 7. So there's quite a few events planned from an investor relations perspective.

Well, you seem to be doing a great job, Ron. Thanks very much and keep up the great work.

Thanks, Phil.

Thank you. There are no further questions on the phone line at this time. I'll turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.

Thank you all for your time. We will look forward to continuing to execute in the future. And we'll see you in Q2.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect. Good day.