corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to UniTek Global Services’ 2010 Fourth


Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that


time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today’s conference call is being recorded.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Kyle Hall, General Counsel. Please go


ahead.


Kyle M. Hall, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary


Good morning. Before we get started, let me review the customary Safe Harbor language.


Statements in this conference call that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking


statements relating to future events. And as such, all forward-looking statements are made


pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Expressions of future goals including


financial guidance and similar expressions including expressions using the terminology may, will,


believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts, forecasts, and expressions which otherwise reflect


something other than historical facts, are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including factors


discussed in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31st, 2010, which can be viewed at www.sec.gov.


Various future events and factors may cause the actual results to vary materially for most


expressed in any forward-looking statements made on this call. As a result, the actual results may


differ materially from any financial outlooks presented today. The company undertakes no


obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or


circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call.


During this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics, including EBITDA.


For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to GAAP, please see the company’s earnings


release issued earlier this morning.


I will now turn the call over to Scott Hisey.


C. Scott Hisey, Founder and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kyle. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today. 2010 was another


very exciting year for UniTek Global Services. We announced a record full-year revenue and


EBITDA for 2010. As we had outlined on our last earnings call back in November, we had some


very specific goals around continuing to diversify our business, significantly improving our capital


structure and putting the company in a position to leverage our platform, technology tools, and


reputation for quality.


We are focused on increasing shareholder value and ensuring our future success. We also


announced yesterday the signing of an important acquisition in Pinnacle Wireless. This is one of


the target acquisition opportunities we outlined when we last spoke, and we have now achieved


that goal with a company that meets our proven strategy for evaluating and acquiring company.


Pinnacle is a two-way radio and wireless communication systems integrator, specializing in large-


scale communications projects for transportation, public safety, entertainment, hospitality and


enterprise-grade commercial real estate, which is an estimated $8 billion market annually and
corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


growing. The areas in which Pinnacle excels are command and control, in-building wireless


systems, wireless broadband and Land-Mobile Radio, also known as LMR.


Each of these markets presents exciting growth opportunities for UniTek and we believe that this


business is poised for strong growth as we transition Pinnacle to our scalable operating platform.


The Land-Mobile Radio market, in particular, is positioned to grow as public safety agencies


continue migrating their interoperable equipment based APCO P25, which is a suite of standards


for digital radio communications used by Federal, State and local public safety agencies. P25 is


designed to support communication across multiple agencies and response teams in emergency


situations to ensure effective cross-agency responses.


Recent project wins for Pinnacle include turnkey engineering and design of wireless


communications networks for the World Trade Center Museum and Memorial, as well as a number


of other municipal and private sector projects.


Pinnacle had exceptional performance and growth more than doubling their revenue year-over-year


and we believe that the opportunity to leverage UniTek’s platform and balance sheet will enable


their management team to continue to grow, gaining market share in the near-term through the


expansion of their geographic footprint and capacity. This will also allow them to bid on and


manage larger projects.


The Pinnacle acquisition is also significant because UniTek now has the ability to penetrate our


existing customers at a higher technological level through turnkey wireless systems integration and


life cycle maintenance services.


Pinnacle will fall under our E&C segment. We believe this company is the foundation of a fifth


vertical opportunity for UniTek. We are very excited to announce this deal and welcome the


Pinnacle team to UniTek.


We have built our business both organically and through a variety of successful acquisitions over


the years and the one constant has been effective, efficient integration of the acquired companies


and their teams into UniTek model. We are extremely proud of this model, and I truly believe that


it’s one of the keys to our success.


I will briefly remind everyone of our 2010 objectives and then discuss our results and strategy for


2011 and beyond. First and foremost, we chose to address our balance sheet during 2010, which


we did with the public offering in November. We raised just over $84 million in net proceeds through


the sale of primary shares with 100% of the net proceeds being used to strengthen our balance


sheet. Upon completion of the transaction, we reduced our net leverage to 3.3 times our 2010


trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $30 million.


Additionally, we had over $35 million of cash and availability under our revolving line of credit as of


December 31, 2010. This transaction significantly strengthened our balance sheet and will afford


UniTek the opportunity to continue in the execution of our organic growth and acquisition strategy.


Subsequent to the offering, we have continued to take important steps in working to further improve


our balance sheet and to position the company for future growth opportunities. We have made


substantive progress on securing a $75 million ABL facility and a $100 million term facility. We plan


to refinance our existing debt at a reduced effective interest rate, saving an estimated $3 million


annually. More importantly, this refinancing will give us the liquidity and flexibility necessary to


continue growing the company, both organically and through acquisitions. We anticipate that these


facilities will close within the next two weeks.