corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Kyle M. Hall
 
– Secretary & General Counsel


Christopher Scott Hisey
 
– Chief Executive Officer & Director


Ronald J. Lejman
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer


Other Participants


Alexander John Rygiel
 
– Co-Head of Diversified Industrials, FBR Capital Markets


Liam D. Burke
 
– Director, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC


Jeff Martin
 
– Senior Research Analyst & Director-Operations, ROTH Capital Partners LLC


Ric Prentiss
 
– Managing Director, Raymond James & Associates


J. Steven Emerson
 
– Principal, Emerson Investment Group


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to UniTek


Global Services 2010 Fiscal Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation,


all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open


for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Wednesday,


November 17,2010.


At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr. Kyle Hall, General Counsel. Please go ahead,


sir.


Kyle M. Hall, Secretary & General Counsel


Good morning. Before we get started, let me review the customary safe harbor language.


Statements in this conference call that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking


statements relating to future events. And as such, all forward-looking statements are made


pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Expressions of future goals, including


financial guidance and similar expressions including expressions using the terminology may, will,


believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts, forecasts, and expressions which otherwise reflect


something other than historical fact, are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including factors


discussed in the Risk Factors section of our registration statement which can be viewed at


www.sec.gov.


Various future events and factors may cause the actual results to vary materially from those


expressed in any forward-looking statements made on this call. As a result, actual results may differ


materially from any financial outlooks presented today. The company undertakes no obligation to


revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that


may arise after the date of this conference call.


During this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics including EBITDA.


For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to GAAP, please see the company’s earnings


release issued earlier this morning.
corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I will now turn the call over to Scott Hisey.


Christopher Scott Hisey, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Kyle, and good morning. Today, I am joined on the call by Ron Lejman, our Chief Financial


Officer.


This morning, we released the results for UniTek Global Services, for the third quarter of 2010.


During this call, we will review our results and provide an update on how our business is


performing. Please keep in mind that we are still in registration. Our prepared comments can only


cover information that has either been previously disclosed or normal information that would be


disclosed specifically related to our quarterly report.


The third quarter was an exciting and productive quarter for our company. We established


important objectives earlier in the year that we disclosed on our last call. This included addressing


our balance sheet and positioning our Engineering and Construction business to participate in the


dynamic cycle of unprecedented growth and capital expenditures, built primarily by the wireless


industry. Also, our revenue, backlog and EBITDA reached record levels. We continue to build our


technology and systems that allow for scalable growth and better efficiency. This resulted in


improved margins for the quarter, and yesterday we completed our equity offering.


This is an extremely significant accomplishment for our company. We now have a capital structure


which we expect will allow us to execute our growth plans for the coming years, while continuing to


outperform our competition. We have reduced our net debt down to a comfortable leverage ratio to


EBITDA of approximately three times. We have liquidity in our stock, and enough cash and


availability under our revolver to fund our growth for the foreseeable future.


Now, some specifics on the offering. We raised approximately $83 million of net proceeds on the


issuance of 19 million shares of common stock. The proceeds will be used to reduce debt by about


$62 million and put $21 million of cash on the balance sheet, which we will use for general


corporate purposes, for working capital to execute our significant backlog.


In conjunction with the offering, we are now trading on the NASDAQ global market under the ticker


symbol UNTK . Within 30 days, we will retain three new independent board members so that we


will have a majority of independent board members as required by Nasdaq. We are presently


completing our board search, and we are very excited to add some additional folks who’ll help


guide the company into the future.


We have also improved our capital structure in some other areas. By converting the preferred


shares, we now have one class of shareholders. We have also eliminated any management fees


associated with our largest shareholder. Finally, there is the intangible value that the offering


creates. As a management team, we have performed very well with the burden of heavy leverage.


We’re now in a very good position to refinance our remaining debt at market rates that are more


attractive than what we are presently paying. This reduction will further improve our cash flow and


bottom line.


Backlog for the next three years grew significantly to approximately $913 million at the end of the


third quarter. This represents an increase of $178 million, or 24%, over the prior quarter. Along with


this recurring and highly predictable revenue stream, we continue to see very strong bid activity and


increased opportunities for growth in each of our four service areas.


In the third quarter of 2010, we reported revenue of $110 million, representing a 52% increase over


the same period in 2009 and a 5% sequential increase over the second quarter of 2010. Our pro


forma gross margin improved to 16.5% from 14.1%, a significant increase of 240 basis points in the