Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Matthew Abenante — IR, The Piacente Group
Rocky Romanella — Chief Executive Officer & Director, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Andrew J. Herning — Chief Financial Officer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the UniTek's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]

And now, I would like to turn it over to your host, Matthew Abenante.

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for joining us today. With me on the line today are Rocky Romanella, Chief Executive Officer; and Andrew Herning, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions such as expressions that use the terminology will, may, believe, expect, plan, anticipate, predict, forecast and similar terms and expressions which otherwise reflects something other than historical facts are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including those discussed in the Risk Factors section of UniTek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was filed on March 31, 2014, and is available on the company's website in the SEC Filings section as well as on sec.gov.

Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made during this call. As a result, the actual results may differ materially from any financial outlook or projections presented today. The company undertakes no obligations to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after today's conference call.

Finally, during this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics including adjusted EBITDA and net income and loss excluding certain items. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to their comparable GAAP measures, please see the company's earnings press release.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to the company's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rocky Romanella. Rocky, go ahead, please.

Well, thank you, Matthew. Today, I'm joined here by Andrew Herning, our CFO. I'd like to take a moment to thank all of you for attending our call and welcome you to our first quarter 2014 financial and operations update conference call.

The first quarter of 2014 proved to be a challenging period operationally for us here at UniTek. Both our fulfillment and wireless segments were significantly impacted in large part due to the effects of the harsh winter weather especially in the Midwest and Northeast. With that being said, I'm proud of the resiliency of our team, its ability to put the safety of our people first in all weather conditions and circumstances.

We are continuing the momentum toward the development of the company into an organization that delivers consistent, high value, and quality service to our customers. The weather and transition of our turf work has put us behind. We believe, and are committed to, building a company with a long-term growth trajectory.

I want to take this opportunity to thank all members of the UniTek team for their valuable contributions.

Two areas, I would like to highlight that we are seeing positive results are in safety and cost containments through better utilization of our assets. Safety is one of the most important core values for our company. In fact, [ph] it sits at the (04:12) top of our Big 8 initiative list. It is the UniTek way to be safe and thoughtful in our approach to our business. This includes doing things safely, thoughtfully, and efficiently the first time.

I'm very pleased to announce that throughout the first quarter and continuing across the UniTek organization during the month of April, each of our business units made significant gains. We applaud perfect safety days throughout our organization and all of our business units had a significant number of perfect safety days, which are free of injuries and accidents throughout the first quarter and April and now into May.

Clearly, our management team has made a commitment to safety. By doing so, it is taking route as a core value in the heart, mind, and actions of all our people. These high number of perfect safety days in April illustrate what is possible when our management reinforces the safety culture at UniTek. It shows alignment from top to bottom. While our main focus is accident and injury prevention to make sure our people return home safely each day, as an added benefit, we also drive down our insurance costs, which helps all of our constituents. We are also focused on ensuring customer deployments are quick and cost effective.

Our innovative mobile closeout process provides many customers an internal benefit. Our fleet optimization has improved dispatch, safety, and fuel spend. We're making focused improvements in the materials management process to reduce excess inventory and approve our cash-on-hand. These are just some of the ways in which our balanced leadership and disciplined approach to our business, that emphasizes our people, our customers and our shareholders, will produce more solid and sustainable results over the long-term. We will continue to improve our processes that will reduce costs and help to create positive operating leverage, as we position ourselves to grow our business.

Let's talk about growth. Growth at UniTek caused for strong sales and marketing activities coupled with continuous improvement and dedication to operational excellence. We believe our strategy of diversifying our customer base, while focusing on higher margin business and specific segments, like government, higher education, healthcare, real estate, construction and gaming, will serve as a cornerstone of our future growth. Since our last call, our managed services group or maintenance has begun to generate revenue, which we expect to provide us with a steady recurring revenue base that positions us for future growth.

Additionally, we are beginning or expect to begin tower modifications and upgrades for two carriers. Although we expect this work will ramp up over the next two quarters, we are also excited about the opportunities in 2014, where will be performing work for all four major carriers as either a prime or a subcontractor.

Before I turn the call over to Andrew, I would like to take a moment to thank DIRECTV for their continued support and valuable partnership with UniTek. We look forward to consistently meeting their high-quality service expectations and representing their trusted brand.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Andrew, for a review of our financials.

Thank you, Rocky. First, I would like to inform everyone that our first quarter 10-Q has now been filed, and I encourage you all to read through it, as it contains meaningful disclosures that will add to this discussion.

For the three months ended March 29, 2014, total revenues were $88.6 million, compared with $113.8 million for the same period last year. In the engineering and construction or wireless segment, the $14 million decrease in revenue, was due to the reduction of our turf work year-over-year. This also includes the decrease in some other markets on the East Coast related to weather, and on the West Coast primarily due to staging of the build cycle with various carriers or their prime contractors. Offsetting this decline, was an increase in work from our systems integration division, which includes distributed antenna systems, as well as other complex engineered projects.

In the fulfillment segment, the $11.2 million decrease in revenues was related to declines in both the cable and satellite installation. Over $5 million of this was from markets we exited in 2013 as well as one market, which was taken back in-house by our customer in March of 2014. Additionally, we incurred significant weather disruptions in all the markets we serve, particularly, on satellite installations to home, where our footprint runs from Minnesota, all the way to New Jersey. As we exited the quarter, we saw a healthy uptick in satellite install volumes, which we believe, will continue through the second quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2014 decreased $2.6 million or 41% to $3.7 million, from $6.3 million for the first quarter of 2013. The decrease was caused by a decline of $5.3 million in gross profits and a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses of $2.7 million, excluding the effect of stock-based compensation.

Loss from containing operations for the first quarter of 2014 was $11.9 million or $1.02 loss per share, compared with a loss from containing operations of $7 million or a loss of $0.37 per share for the first quarter of 2013. The increase in loss from continuing operations was a result of higher operating losses and $3.8 million of higher cash and non-cash interest expense in 2014.

The company's operating loss increased $9.6 million in the three months ended March 29 of 2014. This was positively impacted by the declines in selling, general and administrative expenses; restructuring, restatement and investigation related costs; and depreciation and amortization expense, compared to the three months ended March 30, 2013. Offsetting these decreases was a $5.3 million decline in gross profit and an impairment charge of $10.1 million at quarter ended March 29 of 2014.

Net loss for the first quarter of 2014 was $19.6 million or $1.02 per share, compared with a net loss of $7.7 million or $0.40 per share for the first quarter of 2013. Increase in net loss resulted from the increase in the loss from operations being only partially offset by a decline in the loss from discontinued operations. Net loss excluding certain items increased in the quarter ended March 29, 2014, to $8.7 million from a loss of $5.3 million in the prior period excluding certain items, primarily due to a higher loss from operations.

We recorded an additional goodwill impairment charge of $10.1 million in the quarter ended March 29, 2014, related to the broadband cable reporting unit. As we closed the quarter, we revised downward certain assumptions and performed interim impairment testing of goodwill based on these revised forecasts.

Turning to cash flow. Cash used in operating activities was a use of $2.3 million in the three months ended March 29, 2014, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $6.6 million in the three months ended March 30, 2013. The prior-year period included a payment earlier than normal for the large customer of over $15 million, which did not occur in the first quarter of 2014. Our consolidated day sales outstanding or DSOs from continuing operations decreased by seven days on a trailing 12-month basis compared to the end of the first quarter of 2013, an increase of seven days on a trailing quarterly basis.

However, when you exclude the impact of the $15 million payment previously discussed in late Q1 2013, the DSOs decreased 18 days on a trailing 12-month basis and decreased five days on a trailing quarterly basis. Accounts receivable and DSOs were impacted by the higher systems integration revenue mix in the first quarter of 2014 as well.

Capital expenditures for the quarter ended March 29, 2014, were also flat year-over-year reflecting the measured pace of growth in some of our new markets, although we expect to start increasing that spend as the year progresses in alignment with revenue.

That concludes my remarks. I'll now turn the call back over to Rocky.

Thank you, Andrew. Before we end the call, I wanted to speak about an important milestone coming up for the company. On June 4, UniTek will celebrate its 10-year anniversary as a company. We will announce several key initiatives for that day and beyond. But I wanted to reiterate my appreciation for those we serve, our customers, their customers, our investors, employees and the community. Part of sharing our success includes giving back to the communities we serve through voluntarism and charitable giving, so UniTek will be know both as an employer of choice and a good corporate citizen. Our passion for this industry are our talented people, our commitment to safety, a high integrity culture and strong core values makes us uniquely UniTek.

We would like to take – we would like to thank all our investors, employees and customers for their support, and we look forward to speaking with you again in the future.

We will not be taking questions today. Our investor relations firm has provided us inquires from interested parties. We have developed our comments with that in mind.

Once again, thank you for attending today's call. Thank you for your support. Have a good day and be safe.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference. You may now disconnect and have a great day.