corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 18, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the UniTek 2011 First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]


I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Kyle Hall, General Counsel. Please go


ahead.


Kyle M. Hall, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary


Good morning. Before we get started, let me review the customary Safe Harbor language.


Statements in this conference call that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking


statements relating to future events. And as such, all forward-looking statements are made


pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions including


expressions using the terminology may, will, believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts,


forecasts, and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical facts, are


intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve a


number of risks and uncertainties including factors discussed in the Risk Factors section of our


Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2010, which can be viewed at


www.sec.gov.


Various future events and factors may cause the actual results to vary materially from those


expressed in any forward-looking statements made on this call. As a result, the actual results may


differ materially from any financial outlooks presented today. The company undertakes no


obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or


circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call.


During this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics, including EBITDA.


For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to GAAP, please see the company’s earnings


release issued earlier last evening.


I will now turn the call over to Scott Hisey.


C. Scott Hisey, Founder and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kyle. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to UniTek’s first quarter earnings call. On


this call, we will review our first quarter results, discuss our business objectives and performance,


and provide second quarter and full-year guidance.


Revenue for the first quarter of 2011 was 91.8 million, an increase of 5% over the previous year.


Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter $6 million, an increase of $500,000 over the first quarter of


2010. The results are in line with the guidance we gave on March 31st. We have also reaffirmed


our previously issued guidance for the full year.


As everyone is aware, we experienced severe weather conditions during the first quarter in some of


our markets. We lost numerous working days in both the Northeast and Midwest regions. In spite of


this unusually harsh winter, we performed well. I would like to thank our team for the tremendous


effort of producing these results despite challenging conditions.


During the first quarter, we continued to build momentum for UniTek. We announced the acquisition


of Pinnacle Wireless, which closed on schedule in the early part of the second quarter. In addition
corrected transcript


UniTek Global Services, Inc.
 
UGLB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 18, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


to the closing of Pinnacle, we completed our debt refinancing which closed on April 15th and will


reduce our cash interest expense by over $3 million per year.


This refinancing has given UniTek the financial flexibility to continue growing organically while


pursuing additional strategic acquisitions. These two important accomplishments have


strengthened our foundation and position our company for growth.


Our Fulfillment segment continued to perform well during the quarter. We’re able to grow revenue


and EBITDA in spite of higher labor costs associated with overtime needed to make up for weather-


related delays. Our customers’ project volume continued to be strong as the net subscriber


addition, coupled with continued vendor consolidation, favor the UniTek model and our respective


markets.


Our technology tools continue to drive improved customer satisfaction and key performance


metrics. We expect to continue to grow our Fulfillment business year-over-year as we benefit from


long-term consolidation trends.


Our E&C business experienced some challenges during the first quarter, but despite this softness


in Q1, we’re extremely well positioned for future growth and success in this segment.


The Wireline Construction business continues to perform well, and we have added new single


service provider in our U.S.-related agreements during the first quarter of this year. This segment of


the market is beginning is to pick up and we anticipate continued bid activity as we focus the


Company on pursuing recurring revenue business and organic growth.


Our projects in Texas and Canada are ramping during the first half of 2011. And we are expected to


reach optimal run rates during the third quarter of this year in these projects. On the Wireless side,


our first quarter performance was impacted by both weather and cost associated with the transition


of the business to a focus on larger scale projects with Tier 1 carriers. We have repositioned the


company from a regional player working for smaller carriers to a national service provider who can


exploit the UniTek operating model and footprint.


Specifically, as we move to a structure of longer term relationships with AT&T and other large


mobile carriers, we have incurred mobilization and demobilization costs as we reallocate resources


to these new customers. We believe that the opportunities to further differentiate UniTek in the


wireless space and consistently win new business are significant in the back half of 2011 and


continuing into 2012. We see these mobilization and demobilization costs as investment in our


customer diversification efforts.


The public safety opportunity is every bit as exciting as we had anticipated. Shortly after closing the


Pinnacle acquisition, we were awarded our first major project, a $37-million wireless system


integration contract for the work related to the World Trade Center Transportation Hub.


We continue to participate in significant bid activity and see numerous opportunities for organic


growth. The Pinnacle integration is going extremely well. And we believe in their ability to execute


and leverage the UniTek platform to win new business and expand their presence in the market.


Now I’ll discuss guidance for the second quarter and the balance of 2011. For the second quarter,


we expect revenue to be approximately $112 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be


approximately $10 million. These estimates consider the cost and structure of our ramp with AT&T


and other public safety projects during the quarter.


For the full year 2011, our revenue guidance remains between $465 million and $490 million, and


our adjusted EBITDA expectation is between $44 million and $48 million. At the midpoint of this


range, we would be growing EBITDA by over 50% for the second consecutive year.