Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lee Roth — vice president, The Piacente Group
Rocco Romanella — Chief Executive Officer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Min Chung Cho — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Saagar S. Parikh — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Liam D. Burke — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Jeff M. Martin — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Tristan J. Richardson — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
David Cohen — Manager, Midwood Capital Partners QP LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the UniTek 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. And later, we will hold a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Lee Roth from Investor Relations.

Thanks, Pablo, and once again, thank you, all, for joining us. This is Lee Roth, Piacente Group, UniTek's investor relations counsel. With me on the line from management are Rocky Romanella, Chief Executive Officer; and Ron Lejman, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that statements made during this conference call and the subsequent Q&A session that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions such as expressions that use the terminology will, may, believe, expect, plan, anticipate, predict, forecast, and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical fact are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including those discussed in the risk factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed on March 7, 2012, and is available on the SEC filing section of the company's website, as well as sec.gov. Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made during the call.

As a result, the actual results may differ materially from any financial outlooks or projections presented this morning. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call, Thursday, November 8, 2012.

Finally, during this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics, including adjusted EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to their comparable GAAP measures, please see our earnings press release, which was issued earlier.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rocky Romanella. Rocky, go ahead please.

Good morning and thank you, Lee. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call today. Before we get started, I would like to take a moment to extend our thoughts and prayers to the families impacted by Hurricane Sandy. Our first priority during this situation was to ensure the safety of our people and our customers, many who live and work in the areas hit by this disaster. We're assessing the effects that the hurricane will have on our business both positively and negatively. I am proud of the responses by our people who work tirelessly and continue to work hard with the various service issues on behalf of our customers.

When we last spoke in August, as part of my introduction, I outlined my perspective taking a balanced approach to leadership that will become the core of our UniTek culture and help take us to the next level. In short, this approach requires a focus on our three key constituents: our customers, people, and shareholders.

As we sharpen our focus on enhancing UniTek's organic growth, we must have a disciplined, balanced, and process-driven approach when considering business decisions. The dedication to service that we saw in the aftermath of Sandy is proof that these deep-rooted values are being cultivated among our people.

Going forward, we will continue to foster an environment where the UniTek team at all levels emulates the company's vision and creates a culture where our people do three things routinely: first, think like a customer by approaching every and each challenge as a true solutions provider; feel like a valued employee by knowing their work matters and never compromising on safety; and lastly, acting like an owner by creating an environment where every member of the UniTek team understands the business plan and their role in what leads to a successful month, quarter, and year. This strategy is the lens that will enable our team to clearly understand their individual roles as we work to execute future initiatives.

These were the central themes of the 100-day plan I presented to our board when I first took the role of CEO. I've been with the company now for 115 days, and I am particularly pleased with our team's progress. We are taking steps that contribute to: advancing sales, flawless execution, and deeper relationships with our customers. The combination of these initiatives furthers our strategy to establish UniTek as a fully integrated solutions provider to our customers from our current position as a best-in-class vendor.

Central to the success of this strategy is a disciplined approach to our business sales and execution. We know that how we go after sales and how we structure our sales force matters. Integration within our own business is the first step to becoming a fully integrated partner with our customers. This is not something that happens overnight, but we are making great progress.

For example, we are confident that we can accelerate our sales efforts by continuing to improve our project-management capabilities. Along these lines, we recently enhanced our leadership team with the addition of a senior vice president of sales and marketing and a senior vice president of engineering who are charged with building relationships through strategic account management and developing and implementing solutions for our customers.

We made these two key hires without increasing personnel costs over the last quarter but rather by prudently shifting our resources to focus on our growth opportunities. These new managers will help us reassess our go-to-market strategy and prove our design and implementation strengths and create customer solutions designed to help move our organization from a best-in-class vendor to a fully integrated service solutions provider.

Through a disciplined approach, we expect to be well-positioned to anticipate, identify, and partner with our customers so that they begin to see us as their trusted advisor and partner – and business partner and not just their service provider. An increased focus on our customers' needs will allow our team to design solutions and processes that more broadly address the growing demands of the market. Simply put, working together works at all levels, in our organization and with our customers and their organizations.

Goals include a seamless process that benefits our customers by taking UniTek from merely identifying a sales opportunity to designing a unique solution, flawless execution, steady state management, and process improvement. I believe this approach will move us to the trusted advisor role, making UniTek a leading company that industry leaders want to work with because we are a strategic partner.

We want them to feel that they are working with a world-class company that has great energy, creativity and enthusiasm for their business. One of the ways we believe we can accomplish this goal is by empowering our people by promoting from within and creating opportunities for personal growth that are available to everyone. We are encouraging our people to be the best, the brightest, most informed and best educated solutions providers in the cable, satellite, and wireless industries. We believe that the way to achieve this is by helping them to understand and embrace our vision, which will facilitate change in the way they perform their daily work.

The essence of this change is our balanced leadership approach. As we become more thoughtful with our people, they will better understand their value and how central they are to providing high-touch value-added customer solutions.

When I joined UniTek, the underlying foundation was already strong, and the entrepreneurial spirit of our people was impressive. This foundation and spirit have been instrumental in bringing the company to its current success. Our desire and push towards continuous improvement will take us to the next level. We can reach this through increased accountability throughout the entire organization.

We have distinct businesses in Pinnacle Wireless, DirectSat and FTS. The key to our further success will be greater integration under UniTek Global Services. The framework for this level of integration already exists. But we need to combine the strength of each business unit with the strength of the central organization. We're evaluating the best practices from each of our three businesses and introducing them more broadly within the organization to create a more cohesive, focused company from top to bottom.

UniTek is already a great company with great customers. This is an evolution, not a revolution. We can achieve greater scalability by enhancing our strengths, leveraging our technology and continuing to improve our world-class team.

There are certain things that are critical to the success and development of companies like UniTek. Throughout the organization, proper timing of strategic initiatives is imperative. We cannot move too slowly so that we risk missing opportunities. But we also cannot move too quickly so that we lose focus. No matter what the change, it has to be properly timed and engineered. If we take this type of calculated approach to the integration of the company, prioritizing our business development opportunities and the pursuit of highly visible profitable sales, I am confident that our efforts will be successful.

With that, I'd like to spend a moment on two recent developments that sharpened our focus and emphasis on our growth opportunities.

In September, we announced the acquisition of the assets of Skylink Limited, an Ohio-based satellite fulfillment provider that has strong long-standing relationships with our key customers, DIRECTV and ViaSat. In addition to expanding our workforce by over 230 skilled technicians, this acquisition gives us access to nine new markets in Ohio, Indiana, and West Virginia and bridges the gap between our Eastern and Midwestern operations. With a presence in these strategic markets, we believe an opportunity exists to win incremental business in the satellite fulfillment arena through our strong reputation among customers at executing on the initiatives that I mentioned earlier.

In addition, we announced in our press release that we have decided to pursue the sale of our wireline business, which we expect to close in the fourth quarter. The strategic sale was an important on a number of levels. This will remove a non-core asset from our business, allowing us to focus on continuous improvement within our cable, satellite, and carrier wireless customer base, and capitalize on the substantial growth opportunity in our specialty wireless segment.

With respect to our past initiatives, the Pinnacle business has done well since we acquired it last year. And we believe there is a strong growth potential as we expand our specialty wireless capabilities nationwide.

While the wireline sale will have a near-term impact on our top-line performance, it leaves us with a more profitable business overall. It takes us out of a market that we see as becoming commoditized, with few opportunities to move up the value chain, unlike our wireless and fulfillment businesses. This improved profitability is evident from our third-quarter adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations, which came in above guidance.

Overall, we've accomplished a great deal in a relatively short period. I believe that the recent changes we made to our business have improved our operations for the future and position UniTek for continuous growth through our disciplined approach and commitment to execution. I'm confident that the changes to our corporate mindset and the culture will further position UniTek for even greater long-term success.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ron Lejman, our CFO, for a review the financials and an update on our guidance. We'll then open the lines to your questions. Ron?

Thank you, Rocky, and good morning, everyone. I would like to update you on our third quarter financial results and other business achievements, as well as our progress towards full-year performance.

As mentioned earlier, we plan on selling the assets of our wireline business unit with an expected close in the fourth quarter of 2012. As such, these assets and liabilities have been reclassified as held for sale, and the results of the operations of the wireline business unit have been reflected as discontinued ops. Therefore, my following comments regarding the results for continuing operations and any comparable prior periods, as well as any projected results for the company, I've excluded the wireline business unit. We are planning to divest this unit as we do not expect this market to have long-term growth or profitability in line with our overall organizational expectations.

Revenue from continuing operations for the quarter was $132 million, a 30% increase over $102 million in the prior-year period on a comparable basis. We added an incremental $31 million to our backlog for continuing operations, resulting in a Q3 12-month backlog of $495 million versus $464 million for the second quarter of 2012 and $414 million at 2011 year-end. This includes the contribution of the Skylink acquisition and represents a book-to-bill ratio of 124% for Q3 2012. The fulfillment segment built incremental backlog, which was offset by a consumption of wireless backlog in the quarter. As a point of reference from our last conference call, our 12-month backlog would be $535 million including our soon-to-be-divested wireline business on a comparable basis to the second quarter's reported backlog of $503 million.

Expansion of our wireless business continues to be successful as we pursue substantive opportunities with carriers, OEMs, and specialty wireless customers. We expect the Wireless business to fuel our growth in the coming year as we leverage our total company workforce of over 5,000 technicians with cross training initiatives to meet the very heavy labor demands across this rapidly expanding marketplace.

On a segment basis, fulfillment continues to be a strong business, with stable growth prospects and good, predictable cash flow. Fulfillment revenues grew 4% year over year primarily from the growth in our cable business, which grew by 27% over the third quarter of 2011. As we continue to partner with our cable customers, we expect improved efficiencies and long-term benefits.

Revenue in our satellite business was down 6% from the prior-year period as our key customers' volumes have declined slightly as it focuses on subscriber retention. The ViaSat markets we started earlier in the year are performing well, and we expect continued success for the satellite Internet services provider.

In mid-September, we purchased Skylink, a fulfillment provider for DIRECTV and ViaSat, which we have already integrated into the operations. The company expects revenue from this acquired business to exceed $30 million per year and EBITDA of acquired business to exceed $7 million per year after the elimination of certain redundant costs in the combined operations. Additionally, we expect our industry-leading performance with our key customer to enhance the incentive pay earnings for these acquired markets in 2013 as we make infrastructure and system investments in Q4 of this year.

Our engineering and construction segment revenue increased 136% year over year, $47.5 million in Q3. And the organic growth in our wireless business increased due to our turf project ramp-up. We began work in our additional turf territory in upstate New York, where we expect significant additional revenue contribution in 2013. We are excited about this opportunity as we will be able to deploy key learnings from our current turf to this new opportunity and continue our pursuit to be a fully integrated solutions partner to this important customer. Our overall top five customers for the quarter were DIRECTV at 39%, AT&T at 25%, Comcast at 15%, Rogers at 4%, and Charter at 3%.

Gross profit for the quarter was $27.6 million or a gross margin of 20.9% compared to $23.2 million or 22.8% in the prior-year period. Third quarter fulfillment gross margin declined from 25.1% in 2011 to 22.7% in 2012. As previously discussed, this decline was expected as our mix of work increased in cable fulfillment and satellite Internet services as well as an unusually strong year for DIRECTV in 2011.

We continue to experience the benefits of cable fulfillment vendor consolidation as our largest cable customer continues to aggressively reduce their vendor base and standardize service level expectations. Concurrently, we expect our cable business margins to expand as we benefit from these economies of scale and leverage systems and best practices from our satellite fulfillment business.

Gross margin in our engineering and construction segment was almost 18% in Q3 2012 compared to 14% in Q3 of 2011. This year-over-year margin improvement reflects the higher margin contribution from our systems integration work and increased volume in our large-scale turf agreement. These E&C segment results have the wireline business removed, which will also have a long-term benefit on our expected margins in this segment.

Selling, general and administrative costs were $10.6 million in Q3 of 2012 versus $11.6 million in Q3 of 2011. The largest components of this improvement were a reduction in salary and personnel costs and reduced legal and professional costs.

On a sequential basis, SG&A, net of stock-based compensation, was approximately $9.6 million or 7% of revenue in Q3, compared to $8.6 million or 8.5% of revenue in Q2 of 2012. We expect SG&A to increase only modestly through year-end at approximately 8.5% of revenue for the fourth quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA increased almost 45% to $18.1 million for the quarter ended September 29, 2012, compared to $12.5 million in the prior-year period. Similar to Q2, we experienced an 11% improvement in EBITDA margin from 12.3% last year in Q3 to 13.7% in this year's Q3 results.

Volume leverage and SG&A savings clearly delivered the exceptional profitability results offset by margin pressure related to mix of work in the fulfillment segment and a greater revenue contribution from our wireless business unit. We expect long-term, wireless and cable margins to expand, enabling continued improvement in these results as we grow those businesses.

Income from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2012 doubled to $4.6 million from $2.3 million in the third quarter of 2011. The year-over-year improvement was attributable to the improved EBITDA, offset by restructuring costs for corporate personnel, interest expense, and higher depreciation and amortization.

The net income after certain non-cash adjustments for the third quarter of 2012 was $13.3 million, reflecting non-cash impairment charges for our wireline business of $35.2 million, non-cash stock-based compensation of $1 million, non-cash interest expense of $500,000, as well as non-cash amortization expense of $2.7 million.

For the third quarter, net cash income per share was $0.71 based on 18.7 million shares outstanding. Income from continuing operations in Q3 2012 was $0.25 per share, exceeding previously issued guidance.

In September, we completed an incremental term loan of $15 million at our original issuance terms for the Skylink acquisition. The company expects to fund the majority of the remaining earn-out payments of up to $9.5 million through operational cash flow generated by the acquired assets over the next 12 months.

The acquisition was immediately delevering while augmenting one of the company's strongest performing businesses and improving EBITDA margins, net income, and our overall working capital profile. Additionally, we expect to offset a majority of the incremental debt incurred with the Skylink purchase by the sale of our wireline assets and the monetization of our working capital investment in the wireline business. Therefore, even though our current debt is approximately $189 million, we expect to reduce this through cash flow from various operational and transactional sources through the remainder of the year toward our targeted 3x EBITDA-to-debt ratio when considering the pro forma EBITDA impact from Skylink.

We are in the midst our AT&T project ramp up and have significant receivables associated with this aggressive build schedule. We remain adequately funded and have an additional revolver capacity of almost $15 million. As we continue to ramp our large wireless projects and work through our World Trade Center receivables, our DSOs remain in the low 80s.

We expect to improve these in the coming months as we work through the AT&T ramp-up, processing improvements, and especially over the long term as we aggressively manage our order to remittance process with system improvements, a hallmark of our continuous improvement culture.

For the full year 2012, we expect revenue from continuing operations of approximately $450 million representing growth of 26% over 2011, primarily organic. Had the company included full-year expected results of its soon-to-be divested wireline business unit, 2012 revenues would have been approximately $500 million or as previously guided. Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for 2012 is expected to be approximately $50 million for a growth of 35%, which is also as previously guided.

Of specific note is the fact that we are expecting to achieve EBITDA guidance from continuing operations while without the contribution from our discontinued wireline business unit. This demonstrates the confidence we have in the earnings power of our remaining businesses and the potential benefits of our continued focus on their growth and overall earnings opportunities.

Net income after certain non-cash adjustments is expected to be approximately $0.78 per share or approximately $0.08 per share better than previous guidance. This improvement is primarily from a tax benefit associated with the disposal, treatment, and impairment of the assets held for sale, partially offset by an expected restructuring charge of $800,000 related to management changes at corporate as we right-size for the remaining operations after the sale of the wireline business.

For the fourth quarter of 2012, we expect revenue of $123 million with adjusted EBITDA of $12.5 million or net loss per share of $0.07 and net income per share after certain non-cash adjustments of $0.13.

At this time, we cannot predict the impact of Hurricane Sandy on our performance as we have various benefits related to storm repair work in both segments, while suffering from productivity and mix of work issues as we have a substantial presence in the storm-ravaged areas in the Northeast. We have built our fourth quarter projections ignoring any potential storm impact until we have more information.

The acquisition of additional satellite territories and our planned divestment of the wireline business are examples of substantial changes which will position the company for better financial performance and long-term growth. The net debt impact from these two changes should be approximately neutral, which we believe positions UniTek for enhanced financial performance. We are very excited about our positioning for 2013 and look forward to reporting our progress in the coming months. This concludes our remarks, and we thank you for your time today.

As always, I'll be joined by Rocky Romanella for the question-and-answer session. Operator, we are ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question in queue is from the line of Min Cho of FBR Capital Markets. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Excuse me. Thank you. Good morning, Rocky and Ron.

Good morning, Min.

Congratulations on a very nice quarter. Let's see. Most of my – actually a lot of my questions have been answered. That was a very thorough call. Can you provide – have any update on new opportunity that you're seeing within Pinnacle, I mean, you've had that business now for over a year, are you seeing more opportunities on the public safety side? Do you have any successes that you can talk about?

Yes. I'll start at least give you the quantitative information. So, we did consume a little bit of backlog this quarter in Pinnacle, which is the first quarter since we've owned it that we've actually consumed backlog and not added backlog. But frankly, we have many opportunities on the table, but these projects are typically longer lead time. We've discussed before their typical size is anywhere from $2 million to $5 million, and there's a couple of much larger projects in there as well. And these opportunities remain very viable. And we expect over the long term to continue to build the Pinnacle backlog really similarly to the growth rates that we've experienced. We expect that market to grow about 9% a year, and we think with our national expansion, we probably could double that growth rate for that particular segment of business just through market – taking other people's share. So, we're really looking at high-teens growth potentials for that business over the long term. And we see opportunities that support that.

Yeah, and I would agree with Ron, and I think the exciting part for us and I think probably the part that has kind of made us I think in this last quarter be a little cautious is how do we grow and scale, and how do we do it in a very efficient manner so that – and I think that in my remarks, you heard me talk a lot about this whole concept of engineering and being a thoughtful engineering company when it comes to how we define our go-to-market strategy. And then once we win a piece of business, how do we execute on it and then how do we put it in a steady state so that the customer, as well as us are gaining benefits because we now have the business, we're getting better at it, we're engineering it better. And then our processes are in place that help us as well as our customers improve.

So, I think we're excited about the opportunity to go forward now. We feel like we've done a good job of understanding it, engineering it, and now we can scale and grow. So, we think Pinnacle will be our growth engine as we move into 2013.

Great. And then on AT&T, it's obviously nice to see AT&T as your second largest customer in the quarter, very nice growth as expected. Can you talk about what a good run rate for that business could be given the markets that you're currently in and talk about the capacity that you have to increase that level.

Yes. I think – when you look at this year's performance, to-date, we're at approximately at $45 million of revenue, and we expect to do anywhere from $20 million to $25 million in the fourth quarter for that customer. So, I think that's a reasonable run rate now as we ramp up the turf, the upstate New York turf for next year.

I think when you look at that market potential, in the spend, just from AT&T alone in the space that we're in, although originally my expectation was something like $2.3 billion a year for the coming years, and I think most of you saw the AT&T information release yesterday suggesting that there would be anywhere from 15% to 20% growth depending on what markets you're in.

So, we're very optimistic that the piece of the pie that we have there is small. And to Rocky's point from earlier, if we continue to execute and really focus on our processes, that will enable us to garner more share there. It's too difficult to put a particular number on it. And frankly, we're just very focused on execution right now, ensuring that we become one of their better vendors so those opportunities open for us.

Okay. Excellent. And then finally, last question, it always sounds like you're looking to pay down your debt in the near term. Are you still looking at acquisitions or are you focusing more on integration of the current ones?

I think we're looking at – I think we always look at acquisitions – the Skylink acquisition I talked to a few people about that, and I think our press release even suggested that. From a timing perspective, would we have liked to have done it next year and paid for it out of operational cash flow, sure. But the opportunity presented itself when it did, and we wanted to make sure that we captured it. And so, we incurred a little bit of debt in order to make that happen. And obviously, this wireline sale is an offset for us. And so, as I mentioned, we expect that to be somewhat neutral, give or take, in terms of the total net-debt impact for the year.

We'll look to do acquisitions when the opportunities present themselves. We don't have any aggressive acquisition plans on the table, although we're opportunistically looking at good fits for the business.

Excellent. Great. That's it for me for now. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question in queue is from Saagar Parikh of KeyBanc.

Hello, nice quarter also.

Hey, thank you, Saagar. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning. So, first question, and I know you guys touched on this quite a bit on the wireline, why you guys are selling the wireline business. But I just wanted to get more color on maybe what's changed in the wireline market from maybe a year ago or two years ago to now to make you guys shift your mindset around that business.

And then two, could you give some more color on what the margin profile was in the wireline business? I thought, looking historically, the wireless part of the business was always the business that had lower margins back two, three years ago when you guys did your original restructuring, while wireline was keeping that up. So, if you can just walk through those two questions, please?

Sure. I'll start, and Rocky can finish the comment. I think that our – I think when you look at the wireline business in general today, although there are pockets of growth, and there are pockets of growth related to the various cable companies' plant hardening or improving their networks, as well as some fiber backhaul, in general, it's very geographically specific and not very predictable. So, it's not a smooth revenue stream and almost everyone who has a wireline business today is really looking – outside of the backhaul and the cable companies – is really looking to harvest that investment. We've seen over the last couple of years really a general decline in the spend there, as well as the profit margins. So, because the spend's declining, I think a lot of the larger carriers are not necessarily interested in a national provider as much as having a good pricing, since they're focused on minimizing their investment in that space, and most of them are really focused on expanding on the wireless side.

So, from our perspective, we just don't see that business having the appropriate margins and growth potential long term except in very specific locations. And we will take opportunity of our expertise in cable construction, for example, where we currently do fulfillment. So, there's quite a few markets where we do fulfillment work that we'll also do construction or plant hardening for various customers, Comcast, Charter, Time Warner. And I think that the trend that you've seen over time for the margins is exactly right. The trends that you've seen for us as a company are representing that, that, in fact, wireless is a growth opportunity. And as we add scale in systems and processes and really turn that into a UniTek business, you've seen the margins improve, and they'll continue to improve, whereas the wireline businesses, because of these market conditions, have really declined over time.

Yes. And I think to add to that, I mean, I think we've been consistent certainly in my tenure that we're going to take a very disciplined approach as we move forward as an organization. And frankly, we think that the wireless side of the business provides great opportunity. And frankly, if someone's going to be the best turf vendor out there, why not us? So, we're focused and committed to being the best in that space, which means we've got to improve our processes, our procedures. We've got to understand the market, and we've got to act and look and feel like our vendor – like our customer. I mean, we've got to position ourselves from their perspective.

And so, we believe that that's going to take substantial resources and time and effort to do that. As we said, we think the Pinnacle piece of the business has great upside potential, so there's a – as we said, we've put a sales force behind that. We're taken a look at the markets, how we're going to go, how we're going to scale. And so, at this point, for us, we've got very good, strong piece of business in the DirectSat piece. Dan continues to do a great job there, so he's sort of our number-four hitter. We want him to continue to do the things he does and do them well.

And our FTS piece of cable business, we're going to continue to focus on how to become more efficient there, how to become that value-added partner with our customers in that space. And then frankly, we're going to grow. We're going to be good at what we do, and then we're going to be the best at what we do. And so, we felt, at this point, it was a good moment in time for us to move away from the wireline space.

Okay, great. Then a follow-up on your bookings in the quarter, backing out – or taking into account the sale of the wireline business, you guys have 1.2 times book-to-bill, as Ron mentioned. Could you just talk about the bookings in the quarter, what the mix is? Is it wireless-focused? How much of it was related to the Skylink acquisition and then how much maybe on the fulfillment side?

Yes, well, the Skylink acquisition was about $30 million, or effectively, the growth is really related to that. We had fulfillment backlog builds this quarter as we continued to expand some of our cable markets and – including the ViaSat expansion, and that is offset by a minor contraction in our wireless business. And really, again, that contrac – that – we basically consumed – it's not a contraction. It's probably a bad word. I should say we consumed backlog that we didn't replace on the wireless side.

It's really just a quarterly anomaly. We see a lot of potential on the wireless side and we expect to continue to grow that over the long term. But in this particular quarter, the big gain is really related to Skylink and some gains in fulfillment offset some consumption in wireless, and we were neutral overall.

Okay, perfect. And then one last question and I'll get back in queue. Just to hit back on Min's question on the AT&T ramp, I just want to make sure, for projections, we're thinking of it correctly. So, so far this year, you guys have done around $65 million to $70 million a year in AT&T revenue. I think, based on the numbers that you guys had walked through last quarter, the full run rate would be around $90 million-ish, $85 million to $95 million? Is that more upside now or the incremental difference, or – can we still see $85 million, $90 million as what we should be projecting next year?

Yes, that was the range that we predicted. We always said this year we would be between $60 million and $65 million. I think we'll do better than that, towards $65 million to $70 million. And I think next year – I think we gave a range for next year of anywhere from $75 million to $100 million, and the number that you mentioned is in that range. It's difficult to predict exactly because the – as you know, the spends are typically regionally focused. But right now, that's the visibility that we have.

No, that's perfect. I just want to make sure that there's still an upward trend going on there. All right, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question in queue is from Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Rocky, good morning, Ron.

Hey. Good morning, Liam.

I know you have your hands full with the Pinnacle rollout and with AT&T. Rocky, you talked a lot about the sales organization, what kind of progress are you seeing outside of those two large – or outside of AT&T and any incremental security business through the Pinnacle acquisition?

Yes. We've begun to identify good opportunities for us, strong opportunities for us and have begun the process of engineering, okay. How do we onboard these customers? How do we implement them, and then how do we provide a steady state that then allows us the opportunity to use that as kind of the backdrop? I mean, for us – I mean, word of mouth is still the best advertisement, right. I mean we're not going to be out there advertising. We're not going to be out there doing those kinds of things. For us it's word of mouth.

And so as we expand from our Northeast footprint, really the opportunities exist – it is easily in the markets that make sense, right, Los Angeles, Southern California, Dallas, Las Vegas. I mean put your top cities on the map, and you say, wow, that's where need to be. As I've said before, though, the key is once you get there, you're going to have one chance to make a good first impression. And so for us, we want to make sure that we're thoughtful on how we do it. We make sure we clearly understand what it takes to be successful, to be the best at it, and then frankly that's our best advertisement then.

And we want to create, interestingly enough, the concept that we call the Me Too. In Me Too, I need to be with UniTek. I need to be with that company because when they get things done, they get it done well. They stand behind the things that they do. Their people are involved, creative, motivated. And so, that's where we're positioned. So, we've got customers positioned in the funnel. We're about ready to kind of expand the business. We're excited about our two additions, [ph] Stan (39:49) and Shannon Schell – [ph] Stan Jones (39:51) and Shannon Schell who have just come onboard. We're excited about what they bring. They work very well with the senior staff we have today. I'm very excited about the senior staff we have.

So, I think in this short period of time, the team has really integrated well. So, I like that. I like the fact that we're all rolling in the same direction. We're singing out of the same hymnal. And I think we're positioned to get ourselves positioned for 2013. That to me is a critical component. So, I'm excited about that, those prospects, I really am.

Great. Thanks, Rocky. Ron, I apologize for this question in advance but you gave guidance on EPS for 2012 and you incorporated a tax benefit. And I hate to have you do this again, could you walk me through that again?

Yes, you mean in terms of the income after – adjusted for the non-cash charges or the [indiscernible] (40:48) that was the one that we effectively had – we originally or, I should say, our previous guidance for the full year was $0.70. We increased that to $0.78, and that really was a benefit from the taxes. So, with the goodwill write-off, we're able to recognize some of the tax benefit on those wireline impaired assets. And so, that increased actually by more than $0.08 and we've offset that with some incremental restructuring costs that we expect to incur in the fourth quarter, as we resize our corporate support staff to appropriately reflect the new structure of the business with the wireline assets being divested.

Great. Thank you, Ron.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Jeff Martin of Roth Capital. Your line is open.

Cheers, Ron. I hopped on the call right as Q&A was starting so I apologize if this was already covered. But do you expect cash proceeds from the sale of the wireline business? And if it's too preliminary to say, can you give us a range of how much you expect?

Yes. If you look at the – you can actually tell from the balance sheet because we have defined the assets held for sale. So, it's between $10 million or $11 million is what we put as a fair value for the business.

So, you'll get $10 million or $11 million net, or how much net cash do you expect to get from it?

Yes, that's correct. I gave you the net number.

Okay. And then where did the backlog build occur in the quarter?

It occurred from the Skylink acquisition.

Okay.

So effectively, the $30 million – the $31 million increase, the majority of that is the Skylink acquisition. We had some fulfillment backlog build in the quarter offset by some consumption for wireless. So, net-net, the rest of the business was neutral and, again, the wireless consumption or the lack of backlog build in wireless is just a quarter anomaly. We have a lot of opportunities in the pipe, and we're looking forward to next year. They typically take a longer lead time to develop and win but, frankly, there are more opportunities today than there were 12 months ago. And we continue to see a positive outlook for that wireless space.

Okay. And then can you help categorize for next year between – both on the cable and wireless where your growth opportunities are and to what extent?

Yes. Absolutely. I think there are really growth opportunities in all three segments. And so, the way that I look at is, really the acquisition of Skylink has linked some – linked us from a geographic perspective. And we always look to potentially expand our relationship with DIRECTV, when they're willing. So, that's always a growth prospect for us. That would be a relatively lumpy add where we would see an increase and very difficult to predict. But we always remain focused on this potential, especially as we continue to be their best performer from a performance perspective.

We also have, obviously growth opportunities on the cable side as we see market consolidation. Our growth this year was over 30% and we continue to see that in the quarterly numbers. I think 27% growth this year over prior year quarter. And we see those types of opportunities again with really the impetus being focused on execution.

And really our biggest growth engine and – is our wireless business. And so, over the long term, we see that as being one of the – one of our premier growth engines. And frankly, we see a lot of room on the profitability side, as well as we continue to grow in scale. And as Rocky pointed out earlier, we are developing systems and internal processes to enhance our performance to the end user, which will not only improve their experience but also our profitability.

And can you help us recall how the World Trade Center plays out quarterly, and I know that at some point you bump up into a difficult comparison. Help us characterize how that plays out Q4, Q1, Q2.

Sure. The difficult comparison is in Q1 of next year. So, we did about $29 million or so was the expectation of revenue for the World Trade Center. We'll probably a little bit south of that because the World Trade Center project's progressing a little bit slower than the owners would like. It has nothing to do with us; we're actually on time and meeting all of our contract and performance requirements. But I think that that project's proceeding a little bit slower than expected at least from their perspective.

But I think that the comps become difficult probably the first or second quarter of next year. And again, that's our focus point is really replacing that backlog. We replaced a lot of the consumed World Trade Center backlog in the first half of the year as we were performing and we look to continue to do that. And so we're still very excited about those opportunities we have in the public safety, private networks area.

And as Rocky mentioned earlier, that geographic expansion, if done correctly, has some great long-term opportunity. That opportunity will kind of blossom in 2013. It's a long lead time development. So, we may see a little bit of a difficult comp in the first and second quarter of next year. But we think we'll more than offset that in the second half of the year as that sales focus that we mentioned and the execution focus on that, specifically on that business and that national expansion, takes root.

Okay. And then you'd mentioned a rate decline from satellite. How much of a drag on growth is that just for the satellite business next year?

There's no – not a rate – you mean a volume decline, not a rate decline?

I'm sorry. I must have misinterpreted [indiscernible] (47:10).

Yes. There's been – it's really a volume decline versus the prior year. When you look at it over time in the markets we're in, it's relatively consistent with past performance. So, 2011, as you know, was a very strong year with – for DIRECTV for a number of reasons. They spent a lot of money on customer retention. They were worried about the NFL strike and some other items that really created a very strong year for them from a volume perspective.

So, this year's comps are tough against last year, but when you look at it from a expectation on the go-forward, we don't see that as a headwind in the future. We expect that to be a consistent business – consistently performing business as we've seen historically.

And then final question. What's your operating cash flow expectation for Q4?

I think it will be positive. I don't have the number off the top of my head, but the operating cash flow will definitely be positive, because you'll see us monetize a lot of the AT&T and World Trade Center receivables build. So, we have over $20 million of AT&T receivable build in the third quarter alone. So, that just gives you a feel for what that's going to do on Q4 cash flow. So, they're a very good paying customer once you finish the project and do all of your close-out documentation, so we certainly expect some improvement there in the fourth quarter. I don't have the number off the top of my head.

Okay. So, then Q1 should be pretty sizeable positive cash flow as well, right?

Yes.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question in queue is from Tristan Richardson of D. A. Davidson. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

...The wireline for a second. You talked about that spend being unpredictable and just, over the past few years, seeing a general decline in spend. And is that specifically on the fiber backhaul side, or is it other services that you guys provide in wireline that you're seeing those sort of trends?

Good morning, Tristan. I think the – where we've seen the inconsistency isn't necessarily in the backhaul. So, there's still backhaul work to be done on the LTE sites and the LTE expansions. And so, that we've seen as relatively consistent, although again, very geographically specific. Where we've seen declines are when some of the other customers – where they have wireline networks, where there's really a maintenance mode and there isn't a lot of spend. So, as you know, we have some maintenance contracts there for a couple of the – for one carrier in particular who – we've seen a decline in their spend year over year. And we expect that to continue just based on the information that we've seen in the marketplace and from the customer as now they're in a more of a harvest mode on those networks.

That said, we still, as I've mentioned, we still see geographic opportunities on the cable side for cable on networks hardening, plant hardening and improvement. And we'll definitely take – we'll definitely participate in that locally through our cable relationships.

Okay. Thank you. And then on the DIRECTV, you talked about some incentives in 2013. Is that from Skylink or just – just was curious a little bit more about that?

Yes. There is incentive pay for all DIRECTV, and it's really a function of how well you perform on their key metrics. We typically do well on that. And when we purchased Skylink, they were not at the same level that we were. And so, our expectation is that as we integrate them into our systems and processes – so they're fully integrated from a logistical and operational perspective – but as we roll our, some of our what we consider our proprietary information on how we compensate technicians, how we measure performance, a lot of those items that really allow us to differentiate performance at the top of the scale for DIRECTV should enhance the Skylink performance, as well, and we should receive higher incentive payments related to that just based on operational achievement.

Okay. All right. Well, thank you, guys, very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question in queue is from David Cohen of Midwood Capital. Your line is open.

... reiterate your debt profile or your leverage profile that you suggested you would achieve. And did you give a specific net debt target for the end of the year or a multiple of pro-forma EBITDA that you're looking to get to now that – and I assume that's inclusive of the full run rate of Skylink. Maybe you could elaborate more on that.

Yes. Absolutely. So, if you use the number that we gave you for Skylink for next year, the $7 million, and you consider our $50 million TTM at the end of this year, you're really looking at a $57 million multiplier -

But, Ron, just a second. Ron, isn't part of that $50 million, some of that has at least three-and-a-half months of Skylink in there? Or is that -

Yes, some of it's in the fourth quarter, although I'll tell you that the margins there are not what we expect next year, just given the fact that we're integrating the business, putting them on our systems, and really spending some more money. So, net-net, we expect those to be higher next year. So, you're right, there is some, but let's just set that aside for a moment.

Sure.

You're really looking at a $57 million TTM adjusted for the pro forma performance to Skylink. And we would expect that not quite by year-end, but when you get into the first quarter and, really, in the second quarter when we look to refinance, we would expect that with the growth that we see in Q1 and some – just overall improvements in our receivables profile, we would expect to see that three times at 3x or less some time in early second quarter of next year. And I think that's been our target to get two, three times by the end of this year. I think the Skylink acquisition required us to raise a little debt when we didn't expect to, just based on timing.

But it'll more than offset itself when we get into Q1 and Q2 of next year and really put us in a good position to drive below that 3x, that 3x leverage ratio pro forma. Additionally, we'll see some proceeds from the wireline acquisition; those are going to pay down debt. I'm not – I didn't really give a number for year-end debt levels, and I don't – people know the direction we're headed. And I think that we've made improvement over time on the long haul. And so, I would expect you would continue to see that. And that'll – you'll see the fruits of that being below 3x sometime next year.

And one other question on the balance sheet, your – the window of opportunity opens for you, if I'm not mistaken beginning in April. And what sort of – not to the – two decimal places, but what kind of P&L benefit might you be able to take advantage of given where rates are and given where your credit profile is going to be at that point?

Well, today, rates are better than they were when we did our line, probably by about 100 basis points would be my guess depending on the structure and your leverage ratio. So, we would expect to be able to improve our cash interest expense when we refinance at that point. It's difficult for me to predict where the market's going to go. We have a one percentage point prepayment penalty on the term loan. So, I don't know if they're going to move that much between now and then. So, from that perspective, I think we're looking at that level of opportunity, 1% improvement in our interest expense – in the interest rate, excuse me.

Yes, I hope you guys can do better than that. I guess last question. The wireline business, what degree of EBITDA contribution had been contemplated when the original $50 million of EBIT – of adjusted EBITDA was your guidance, before you contemplated divesting that?

Yes, it's a great question and I thank you for bringing it up. Probably – well not probably, approximately $3.5 million.

Okay.

So, we not only – we were able to basically offset that $3.5 million of our original expectations on the $50 million of EBITDA through better performance from the other three businesses.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you. And with that, we'll close our Q&A session. I'd like to turn it back to management for any further remarks.

Just a take a moment for some closing comments. So, we have two key things for us. One, we certainly believe that we can be the architects of our own destiny. And secondly, we're going to take the approach that we're never going to allow anyone to affect us more than we can affect ourselves. So, I think we do that by really taking a very disciplined approach. I think we have a senior staff, we've written our statement of purpose, we clearly understand where we want to go, where we want to play, and how we want to win. And then, I think if we maintain a disciplined approach, create an engineering process to help us scale the business, I think – and we define those processes, everyone in the organization understands the processes – I think we can achieve and exceed the goals that we've set for ourselves.

One thing I can tell you is no one will be more constructively dissatisfied than we will be of ourselves. So, I think that we've got a good team here. I'm excited about the team. We've got a good clear vision. Part of our responsibility to the rest of our organization is to be able to communicate that vision clearly and succinctly, and have everyone in the organization from the newest tech we hire tomorrow to Rocky Romanella and Ron Lejman to clearly understand the vision, goals, aspirations of the organization, how we achieve them, and how we go to market. And then, frankly, how we help our customers achieve success and how we celebrate success among each other.

So, it's an exciting time here. So, with that, I thought I'd conclude the call.

Thank you. Again, thank you ladies and gentlemen, for joining today's conference. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.