Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brandi Piacente — President & Chief Executive Officer, The Piacente Group, Inc.
Rocco Romanella — Chief Executive Officer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Alexander John Rygiel — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Liam D. Burke — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Saagar S. Parikh — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
John B. Rogers — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Dave E. Cohen — Manager, Midwood Capital Partners QP LP
Bill Sutherland — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the UniTek Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will hold a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Brandi Piacente from Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Good morning. And once again, thank you all for joining us. With us on the call this morning from management are Rocky Romanella, Chief Executive Officer and Ron Lejman, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you statements made during this conference call and the subsequent Q&A session that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions such as expressions that use the terminology will, may, believe, expect, plan, anticipate, predict, forecast, and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical facts are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including those discussed in the risk factor section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed on March 7, 2012, and is available on the SEC filing section of our website, as well as the SEC website, www.sec.gov. Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made during the call.

As a result, the actual results may differ materially for many financial outlooks or projections presented this morning. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call, Thursday August 9, 2012.

Finally, during this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics, including adjusted EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to their comparable GAAP measures, please see the company's earnings press release, which was issued yesterday following the close of trading.

And with that, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Rocky Romanella. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Brandi, and good morning to everyone. I would like to start by saying that I am proud to be part of this dynamic and highly capable management team who bring great energy and enthusiasm to our company and the marketplace.

By way of background, I came from UPS where I spent over 36 years in a variety of roles and responsibilities that included sales integration, P&L responsibility, and driving organic sales. Additionally, I oversaw the integration of acquired and diversified businesses and the development and execution of key strategic initiatives, such as the entry into new vertical markets. To help us drive revenue growth and profitability, I believe the entire organization, starting with me, to take a balanced leadership approach to the following three constituents.

First, think like a customer. Emphasize being a solutions provider, building a solutions driven sales force and approaching each challenge from the viewpoint of the customer.

Second, act and feel like a valued employee. We demonstrate this through our impeccable safety standard and track record. Safety is a core value that will not be compromised. Our people come into their responsibility safely, execute their roles and responsibility safely, and go home to their family safely. They perform at the highest levels of service, take great pride in their work, do it well, and do it safely.

And third, act like an owner, which means that our success is based on your success. The decisions we make when we think like an owner empower our people to feel like their work matters and they are important to our overall success. It creates an environment where each member of the UniTek family is committed to each other, the company, and our customers.

This balanced leadership approach to these three core constituents is how we plan to execute. Driving sales organically, improving operational efficiencies, reinforcing our culture of safety, and having our people behind us, will translate into shareowner values. These strong values have driven our industry-leading customer satisfaction in every aspect of the business, as well as our strong safety record, both of which remain key areas of focus going forward.

We have an impressive track record of execution and financial growth, and I believe we can take this performance to another level. Our focus on exceeding customer expectations through best-in-class service has not and will not change.

Since I took the CEO role last month, one of the things that impressed me the most about our company is our commitment to excellence that exists at every level of the organization.

For the past two quarters, UniTek has done a terrific job executing the business while simultaneously running a CEO search. This speaks volume about the culture and commitment of our people and the management team.

I have also spent a great deal of time visiting, meeting, and speaking with our people and our customers. Feedback has been consistently positive with an emphasis on our high quality of service. Our strong culture has been the key to our growth. I'm pleased to say that this attitude and our ability to deliver great service has recently helped us win a significant amount of incremental business under our new turf agreement and the expansion of our ViaSat business.

We delivered strong second quarter performance that was in line with guidance, and we are well positioned to build upon this strength in the second half of the year. We are taking advantage of various catalysts, including continued 4G wireless network deployments, and the ongoing vendor consolidation in the cable arena.

We have accomplished a great deal. Trends in our primary end-markets are favorable, and I have tremendous confidence that we can not only maintain but build upon our leadership position in the markets we serve. I'm excited about what lies ahead for our company. And I believe if we continue to build the right process, drive the right sales and utilize our assets, that this will translate into shareowner value.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ron, our CFO, for a review of our financial results and our updating guidance. We will then open the line to your questions. Ron?

Thank you, Rocky, and good morning everyone. I would like to update you on our second quarter financial results and other business achievements, as well as our progress towards record third quarter and full-year performance.

Revenue for the quarter was $116 million, or a 9% increase over $106 million in the prior-year period. Operational excellence continues to be a strong revenue growth driver. Again, we did not only replace consumed backlog, but added an incremental $18 million, allowing us to maintain a strong book-to-bill of 116% and supporting our long-term double-digit growth prospects. Our 12-month backlog is now over $500 million versus $485 million at the end of last quarter.

Fulfillment continued to be a strong business with stable growth prospects and good predictable cash flow. Fulfillment grew 5% year-over-year, primarily from growth in our cable business, which grew by 25% over the second quarter of 2011. We believe the cable market continues trending towards consolidation to large high-quality providers like UniTek, allowing us to leverage our existing fulfillment services platform.

Revenue in our satellite business was down 5% from the prior-year period. This slight reduction is related to seasonally light backlog, due to a mild winter, and year-over-year timing related to DIRECTV volumes returning to normal seasonal trends. Last year's second quarter satellite revenues were higher than a typical year related to the timing of DIRECTV's customer retention spending associated with the NFL strike concerns. We expect our largest customer to have a strong second half, returning to normal seasonal trends.

Additionally, the ViaSat markets we started earlier in the year, continue to ramp well, and we acquired a few new markets, where our competition had difficulty efficiently ramping to meet customer needs.

We expect ViaSat to continue their success as a strong satellite Internet services provider, and we'll continue to support their growth with industry-leading fulfillment services. Our Engineering and Construction segment revenue increased 70%, year-over-year, as organic growth in our Wireless business increased substantially due to large project ramp ups and continued growth in our Pinnacle business.

We recently won an additional turf territory in Upstate New York from a large carrier, where we expect significant revenue contribution in 2013. This recent incremental turf win, in addition to the increase in spending expectations on our current turf we announced in Q1, is a reflection of our customer's confidence in our ability to scale and execute. We continue to expand our public safety private networks specialty wireless business, evolve through the Pinnacle acquisition to our larger wireless offices nationwide.

We expect this to fuel growth in 2013, augmenting our current Northeast market growth. The World Trade Center communications hub, the largest public safety wireless infrastructure project of its kind in North America remains on schedule and within budget, as the majority of the materials have been designed and procured. Our overall top five customers for the quarter were DIRECTV at 37%, Comcast at 17%, Eaton Electric, which is related to the World Trade Center, at 8%, AT&T at 7%, and Verizon at 5%.

Gross profit for the second quarter was $21.2 million or a gross margin of 18.4%, compared to $21.6 million, or 20.4% in the prior-year period. Second quarter fulfillment gross margin declined from 23.7% in 2011 to 20% in 2012. This decline was expected as our mix of work increased in cable fulfillment and satellite internet services as well as an unusually strong quarter for DIRECTV in 2011 as previously discussed.

Additionally, we incurred various startup costs related to our newly awarded ViaSat territories and the integration costs for the cable acquisitions completed in the first quarter. We continue to work to expand the utilization of technology, systems and processes developed in our satellite business through our cable business, in order to improve productivity and correspondingly gross margin.

Additionally, our people supported by our culture of operational excellence continue to identify and develop productivity improvement initiatives. Gross margin in our Engineering and Construction segment was almost 16% in Q2 2012, compared to 14% in Q2 2011. This year-over-year margin improvement reflects the higher margin contribution from our systems integration work and increased volume in our legacy wireless business.

We invested in infrastructure at the end of 2011, and in the first half of 2012 to ensure that appropriate personnel and systems were in place to support our AT&T turf work. As we continue to ramp this and other large customer projects, we expect our gross margin to benefit from volume leveraged on our fixed infrastructure cost. These investments and our expertise in operational execution have created substantial incremental revenue opportunities, as demonstrated with our recent additional turf award.

Selling, general and administrative costs were $10.3 million in Q2 of 2012, versus $13.1 million in Q2 of 2011. The largest component of this improvement was a $1.4 million reduction in salary and personnel costs, where a portion of this benefit will not continue through the remainder of the year.

On a sequential basis, SG&A, net of stock-based compensation was down to approximately $9.3 million, or 8% of revenue, compared to $11 million, or 10% of revenue in Q1 2012. Although, this quarter's SG&A has a few one-time benefits, we expect SG&A as a percentage of revenue to remain at current levels from our continued investment in technology deployment across the business platform, and the further leveraging of our shared services organization.

Adjusted EBITDA increased almost 20% to $12 million for the quarter ended March 31, compared to $10 million for the prior-year period – actually that would be this quarter, excuse me, June 30. We also experienced an almost 11% improvement in EBITDA margin from 9.4% to 10.4%, surpassing our EBITDA margin goal for the year. Although, the net EBITDA difference was primarily attributed to SG&A savings, it should be noted that volume improvement in our growth markets was offset with gross margin pressure related to mix of work and ramp up cost. We expect both of these margin impact items will improve as we increase revenue in the business throughout the year.

Net loss for the second quarter of 2012 improved by $5.8 million to $600,000 from a net loss of $6.4 million in the second quarter of 2011. The year-over-year improvement was primarily attributable to a $3.5 million non-cash loss on the extinguishment of debt last year, related to our refinance, and $2 million of improvement year-over-year on EBITDA. The net income after certain non-cash adjustments for the second quarter of 2012 was $3.4 million, reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $1 million, non-cash interest expense of $300,000, and non-cash amortization expense of $2.6 million.

This does not include the benefit $900,000 of book tax expense, which will not be paid in cash this year, and it could be added to the cash net income number as a better representation of true cash flow. For the second quarter, net cash income per share was $0.18 based on 18.6 million shares outstanding. Net loss from continuing operations in Q2 was $0.02 per share, equal to previously issued guidance.

At June 30, UniTek had cash, cash equivalents and unused revolver line availability of almost $10 million with $16.4 million of unused revolver remaining. In June we completed all earn-out payments due for the Pinnacle acquisition equating to approximately $19.5 million. Our current debt is approximately $170 million, which we expect to reduce through operational cash flow throughout the year, toward our targeted 3x EBITDA-to-debt ratio.

As we continue to ramp our large wireless projects and work through our World Trade Center receivables, we may experience a slight increase in our DSOs. Current DSOs are in the low 80s, but we expect improvement over the long-term as we aggressively manage with systems and process improvements.

For the full-year 2012, we continue to expect full-year revenue of approximately $500 million, representing growth of 60% over 2011, which is primarily organic. As previously guided, adjusted EBITDA for 2012 is expected to be approximately $50 million, or growth of 18% year-over-year. Earnings per share, after non-cash adjustments is expected to be approximately $0.70.

As previously discussed, this $0.70 per share includes a charge of approximately $0.22 per share for income taxes, which will not be paid in 2012, or the company will be creating over $0.90 per share in cash after all cash charges. For the third quarter of 2012, we expect revenue of between $142 million to $147 million, with adjusted EBITDA between $16.5 million and $17.5 million, a range of net income per share of between $0.19 and $0.23, and a range of earnings per share after non-cash adjustments between $0.38 per share and $0.42 per share. As with our full-year expectations, this includes an income tax charge of $0.05 per share, which will not be paid in 2012.

We are using a range for our third quarter guidance to account for the variability and revenue timing in the Wireless business, related to equipment supply and other uncontrollable variables related to our LTE upgrade work for various customers. We believe we're well positioned to deliver our shareholders consistent predictable performance and growth.

We will continue to leverage our core focus on execution, technology tools, proprietary scorecards, and systems, as well as our scalable shared services platform to support these objectives. We believe our second quarter results support our expectations for 2012, and more importantly, demonstrate our potential continued success in 2013, as we successfully build growth opportunities for the future.

This concludes our remarks, and we thank you for your time today. I will be joined by Rocky for the question-and-answer session. Operator, we're ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Alex Rygiel of FBR. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Rocky and Ron, how are you doing today?

Well, Alex, how about yourself?

Good morning, thank you.

Not too bad. Congratulations on the new turf up in New York. Is there anyway you could quantify, maybe sort of a full-year revenue impact from the two larger turfs that you happened to have in New York and Connecticut?

We're still working through the visibility, but the expectation is the new turf would be something like $25 million to $30 million a year annually. It really doesn't kick-off until the fourth quarter.

Hopeful.

So you can add that to our previously guided expectations on the existing turf, and as we talked before, for this year, that's probably anywhere from $60 million to $65 million and $75 million on a run – from a run rate respective.

Great. And then, as it relates to Pinnacle, can you kind of give us an update on maybe what their backlog looks like today versus a year ago? Or how does that business is does it continue to expand, is it winning new work, what kind of project is it winning?

Yeah, we're definitely winning new work. The last quarter we actually added more backlog than we consumed. This quarter we didn't quite add the same level of backlog as we consumed, but we have good visibility on a lot of projects that we're looking for a clarification on in the third quarter. So, because that – those are long lead time projects, the backlog will tend to be a little lumpy. So we wouldn't expect to smoothly exceed every quarter. For long-term the expectation is, as we discussed before, that we'll see similar growth year-over-year as we did this year for that business. And we have strong expectations for the second half of the year, and with continued backlog growth.

And any surprise as it relates to the profitability of a lot of that Pinnacle work that you're seeing in bidding and putting into backlog?

So far there generally have been positive surprises. We've approached it very conservatively, and we have a relatively rigorous bid review process. It's really one area of our business where we have fixed price contracts, and so we stayed focused on ensuring that we have all the appropriate processes in place to bid them conservatively.

And I believe last question, Verizon was down year-over-year, any further color on that?

Yeah, we see, we saw a slowdown with Verizon. They've made some internal adjustments which actually reduced the speed at which we were being issued work. We were able – obviously, we were able to overcome those volume impacts with our strong growth in the wireless side. And we do expect that business to return to its normal run rate in the second half of the year, although we have reduced our exposure there in the Florida market where we're not doing the same level of work that we had been historically.

Very helpful. I'll get back in the queue. Thanks, gentlemen.

Thank you. Our next question in queue is from the line of Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, Rocky. Good morning, Ron.

Good morning, Liam.

Good morning.

Rocky, you saw nice sequential operating margin improvement in Fulfillment. Part of the discussion of the year-over-year decline was the fact that the mix of business on the cable side is less profitable. But with sequential decline, obviously there is progression in improving those margins. There's some discussions saying, hey, as we drive productivity in issues, we will see further improvement. How much runway do you have there on the cable side – on the cable fulfillment side?

We have quite a bit of runway. So, there's two benefits from the cable consolidation. The volume leverage or the scale that we get in particular markets helps us improve our margins. So as our customers continue to consolidate the vendor base, you're going to see those gross margins improve. And it also allows us to put a lot of the same tools we have in place already on the satellite side, which allow us to be one of the premier providers for DIRECTV. We can apply those same tools in the cable side. So I expect there is quite a bit of runway. And I would like to see those two margins converge in the long run.

I think additionally the second quarter was a bit of an anomaly, it was a little softer on the cable side than we normally see. We do some construction work in almost all the markets that we're in. And it wasn't quite at the same level as we normally see. That's expected to pick up in the second half of the year. So some of that, it's just volume leverage and some timing and kind of intra-year variability as well.

But just to take a look at the overall company margins. Your EBITDA margins are now sitting in low double-digits, which is pretty strong. And you're suggesting that some of your pockets of revenue growth, you still have additional operating leverage there. Would there be any offsets?

Yeah. First of all I think our EBITDA margin this quarter was 10.4%.

Right.

So and it is up sequentially from 9.4%. If you're asking if we're expecting to see more runway, absolutely. And I think that, as I said, the fulfillment margins were a little bit softer than we would normally see. And we're continuing to improve them. So not only would you see an improvement as we continue to consolidate on the cable side, but you'll also see it from a mix of work perspective as DIRECTV work gets back to the ratio it typically is. And additionally you're going to see a long-term improvement as we scale from volume leverage.

Great. Thank you, Ron.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Saagar Parikh of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, Rocky and Ron.

Good morning.

Good morning, Saagar. How are you today?

Doing great. The first question, I know it's been touched on a little bit, but the new turf agreement, and just your work with AT&T. I saw based on the numbers you guys had in the Q, AT&T was roughly around $8 million in the quarter. Was this in line with what you guys were projecting, or is this just based on a little bit slower of a ramp? And how is that ramp really projecting going forward with the turf agreement?

It's a great question. We're definitely in line with our projections. I think year-to-date we're about $13 million or so in revenue for AT&T. We'll easily double that volume in the third quarter. So we'll do what we did in the first half of the year in the third quarter. Part of that is related to just the normal project ramp, going from $5 million a year to over $60 million. And part of it is the type of work. So site acquisition work typically has a longer lead time and is the pre-cursor to the upgrade construction work for LTE projects. And you're going to see a huge move in Q3 as we drive the AT&T volume there to $25 million, $30 million of revenue.

Okay, perfect. And then, with the new turf agreement in upstate New York, is that on account of the wireless customer increasing or just having to ramp up their spending as they're falling behind their competitors? Or is that you guys taking market share from a competitor who wasn't doing the work as well?

Yeah, that was a share win. They were having – someone was having execution issues and we stepped in to help the process.

All right, perfect. And then, your book-to-bill was very strong in the quarter. Again just like the past year, you guys have had strong awards. Can you just walk us through on a really top level, your awards market, where you guys are seeing within your company the best opportunity? And I know you guys have mentioned Pinnacle and vendor consolidation, but just your top three?

Yeah, absolutely. I think the biggest opportunities we have are on the wireless side, and you can bifurcate that into two opportunities, one, the expansion of our Pinnacle business from being Northeast-centric to nationwide through our current wireless locations. And the second one being, just our antenna line work including growth in DAS and some specialty areas where we can leverage our engineering expertise on the wireless side for larger carriers.

So as you probably know there's other carriers out there who have announced large spends that haven't really kicked of yet. T-Mobile is an example of that. And I think, we can also pick up additional work supporting OEMs, who are working for Sprint, we don't currently work for today. So there is a lot of ability for us to expand that wireless piece, both on the specialty public safety private network side, as well as on the antenna line side, including the specialty DAS type work.

And then, I think the third biggest piece is the cable side. We expect that marketplace to continue to consolidate. We'll reap – as we talked about earlier with Liam, we'll reap benefits on – from volume leverage on that, but we'll also expand it to new territories. So there is quite a bit of the country that we haven't touched yet on the cable fulfillment side. So we're pretty excited about those as being the quarter growth engines for the company.

All right, perfect. Thanks, and congrats on a good quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is in queue is from the line of John Rogers of D. A. Davidson. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Hey, good morning, John.

Couple of things and I guess Ron, maybe I didn't follow this correctly. But in terms of the cash position that you have now with, the pickup in receivables in the third quarter, you're expecting that to pickup in the third quarter and then come down as we go into the fourth by year-end, is that the right way to think about, I'm just trying to think about what sort of – how do you fund that?

That's absolutely correct. So I was letting people know that we'll probably have a slight uptick in the third quarter. And that's just structurally related to the rapid expansion on the wireless side. So the revenue dollars there will uptick our DSO, and then it will come back down in the fourth quarter.

From a liquidity perspective, we have plenty of our line availability to build those receivables and borrow, I guess, and if we need them, but we're also going to be generating cash at the same time. So, we should be in very good shape cash wise, headed into the fourth quarter. And we'll be improving our DSO's, and that you'll see them tick back down to the 70s level as we finish the year off.

Okay, okay.

In the 70s.

Okay, good. And then the other [indiscernible] (30:00) do you have – when do you have any issues in terms of testing your goodwill? It's still a long way from now?

Yeah, we typically test our goodwill in October, so October 1 is our testing date. This is which we historically use, which then ends up being a part of our 10-K filing. So, you'll see that we'll be testing it before year-end, and then you see the results in the year-end financials.

Okay. And then lastly, in terms of the ramp up in spending by some of your customers in the second half, it seems as at least in my context, it seems to – we should have decent spending levels well into the fourth quarter. Is it too early to even get a sense for what these customers are talking about in 2013, and then especially the wireline versus the wireless?

Yeah, as you probably heard from some of our competitors, the wireline has been a little bit more volatile from a predictability expectation. I wouldn't expect us to be able to really get a good look for up 2013 until much later in the second half of the year. Whereas the wireless spending typically has relatively decent lead time, and although somewhat difficult to predict on a quarter-to-quarter basis, but we get pretty good annual visibility from our customers, and we get pretty early. So I would expect to have visibility – better visibility on 2013 in that space, at the end of third quarter.

Okay. And sorry just lastly in terms of the, your interior work World Trade Centers', when does that finish off? And there is some other large projects, it sounds like that are coming down only in Manhattan, that Northeast and what are the opportunities there?

Yeah, it's a great point. The World Trade Center project is kind of a full turnkey system integration project where we do the design procurement – specific – design specification procurement, and then eventually the installation.

The installation is farther down the path. That whole project is about two years long, it started last June. So we'll still be doing installation work, and tuning next year. And as well the larger opportunities, there are quite a few – we have quite a few in our pipeline that we're looking to convert to backlog. We've also converted a few, we've got a couple of $4 million or $5 million project wins here in the second quarter that we've – we took from sales pipeline into backlog. That's our target, it is to win two or three decent size projects every quarter, and then also quite a few smaller projects for some of the more local municipalities, that can range anywhere from $0.5 million to $2.5 million. And, our pipeline is relatively full of those opportunities, and we continue to expand that across the country as we develop a sales force specifically related to that type of work.

Okay, thank you, I appreciate it.

Thank you, our next question in queue is from David Cohen of Midwood Capital. Your line is open.

Hi Ron and Rocky. So I was wondering, if you could give a sense not necessarily this quarter or the next quarter. But as you look at, maybe the next 18 months, what is the opportunity to potentially improve your cost of debt and refi that? What constraints are you under, under your current debt facility and what bogies do you think you have to get to to potentially lower that cost of funds?

Yeah, we definitely have a preliminary plan in place, our – we have a penalty – a refined penalty through April of next year. So that will be when we're aggressively looking to refine. We would like to be below at or below 3x EBITDA-to-debt ratio at that point. I think that will give us some very favorable interest – the ability to negotiate some favorable interest expense as well as structure, a very flexible debt arrangement, so that's our objective in the long-term.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, our next question in queue is from Alex Rygiel of FBR. Your line is open.

Well, just a follow-up, could you be a little bit more specific with your cash needs over the coming two to three months, and then what's sort of the positive benefit of cash will be by year-end from this point in time?

Yeah, I'll try. I'll give you more details and then feel free to ask any specifics around the mid you like. The expectation is, it always has been for this year is to really – our cash generation is in the second half of the year from an operational perspective, and it will be post the ramp where we're building working capital, so as we get into through August, we'll be through two quarters of the third quarter ramp.

And we will start to generate cash or more cash, that is, from there through the end of the year, especially as the volume in Q3 is higher than in Q4. So that's just a natural cash generation vehicle. Last quarter we talked about $22 million of operational cash flow created this year, net of – sorry before working capital consumption.

So we are still on track for that, and we expect that cash to come through as we generate. We also expect to collect some World Trade Center receivables, it's – being size of the project, and the scope of work that we have, the DSO for that particular project tends to be a little bit longer lead. But for example we will probably collect $6 million to $8 million of receivables for that business in Q3.

Remind us what your CapEx plan is for 2012 and expectation for cash to be used for acquisitions in 2012?

Yeah. Sure. So in terms of CapEx, its 1% of revenue, that's our internal target that we – that we expect to follow. And we're on track to follow, it's about $5 million. Just to give people color on that, typically about half of that is maintenance CapEx or replenishing tooling or expanding our equipment lines. And then another – about another half of that is in systems.

So, again trying to maintain our leading-edge technology advantage, as a differentiator. And the acquisition question, the answer on that is the same as it always is, we don't have a rigorous acquisition strategy outside of the fact that we'll look aggressively at companies, would it make sense.

And so if we have an opportunity and it's a very good value for our shareholders, and it's accretive, then we'll take a hard look at it and make sure that it makes sense and pursue it. Outside of that, we don't have a stated acquisition strategy. So we're value buyers, and we look to create value and overall long-term growth prospects for the company, very similar to our Pinnacle acquisition, which cost us cash this year, but is a great growth engine for not just this year, but for the next four or five years.

And one last quick question, what is your exact availability today? And are there any modifications you can make to that to increase your availability if need to be?

Yeah, availability is $10 million to $15 million at any point in time. And we have a $25 million accordion feature on our revolver. And we have a $50 million term component or accordion on the term, which we tapped $20 million in the last quarter. So we still have $30 million left on that.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question in queue is from Bill Sutherland of Northland Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I was curious about on the satellite side-and if you touched on this, I got on a little late-what you are seeing DIRECTV as far as their plans for the rest of the year? Thanks.

Yeah, as a policy we generally don't discuss information that DIRECTV gives us from a value perspective. So I gave color in my comments talking about how last year was a bit of an anomaly from a timing perspective, as well as this year we've had some – backlog was less than typical going into Q2. But outside of that, we expect a typical year for DIRECTV as pertains to the work that we're getting.

Is it tracking with their sub adds, the net amount of subs they're experiencing?

I'm sorry, you were breaking up, could you ask the question again, please?

Yeah, the net sub trend for DTV has been soft year-to-date. I'm just kind of curious if that's been reflected in the work that they've been moving on and giving to you.

Yeah, I don't know if they disclosed the North American sub add. They disclosed the net sub add for worldwide, which was up this quarter I think $600,000 or so. So we generally don't discuss that kind of information on the call.

Okay. Thanks much.

Thank you. And with that, I'm showing no further questions. I'd like to turn it back to management for any further comments.

Just to wrap up, thank you very much. And once again, I want to just take a moment to thank Ron and Dan who did an outstanding job for the first six months as we moved through the CEO search. And I think it speaks volumes for the organization that the results that we have here for the second quarter and for the first six months, in light of what would be a disruption in business and at times an emotional decision, they did an outstanding job and all of our people did an outstanding job.

So with great pride and a great sense of how strong the management team is, you look backwards and say, wow, it was a job well done. So I wanted to also take a moment to thank both Ron and Dan and the entire management team for a job well done. And as I stated in my comments, it's an exciting time to be a member of the UniTek family. And I'm honored and proud to be part of it, and I'm excited about our prospects.

So with that, I'll turn it over to Ron

Yeah, thank you, guys. I appreciate your time. Talk to you next quarter.

Thank you. And again, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining today's conference. That concludes our conference. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.