Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lee Roth — Vice President, The Piacente Group
Ronald J. Lejman — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Daniel Joseph Yannantuono — Interim Chief Executive Officer, UniTek Global Services, Inc.
Alexander John Rygiel — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Jeff Martin — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Saagar S. Parikh — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
John B. Rogers — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Dave E. Cohen — Principal, Midwood Capital Management LLC
Aram Fuchs — General Partner, Fertilemind Capital

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the UniTek 2011 Fourth Quarter and Year-end Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Lee Roth. Sir, you may begin.

Thanks, operator, and once again, thank you all for joining us. This is Lee Roth of The Piacente Group, UniTek's Investor Relations Counsel. With me on the line from management are Ron Lejman, Chief Financial Officer and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO. Also joining us is Mr. Dan Yannantuono, CEO of UniTek's DirectSat Division and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you statements made during this conference call and the subsequent Q&A session that are not attributable to historical facts are forward-looking statements relating to future events. As such, all forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Expressions of future goals including financial guidance and similar expressions, such as expressions that use the terminology will, may, believes, expects, plans, anticipates, predicts, forecasts and expressions which otherwise reflect something other than historical facts are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including those discussed in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed yesterday March 7, 2012 and is available on the SEC filings section of our website as well as www.sec.gov.

Various future events and factors may cause our actual results to vary materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made during the call. As a result, the actual results may differ materially from any financial outlooks or projections presented this morning. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this conference call, Thursday, March 8, 2012.

Finally, during this call, the company will discuss certain non-GAAP financial metrics including adjusted EBITDA. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP metrics to their comparable GAAP measures, please see the company's earnings press release which was issued yesterday following the close of trading.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to our CFO and Co-Manager of the Interim Office of the CEO, Mr. Ron Lejman. Ron, go ahead please.

Thank you, Lee, and good morning, everyone. I am joined today by my partner in the Office of the CEO, Dan Yannantuono. I will discuss business overview and objectives, 2011 Q4 and full year results, as well as our expectations for 2012. Dan and I will be available for questions after the prepared remarks.

2011 was a successful year due to many achievements, but most notable was how we positioned the company for growth in 2012 and beyond. Our financial achievements in revenue, gross margins and EBITDA demonstrate the strength in our business. We generated record full year revenue of $432 million. The adjusted EBITDA of $42.3 million was in line with our most recent guidance and represents an increase of 40% from last year.

We also ended the year with a record three-year backlog, surpassing the $1 billion mark for the first time in our history. We built backlog by over $130 million in 2011, while removing substantive backlog previously expected from LightSquared after their network build was halted by GPS interference issues.

Factoring in the removal of the LightSquared backlog, our business development efforts yielded almost $200 million of gross backlog additions in 2011. Approximately $465 million or 93% of the $500 million in revenue projected for 2012 was represented in backlog at year-end. This percentage is comparable to our year-end 2010 backlog position as it relates to the 2011 actual revenue achievement but with a stronger and more predictable wireless customer base.

Since year-end, we have also won various additional awards in our Fulfillment operations and Wireless business that significantly reduced the gap between in-hand business and our 2012 revenue and earnings expectations.

As an organization, we have always been focused on execution. We believe our achievements in 2011 against our key strategic objectives are a testament to our ability to outperform our competition.

First, we substantively increased the service offerings and technological expertise in our Wireless business with the successful acquisition and integration of the Pinnacle Wireless business. Second, we repositioned our Wireless business to focus on larger-scale, longer-term, prime vendor contracts like our recent AT&T turf award. Third, we grew our nationwide footprint in the Fulfillment business with an assortment of organic wins as our key customers continue to consolidate their vendor base. Finally, we positioned ourselves to participate in the cable industry's network expansions in the coming years as we expect industry participants to reinvest in their infrastructure to meet the increasing bandwidth demands of end-users.

Although our growth in 2011 was not as rapid as we would have liked, we are pleased with our improved positioning for the strong, profitable organic growth that we anticipate for 2012 and beyond. Our full-year revenue growth in 2011 came from both our Fulfillment business, which increased 6.7% over last year, and Engineering & Construction, which increased 11.8% compared to 2010. The growth in E&C was driven by our acquisition of Pinnacle Wireless and the 46% expansion of our Wireline business, partially offset by the impact of our strategic restructuring of the legacy Wireless business.

During the second quarter of 2011, we made the decision to move away from smaller, lower-margin projects that were typically short term, had less predictable timing and required us to constantly focus on finding the next target. Given our multi-year win with AT&T and various other awards related to the Sprint Network Vision, as well as longstanding, mutually successful relationships with T-Mobile and Clearwire, we believe we have generated a better base of business for 2012.

Additionally, we believe our resources and experience in exceeding customer expectations have positioned us well to continue to grow this wireless business substantively. We believe that we have differentiated ourselves from our wireless peers through superior service offerings, augmented by our deployment of technology and investment in infrastructure.

The evolution of our AT&T relationship is a perfect example of our ability to grow through investment in systems and processes, which support our customers' success not just our bottom line. In 2010, AT&T revenue was approximately $1 million. In 2011, it grew to $5 million. And in 2012, the first year of our turf agreement, we expect this new relationship to contribute at least $50 million in revenue. Additionally, we believe in the upside potential from this and our other wireless provider relationships as we successfully execute.

In our public safety, municipal and specialty network business, which we entered through the acquisition of Pinnacle in April of last year, we have been extremely pleased with our growth. We specialize in systems integration services for various projects in the transportation, public safety, entertainment, hospitality and commercial real estate markets. We operate as a turnkey solution provider for wireless systems upgrades by integrating radio system design, the in-building antenna network, and command and control systems that include all subsystems, such as spectrum, fiber networks, power supply, voice logging, and even GPS. These services complement and expand our existing wireless services offerings. An example of this is our recent focus on DAS systems or in-building wireless networks in 2012.

Our revenue run rate in this marketplace has doubled since the acquisition, and there is room for additional growth as we continue expanding this segment of our business both geographically and through partnerships with various OEM providers.

Pinnacle is already considered one of the premier providers in the Northeast, but we are leveraging our infrastructure, financial strength and shared services resources as we work to grow this into a nationwide provider. I am pleased to say that Pinnacle should meet their earn-out objective on March 31, 2011 based on their strong performance in the last 12 months.

Moving on to our Wireline business, we have selectively participated in rural fiber network upgrades in the last 12 months through federal stimulus programs. As these projects are awarded to the lowest bidder in a public environment, the pricing can be very competitive. We are cautious in our approach ensuring we have an adequate return for the invested assets. We continue to pursue these projects where we have a competitive advantage in deployed infrastructure but do not plan to pursue projects that do not have long-term market benefits.

Our preference is to focus on metropolitan areas where longer-term maintenance and construction agreements yield a sufficient return for our services. We also expect sizable growth opportunities in our Wireline business arising as the cable industry enters its next infrastructure upgrade cycle. Cable providers will have to upgrade their networks to support expanded services such as HD, video on-demand, and broadband to effectively compete and maintain their subscriber base.

While we are excited about the progress and potential in the E&C segment, our Cable and Satellite businesses or our Fulfillment segment remains very strong and we see a number of growth opportunities here as well.

On the Fulfillment side, we have entered a period of vendor consolidation among cable operators. The benefits to our customers and their end-users are substantial. Comcast, Time Warner and Cox are already in various stages of consolidation in their Fulfillment operations. We believe that UniTek is in an ideal position with these cable operators are we are poised to gain share as they continue to eliminate smaller providers and award increased territories to vendors with systems, processes and infrastructure to ensure a consistent end-user experienced in the installation process.

As some of our competitors are phased out through consolidation, we expect to see opportunities for small scale acquisitions or what we called tech buys. You will see a couple of these small acquisitions discussed in our 10-K. These tech buys, which represent one of our strategies to optimize market takeovers, require only a small upfront investment to garner trained technicians. These purchases are often more cost-effective than recruitment and training in a market, and the technicians are profitable from day one.

In addition to vendor consolidation, many of these cable providers will continue to trend towards outsourcing various non-core capabilities to control cost while maintaining service levels. We will continue to expand our service offerings to meet the developing needs.

We are proud of our performance – the performance of our satellite business and continue to focus our efforts on systems and process enhancement supporting DIRECTV's key initiatives and our productivity improvement goals.

Additionally, our recent ViaSat four-year contract win will also allow us to leverage our considerable infrastructure and experience in the satellite fulfillments space. We look forward to continuing to provide this customer with exceptional customer service experience.

With that overview, I'd now like to review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year, and then Dan and I will open the call for questions.

Revenue for the fourth quarter was $115 million, a 15.6% increase over $99.5 million in the prior year period. Revenue on our Fulfillment segment increased 7.8% year-over-year primarily from the growth in our Cable Fulfillment business where we added over 300 technicians throughout the year for a total of almost 1,000 technicians at year-end.

Our Engineering and Construction segment revenue increased 32% year-over-year, as increased revenue in the Wireline division and growth from the Pinnacle acquisition more than offset softness in our legacy Wireless business partially due to equipment delays on the field of our 4G upgrade projects.

The Wireline business remained strong with the revenue increase of nearly 67% year-over-year associated with rural fiber projects and recurring revenue turf agreements. The Pinnacle work at the World Trade Center had significant activity in Q4. This $37 million communications hub project is on schedule and proceeding as expected from a systems performance and profitability perspective. This project is a landmark win for our business and we continue to demonstrate our ability to handle large-scale complex system rollouts.

Gross profit from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $23.1 million or a gross margin of 20.1% compared to $16.8 million or 16.9% in the prior year period. Specifically, fourth quarter fulfillment gross margin improved from 21% in 2010 to 23.7% in 2011. Margin improvement continues to demonstrate the contribution of our technology and productivity projects, as well the positive impact of our business analytics supporting our metrics-driven culture.

Gross margin in our Engineering & Construction segment was 15% in Q4 2011, compared to 8.7% in Q4 2010. This margin performance reflects the higher margin contribution from our systems integration work and increased volume in our Wireline business, which offset the margin pressure on our legacy Wireless business as we ramp the various 4G rollouts in 2012. The costs in our wireless business are related to less than optimal productivity from our workforce as we prepare for these upcoming projects in 2012.

Selling, general and administrative costs increased from $10.6 million in Q4 of 2010 to $12.3 million in Q4 of 2011. As in our prior quarters, this increase includes incremental costs related to the Pinnacle acquisition, as well as overall infrastructure investments related to our growth. Due to the significant improvements in our business over the last 12 months, we feel that looking at sequential SG&A trends provides a better gauge for this metric. SG&A net of stock-based compensation and transaction costs was approximately $11.1 million or 9.7% for Q4 2011, compared to 9.3% in Q3 on 4% higher revenue.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 70% to $12 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 compared to $7.1 million for the prior year period. This year-over-year increase was primarily related to the higher volume across both business segments and improved margin in our Fulfillment segment, partially offset by higher SG&A cost.

Net loss for the fourth quarter 2011 improved by $8.4 million to $3.7 million, from a net loss of $12.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The year-over-year improvement was attributable to the following factors: increase in adjusted EBITDA, $4 million of lower interest expense and a $1.7 million loss in the Q4 2010 extinguishment of debt. These improvements were partially offset by the $3.6 million charge or the change in fair value of the Pinnacle contingent consideration or earn-out. This charge reflects the increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration from $25.8 million at the acquisition date to $29.4 million as of December 31, 2011.

The net loss after certain non-cash adjustments for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $100,000, reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $700,000, non-cash interest expense of $300,000, and non-cash amortization expense of $2.6 million. This does not include $1.0 million of book to tax expense which will not be paid in cash and could be added to the cash and income number as a better representation of cash flow.

For the fourth quarter, net cash loss per share was $0.01 based on 16.3 million shares outstanding. Total loss for continuing operations in Q4 2011 was $0.20 per share. The impact of the charge for the change in the fair value of the Pinnacle earn-out and the prior period tax adjustment was $0.26 per share. Without these two previously unanticipated items, the earnings per share were in line with our Q4 guidance provided in early December.

A quick overview of the full year results. Revenue for the year was $432 million, an 8.3% increase over the $399 million from the prior year. Revenue in our Fulfillment segment increased 6.8% year-over-year as both our Satellite and Cable businesses posted strong organic growth. Our Engineering & Construction segment revenue increased 11.8% year-over-year as increased revenue in the Wireline division and growth from the Pinnacle acquisition more than offset the decline in our legacy Wireless business.

Gross profit for continuing operation for the year was $84.6 million on a gross margin of 19.6%, compared to $65.6 million or 16.4% in the prior year. Full year margin improvement demonstrates the impact of our technology and productivity projects as well as our business information systems supporting our metrics-driven culture and the impact of the higher margin wireless work from the Pinnacle business.

SG&A cost increased from $39.3 million in 2010 to $48.4 million in 2011. The increase of $9.1 million is primarily from $3.1 million in higher stock-based compensation expense from the tender offer, and $2.4 million from Pinnacle. Overall as a percent of revenue, excluding stock-based compensation cost, our SG&A was 9.8% of revenue in 2011.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 40% to $42.3 million for the year compared to $30.2 million for the prior year. The year-over-year increase was primarily related to the higher volume and margins offset by higher SG&A cost as previously discussed.

Net loss for the 2011 improved by $15 million to $15.6 from a net loss of $30.6 million in 2010. The year-over-year improvement was attributable to the increase in adjusted EBITDA and $10 million of lower interest expense, partially offset by debt extinguishment cost, the Pinnacle earn-out adjustment, and higher taxes related to the amortization of tax-deductible goodwill.

The net loss after certain non-cash adjustments for 2011 was $6 million, reflecting non-cash stock-based compensation of $5.1 million, non-cash interest expense and loss, and extinguishment of debt to $5.3 million, and non-cash amortization expense of $11.2 million. Cash taxes paid in 2011 were only $200,000. Therefore, $4.1 million of the income tax expense is non-cash and could also be added to the cash net income in addition to the previous adjustments I just mentioned.

For the full year, net cash income per share was $0.37 based on 15.9 million shares outstanding. Total loss from continuing operations was $0.93 per share and includes the $0.26 per share related to the Pinnacle earn-out and other previously discussed Q4 items.

At the end of the year, UniTek had cash, cash equivalents and unused revolver line availability of approximately $14.6 million with $27 million of unused revolver remaining. We remain well capitalized for growth in 2012 and beyond. Our total leverage ratio for the year-end 2011 is approximately 3.3 times trailing adjusted EBITDA and we anticipate it will approximately be 2.8 times EBITDA by the end of 2012.

Capital lease balances increased in Q4 by approximately $5 million to $25.9 million related to our typical fleet renewal initiatives and the recent growth in our Fulfillment business. We plan to pay down this increase in debt mainly in the second half of 2012. This is our normal timing of fleet upgrades but we changed out vehicles during our slow periods in Q4 and Q1 which can cause temporary increases in the capital lease balance.

As we look forward to 2012, based on current expectations for growth in UniTek's primary end markets and the organic growth previously discussed, we expect full year 2012 revenue of approximately $500 million, representing organic growth of 15.7% over 2011.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 is expected to be approximately $50 million or a growth of 18% with a $0.07 loss per share in earnings per share after certain non-cash adjustments expected to be $0.72. The projected net loss for the year includes approximately $6.5 million of expenses or approximately $0.36 per share related to the management changes that occurred in the first quarter of 2012, of which $1.4 million is non-cash.

Cash flow from operations without working capital, restructuring, or the Pinnacle earn-out, should be approximately $22.5 million this year of effectively $50 million of adjusted EBITDA, net of $10.6 million in cash interest expense, $5 million of capital expenditures and $12 million of capital lease and debt repayments.

We do not expect to pay any federal taxes in 2012 or the following two years as we have an NOL exceeding $24 million. We expect separation and retention costs related to the senior management changes to be approximately $5.1 million in cash, of which $3.8 million will be paid in 2012.

For the first quarter of 2012, the company expects revenues of approximately $108 million with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $7 million and net loss per share of approximately $0.57. The net loss in the first quarter of 2012 includes approximately $5.5 million of expenses or approximately $0.33 per share related to the management changes.

Overall, we had a strong 2011 and the success of these efforts becomes clear when considering our current backlog position for 2012 which reinforces the gross strategies in our core markets. We believe the company is strongly positioned for a successful 2012 as well as significant growth in the future.

We thank you all for your continued support and look forward to speaking again following our Q1 results to provide you with an update on our key strategic initiatives and more importantly, continued execution on our stated objectives.

This concludes our remarks and we thank you for your time today. I will be joined by Dan Yannantuono for the question-and-answer session. Operator, we are ready for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alex Rygiel with FBR. You may begin.

Good morning, Ron and Dan.

Hey, good morning, Alex.

A few question, first, Ron, you mentioned something interesting with regards to cable expansion and consolidation. Can you expand upon that a little bit?

You – broke up. The cable expansion and consolidation?

Yeah, you referenced cable expansion starting to play out and consolidation. Can you expand upon those two topics?

Absolutely, so similar to other Fulfillment providers, mainly our satellite customer DIRECTV, the cable companies are pursuing a vendor consolidation program and they reduced vendors – one of our vendors had – one of our customers had 2,500 vendors, reduced all the way down to 80 and that consolidation is still occurring. They're consolidating to customers – to companies like us who have a standard attractive package, strong processes and systems where we can offer their end-users a better Fulfillment experience.

Helpful. And then as it relates to ViaSat, any chance you could quantify with the revenue opportunity is there for 2012?

So, right now from a ViaSat perspective, Alex, we expect – we just started to ramp up here in Q1, so we're often running and started as good as possible. We're not expecting much overall in terms of within the Fulfillment side of it because there is a ramp-up, there'll be a little bit of slight upside. But that's pretty much where we stand right now.

Okay. And timing, can you help us to understand sort of the roadmap of AT&T and how we should layer the revenues into our model from 1Q to 4Q?

Yes, AT&T is like many of the other upgrades that we've done in the past. There's side acquisition work first. And when you look at the revenue associated with any of this, about 25% of the revenue is side acquisition work and about 75% is construction. The side acquisition work is typically the longer lead time, so of course we're second half loaded as it pertains to the $50 million worth of AT&T work and we'll see most of that occur really strongly ramping in the second quarter into the third quarter and then trailing off in the fourth.

And do you have full visibility on that $50 million today or have you only started to receive a handful of purchase orders?

If you count purchase orders and noticed proceeds, we have almost half of that $50 million in hand.

That's great. All right, I'll jump back in the queue. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jeff Martin with ROTH Capital Partners. You may begin.

Thanks. Good morning. Ron, can you give us some insight into how you see the breakdown for the $500 million 2012 revenue guidance in terms of Fulfillment and E&C?

Sure. I think just roughly Fulfillment is about $300 million and E&C is about $200 million. It's about 60-40.

Okay. And are you expecting growth from DIRECTV this year?

It's too early to tell. We expect really that business to be what we've always kind of predicted which is GDP-type growth outside of any margin – outside of any market expansion we might see. So right now, we're expecting that level of growth.

Okay. And then could you discuss the revenue shortfall in Q4? What caused it and what was the unexpected component to it?

Absolutely. It was all related to our Wireless business and specifically related to – in one of our customer's 4G upgrade initiatives, they didn't have the equipment. It was supposed to ship actually in December and that was postponed all the way to February. So we now have the equipment and we've been working on the project, but really those two locations drove most of that shortfall and it was all related to not having the equipment to actually do the 4G upgrade.

Okay. So that was done in February or you got the equipment in February and it would be done...

We're starting it now and proceeding through it in really this month.

So that was approximately $5 million worth of revenue?

Yeah. A little bit less than that but in that order of magnitude. That was about $3.5 million of the revenue shortfall.

Okay. And then in terms of the Pinnacle earn-out, when is that paid and how much will be cash? And I think you quantified the stock component to it, if you could remind us what is.

Yes. It's a $30 million earn-out. 60% is cash, which would be $18 million but we've already paid $2.4 million in December. So it really leaves $15.5 million in cash, net of any adjustments we have. And then, the stock component would be 40% of the $30 million or $12 million. And that's paid in stock. Both of those items are actually paid about 45 days after the end of the quarter or March 31, so sometimes towards – sometime towards the second half of Q2. The equity payment is based on the VWAP as of April 3, 2012. 20-day VWAP, sorry.

Okay.

So, April 3, 2012 and the trailing 20 days.

Okay. Thanks, Ron.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Saagar Parikh with KeyBanc Capital Markets. You may begin.

Hey, guys.

Hey, good morning, Saagar.

Morning. Looking first off, the management charges, restructuring charges that you guys took – that you guys have taken in the first quarter and second quarter, now, were those built into the legacy contracts that Scott and Peter had? Or is that anything – or is that something that was decided by the Board when the changes were made?

Those are basically the legacy contracts that they had, which is equivalent to – and you can look this up on our filings, but they're basically two years of severance for each them. Scott did receive an extra year related to work that he's continuing to do for the company as well as him remaining on the Board and being active in the strategic direction of the business as well as some customer relationships.

Okay, perfect. And then moving to modeling, looking at the financial model, I know you guys mentioned your – the adjusted EBITDA number and then the cash number, and when you guys are looking on a GAAP basis for 2012, but just comparable reasons, what would you guys use for your tax rate and share count approximately? I feel like there's a discrepancy there, so I just want to make sure I'm getting the right number.

No problem. When we did our analytics for – the biggest challenge for us was the Pinnacle earn-out because we really don't know what that number's going to be. It's $12 million of equity using the description that I relayed earlier. So that's really an estimate. We estimated 22.4 million, 22.5 million shares for that earn-out just as an approximation given what we know today. So that's how we got to that share count. There's also some RSU acceleration related to the departure of Peter and Scott.

In terms of your second half of the question outside of the share count, could you repeat that please?

Looking at the tax rate.

Yeah, so the effective tax rate isn't really a good number. The issue in terms of quantifying your tax impact, for us, of those tax numbers, I think $4.1 million or so is related to the amortization of goodwill or the book to tax difference. And so that's really driving that – of that $4.8 million number, $4.1 million of it is related to that.

So, we really don't look at it that way. And the reason why it's generally difficult for us to get that number exact is because of some of the moving pieces as it pertains to this goodwill and contract amortization. It really isn't relevant. We pay very little taxes, again, $200,000 in 2011. And we have a $24 million NOL which should shelter us in the future. So we don't really look at an effective tax rate as much as we look at just what the makeup of that charge is, and the key takeaway is almost all of it's non-cash.

Okay, and then one more question related to margins. If I look at the fourth quarter and then if I look at your 2012 guidance and look at the underlying numbers, it seems like your margins are stable on the Fulfillment side and are slightly increasing on the E&C side. Is there – looking out there, what catalysts or what are the key things that you look at to really see if there's going to be a ramp-up in the E&C margins going forward?

Well, we always expect margin improvement in both of our segments. And as you know, the E&C segment we're taking a cautious approach in 2012 because we want to ensure that our ramp-up for our various wireless customers is taken into consideration as well as the expansion in the reinvestment in the Pinnacle business to expand that footprint geographically.

So from our perspective, we're taking a cautious approach, but that margin from a steady state perspective will continue to improve period-over-period and year-over-year as we gain scale and we reap the benefits of this infrastructure and system investment.

Perfect. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from John Rogers with Davidson. You may begin.

Hey, good morning.

Hey. Good morning, John. How are you today?

Good. I just wanted to follow up on – Ron, you commented on some of the broadband stimulus work but focusing on urban areas. And could you talk a little bit more about geographically where this is that you're seeing that?

Well, we do broadband stimulus work but mainly in more rural areas.

Right.

What we are targeting is, for example, we do some work in Minnesota, we do some work in Vermont; those are rural areas but places where we see a sustainable platform. We do some work in Oklahoma. So those are the types of areas that we target.

My key point there in my comments was because it's a public – these are typically public bids with a lot of small mom-and-pops, the pricing is very aggressive and what we won't do is chase revenue. We've always made a policy of really holding ourselves to a higher standard as it pertains to pricing, especially in the E&C business.

And so, we focus on looking at areas where we have strong infrastructure already in place and can leverage that infrastructure or very competitive profitability. Outside of that, we're not going to chase all the small rural fiber across the country that are typically one-off projects and don't have a long-term – a lot of long-term benefit.

Okay. So – but in terms of 2012, the biggest geographic market opportunities for you are where?

In the Midwest, a little bit in the Northeast and then some in the Southwest. I mean they're really all over. But those are the key areas.

Okay.

The ones that I mentioned.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from David Cohen with Midwood Capital. You may begin.

Hey, guys. Ron, could you reiterate some of the cash flow commentary you gave for – I thought I heard you gave for 2012. I got on the call late.

No problem. What I was trying to really talk about was the real cash earning power of the business, which I think is substantive. And I did a walk from the $50 million of EBITDA that we're looking to produce in 2012 with the actual cash flow generation of that EBITDA, ignoring...

So what's [ph] the average (36:49)?

Yeah, ignoring some of the noise, the restructuring and some of the Pinnacle earn-out and many working capital items. It's $50 million of EBITDA with about $12 million of debt repayment and that's $11 million of cap leases and $1 million of principal debt repayment. There's $5 million of CapEx, which is our typical 1% of revenue, and there's about $10.6 million of cash interest expense.

And what about – given the nature of the E&C work and the percentage-of-completion accounting, what is the working capital build, if any, that comes from the growth in that segment?

Yeah. So, if you – most of that growth is, as you know, is E&C-related. And since we're looking at a heavy ramp at the end of Q2 into Q3, and then it's trailing off in Q4, that there's – we do get some of that back. So, we'll use up to – and at the peak point at any given time in the year, we'll use an incremental, let's say, $10 million to $14 million of working capital. And then, we'll give a lot of that back towards year-end where we have a net increase of maybe $5 million or $6 million.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Ian Clark with Fertilemind Capital. You may begin.

Yes. This is actually Aram Fuchs from Fertilemind Capital. I was wondering if you could talk about the CEO search, and especially in the context of the $0.33 per share cash payout to the previous executives. That two years seems anomalous in the industry these days. It's usually roughly six months to a year. So I guess one is how is the search going? And what are going to be the compensation schemes going forward?

Yes, I think the search is being run by the Board. They've hired – they've retained Korn/Ferry. They're reviewing candidates based on an already defined expected profile, and could have someone announced as early as the end of the second quarter who would probably take the position sometime in the third quarter. Those are rough numbers. They have a very rigorous process that they're following. So we're not going to use time as a deadline; it's going to be looking for the right person and we're going to let the process work itself to conclusion.

In terms of compensation, that person will make what people in comparable comp or comparable companies or equivalent comps make in our industry. And that's really the guideline that we'll use. And that's the guideline we used for all of our compensation both historically and go-forward.

Good. Yeah, I know it's not you, but I know you aren't in charge of this. But two years is not typical. So I just – I sort of want to use this as a little soapbox. Six months to a year is more typical comps.

Yeah, I'm not sure if I agree with you. If you look at the comps – we've actually done a report, and if you look at the comps, it's anywhere from one to over two years. One to two-and-a-half years, just given those positions and comparable public company comp. So that's what I've seen, Aram, but from my perspective.

Okay. I haven't seen that. And then on slide 16 in your February presentation, you note that 78% of year-to-date revenue is from long-term Fulfillment contracts. Can you define how you're using recurring revenue in that context?

Sure, I'd be happy to. So, in that particular contract, that 78%, 67% of that was related to our Fulfillment segment, where we have a very predictable revenue stream. We've been in many locations since our inception. And that's an easy expectation from a work order consumption perspective. But in addition to that 67%, we have another 12% or more which are long-term recurring revenue maintenance contracts for various providers on the wireline side. And that would be people like Comcast and Verizon in areas like Florida, California and Texas, where we do the maintenance and construction work and we're the sole provider of those services in those markets.

And for us, that's very much recurring revenue because we are the sole provider, and we know what we're going to do this week, next month, next quarter. And so, from that perspective, that number that I was projecting I believe was for three quarters – through three quarters of 2011. Maybe for the full year, it'll be the same for the full year. But that's effectively 78% of our revenue is that steady state recurring, predictable work, not only in Fulfillment but also in the Wireline business.

Okay, great. And you're still – your guidance for CapEx is still roughly 1% of revenue, it's the basic work equipment going for – in IT, right?

Yeah, and to give you a breakdown on that, there's about – half of that is maintenance and reinvestment in the current equipment and tooling. And the other half is systems, so we're typically upgrading our systems and expanding our systems indoor for organic growth expansion. It's about half maintenance and half growth.

Right, right. Okay, great. Thanks for your time.

Thank you.

Thank you. I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.

I'd like to thank you all for your time. I know there's a little bit of noise in the numbers, but the underlying performance of the business is better than ever and we expect to continue to improve in 2012. I look forward to talking to you all in our Q1 earnings call sometime in April. Thanks again and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. Have a wonderful day.