raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Verso Technologies


Q2 Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will


conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the


conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr. Monish Bahl, please go ahead.


Monish Bahl, VP, Investor Relations


Thanks. Good evening and welcome to the Verso's second quarter 2005 earnings call. Before we


start the call, let me remind the listeners that some of the statements in today's call will constitute


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the


Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that such forward-looking


statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial


performance, that are subject to many uncertainties and risks factors related to the Company's


operating and business environment, which may cause actual results of the Company to be


different than any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


Please see the Company's section entitled "risk factors" in the Company's annual report on Form


10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, for a list of such uncertainties and factors. Verso


Technologies undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement,


whether as a result of new information, future results or otherwise.


In this call we will use EBITDA, which is defined as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation


amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred compensation. Additional information


regarding EBITDA is set forth in the earnings release to be put out today at 4 P.M. and can be


accessed through the Investor Section of the Verso website. Steve Odom Verso's Chief Executive


Officer will start off today's call. So, with that, Steve I'll turn the call over to you.


Steven Odom, Chairman and CEO


Thank you, Monish. I like to welcome all of you today on our second quarter 2005 earnings call.


With me on the call today is Lewis Jaffe our President and COO. Monty Bannerman our Senior VP


of Strategic Initiatives; and Juliet Reising our CFO. Before I get pass the call over to Lou I will


highlight some of the things that we accomplished in the second quarter Lou, Juliet and Monty will


be discussing these in greater detail later on in this call. Again another very busy quarter for Verso,


things are coming together and we are more focused now then we earlier have been. Economies


are continuing to improve in markets to which we have a strong presence. We are feeling good


about the future of Verso, I'll now highlight some achievements that we accomplished in the second


quarter. We achieved 8.5 million in revenue up 29% over the prior quarter in the same quarter a


year ago. EBITDA from continuing operations for the second quarter was improved by 1.2 million


over the last quarter if you exclude the one-time charge related to the sub-lease space we inherited


from the original all tracks [ph] merger. This improvement is due to an increased revenues – an


increase in revenues and tightly managed operating expenses. We were successful in restructuring


our 4.5 million in convertible debt that matures next November. Roughly 2.25 million will be paid by


that due date and rest over the next 12 months. The cable and wireless installation of our new JCAI


master solution has been very successful and they are already adding additional capacity with new


features to that first installation.
raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Additionally we are now talking to them about providing similar solutions in other cable and wireless


locations around the world and Monty will cover that in more detail in a moment. We began


converting our trials from our NewNet product forma products into revenue last quarter and are


continuing to add new trials as we go forward as you may recall we announced the release of our


new GSM AB [ph] Smith form of platform last quarter, during the first quarter. Revenues from these


products were responsible for more than half of our revenue growth last quarter, and we see that


trend continuing. We completed the development of our new soft switch release that now includes


GR 303 compatibility local number portability and E911 features, which now opens the market for


us in the United States. We already have customers lined up for trials and expect to begin sing


revenues in the fourth quarter on this initiative. We continue to work – 801 Patent issues, and


continue to believe it will produce significant value for Verso in the future, additionally we have just


been notified that we have been given the nod on a brand new patent. Lou will be providing you


with much more color on this in a few moments. We are continuing to work on our new product


initiatives and solutions for the future successful growth at Verso. This is what I am now focusing a


lot of my efforts at Verso, initiatives that include negotiating potential partnerships, acquiring new


products, and researching new technologies, then we may be able to build new products and


solutions to grow our revenues. Some of the technologies that offer promise include applications


such as a feature server which we believe will enhance our soft switching technology. Features like


conferencing, the inside messaging, and host of PBX functional. Essentially we are exploring I-


Master technology and we believe it is at the beginning of the book deployment cycle and we have


already begun deploying with partners on I-Master technology. We have just scratched the surface


on this and expect to deal with these technology solutions using this technology in the near future.


Again I feel like the pieces are finally in place and with the international economy continuing to


improve along with our products and product development road map Verso has a very bright future.


I would now like to turn the call over to Lewis, thank you.


Lewis Jaffe, President and COO


Thanks Steve, I am pleased we are announcing the highest revenue quarter in the last five


quarters. I want to publicly thank the entire Verso team for making this happen. It is nice to have


both sequential and year-over-year growth. While we continue to be conservative with our remarks


to the investment community and we will not be providing specific guidance on this call as to a


revenue range, however, it is our firm belief based on our current pipeline and opportunity list that


we will show quarter-over-quarter growth as we did this quarter for the balance of the year. This is


supported by the metrics we now have in place to evaluate our opportunities as they have been


reliable predictors and yielded good trend information.


Our growth this quarter is the reason we are confident in trending up for the balance of the coming


year. This comes from multiple sources, our vision and strategy is sound combined with the


execution against our plans by the engineering and sales teams, we now bring a substantial value


proposition to the marketplace. Our product line is robust. This is supported by the upside potential


of the significant add on orders coming from initial deployments of some of our newer technologies.


Our pre-sales responsiveness and our pro-sales service gets rave reviews by customers and lastly


our road map continues to have us moving up into the more lucrative space of delivering


applications rather than competing purely in a rapidly commoditizing environment. Having value


added applications in our portfolio of technologies will allow us to pull our existing products by


creating value added bundled solutions. For the balance of this year, we believe that big drivers of


our business will be the net performer product line with GSM compression technologies and


satellite solutions with 1 plus 1 redundancy capability. Along with having I-Master Solution which


now will be part of our Clarent Softswitch product line or as a standalone product.


It is important to note that these decisions of GSM and the I-Master Solution were made over a


year ago and just now we are realizing those results. Our pipeline and trial list support our optimism


and our belief that even better results in our near and long-term future. The value that can be