raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Verso First


Quarter Earnings Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only. Later we will conduct a


question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time.


[Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to


our host, the Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Monish Bahl. Go ahead please.


Monish Bahl, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thanks. Good evening and welcome to the Verso first quarter 2006 earnings call. Before we start


the call, let me remind the listeners that some of the statements in today's call will constitute


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the


Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that such forward-


looking statements reflect the Company's current view with respect to future events and financial


performance that are subject to many uncertainties and risk factors related to the Company's


operating and business environment, which may cause actual results of the Company to be


different than any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Please


see the Company's section entitled "Risk Factors" in the Company's report on Form 10-K for the


year ended December 31st, 2005, for a list of such uncertainties and factors. Verso Technologies


undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a


result of new information, future results or otherwise. In this call we will use EBITDA, which is


defined as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additional information


regarding EBITDA is set forth in the earnings release that we put out today at 4 PM and can be


accessed through the Investors Section of the Verso website.


Monty Bannerman, Verso's Chief Executive Officer will start off today's call. So with that, Monty I’ll


turn over the call to you.


Monty Bannerman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks Monish and welcome, and thank you joining us. I am here today with our Executive


Chairman, Steve Odom and our CFO, Juliet Reising. In terms of agenda, I’m going to essentially


walk us through the results of the quarter and the status on our many initiatives. I’ll turn it over to


Juliet to review the detailed financial results. And then I’ll conclude, then we’ll move on from there


to questions. We have a lot of ground to cover today, so I’m going to go straight to the point on


many of our topics, and I’ll be happy to add further details in the Q&A later.


Lets start with Q1 sales results. Q1 results were revenue of 6.8 million, up 3% year-over-year. The


packet-based technologies segment, which is the growth segment of the company, was up 20%


year-over-year. The advanced application services group, the revenues came in at 1.9 million,


which was approximately in line with our expectations. As I mentioned in our last call, Q1 is


typically the most challenging in the industry and also for Verso, as our results clearly indicate. And


obviously, I’m not happy with these numbers. My first and primary concern after we learned the


results was too determined, if there was a fundamental problem with our business model. And to


answer this, we have just completed an intensive root cause analysis. And from that analysis


we’ve determined that there are two primary factors causing the shortfall in Q1. The first was the


factor; we closed two very significant deals on the last day of the quarter worth $2.5 million. We
raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


thought, we had snatched a victory out of the jaws of defeat, but unfortunately, under our revenue


recognition guidelines, we were only able to book $700,000 of this revenue in the quarter. So that’s


the bad news. The good news is that for the first time, we actually have some business in the bank


for Q2 and beyond.


The second important factor was, we were notified early in the quarter in Q1 that our partners had


won several significant deals and that we could confidently expect to receive purchase orders in


time to deliver the product by quarters end. Unfortunately, due to process delays at the end user


customers, these processes did not complete. So, we were not able to get those revenues in Q1,


as well. We still believe that we will accrue these revenues to our benefit, but of course, the issue


there is one of timing. But we will get these deals because they have; our partners have been


notified that they have won the deals. So it’s a matter of timing.


So looking at all the factors, looking at our pipeline going over each of our deals, looking at the


deals, where we have improved visibility in control, looking at these deals through some of these


large partners that deal in government bids and discounting the ones, where we have limited


visibility in control. We have come to the conclusion, there is no fundamental reason to dell our


strategy or change our business model.


And I’m now going to go into the reasons, why I feel confident about this. In Q1, we made major


strides in our development of strategic distribution relationships. We announced one of these


important partnerships in Q1 in our iDirect press release. There are number of partnerships in


active engagement has gone up significantly, since Q4. The number in final contract negotiation


has gone up. We are actively bidding deals, as we negotiate these agreements in the pipeline from


these partners is ramping solidly. The active opportunities are increasing interaction between our


sales, marketing and engineering people, as in interaction on active opportunities with our partner’s


people. And because of this, we are gaining increasing awareness among our partners and mind


share among the people, who know the deals are the best.


We’re being – currently we’re also being invited to make presentations at partner sales conferences


and customer conferences. We're being introduced directly to their customers. We are present in


their business trade shows. We are winning deals with these partnerships and I'll go into a couple


of successes that we experience in Q1.


The deal values in these relationships are significantly higher than our historical average, as two


that we won in Q1 will demonstrate. Some of these opportunities have agreed to go public with our


arrangements. We’re at the stage in the negotiations where we have address the issues, press


releases and some of them have agreed to it. Some of them will not because of the nature of OEM


relationship and the fact that they’re integrating and rebranding our technology. But first and most


important factor for me is to first get the business, worry about the press release later.


As a result of all this increased activity and our confidence in the fact that some of these are closing


and going to close very quickly, we are also in the process of adding sales people program,


management people and others in the organization, so that we can dedicate resources to these


important partners. Let's – why don’t we talk about some of these partners one after the other? I'm


not going to be able to identify any but the ones that we've issued press releases on but I'll give you


a generic description of the business model that they have and where they are in the industry


segment.


Let's go to NetPerformer first. The partnerships in NetPerformer breakdown between two groups,


large systems integrators and GSM equipment manufacturers. In the systems integrators sector of


the business we have already existing two important players in this area and our partnerships with


ViaSat and ND SatCom. We shifted in our extent to them from working them just at a headquarters


level to working them in a multi-regional manner and treating them as global accounts and


dedicating resources across territories to work with their people on the ground as well as the people