raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, and welcome to Verso Technologies Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. At this point, we do have all of your phone lines muted or in a listen-only mode,


however, after the executive team’s presentation, there will be opportunities for your questions.


[Operator Instructions]


And as a reminder, today’s call is being recorded for replay purposes. We do ask, that you stay


online at the conclusion of our earnings release, to receive that replay information. So with that


being said, we’ll get right to this Fourth Quarter agenda here with our opening remarks, is Verso


Technology’s Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Monish Bahl. Happy New Year Mr. Bahl.


And please go ahead.


Monish Bahl, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you. And thanks and good evening and welcome to the Verso Fourth Quarter 2005


Earnings Call. Before we start the call, let me remind the listeners that some of the statements in


today's call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of


1933, as amended, and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company


intends that such forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to


future events and financial performance, that are subject to many uncertainties and risk factors


related to the Company's operating and business environment, which may cause actual results of


the Company to be different than any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking


statements.


Please see the Company's section entitled risk factors in the Company's annual report on Form 10-


K for the year ended December 31st, 2003, for a list of such uncertainties and factors. Verso


Technologies undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement,


whether as a result of new information to future results or otherwise. In this call, we will use


EBITDA, which is defined as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.


Additional information regarding EBITDA is set forth in the earnings release that we’ve put out


today at 4 pm and can be accessed through the investors section of the Verso website. Monty


Bannerman, Verso’s Chief Executive Officer will start off today’s call. So with that Monty, I’ll turn


the over to you.


Monty Bannerman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks Monish. I’d like to welcome everyone to our Fourth Quarter Conference Call. With me on


the call, are our Executive Chairman, Steve Odom and our CFO, Juliet Reising. Today we’ll give


you a summary of our performance in the quarter, go over the financial results and talk about the


Company’s exciting future. Simply put, we had a great fourth quarter with improvements in nearly


all of our major metrics. I’d like to go over some of the highlights for the quarter and Juliet will


provide further details on our financials later in the call.


For the fourth quarter, we reported total revenue of 9.5 million, compared to 7.6 million in Q4 of ’04.


The revenue for the packet-based technology segment, which is the growth engine for the


Company were 7.5 million up 48% over the same quarter last year. Gross margin improved to 48%


of revenue compared to 43% for the same quarter last year and gross margins for the packet-


based group are 55% compared to 49% last year. This was the dramatic improvement, which


evidences our progress in moving further into applications and is one of the key drivers for
raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


profitability. In fact, we demonstrated a substantial improvement in EBITDA for the quarter.


EBITDA was a loss of 1.5 million, an improvement of over $2.8 million from the fourth quarter of last


year. Our goal of being EBITDA positive is now clearly insight.


As announced, we just completed an equity raise of over $7 million, all the investors were people


and institutions that know the company well and have been actively following its progress. The


deal was over subscribed. What I’m most proud of is we did this ourselves working as a team, lead


expertly by Steve Odom. We also had great success in the market in 2005. In 2005, Verso


launched new products and enhancements that either contributed directly to strong growth in the


latter half of 2005 or have contributed to the solid pipeline we have built for 2006. The new Verso is


clearly about delivering customer driven technology. A good example of customer driven


technology is the MetroNet Bundle, which targets new operators building citywide broadband


networks. Its vertical solution was launched at the end of Q3 and represents the first time that our


NetPerformer, Clarent Softswitch and I-Master assets have been combined and sold as an


integrated offering. By presenting a simple, highly targeted value proposition, which has a clear


ROI for the operator, we have experienced unprecedented success.


In Q4, we sold three MetroNet Bundles, this sales cycle of three months compares to 6 to 18


months for a traditional Softswitch sale in the past. Based on the standard configuration, it installs


faster and is easier to support. And as a result of this proven success, we have developed and are


launching additional vertical solutions in 2006. In the fourth quarter, NetPerformer became our


leading product with our Abis solution established, as the technology leader in the GSM cellular


backhaul market. Cellular carriers spend approximately $22 billion per year on backhaul and this


market is growing rapidly, as carriers extend their networks into Tier 2 and Tier 3 markets


worldwide. Thanks to all of the intense trials and technology competitions we faced in 2005,


NetPerformer has been established as a best solution to healthcare reduce or minimize its


expense, which accounts for 40 to 60% of their total OpEx.


The NetPerformer product also allows the carrier to enter new markets, which were economically


unviable without our solution. We are now intensely involved with some of the largest integrators


and manufacturers in this segment and expect to execute agreements for them to take our


technology deeply into this market far beyond what we can do with our own sales and engineering


resources. We've already won the technology and field trials with these players and now we’re


negotiating commercial supports and developing terms – sorry, development terms with them.


Netperformer continues to gain marketshare we expect to hold the dominant position in this


important market segment. We also continue to make progress in the market with our I-Master


product and in Q4 we deployed a major enhancement that opens up new revenue opportunities for


us. Although the I master products has a longer sales cycle, the deals have higher revenue value


and typically result in system enhancement contracts and multiple expansion as the carriers deploy


the I-Master applications that drive new revenue streams. For example we sold I-Master


applications over the cable and wireless panama in Q1 of last year and in Q4 we deployed the third


systems expansion directly as a results of cable and wireless success in the marketplace.


Also in the fourth quarter we deployed a significant enhancement to the I-Master application server


also at cable and wireless. This enhancement adds extensive software based RBR support. This


enhancement has opened up additional opportunities for us with large OEM partners and we


expected to generate additional high margin sales. Because I-Master plays to carrier's revenue


generating ability it is a strategic buy for the carrier. This strategic value has led to new partnership


opportunities for Verso. No other product in the market has the capability of our solution and we


have validated this in the market.


We have also several carrier trials ongoing with our NetSpective filtering product. I am pleased to


report that one of our trials resulted in a sale in Q4. In addition to the product being certified by an


independent lab our customers who have trailing this solution to filter Peer-2-Peer application such