raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Verso


Technologies Third Quarter Earnings Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.


Later we will conduct a question and answer session, instructions will be given at that time. If you


should require assistance during the call please press "star" and "zero". As a reminder this


conference is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr. Monish Bahl.


Go ahead please.


Monish Bahl, Director of Investor Relations


Thanks. Good evening and welcome to the Verso Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Call. Before we


start the call, let me remind the listeners that some of the statements in today's call will constitute


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the


Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that such forward-


looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial


performance, that are subject to many uncertainties and risk factors related to the Company's


operating and business environment, which may cause actual results of the Company to be


different than any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


Please see the Company's section entitled "risk factors" in the Company's annual report on Form


10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2004, for a list of such uncertainties and factors. Verso


Technologies undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement,


whether as a result of new information, future results or otherwise.


In this call we will use EBITDA, which is defined as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation,


amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred compensation. Additional information


regarding EBITDA is set forth in the earnings release that we put up today at 4 pm and can be


access to the investor section of the Verso website. Monty Bannerman, Verso’s Chief Executive


Officer will start up today’s call. So, with that, Monty I will turn the call over to you.


Monty Bannerman, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Monish. I’d like to welcome everyone on the call to our third quarter update. With me on


the call is our CFO Juliet Reising. Today we will cover the financial results contained in our press


release, give you a summary of our accomplishments in challenges during Q3 and talk about where


we are going in Q4 and beyond.


The company reported revenue of 8.3 million for the third quarter of 2005. EBITDA from continuing


operations excluding the restructuring charge was at $2.3 million loss. The net loss for the third


quarter of 2005 was 4.6 million or 17 cents per share. Total revenue for the third quarter of 2005


up 8.3 million was an increase of 19% from the 7 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004.


Revenue from the packet based technologies group segment was 6.2 million up 48% from the 4.2


million recorded in the third quarter of 2004. In addition to the successful introduction of strong new


products our improvement in revenue from our packet-based technologies group segment is largely


due to our sales organization continuing to execute had an increasing rate, as they become more


seasons with our products and improve their production. The forecasting process for the fully


qualified pipeline was validated and the sales group for the second quarter in a row attained a very


high close rate on these deals. Excuse me.
raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In Q3, orders closed and invoiced for our core products, softswitch, Netperformer and I-Master


increased at a healthy pace of close to 25% compared to Q2. During the quarter we experienced


some growing trend however and do not book as much revenue as we expected. We expected an


increase in load on our support resources given the demand of launching new products and


penetrating new segments of the market. However the actual demand for technical resources was


higher than our expectations due to the number and complexity of projects running simultaneously.


For example, we had a major system upgrade in process at Cable and Wireless, we had our first


day base in Aerothai networks. We had a first interconnection with the competitor softswitch and


we had a custom feature implementation for tier one carrier all during the same period. Although


it's great as we had so much new opportunity occurring accreted to bottleneck where there was


simply too much to get done in the short timeframe. We've already made the necessary changes to


our processed and we’ll be adding support personnel in Q4 in order to keep pace with our sales


growth in Q4 and beyond.


The advanced application support segment revenues were 2.1 million for the third quarter of 2005


compared to 208 million in the same quarter in 2004, a decline of 25%. A quarter-over-quarter


decline was expected in Q3 but this decline was significantly greater that what we expected. We


expect revenue from the segment to become more stable and we are taking vigorous actions to


bring on new business to replace the declining legacy base and to leverage this call center to free


up capacity in our product support area.


Today Verso has really about new technology having launched four new products and a major


software release on softswitch this year so far. As many of you know new product introduction


involves large amounts of supports and frequent delays at the front end. One such delay in our


ability to resolve and interrupt probability issue caused the loss of an ageist deal at the end of the


quarter. However for the last four weeks our engineers have been working intensely to resolve the


problem. Last Friday, I was informed that the product have passed test successfully in the same


switching environment and that this had resulted in large and important first order with a national


operator in India. Beyond this initial order we expect our business with this operator to scale


through several million dollars in the quarters to come.


We are coming up with other three quarters of new product introduction and entering new high


growth markets. The launch and training overhead will draw pass and with additional reserves our


time will accelerate our capacity for installations in pipeline built. The revenue drivers going into Q4


and 2006 will come from several core products and segments. Netperformer will continue to


increase our penetration of the GSM Abis sector. We’ve gained a tremendous amount of


experience and have completed successful trials in all major switching environment. So, I’m now


able to focus on the large production or whether is that follows. We now have only one significant


competitor having outpaced all the rest. We have also proven the product is a Skype gateway and


to deliver link optimization in WiMAX networks and are targeting those segments actively.


Stand alone costs, switching sales will continue to contribute to revenue and opportunities, such as


our Aksh broadband deployment, a multi million dollar deal, which commenced after deployment in


Q3. We believe this to be one of the largest broadband VoIP broadband networks in the world. We


are working to replicate the success in India, and have been successful in every market such as


Pakistan, where we’ve had several significant wins.


The MetroNet bundle which is targeted at new operators was launched at the end of Q3. This


represent the first time that our Netperformer Clarent, Softswitch and I-Master assets have been


combined and sold as an integrated solutions. We’ve already installed the first system and have


several in backlog. The more open architecture of this solution provides us with a key platform for


growth, has an ideal foundation for new Verso applications and preferred priority applications that


enhance our value propostion. There will also be a key platform for entry into other protocol


markets, which we have already targeted.