corrected transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to today’s Verso Paper Holdings Second Quarter 2008 Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I’d like to turn the


call over to, Mr. Bob Mundy, Senior Vice President and CFO. Please go ahead, sir.


Robert P. Mundy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Tom. Good morning and thank you for joining Verso Paper’s second quarter 2008


earnings conference call. Representing Verso today on this call is President and Chief Executive


Officer, Mike Jackson, and myself Bob Mundy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before turning the call over to Mike, I’d like to remind everyone that in the course of this call in order


to give you a better understanding of our performance, we will be making certain forward-looking


statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Should one or


more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions or estimates


proved incorrect, actual results may vary materially from management’s expectation.


If you’d like further information regarding the various risks and uncertainties associated with our


business, please refer to our annual report which has been posted to our website, versopaper.com


under the investor relations tab.


With that, I’ll turn it over to Mike Jackson.


Michael A. Jackson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Bob and good day everyone. Our comments today will be directed towards the slides in


our deck and of course, we look forward to your questions at the end. This call, as many of you are


aware, is our first quarterly call since our IPO. So we welcome our new shareholders to the call, in


addition to our existing bond holders. Since our carve out from International Paper two years ago


we’ve taken great strides to build what we think is a very good company that’s positioned for growth


and prosperity.


Since some of you who are on the call may be new to Verso, I’d like to give a very quick overview


of our business before discussing our second quarter results. If you move to slide three, Verso is


North America’s second largest producer of coated paper. We have four paper mills in the US that


produce 1.8 million tons of paper. Our core market segments, where we have very strong market


share, is focused on magazines and catalogs and coated freesheets and coated groundwood


represent 87% of our revenue. LCM revenue was 1.8 billion and adjusted EBITDA is 243 million.


If you move to slide four, this really shows our main product focus and that revolves around number


four and number five coated groundwood and number three coated freesheet. This concentration


on lightweight and ultra lightweight basis products, along with our focus on roll products only, as we


do not produce sheets, leaves us less susceptible to foreign imports, due to our lightweight


manufacturing expertise, northern fiber accessibility, which really allows us to produce the lighter


weight products and transportation advantages.


If you move to slide five and taking a look at the summary of our second quarter results, we are


very pleased that the second quarter was a strong quarter for our business as price and volume


trends were robust and EBITDA grew by 94% year-over-year.


Our top line volumes grew by 4% year-over-year, price grew 19% and our net revenues grew 21%.


On a sequential basis, we continue to increase our coated paper selling prices. Prices improved by
corrected transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


$32 per ton over our first quarter levels. In addition we’ve announced a further price increase of $60


per ton on our coated paper grades effective July 1. This price increase is being realized in line with


our other price increases from earlier in the year and we would expect our average selling price to


continue to increase in Q3 and Q4.


On the back of several straight quarters of strong volumes and market conditions Verso’s inventory


levels on June 30 were well below 2007 levels. The price line inventory has begun to grow, which


we will talk about a bit later in the call.


We continue to see improvement in operations due to our industry leading or RGAP program which


delivered another $6 million of cost savings in the quarter. In addition in Q2 we had three major


planned maintenance outages that were very successful, which impacted production volumes by


19,000 tons.


Moving to the year earnings side, despite the absorption of some very high raw material


headwinds, of which Bob will go into more detail later in the presentation, we grew our revenue


base in excess of our cost inflation such that our second quarter adjusted EBITDA of 60.4 million


was up 94% from second quarter ‘07 levels. With this quarter our LPM adjusted EBITDA now stand


at 243 million in which the further year-over-year increases as we move forward in 2008.


Our adjusted net loss was $2.6 million as compared to an adjusted loss of $35.2 million in the


second quarter of 2007. The special items during the quarter were primarily related to the IPO we


completed in May. A breakdown of those items in reconciliation to GAAP could be seen in the


appendix to this online presentation.


During the quarter we generated $29 million of free cash flow which brought our cash balance to


$48 million for the quarter. And as mentioned, we completed our IPO on May 20, and are proud to


announce the initiation of a $0.03 quarterly dividend to be paid on August 29, to shareholders of


record on August 21. This dividend is an acknowledgment of management’s and the board’s faith in


the cash flow generation of this company.


If you would refer to slide six, I’d like to take a moment to mention some key items relative to the


first half of 2008. Volumes and revenues were up 9% and 26%. We had price move-up $150 a ton


from second quarter 2007 levels and coated groundwood prices are up $250 a ton since June of


2007. Our adjusted EBITDA is up 94%, again in spite of unprecedented input cost increases, and


our adjusted net income improved by $61 million versus the first half of 2007.


We spent a tremendous amount of time educating our employees on their influence on working


capital. This has really paid off for us, as our working capital is 3.5% of sales. And we believe that


this percent of working capital can be compared very favorably to any company in our industry.


We’ve built the efficient and cost effective organization following our acquisition from IT with


benchmark SG&A levels at 3.3% of net sales.


Our safety results continue to improve, which not only means that our employees are safer then


ever. But safe facilities have a direct correlation to improved machine efficiencies, which continue to


show improvement over 2007 levels. And we were one of only two forest products companies in the


US recognized by AS and PA with significant environmental results, which we’re very proud of as


well.


At this time I’ll ask Bob to walk us through more of our specific results in the second quarter. Bob.