raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Verso


Technologies First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-


only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session, instructions been given at that


time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Monish


Bahl, please go ahead.


Monish Bahl, Director of Investor Relations


Thanks. Good evening and welcome to the Verso first quarter earnings call. Before we start the


call, let me remind the listeners that some of the statements in today's call will constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the


Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that such forward-


looking statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial


performance, that are subject to many uncertainties and factors related to the Company's operating


and business environment, which may cause actual results of the Company to be different than any


future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Please see the Company's


section entitled "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31, 2004 for a list of such uncertainties and factors. Verso Technologies undertakes no


obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new


information, future results or otherwise.


In this call, we will use EBITDA, which is defined as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation,


amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred compensation. Additional information


regarding EBITDA is set forth in the earnings release that we put out today at 4 PM and can be


accessed through the Investor section of the Verso website.


Steve Odom, Verso's Chief Executive Officer will start off today's call. Before I turn the call over to


Steve, I would like to make mention of an event occurring this week. As many of you most likely


know, we will be having a special shareholder meeting on Wednesday the 27th at 10 AM here in


Atlanta. If any shareholders would like to attend the meeting and personally meet the management


team, you are more then welcome. The meeting is required in connection with the $13.5 million


convertible debt financing the Company recently completed. The Company agreed among other


things, to use its reasonable best effort to obtain shareholder approval for certain proposals.


For that meeting, we are still short of a quorum, meaning that we do not yet have a majority of


shares voted outstanding yet. Although the vast majority of shares that have been voted have been


in favor of Verso's recommendations, it is required that we have a quorum for the shareholder vote


to count. If a quorum is not presented by the meeting, then the meeting will be postponed to solicit


additional proxies and votes. Therefore, we would like to request anyone who has not yet voted to


electronically vote as soon as possible. If you do not know how to electronically vote, please call


our proxy solicitor which is DF King at the phone number 212-493-6992. There's also information


on this posted on our website at www.verso.com. Thank you so much for your cooperation.


With that I'll turn the call over to Steve. Steve, please go ahead.
raw transcript


Verso Technologies, Inc.
 
VRSO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Steven Odom, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Monish. I'd like to welcome all of you to our first quarter 2005 conference call. With me


on the call today is Lewis Jaffe, our President and COO; Monty Bannerman, our Senior VP of


Strategic Initiatives and Juliet Reising, our CFO.


Before I pass the call over to Lew I will highlight some of the things that we've accomplished in the


first quarter. Lew, Juliet and Monty will be discussing these in greater details later on the call.


Again we've had another busy quarter at Verso. We completed our $13.5 million convertible debts


financing. We completed the divesture of legacy non-core assets raising $4 million in cash and


$3.50 million note due to Verso. We completed the acquisition of JTA which you will hear later on


from Lew and Monty to be a key to our strategy going forward.


We introduced our new GSM A.bis NetPerformer technology last quarter and the customer


response has been significant. We have began an aggressive product development initiatives to


add an enhanced feature server to our softswitching technology which I had focused a lot of my


time and expertise personally to drive and ensure not divisional engineering cooperation, but an


increased entrepreneurial spirit throughout the organization. I believe this new technology could put


us ahead of our competition. And we received our new patent which expands our previous patent to


include the technology and solutions aligned with our strategic direction.


I feel like the pieces are finally in place and with the international economy now beginning to show


signs of improvement, along with our new products and our new product development roadmap, I


feel that the future of Verso is certainly broader.


I'll now turn the call to Lew Jaffe. Thank you. Lew?


Lewis Jaffe, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks Steve. It is amazing how quickly the last few months have gone by. Today Monty and I will


be reporting results on our first full quarter. From revenue perspective, this quarter fell short of


expectations, yours and ours. With that said, we are making progress. Our goal on this call is to


help you see the strides we have made and understand why we remained bullish about our future.


Q1 is always a difficult quarter due to the fact that many of our end users are resetting their budgets


and planning for the upcoming year. Additionally, the economy on a global basis was not helping us


or any companies in the telecommunications sector, as evidenced by so may pre-announcement


and lower than expected Q1 in our peer group.


Our sales focus has been predominately on the international opportunities. As such, we did not


enjoy the benefit of any domestic recovery that some of our peers did. The international economy


has lagged behind with respect to the recovery. However, the good news is that there are signs of a


recovery on international basis. Particularly, in the EMEA region we have been focused and enjoy a


significant quantity of our technology sales today.


We see our opportunity list and our qualified sales pipeline built which speak to the recovery


starting in the international market. Our product have a 6 to 18 months sale cycle and many of the


sales in this quarter were deals were started before Monty and I joined the company. I am not


making excuses; however, because of the long sale cycle almost all of our deals that the sales


team closed were ones that the previous sale management were driving towards. Going forward, it


is our, meaning Monty and my pipeline that we will deliver against our revenue projection.