Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark K. Oki — Chief Financial Officer & Chief Accounting Officer, VIVUS, Inc.
John P. Amos — Chief Executive Officer & Director, VIVUS, Inc.
Chuck Whitesell — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the VIVUS Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2018 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

For introductions and opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Oki, VIVUS Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead sir.

Thank you operator. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's teleconference. With me on the call is John Amos, VIVUS' Chief Executive Officer. Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that during this conference call we will make certain statements that are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, likely, may, opportunity, plan, potential, predict and should among others. These forward-looking statements are based on VIVUS' current expectations and actual results could differ materially.

There are number of factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Investors are advised to read the risk factors set forth in VIVUS' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, that was filed earlier today February 26, 2019, as well as periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. VIVUS does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made on this call.

I would now review the fourth quarter financial results for 2018 and then turn the call over to John who will provide a business update and discuss several key initiatives that will be of focus through 2019.

Qsymia net product revenue was $10.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 as compared to $8.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. The increase was primarily due to improvements in Qsymia's gross to net deduction, including sales returns and discounts. Shipments were approximately 87,000 units in the fourth quarter of 2018 as compared to 88,000 units in the same period in 2017. Approximately 83,000 and 91,000 Qsymia prescriptions were dispensed in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively.

PANCREAZE net revenue – net product revenue in the U.S. was $7.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, up sequentially from $6.7 million in the third quarter of 2018, and represents the company's second full quarter of PANCREAZE revenue. During this period, we shipped approximately 32,000 units of PANCREAZE.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, we anticipate that future PANCREAZE net revenue – net product revenue will be impacted by higher wholesaler fees as VIVUS take over supply chain management and implements certain promotional strategies, including the issuance of discount coupons. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we recognized $0.5 million of royalty revenue from Canadian PANCREASE MT sales and $0.5 million of royalties from Menarini for net sales of SPEDRA.

Supply revenue to our licensees, Menarini and Metuchen for SPEDRA and STENDRA were $1.7 million and $2.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Both Menarini and Metuchen have minimum order requirements and their orders do not necessarily reflect end user demand. Total cost of goods sold excluding amortization was $5.2 million and $3.8 million in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase was primarily a result of the addition of PANCREAZE product revenue during the quarter.

Amortization of intangible assets was $3.6 million and $91,000 in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase was due to the amortization of costs capitalized with the acquisition of PANCREAZE.

Research and development expense was $1.8 million and $1.2 million in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Research and development expenses were impacted by the assumption of certain post-marketing requirements or PMRs from Janssen as part of the PANCREAZE acquisition and the initiation of the Qsymia PMR of an adolescent safety and efficacy study.

General and administrative expenses was $4.6 million and $5.7 million for the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to cost control initiatives during the year. In 2019, we expect a slight increase in general and administrative costs as we continue the integration of PANCREAZE activities. In addition, G&A expenses may vary materially based on business development activities.

Selling and marketing expenses totaled $3.1 million and $3.0 million in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The slight increase was due to marketing expenses associated with PANCREAZE. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase from fourth quarter levels with the launch of PANCREAZE in the first quarter of 2019 which John will describe in greater detail shortly. Additional expenses will include growth in our field force and potential administrative, partnering and/or promotional activities.

Total interest and other expense net was $6.3 million and $8.2 million for the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Fourth quarter 2018 results include a $1.4 million gain on the repurchase of $8.574 million of convertible notes. On an annual basis we will pay approximately $19.6 million in annual interest payments on our outstanding convertible and senior secured notes.

Net loss for the fourth quarter of 2018 was $4.5 million as compared to $10.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities were $111.2 million at December 31, 2018.

Non-GAAP EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2018 was $6.1 million as compared to a negative EBITDA of $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found in the press release filed earlier today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I will now turn the call over to John for a business update and discussion of our goals and strategy going forward.

Cool. Thanks, Mark, and thanks to everyone on the call for your time this afternoon. It's great to have a chance to discuss VIVUS with you. 2018 year – 2018 was the year of transformation for the company. We started the year with Board Member, Tom King starting in the role of Interim CEO with a daunting task of executing on the strategy to transform VIVUS into a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company and generate positive EBITDA. Tom did a great job and we thank him [ph] dearly (07:22).

Our strategy began to take further shape with the [indiscernible] (07:26) significant commercial and M&A experience in myself, [indiscernible] (07:30) and at the same time acquiring PANCREAZE. Starting July 1, 2018, we effectively rebooted the company. In the second half of 2018 we generated $10.9 million of recurring EBITDA, a major improvement compared with a loss of $7 million in fiscal year 2017.

We intend to continue to execute on the strategy by acquiring new products and re-energizing our existing products PANCREAZE and Qsymia. In addition to delivering on the goal of generating positive recurring EBITDA, we [indiscernible] (08:05) significant progress on 14 identified issues with the business. This included executing a reverse stock split, buying down and restructuring a portion of our debt, improving our [indiscernible] (08:17), improving profitability on Qsymia, integrating PANCREAZE, improving the financial discipline of VIVUS and developing a go-forward plan for VI-0106.

We know from our experience that turnaround companies like VIVUS typically takes about 10 financial quarters. July 1, 2018, through December 2018 represents the completion of the first 2 quarters of the 10 quarters or in other words we're about 20% of way through our turnaround. We're very pleased with our progress. There's still so much more stockholder value that can be created with VIVUS in the next 24 months and beyond. So, I'll talk about the next 24 months or the other 80% of the turnaround. We're focused on the following core activities. One, [indiscernible] (09:02) PANCREAZE profitably; two, [indiscernible] (09:04) Qsymia profitably; three, continuing to license STENDRA/SPEDRA; four, continuing development of VI-0106; five, managing and prepare to paydown our May 2020 convertible notes of $181.4 million; and continuing our business development activities to acquire assets and [indiscernible] (09:25)

First, we will discuss PANCREAZE. On February 19, 2019, last week, following an efficient and smooth transition of the product from Janssen [indiscernible] (09:35) we re-launched PANCREAZE. In combination with our leadership, we've secured a tremendous [indiscernible] (09:41) along with an incredibly experienced sales force [indiscernible] (09:44) that will focus on GI and cystic fibrosis healthcare providers.

The sales force has an average of 10.5 – 10 to 15 plus years of pharmaceutical experience primarily in the fields of gastroenterology and pulmonology. We are targeting approximately the top 40% of U.S. physicians should prescribe treatment for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency or EPI with our sales effort.

In addition [indiscernible] (10:10) robust sales force, we [indiscernible] (10:12) evolving VIVUS Health Platform. Our pharmaceutical advantage programs encompass our physician sampling program, patient access programs, copay cards, vitamins and nutritional supplements.

We believe our program will be recognized as the easiest to use and most efficient patient support program in the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. We built the program using a handful of HIPAA-compliant cloud technologies coupled with VIVUS [indiscernible] (10:39) demonstrating our ability to leverage technology to advance the marketing and adoption of our products.

We are hopeful and believe that the combination of our sales force, pharmaceutical quality and efficacy of PANCREAZE and the PANCREAZE Advantage program will enable VIVUS to generate above-market growth for the brand.

We believe we will be able to generate 6 percentage points to 9 percentage points of EPI market share in the next 24 months to 36 months. As a reminder, each point of market share is worth approximately $1.1 million of net revenue.

To provide us with an additional dose for adult pancreatitis patients, we are working closely with our manufacturing partner [indiscernible] (11:19) measure PANCREAZE pill with the goal of launching this dose in the first half of 2021. Typically, we'll be re-launching the legacy branded product between two quarters and three quarters to see meaningful sales growth.

We believe that in the third quarter of 2019, we will see meaningful sales growth for the PANCREAZE brand. We are optimistic that our new initiatives will lead to the faster uptake of sales and we will have greater insight into our market position as we move forward with PANCREAZE and the VIVUS product over the next several quarters. As Mark noted, however, the launch of PANCREAZE in the first quarter of 2019 may put pressure on our operating results for the next few quarters due to increased investment in sales, marketing and distribution.

Let's move onto Qsymia, first and foremost, we are pleased with how Qsymia performed in the fourth quarter and we believe there is additional growth for this important product. Approximately 90 million Americans with BMI greater than [indiscernible] (12:19) which may make them eligible to take Qsymia. Given the safety and efficacy of Qsymia and the well-known health benefits of losing weight, Qsymia is the drug that eligible Americans and their physicians should seriously consider as a part of their treatment for high BMI.

The VIVUS team is working hard to make sure that more and more Americans and healthcare professionals have the required knowledge of and access to Qsymia, which should explain the use of Qsymia in patients who can benefit from weight loss. Given the safety and pharmaceutical [indiscernible] (12:53) product has been challenged to deliver on the expectations initially laid out for it in 2012. I'd like to take a moment now and review some of the historical challenges with Qsymia that have been barriers to realizing its full clinical and commercial potential.

There are a number of misunderstandings about the [indiscernible] (13:12) obesity market. First, the assumption that the BMI therapeutics [indiscernible] (13:17) reimbursed with typical branded pharmaceuticals turned out to be incorrect. BMI therapeutics have little to no [indiscernible] (13:24) exposed in the brand and more consumer price elasticity shaping and effectively shrinking the market based on actual price. Second, [indiscernible] (13:34) underestimated the number of people with a desire to take a pill to aid weight loss. Reality is only about 10%, 15% of the eligible high BMI patients are willing to take a pill to aid in weight loss. And among these patients, a pill could be an over-the-counter weight loss supplement or a prescribed therapeutic. Three, finally, the company and the analyst community overestimated the duration that these patients would want to be on a BMI pharmaceutical. While the initial expectation that these therapies would be used [indiscernible] 14:15 they're more typically used for just three to six months. We believe that these three factors create a shrinking effect on the market acceptance of Qsymia. In addition, these three factors lead us to running a 15-day trial offer which [indiscernible] since the launch would go on providing patients free access to the initial titration dose. Programs [indiscernible] , however, because patients haven't been on the product long enough for higher doses to experience weight loss about 50% of the patients don't continue with therapy beyond the free trial. Many of these patients are led to believe the product [ph] doesn't work for them (00:14:51), which probably isn't the case. We're in the process of replacing the 15-day free trial offer program with initial prescription of 45-days, $98 to allow the patients to titrate on to Qsymia [ph] plus the (00:14:58) responders experience weight loss. [ph] VIVUS (00:15:01) generates $98 of revenue versus $50 on the [indiscernible] (00:15:05) loss from free trial of the [indiscernible] (00:15:04).

The physician and patient feedback [indiscernible] (00:15:11) very positive, due to this change, we will anticipate experiencing a decline in the number of Qsymia starter dose prescriptions, but overall, we believe the change will have a positive effect of patient [ph] (00:15:21) new starts, profitability and revenue. In addition to the free offer trial change, our outstanding sales and marketing team have picked up the re-launch of Qsymia as of yesterday February 25, 2019, [ph] (00:15:36) primary launch [indiscernible] . One, we are moving the market from traditional retail channel to [ph] track to (00:15:41) patient [indiscernible] (00:15:43) this changed several things. Most importantly, lower the [indiscernible] (00:15:47) cost to the patients by 40% with minimal change in net revenue to be this on a per strip basis. We're enabling patients to order the product from [indiscernible] (00:15:57), once the prescription have been filed. We intend to launch telemedicine experience to the patient along the nutritional products and weight loss focus [indiscernible] (00:16:03) as part of the evolving VIVUS Health Platform and Qsymia advantage program.

We are creating a managed care program focused on self-insured employers, and Medicare advantage members. We [ph] don't (00:16:18) expect this program to be [ph] live ()00:16:19 until 2020, but the initial discussions in the market have been extremely positive. We've increased the size of our Qsymia sales team from 18 to 21 utilizing three inside sales reps to contact healthcare professionals that will not be able – that we would not be able to address, efficiently through our existing field-based sales force. Qsymia has been used to treat over 600,000 Americans today and we believe that based on the changes that we're making to our Qsymia sales and marketing strategy, we will be able to expand the market size in the range of 6 million to 11 million individuals in the United States and world.

The very high price point for Qsymia to-date has [indiscernible] (00:16:59) the size of market, we think that these changes will translate into meaningfully increased annual U.S. levels. Last month, we announced that the data supporting the cardiovascular safety of Qsymia has been published in The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism and concert with this announcement, they also summarized key findings from multiple clinical trials and peer-reviewed publications, that all support the cardiovascular safety of Qsymia. We believe that this robust body of safety data both for patients and physicians useful information that the use of Qsymia did not increase the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events.

We intend to include these filings from a retrospective observational study in claims database and our ongoing discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration related to our requested label modification for Qsymia. The requested modification will allow for the safe and effective short-term use of Qsymia and could potentially reduce or modify the need for cardiovascular outcomes study.

As for the EU, we're planning for a decentralized submission in certain EU countries in the second half of 2019. We previously [indiscernible] (00:18:08) centralized Qsymia MAA submission [ph] but were non-approved (00:18:13). We believe that a decentralized approach will increase our opportunities to gain approval and marketing experience in certain EU countries. In addition, we expect our first ex-U.S. approval of Qsymia in 2019. Finally, we want to update you on our ongoing dialogue with the FDA regarding our cardiovascular outcomes trial or CVOT post-marketing requirement. By way of background the approval of Qsymia, included a number of post marketing requirements including the CVOT.

To-date being able to satisfy or advance each of the post-marketing requirements with the exception of the CVOT, which we are seeking to either significantly reduce or eliminate.

As we mentioned earlier in the call, Qsymia is not used chronically despite its [indiscernible] (00:18:59). The vast majority of patients take Qsymia for three to six months. We have generated a significant amount of usage data supporting the CV safety profile of Qsymia. The short-term use of Qsymia coupled with real-world safety data in our own opinion supports the reduction or elimination of the CVOT requirement. As I mentioned previously, we've submitted an sNDA, seeking a label modification from chronic to short term usage, which we believe is justified in reduction or elimination of the CVOT. The sNDA is pending with no anticipated timeframe or response from the FDA.

In addition, we continue to respectfully engage with the FDA to identify alternative studies through CVOT that will provide the FDA with additional Qsymia CV safety data. Is our hope that such alternative studies will significantly reduce or eliminate the need for the CVOT, but today we have not reached final agreement with the FDA on the design of any such study or the impact any such study would potentially have on the CVOT [ph] post-marketing requirement (00:20:02).

To conclude on Qsymia, [ph] heard a lot (00:20:08) about the product in the [indiscernible] (00:20:09), since approval, and especially in the last eight months, to safe and efficacious product that delivers the [indiscernible] (00:20:13). We've tested a couple of programs to drive sales and they've worked, we're enrolling those programs out to a large portion of U.S. population. We believe that we can grow the revenue and the profitability of Qsymia, [indiscernible] (00:20:28) members as we've changed sales models [indiscernible] (00:20:32) and intent to keep working to grow this product.

Let me now turn to avanafil, which is marketed as STENDRA in United States and SPEDRA in Europe. We previously discussed avanafil is largely managed has licensing opportunity and it's approved in addition and as its approved in additional territories around the globe, we'll have additional licensing opportunities. In 2018, we received notifications of approvals, commercialize SPEDRA from Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey has just recently received regulatory approval in the United Arab Emirates. We are expecting the completion of regulatory review in Russia in 2019, although, we'll continue to drive licensing opportunities for avanafil and manage our partnerships. We only see as royalty like contributor to [ph] be this as (00:21:19) long-term financial performance. Our product portfolio also included [indiscernible] (00:21:22) asset VI-0106. This development asset is proprietary [indiscernible] (00:21:28) soft capsule formulation of tacrolimus that is being developed for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension or PAH a serious rare and progression disease with significant unmet medical need and no curative therapies. New therapies that address the underlying cause of the disease are urgently needed and available data suggests that VI-0106 may fill this need, as a potentially class/disease modifying medicine that could extend survival for PAH patients. We believe there is an opportunity for VI-0106 to receive fast track and/or clinical breakthrough designations from the FDA. Tacrolimus has been approved in multiple organ transplant [indiscernible] (00:22:15) atopic dermatitis and ulcerative colitis, robust body of safety data for tacrolimus should help streamline the regulatory pathway for VI-0106.

As [ph] should (00:22:26) preliminary data we have related to the use – we approved tacrolimus formulations in patients with PAH. If VI-1006 receives breakthrough designation therapy, we believe there is a clinical and regulatory pathway that could lead to approval in late 2021 or 2022. We believe the [indiscernible] (00:22:46) data our [ph] UK late-stage (00:22:50) one trial data the investigator with Phase 2 trial data of long-standing use of tacrolimus in humans for other indications and the dosing required for the PAH indication being less than required for immunosuppression or [ph] lend (00:23:04) significant support to our ongoing effort to obtain approval for the treatment of PAH.

We're frequently asked about the timing of partnering this asset. While we've had preliminary conversations with interested parties around partnering, we believe that more values can be realized by moving the product further through the development process for relatively nominal investment, while still constantly evaluating our partnering options. Partnering at this moment in time would result in [indiscernible] (00:23:30) much on the upside of the asset if VI-0106 ultimately gains approval. Additionally, some of the strategic partners we have spoken with have financial capabilities that we don't have, but VIVUS's pharmaceutical approval track record is better. So our partner [indiscernible] (00:23:45) broader commercial capabilities, but VI-0106 doesn't require an extensive sales force only probably about 10 people with a single dedicated medical device. Plus VIVUS'S financial position has significantly improved for both 2018 as it stands right now we are planning to file the investigation, new drug application with the FDA in 2019. We will continue to explore options we expect to raise in capital, specifically for VI-0106, but we're just not willing to do something prematurely that would likely not retain value for the VIVUS shareholders.

Now, I'd like to [indiscernible] (00:24:17) some topic of our debt. We currently have a net debt position of $182 million as of December 31, 2018. If we take our fourth quarter 2018 EBITDA and [ph] revenue (00:24:30), they're running at approximately 7.45 [ph] times (00:24:33) of net debt-to-EBITDA. First of all, we consider an acceptable standard of 5x net debt-to-EBITDA. While we recognize this company is still modestly over levered, we believe we have greatly improved the quality of the balance sheet of the company. Our continued focus on improving the operations and profitability should continue to further mitigate this risk. We've been in the market discussing our credit needs for the first half of next year due to the fact that we will redirect – refinance a portion of our debt. Given our significant improvement and performance in the second half of 2018 and the plans that we have in place for 2019 and the first quarter of 2020 for collective [indiscernible] (00:25:11) significantly stable. We now believe our multiple patents solve this issue once and for all. And certainly, our debt [indiscernible] (00:25:19), but we believe this risk has significantly been reduced.

As we work to maximize the value of our current product portfolio on advanced VI-0106, we are also seeking new cash flow positive [indiscernible] (00:25:33) and corporate acquisition opportunities. We've evaluated 24-plus deals and [indiscernible] (00:25:40) of letters of intent. For the last couple of deals because of price we offered lower [indiscernible] (00:25:45) and in one case [ph] we were outdid by 50 (00:25:46) plus percent. So, the other deals are still under consideration.

We're evaluating candidates of [indiscernible] (00:25:50) with better criteria of meeting patients need while working towards profitability and building stockholder value. Online as we want to and can acquire license, but we'll only do so if they meet our criteria.

We are also evaluating [indiscernible] (00:26:04) as well. We have expanded commercial capabilities, our managed programs along with the ever-expanding VIVUS health platform, [ph] they deserve very (00:26:15) attractive co-promotion program.

In conclusion, I believe that 2018 was a truly transformative year for VIVUS. [] Our leadership (00:26:33) and our management team has developed and has successfully executed on array of strategy designed to position us for long-term sustainable profitability and success. As I mentioned, we are just about 20% of the way for our turnaround. We believe that the changes and progress that we've already achieved in reducing our debt increasing our EBITDA, developing and implementing new sales and marketing strategy and are identifying multiple opportunities to grow revenues from our current commercial portfolio should provide clear evidence that we have what it takes to reach our goals.

We've already made significant progress on our key portfolio objectives for 2019 by relaunching PANCREAZE under the VIVUS brand and the deployment of our sales force team. Our standard sales force with multiple new capabilities around Qsymia are very exciting. We are also focused on implementing the advantage model for Qsymia and PANCREAZE. As I indicated in each quarter since becoming CEO last [indiscernible] (00:27:17), reducing our debt, increasing EBITDA, acquiring EBITDA positive assets and achieving the appropriate leverage ratio will continue to be our overarching priorities in 2019 and 2020.

Operator, you may now open the line for question-and-answer period.

Thank you. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jim Birchenough with Wells Fargo Securities. You may begin.

Hi. Congratulations on all the progress. This is Chuck Whitesell for Jim. I know you've talked about your plan for refinancing debt and making progress on that front. Can you speak at all give any insight to the cash runway at this point?

Sorry. We had a hard time hearing you. Can you repeat that?

Yeah.

Yes. Thanks for the update on the plans to refinance debt through 2020. Can you speak to the cash runway position how that looks?

Yeah. I mean our biggest factor is the convertible notes that are due in May of 2020. We have more than sufficient cash to get us to that point, but we have to do some refinancing or raising capital of someway prior to actually paying off that debt.

Okay. All right thank you.

Maybe just further to add on that. We're essentially not burning cash and more maybe a little bit as our expenses are going to up in Q1, Q2 just given that we launched PANCREAZE, but overall we've made overall tremendous progress and eliminating the cash burn of the company's after last few years.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from [ph] John (00:29:32) [indiscernible] (00:29:33). You may proceed.

Good afternoon, John and Mark. I wanted to ask about additional geographic opportunities for licensing of avanafil and I'm especially thinking about the former Sanofi territories. What opportunities are ahead in that area?

Yeah. So, definitely, the Middle East is a big opportunity for us there also. We're looking at comprehensive setup of – from the three or four folks that we're having conversations with it right now around continuing to expand our market penetration, particularly, in the Middle East. As we see Russia and Central America, and Mexico, those are additional opportunities as well for us. So we probably see seven or eight territories probably and – call it a half billion people from a population perspective, but -call 250 million people from a population perspective.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah.

Thanks for the question, John. [Operator Instructions]

If there are no further questions, I will turn the line back over to John Amos for closing remarks. Sir, you may proceed.

Operator, it appears that we have a one more question from [ph] Steve (31:20) [indiscernible] (321:20).

Mr. [indiscernible] (00:31:26), you may please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. Congratulations on a nice turnaround. It looks very impressive.

Thank you.

I had a question about your new marketing for Qsymia and I was wondering if you're going to do some any type of television advertising or going directly to people that might not think about going through a doctor, but aren't aware of the product because if you have such a great story and a great

track record I would think that TV ads, sending them to a website would possibly help. What are your thoughts on that?

Yeah. No, it's a great question [ph] Steve (32:08) and I appreciate it. I think what we did do is one of the initiatives we changed the way that we're managing our digital campaign. And what we found is that the return on investment for focused digital campaigns are a much better return on investment than television advertising. It allows us to do a much more finite and targeted messaging and we're able to – through our digital ad campaigns we're able to more quickly and rapidly identify patients that will benefit from our therapy.

I think the – if you look at some of the other competitors and the product, they did focus and utilize television ad campaigns to drive their volumes. And while they were initially successful, ultimately led to basically a bankrupt financial model. They just ended up not working properly. And so what we're further doing is really improving access around the program as well too. So with the introduction of telemedicine, we're effectively eliminating a number of the barriers. Right now, patient has to go into the physician's office or should I say interact with the physician. What we're really trying to do is make this a process that is very – something that you do from the comfort of your home.

This is also – weight loss is very similar to ED in terms of its – what is referred to as a door-handle conversation. So right before the patient leaves the physician's office, as they're holding the door-handle, they turnaround and they say, hey what about weight loss products. And by moving to telemedicine and utilizing advanced digital metrics for patient identification, we believe that we'll be able to [indiscernible] (33:55) growth there. So, we're going to stay off of traditional television, just burns a lot of cash, hard to measure ROI and we're going to stick with programs that are more effective in terms of driving [ph] share of wallet (34:11)

Okay. Another question – yes, yes, thank you. And also what are the possibilities of this product before the patent expires or your exclusivity about getting a – an over the counter type of approval, is that any possibility?

No, that's – I would never say never, but I'd say pretty close to never. It has phentermine and phentermine is a controlled substance. It's called C4 class of drug and for vast majority of C4, C3, C2 drugs are all managed and monitored pretty heavily by DEA. So, I think the probability of this moving to that over the counter is severely – very, very extraordinarily low probability and it's not something that we're pursuing with the FDA.

All right. Well, thank you very much and I really do notice the way you guys are turning the company around and turning it into a actual business where you're running at kind of a – like a business model instead of just throwing products around. I really see you're doing a great job. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Appreciate the time.

Thank you.

Thank you. As there are no further questions, I now turn the call back over to John Amos for closing remarks.

Hi. Thanks again for your time today. We're excited for 2019 and it'll be our first full year of the new management team, and believe that the accomplishments we made in just a few months of 2018, and beginning of 2019 are important evidence of what we'll achieve in the year ahead. Mark and I look forward to sharing our progress with you. And, operator, I'll hand it back over to you.

And that concludes today's call. All parties may now disconnect. Have a great day.