Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Leland F. Wilson — Chief Executive Officer & Director, VIVUS, Inc.
Peter Y. Tam — President & Director, VIVUS, Inc.
Timothy E. Morris — CFO & Senior VP-Global Corporate Development, VIVUS, Inc.
Michael Patrick Miller — Chief Commercial Officer & Senior Vice President, VIVUS, Inc.
Simos Simeonidis — Analyst, Cowen & Co.
Matthew J. Lowe — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Thomas A. Wei — Analyst, Jefferies & Co., Inc.
Alan Carr — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Michael G. King — Analyst, Rodman & Renshaw LLC
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
George B. Zavoico — Analyst, McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC
Steve Byrne — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the VIVUS First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce our host for today, Mr. Tim Morris. Sir, please go ahead.

[0049Q8-E Timothy Morris]

Thank you, operator. Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, VIVUS will make certain statements that are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as anticipate, believe, forecast, estimate, expected, intend, likely, may, plan, potential, predict, opportunity and should, among others.

There are a number of factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the response from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or FDA to our resubmission of the New Drug Application or NDA for Qnexa for the treatment of obesity, including weight loss and maintenance of weight loss, recommended for obese patients of BMI 30 and above or overweight patients of BMI 27 and above with weight-related co-morbidities such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, with a contraindication that excludes the use of Qnexa by women who are pregnant.

Our response to questions and requests for additional information, including additional preclinical or clinical studies from the European Medicines Agency or EMA and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human or CHMP or the Marketing Authorization Application or MAA for Qnexa. Whether or not the FDA chooses to follow the recommendation of the second advisory committee in its vote in favor of approval of Qnexa and our ability to successfully create a commercial infrastructure in the U.S. to launch Qnexa, if approved.

As it with any pharmaceutical in development, there are significant risk in the development and the regulatory approval and commercialization of new products. There are no guarantees that our responses to the FDA or CHMP will be sufficient to satisfy the FDA or CHMP's safety concerns. That the FDA or foreign authorities will not require us to conduct any additional prospective or retrospective observational studies or that any product will receive regulatory approval for any indication approved to be commercially successful. VIVUS does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Investors should read the risk factors set forward in the VIVUS Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2011, and the periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Leland F. Wilson, CEO of VIVUS.

Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. Joining me on the call, along with Tim, is VIVUS's President, Peter Tam, and our Chief Commercial Officer, Mike Miller.

The focus of today's call is to provide an update on Qnexa and Avanafil, which is now known by the U.S. brand name Stendra. First, I will comment on the recent approval of Stendra, and discuss our partnership strategy for the U.S. and in the territories outside of the United States.

Peter will provide a regulatory update on Qnexa both in the U.S. and the EU. Tim will follow with the Q1 results and an update on cash, and Mike will close with a summary of our U.S. precommercial activities for Qnexa. And lastly, we'll take your questions.

Since our last call, the highlight was the approval of Stendra. On April 27, 2012, we announced that the FDA had approved Stendra tablets for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Stendra is the first new prescription agent approved for ED in nearly a decade. ED affects as many as 30 million men in the United States and estimates are that about half of the men using ED treatments are unsatisfied.

The Stendra clinical studies include more than 1,200 men with ED. Stendra met all primary efficacy end points at all doses tested, 50 milligram, 100 milligram and 200 milligram. Significant improvement in erectile function was observed for all doses in Stendra-treated patients compared to placebo. More information about Stendra, including the full prescribing information, can be found at www.stendra.com.

On the partnering front, we are currently in discussions with potential partners to commercialize Stendra in the United States and our territories around the world. In Europe, the Avanafil MAA submission was accepted by the EMA in March of 2012. The approval of Stendra is a tremendous accomplishment and is due to the excellent work of the Stendra development team, including significant contributions from our partner, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation.

Peter will now provide an update on Qnexa.

Thanks, Lee. I also would like to add my thanks to our development team for Stendra. The approval of the NDA on the PDUFA date is an important milestone for VIVUS.

For Qnexa, our investigational drug for treatment of obesity as previously announced, the PDUFA date has been extended to July 17, 2012. On April 4 of 2012, at the FDA's request, we submitted a comprehensive Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, for Qnexa. The FDA requested that we provide all of the REMS materials, such as screenshots of the website, medication guide, patient and physician educational materials, training curriculum, medical society letters and patient brochures.

Given the magnitude of these REMS materials, the FDA needed more time, specifically a three-month PDUFA extension, to complete their review. We continue to work with the FDA to finalize the REMS and label ahead of the July 17 PDUFA date. For Qnexa in Europe, in April 2012, we submitted our response to the 180-day CHMP list of outstanding issues for the Qnexa marketing authorization application, also known as MAA, for the European Union. We anticipate a response from the CHMP in the second quarter of 2012.

I will now turn the call over to Tim to discuss the quarter – Q1 results.

Thank you, Peter. For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, VIVUS had a net loss of $18.8 million or $0.20 per share, as compared to a net loss of $9.9 million or $0.12 per share for the first quarter last year. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to increased general and administrative expenses for spending on Qnexa pre-commercialization activity. For more information on the financial results, I refer you to the press release and the 10-Q filing for the first quarter.

As for cash, VIVUS had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities of $333 million at the end of March. This compares to $146 million at the end of December. The increase in cash of $186 million is primarily the net result of proceeds of $192 million received from an underwritten public offering of our common stock in March 2012, offset by cash used in operations for the quarter. I wish to thank JPMorgan and our other co-managers for their assistance in connection with the timely at-market offering of our securities.

The net cash used in operations for the first quarter was approximately $14 million. With the favorable advisory committee vote, we have accelerated our spending on pre-commercialization activities in preparation of the launch of Qnexa, if approved. We anticipate that our cash burn will increase on a quarterly basis in 2012.

On the Investor Relations front, we will participate in several investor conferences in the second quarter. This week, we will be at the Deutsche Bank Healthcare Conference in Boston, next week on Monday, we will participate in the JMP Securities Annual Research Conference in San Francisco, and on Tuesday, we will present at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2012 Healthcare Conference in Las Vegas.

I will now turn the call over to Mike to give you an update on the Qnexa commercial activities.

Thanks very much, Tim. The extension of the Qnexa PDUFA to July 17 does not delay our commercial planning and launch timeline for Qnexa, if approved. We continue to invest in the commercial infrastructure and undertake the necessary activities to prepare for the launch of Qnexa ourselves in the United States.

Having no further delays in the FDA's review of the Qnexa NDA, we anticipate launching Qnexa in the second half of 2012. We can provide an update on the launch date as we get closer to the PDUFA date. The commercial activities that we have completed and that are in progress to prepare for the launch include the selection of our third-party logistics or 3PL to distribute Qnexa, the design and contracting of our Qnexa-certified pharmacy network, the traction in hiring of key personnel in sales, marketing, market access and medical affairs required to support the launch.

These recent hires include the National Sales Director, Regional Sales Director, Director of Sales Operations, Director of Market Access and Senior Medical Affairs personnel. We have managed to pull very good talent from big and small pharma and biotech.

On the sales force, we've agreed to business terms with our CSO to provide 150 sales reps. We have designed the sales territories, defined the initial physician target list and developed a sales training program and materials. In the marketing area, we've also made substantial progress. The communication plan, the promotional materials have been developed and tested. The healthcare provider education program is complete, pending FDA feedback and patient materials and patient support program are also in their final stages.

In summary, we believe that we are on track for a timely and successful launch of Qnexa, if approved.

Now, I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from the line of Simos Simeonidis from Cowen and Company. Mr. Simeonidis, your line is open.

Hi, can you hear me?

Yes.

Hi, thanks for taking the question. I apologize if this has been asked, but I just joined. I was wondering if you can describe for us the precommercial activity that's ongoing at VIVUS right now?

Yeah, I'll take that question. This is Mike. And we have made substantial progress. I listed off a couple of things that we have been doing. We are in the – very much the throes of completing all the pharmacy network contracts. We have completed our 3PL, our distribution partner. We have materials ready to submit to the FDA pending final label. We have hired some great talent from outside the company, and I think we're making very good progress towards a timely launch.

So is the plan to hire or to build a sales force, a VIVUS sales force or a mix maybe of a sales force with a contract sales organization? And how big – how extensive of a sales force do you think you need to have to market to Qnexa in the U.S.?

Sure. Our current plan is to use a contract sales organization that would provide the representatives only and we have sized it at 150 representatives, but we will hire the management team. So they will be VVUS employees.

And how big does that marketing and sales team has to be the management team that you're hiring, the internal VVUS team?

You mean, in the home office, the internal thing?

Yeah.

25 people, 30 people.

Okay, okay. And final question before I jump back in the queue is, can you talk about your strategy in terms of physician group-targeted primary care endocrinologist, BCP specialists?

Well, we have developed the target lists in our territories based on current obesity medication writing today, as well as we've developed a cardiometabolic index based on the use of antihypertensives, statins and oral-type II diabetic agents, that would lead us to, we think, the right targets in today's market. So we feel very good about our targeted efforts.

Yeah. Great. Thanks for taking the questions and congrats on Stendra and the progress with Qnexa.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.

Hi there, it's actually Matt Lowe in for Cory today. I was just wondering if you could characterize the talks with the FDA since you submitted the REMS? Have they been focused purely on the REMS and the labeling? Have they requested more information for the REMS, and, I guess, has there been any more talk about evaluating CVs, since the overall CV obesity panel? Thanks.

Matt, it's Peter. Yeah, we've been having ongoing discussions with FDA with regard to the REMS, the REMS materials as well as finalization of the label and so those dialogues are ongoing with FDA. With regard to the cardiovascular trial, FDA is currently in the process of reviewing the study design, so we're making good progress there as well.

Okay. And then I guess regarding Europe, I guess what kind of dialog will take place between now and the ultimate decision in 2Q?

So, we submitted our Day 180 response to the CHMP and we await their response back and we do expect to meet with them the latter part of this – the second quarter. And pending their feedback, we do expect to hear their final opinion towards the second quarter of this year.

Okay. And, then I guess, just the last question on Stendra. With the potential partnering for that drug, would that wait for the Qnexa FDA decision, or are the two kind of mutually exclusive, as in the potential partnering of Stendra is not dependent on approval of Qnexa?

Yeah. It's an independent decision. So, obviously we're moving forward with discussions for Stendra partnering commercialization, but it's independent of the decision on Qnexa.

Okay. That's great, thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Wei from Jefferies.

Thanks. I guess just following up on one of the last questions, I'm curious with the recent FDA panel meeting on cardiovascular safety for all of these three drugs, can you share any insight? Presumably, you must have asked them about the panel in relation to Qnexa? What is it they told you about that?

Thomas, the conversations we've had with FDA, it's with regard to the CDOT studies in the context of a post-approval study. So, we continue to work towards that along with FDA and nothing has changed as a result of the Cardiovascular Advisory Committee Panel.

And so, is it fair to say that you did ask them if you would be subject to a pre-approval analysis or pre-approval study, and they said no?

Well, the conversations, as you know with the FDA, as we've said before, has always been in context of a post-approval study. So, I'm not going to go back and ask the FDA, are we still on track? That's been the flow of the conversation, and that's the focus.

That's helpful. And, then on the EMEA process. You said that you're meeting with them later this quarter. Is that actually an invitation to participate in one of these formal oral hearings post 180-day answer submission?

Well, I said we anticipate to be meeting with them later on in the second quarter. So, yes, they would formally ask us to go and meet with them, but that's something that we're waiting on right now.

I guess, the question is, have you been asked to participate in a formal oral hearing?

We haven't heard back from the EMA with that meeting yet, but we do expect to hear back from them very soon.

And then maybe just any clarification or detail, additional detail that you could provide on the nature of the questions that have been asked of you by the EMA?

We shared in our filings, typically the concerns and the questions with regard to Qnexa is primarily around risk-benefit. Our response focuses on the risk-benefit of Qnexa. We've gotten into different discussions about different doses used in different patient population and so forth. So, we've put together a very cogent and a very strong response to the Day 180 list of questions. So, we are waiting for their feedback and hopefully, we'll be able to update you towards the second part of the second quarter.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Alan Carr from Needham & Company.

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. A couple of them, one of them is second half of '12 is kind of a wide window. I am wondering if you can narrow it down for us, if Qnexa is approved on the PDUFA date, what your thoughts are about a window there in terms of when you might be able to launch it? And then also, can you give us an update on strategy around trying to qualify Qnexa for reimbursement? Thanks.

Yeah. Hi, Alan. Tim here. Yeah, once we have the PDUFA date, we can you give a better update on timing of the launch, but for right now, the guidance is going to be the second half. And then in terms of strategy for reimbursements, Mike, I'll let you comment.

Sure. With regards to the reimbursement, we know that right now, the Medicare Part B actually excludes weight loss medication and we are doing a number of efforts in that regard. But the private payer today usually gives the option to cover obesity meds by offering the rider to employers. So, if the employer is so motivated by the product and the data, they will take the rider offered by the payer and the product can be covered.

To that end, what we're doing is we're focusing both on payers and employers at launch to make sure that both understand the benefits of medically treating these patients and getting good outcomes. So, we're in that effort and there are some states where weight loss products are covered by Medicaid as well, so I hope that answers your question.

Thanks. And then, are you – I take it market researching is probably ongoing at the company. I'm wondering, do you have any updates on that with respect to how reimbursement influences that?

Well, a couple of things. So, one, we have always looked at our target product profile when working with both providers and patients and used a – I think a realistic reimbursement approach and we have always received very positive feedback.

So I think we have a good handle on what we think the cash pay patient would be willing to pay, as well as we have done numerous advisory boards with both payers and employers and we have a good sense of where their priorities are as well. So I think we have a very good feel for it.

Thanks.

Sure.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Mike King from Rodman & Renshaw.

Thanks for taking my question, guys, and let me add to the congratulations for all the progress in the quarter. I want to start out if – just to ask Mike perhaps to help us understand the – and maybe Tim chime in on the mechanics of any relationship with the CSO, in terms of how it will look actually on the P&L? And getting a lot of clients' questions about how this is all going to work out. So will this be a cost of sales item or will that be below the line in the R&D and SG&A budget, or how is it going to look and what sort of range can we think about as far as what that will amount to?

Yeah, Mike, it's simple. It will show up in general and administrative, or which will change to general, selling and administrative once we're actually selling product. So it is an expense. And there, it's 150 reps. We haven't given any on the total cost yet, but I think there is some industry guidance out there and I suspect we'll be relatively close to that on a per rep basis.

And that will be the straight cost as opposed to some kind of percent of sales?

That's correct. Yeah, these are just hire and pay for the – obviously, salaries, commissions and expenses and the like. So it will run through as if they were VIVUS employees.

Let me comment on, a little bit on the benefits of such a model. There are a number of them. One is, they provide us a zero to 60 speed to launch that would really enable us to be big very quickly. They provide great infrastructure in terms of IT, fleet, things of that nature. And again, the talent pool right now that's out there, because of all the downsizing that's happened in Big Pharma, is extraordinarily rich. So we can get experienced representatives with cardiometabolic selling experience in those specific zip codes and get these guys on board and trained very, very quickly. So there's a number of advantages. It – the cost difference is not even realized. It's not a cost savings strategy, it's the speed.

Yeah, I know. I guess philosophically, I mean, too, with it, I just wanted to try to understand what it's going to look like on the P&L. So it sounds to me like there's a fixed cost and then all the upside is VIVUS's to keep. In other words, it's not a sliding scale, royalty or increased comp arrangement as sales rise?

That is correct. A dedicated group. All the revenue that they generate will be on our P&L.

Okay. And do you have any input as to who you choose and what their backgrounds are? And if you do have that kind of say in the relationship, can you kind of tell us how you think about who it is you, other than experience in years and such or what kind of – what would it take get on the VIVUS team for this CSO?

Yeah. I mean, so yes, we have very much a big say in the hiring process. As I said, managers or VIVUS employees, all the reps are interviewed and trained and tested by us. And again, we're looking for an experienced rep in the cardiometabolic space. We're looking for – if they have called on those targets before, can gain access to the office. We want them to know the zip code, we want them to know the space, the local payers, everything else about it. So this really enables us, again, to scale this very quickly.

Okay. Thanks for the additional color on that. And then just a quick question, a follow-up on Europe. My understanding is there is no formal REMS program in Europe, so other than just presenting the data from the clinical trial experience that you've got, what other things do you think that Europeans are going to look for that, that might be the same, that might be different compared to U.S. FDA ?

Yeah, Mike, the program over there is what we call the RMP, the risk mitigation plan. So there will be a plan there in terms of education to both doctors as well as patients. There will be a registry; this is fairly standard. So we'll be collecting information, but it's not very different from an educational perspective in terms of how the drug is going to be used and so forth. So there will be a risk management plan will be there as well.

Okay. Thanks. I'll jump back in the queue.

Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Scott Henry from Roth Capital.

Thank you, and congratulations on such an active quarter. I wanted to see if you would want to give any color on the way we should think about the ramp for QNEXA? I mean, typically, I think of an obesity drug as something that ramps pretty fast, but a lot's changed since we had the last obesity drugs out there. Now, a lot of the time, managed care wants six months to evaluate a product. I just wanted to give you an opportunity, in your own words, to kind of discuss how we should set expectations for this ramp?

Yeah. Hi, Scott. Tim here. We obviously haven't given any guidance yet on this. But we will have a very responsible ramp, as Mike said, and the focus here of the reps will be on education. And so there also is, as you know, somewhat of certified pharmacy system that patients will get the product to. The initial target for the 150 reps is 25,000 doctors.

So it's very important to us that when we launch the drug, that both patients and doctors are educated into the proper uses of the drug, the right patients, what risks to look for. So we need to be very measured and very responsible in our launch. So, but short of that, we're not going to really give much in the way of guidance at the present time.

Okay. Staying on the timeline, if you would – in Europe, what kind of typical time would it take between an approval to launch? I mean, in terms of going from country to country or how should we think about any sort of lag between approval there and launching of the product?

Yeah, you're right. There will be a delay between both the opinion and then the approval by the European authorities, but in addition, you'll have some other items that you have to do on a country-by-country basis. However, keep in mind that we are going to commercialize the products we'll partner. So we would let the partner kind of dictate the timeline from that standpoint.

Okay. And then just finally, a couple of questions on Stendra. Have you given a color on, in terms of what kind of timeline we should be thinking about for a deal there? Have you talked at all about what type of deal, front-end loaded or back-end loaded you're looking for? And then, finally and I'm not sure it's going to be highly relevant but I was curious how the PEED, if that's pronounced correctly, is performing in South Korea relative to some of the other erectile dysfunction treatments out there?

Yeah. So, a couple of things. Again, we haven't given any guidance on the timing for Stendra in the United States. We'll obviously look to commercialize that through partners and with the approval, we would anticipate that those discussions will continue along. So, in terms of the initial sales for Avanafil are jet-speed in Korea, I don't believe that they've reported those publicly.

We have seen some initial information that had some interesting run at the end of last year, but I'm sure that IMS data for this year isn't available yet. So, we do know that there was some uptake of the product. It's hard to say whether that was due to stocking or additional demand but that's a relatively competitive marketplace and at least the early indications look good. So, did I answer all your questions, Scott?

You did, certainly as much as you can at this time. Thank you for taking the questions.

Sure.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of George Zavoico of MLV and Company.

Hi, good afternoon and congratulations on a great quarter. A couple of questions about the Qnexa. First of all, regarding the manufacturing of product for inventory, are you pretty much set with filling orders as they roll in, assuming approval in July?

Yes, George, we're obviously working through a very reputable contract manufacturing organization. We're stock – accumulating inventory, make sure that we anticipate the various scenarios. So we're doing all the right things in putting together the appropriate inventory for the launch of Qnexa.

Okay, terrific. And regarding the REMS submission, you spoke about the huge volume of material that you actually submitted to the FDA. I would imagine this is somewhat of a dynamic process in the sense that some of the material that you submit that you would also need for your educational and marketing material might have to first be reviewed at least by the FDA before you can move forward with it. So, are you making these changes as you go along? Is that how the process is working now, so that by the time of the PDUFA date, assuming approval, you're pretty much ready to go?

Yes, this is Mike. There's actually sort of two tracks. There's the REMS track, which is being reviewed. We submitted all the materials into the FDA, which includes both the materials and all the elements of the REMS. And then we also have our healthcare professional materials as well as our patient materials that are outside of the REMS program and they'll be submitted pending the label. So we actually go through a review process and an interview process with the FDA on both items, and we look forward to that.

Okay, good. So then, it doesn't seem like there would be any potential delays there along the way to July 17. Could you comment a little bit about FORTRESS data? I mean, you previously had, with the PDUFA data in April, you had that going first and then you were going to talk about the FORTRESS a couple of months afterwards. Now, it almost seems as though the PDUFA date and the FORTRESS date might come out pretty much at the same time. Is that two independent events or might the FORTRESS data influence the label going forward?

Yeah, we don't expect the FORTRESS results to impact the Qnexa approval and the PDUFA date, that's ongoing. I believe we've provided guidance in terms of when the final study will be available. But we certainly look at it as an independent – separate from the Qnexa PDUFA date.

Okay. The final – one last question on Avanafil. It seems to me with all the preparations you're doing for Avanafil, the partnering negotiations really are a moving target. As you invest more into a commercial launch, it sort of changes the – somewhat changes the terms of the negotiations. Are you – how does that affect the negotiations, do you think?

Yeah, I mean, obviously, how we view this is, we want to be as prepared as possible to hand over the product to our commercial partner for launch. So we want to continue move that along and add value to the asset.

But ultimately, you have mentioned before that you're prepared to launch on your own. Is that correct? Am I remembering correctly?

No. I don't believe so. I think we've always said that we would launch the Stendra through a partnership and we have no plans to launch Stendra on our own in the United States.

Okay. All right. Farewell. Thank you very much.

Thank you, and our final question comes from the line of Steve Byrne from Bank of America.

All right. Thanks for squeezing me in. I just wanted to follow up a little bit more on the discussions that you are having with payers and employers about reimbursement. Can you characterize the interest level with the data that you have now and are any of them looking for any additional data, such as pharmacoeconomic data or outcomes data that could be a little longer term in generating?

Yeah, this is Mike again. And I would say that our data has generated a lot of interest. And – but we would be going into this market. Right now, if you look at [ph] zedicow (36:54), it's about 60% reimbursed by third-party and that took a little while to grow for them. We do not expect to be of that level out of the gate, but we feel that our data is very compelling.

We have done pharmacoeconomic modeling and we look forward to that. There's couple of ideas in terms of publications on that account. And I think we'll be well prepared for it. That said, I would say day one, the majority of our patients will be cash pay patients and we recognize that and we'll market and distribute accordingly. And we have good patient research on understanding exactly what they would be willing to pay. So I think we have a pretty good handle on the whole payer front.

Okay. Thank you.

Sure.

Okay, I think we need to cut it off. This is Lee. But I did want to say thanks again for your support and your recognition of our accomplishments during the quarter. We obviously are very proud of what we've been able to accomplish here. And I think all of you know that we have many milestones coming up in the second and third quarters here that we are all very hopeful that they will become positive. And that's just not only the old-timers that are sitting around the table here, but as Mike has said, we've been to able to bring in some exceptional talent that were in extremely good positions in very good companies. And it's really heartwarming to see them make the decision to come in at this time.

And so having that kind of talent on, I feel very comfortable with the launch program that Mike has put together and I include Mike in that, always, and you're fighting the battles for some time now. But I think we've attracted just exceptional talent on the marketing side. So we're anxious to be able to see them do their thing here. And so everybody, keep your fingers crossed for July 17. And I think the rest of the year should be a real fun time for all of us. Again, thank you for your support and we'll talk again next quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a good day.