raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the VIVUS Incorporated First Quarter 2006 Financial Results Conference


Call. Joining the call from VIVUS are Leland Wilson, Chief Executive Officer; Peter Tam, Senior


Vice President of Product and Corporate Development; and Tim Morris, Chief Financial Officer. At


this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.


During the course of this conference call, VIVUS may make projections or other forward-looking


statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to


caution yourself as such statements are just predictions and that actual event’s or results may differ


materially. Investors should read the risk factors set forth in VIVUS's Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31, 2005 and the periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ


materially from those contained in our projections or forward-looking statements.


Following the speaker's prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions.]. I


will now turn the conference call over to Mr. Leland Wilson, President and CEO. Please go ahead


sir.


Leland F. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you for joining us today. During our year-end conference call in February we laid out


strategy and goals for 2006. In the two months since then we have made solid progress on a


number of fronts and I believe we continue to be on track to achieve our goals for 2006. One of the


key achievements during the quarter was strengthening of our management team with the addition


of Theod Broman, Senior Director, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls and Dr. Barbara Troupin,


Director of Clinical Development. Theod comes from us – to us from Direct Corporation where he


was Senior Director of Project Management. Ted has extensive experience in pharmaceutical


product development with company such as Syntex, Cygnus, and Matrix Pharmaceuticals. Barbara


joins us from the CRO in San Diego, where she provided clinical and operational leadership for this


growing firm. She has 7 years of director level management and operations experience across all


phases of clinical development. Barbara received her MD degree from the University of


Pennsylvania and an MBA from the Wharton School of Business. In addition, she was a practicing


physician at San Diego for several years. Ted’s initial priority will be the completion of the CMC


section of the Evamist NDA, and Barbara will be instrumental in supporting the work of Dr. Wesley


Day, Vice President of Clinical Development.


As I mentioned during the last call, an important element of our corporate strategy is obtaining


patterns on superior delivery systems. We believe that long and blocking pattern on a patient


preferred delivery system is necessary to prevent the quasi [ph] generic competition seen in both


the gels and patch sectors of the estrogen and testosterone markets.


To this end, we are pleased to announce that a patent relating to the metered-dose transdermal


spray was recently granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office. This patent which expires in


July of 20, 22 provide protection for the MDTS applicator used in our testosterone and Evamist


products. The US rights to these products will make us [ph] limited in 2004. Also in the first quarter


of 2006, we continued to make excellent progress in clinical and regulatory for all of our product.


In a moment, I’ll turn the call over to Peter Tam so that he can give you specific on each of the


programs. As we projected during the year end call, our cash burden in the first quarter was


neutral. We strengthened our balance sheet through proceeds from the Crown Bank note and


receipt of $2 million milestone payment from MEDA. We continued to be judicious with our funds
raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


while continued to be able to build value in each of our programs. Later in the call, Tim will share


specifics on the finances – financial results for the first quarter.


Now, I’ll ask Peter to update you on the progress we’ve made with each of our products. Peter?


Peter Y. Tam, Senior Vice President of Product and Corporate Development


Thanks Lee. I will now briefly review each of the four clinical programs we have, the progress


which is made in the first quarter of 2006, and some of the important milestones to look forward to


this year.


For Evamist, we have completed our Phase III study and will be un-blinding the study for data


analysis over the next several days. Evamist is our novel, first-in-class estradiol spray being


developed for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. With positive data, we expect to submit an


NDA by the end of the summer. If approved, this will be the first novel spray of its kind introduced


in the marketplace.


For ALISTA, our topical alprostadil product for the on-demand treatment of female sexual arousal


disorder, the current Phase IIb study is ongoing. Enrollment was completed late last year. The


study enrolled over 300 women who have undergone a hysterectomy and have been diagnosed


with female sexual arousal disorder. The trial is approximately 75% completed and we anticipate


that we will complete all patient treatment late in the third quarter of 2006. Pending completion of


the study, the data will be compiled and analyzed and the results announced before the end of the


year. The data trial continues as planned with positive results from the trial we will proceed with


Phase III development work and partnering activities in 2007.


For Testosterone, as we discussed during the year end conference call, we submitted a Phase III


development program which was reviewed by the FDA. As a result, we held another scheduled


meeting with the FDA in March to discuss our latest Phase III proposal and study design. To date,


we’ve held 3 meetings and both about the missions to the FDA since the Intrinsa’s Advisory


Meeting at the end of 2004. Through this series of meetings in correspondence with FDA, we


believe we’ve made a great deal of progress with respect to agreement on the size of the study, the


end points for the study, and the methods of analyzing long-term safety data. Based on this last


meeting, we will submit a VIVUS proposal to FDA to obtain final agreement on the treatment


duration of the study.


We anticipate that we will be submitting our Phase III safety and efficacy protocol under a special


protocol assessment in the second quarter of this year. For Avanafil or PDE5 inhibitor being


developed for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction, we continue to make preparations for the


Phase III clinical trials. Based on our end of Phase II meeting was FDA late last year, we will


complete the usual pre-clinical and metabolism study over the next 12 months.


The cost of these studies will be funded under our line of credit with Tanabe. Pending timely


completion of these studies and entering into partnership, we should be in a position to start these


Phase III studies in the 1st half of 2007. Our R&D and CMC groups have made significant


progress in the past quarter and I want to recognized them and thank them for a great job that they


have done. We will continue to do so in 2006, in particular, with a preparation and assembly of the


NDA for Evamist. We look forward to further advancing our development programs in 2006.


With that, I will turn it over to Tim, for a review of the quarter’s financials. Tim?