raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome VIVUS Incorporated, First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Joining


the call from VIVUS are Le Wilson, Chief Executive Officer, Peter Tam, Senior Vice President of


Product and Corporate Development and Tim Morris, Chief Financial Officer. At this time all


participants are in a listen only mode. During the course of this conference call, VIVUS may make


projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial


performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are just predictions and


that, actual events or results may differ materially. Investors should read the risk factors set forth in


VIVUS’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and periodic reports filed with these


Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents contain and identify important factors


that consult the actual results differ materially from those contained in our projections or forward-


looking statements. Following the speaker’s prepared remarks we will hold a Q&A session.


[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Le Wilson, Chief Executive


Officer. Please go ahead sir.


Leland F. Wilson, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. I would like to begin the day by briefly highlighting first our marketing position


statements for each of our products and then I would like to give a quick review of our


accomplishments for the quarter before turning the conference call over to Tim and Peter.


Marketing position statements at VIVUS are important because they help us set our clinical goals


for each of the products. These statements highlight the critical attributes of each product, which


we believe will make the product a commercial success. While I am going to make the statements


and now I will leave a little pause afterwards and then we will talk about later in the conference call.


For [indiscernible] our marketing position statement is that this is going to be the first prescription


product for female sexual arousal disorder. Now, clearly the first to market position is always a very


powerful position and we believe that Vivus I ahead in the development of product for the treatment


of female sexual arousal disorder. For even this our positioning statement is the first transdermal


delivery system preferred over all medication. Now all us know that transdermal delivery systems


have had a difficult time in competing in this marketplace and I think the advantage that we have


over the straight delivery system is that we are according to our market research able to compete


against the oral medication in terms of just delivery system.


For Avanafil, our marketing position statement is, we are the fastest acting, most selective shortest


half-life PDE5 inhibitor and all the work that we’ve done to date would reinforce each of those


characteristics. Fastest acting that only has benefit because it is patient’s, one of the demands that


patients have but it also helps to increase efficacy because as soon as you get the drug in there it


has been shown that many patients like to have sexual intercourse before the actual drug is


completely on board. Most selective, certainly confirms that it may have reduced side effect


because its only impacting on the PDE5 inhibitor and then the short half-life is a very important


consideration because it limits the length of the side effects but still gives adequate time for the


sexual activity. And I think importantly it also limits the time for drug to drug interaction and of


course in this category we have the potentially life threatening interactions with nitrate.


And finally for Testosterone, Testosterone in a preferred delivery system is our key positioning


statement here and again obviously we think we going to be able to compete very favorably with


patches and other forms of Testosterones delivery with that I will start by again talking about our


first quarter accomplishment, which I think are significant for Avanafil, we completed enrollment on


our Phase II study.
raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


And we released results just recently our nitrate interaction study and Peter is going to talk fairly


extensively about that in just a minute. For Testosterone, we reported positive Phase II results.


These results actually validate the MDTDS [ph], MDTS systems in terms of its ability deliver


testosterone and also validate testosterones to treat hypoactive sexual desire disorder for pre-


menopause for women. And as all of you know I think we are currently working with the FDA to


develop an acceptable Phase 3 clinical development plan. ALISTA and Evamist we made good


progress in recruiting patients for both of our clinical trials for each of these products. On the


corporate side we were able to raise $19.9 million giving us a total of $50.4 million at the end of the


quarter and we believe these funds are adequate to complete the following goals while maintaining


an adequate amount of cash in reserve in our corporate treasury. For Evamist we will be able to


complete our Phase III program and submit our NDA for ALISTA, we are going to complete our


Phase III trial announced result with Testosterone we going to gain clarity from the FDA on our


Phase III programs and for Avanafil we going to complete our Phase II program and announce


results. Initiation of coverage from SG Cowen and Company and Wachovia Capital Markets was


also in an important accomplishment during the quarter. I welcome both Ian Sanderson and


Michael Tong to ranks of analysts covering our company and I thank them for excellent coverage


and in depth reports, which they have already published. So thanks to them and with that now I’ll


turn it over to Tim for discussion in the financing.


Timothy E. Morris, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President-Finance


Thanks, Lee. As you guys can see from the press release for the first quarter 2005, VIVUS


reported a net loss of 8.8 million or $0.22 per share. This was actually lowered than the net loss


last year of 10.9 million or $0.29 per share. The reason for the decrease in that loss was last year


we had some relatively large payments from an R&D stand point for both the Acrux' and Tanabe


agreement.


Total revenue in the first quarter was 629,000, that’s lower then the total revenue of 1.9 million


reported for the first quarter of 2004. The decrease in revenue year-over-year really has to do with


the decrease in revenue from the international sales. Last year we saw our international


distributors buy ahead in anticipation of a multi country promotion event, we didn’t a similar


purchase pattern in the first quarter of 2005. Revenues from the domestic sales of MUSE were


also lower due to several factors including the lack of growth and demand for all approved PDE5


inhibitors. The large volume of purchases made by the wholesalers in the fourth quarter of last


year of MUSE, and revised government pricing.


You know lastly, while we report earnings from a GAAP perspective, internally and I think from an


investor standpoint, it’s important to think about the result from a cash flow perspective. Our


quarterly revenues in 2005 will have a similar pattern to that of last year, that is we expect at least


50% of our total revenues for the year to come in the fourth quarter. This pattern does however


provide significant cash flow for operations on an annual basis. For example in the first quarter of


2005, we collected over $9 million in accounts receivable, and those from sales that happened in


the fourth quarter of last year.


From a cash standpoint, as we mentioned we ended the quarter with 50.4 million of cash, that's


thoroughly an increase over the $29.8 million of cash that we reported at December 31. The


increase in cash of approximately $20 million really consist of couple of things, first of all, the net


proceeds from the offering of just under $20 million, the collection of the accounts receivable on


hand at the end of the year of about $9 million offset of course by the cash used in operations for


the quarter. Exclusive of the proceeds from the public offerings and the change in accounts


receivables, the decrease in cash and investments was approximately $8.2 million essentially


operations were cash positive for the first quarter of 2005