corrected transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the VIVUS Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2008


Earnings Results Conference Call. This call is being recorded. With us today from the company is


the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Leland Wilson; Chief Operations Officer, Peter Tam; and Chief


Financial Officer, Mr. Timothy Morris.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Mr. Morris. Please go ahead, sir.


Timothy E. Morris, Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator. Before we get started, I’d like to remind you that during the course of this


conference call, VIVUS may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future


events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such


statements are just predictions and actual events or results may differ materially.


Investors should read the risk factors set forth in the VIVUS Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31, 2007, and periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those contained in our projections or forward-looking statements.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Leland Wilson, President and CEO of VIVUS.


Leland F. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. 2008 was a challenging and


successful year for VIVUS. Despite a worldwide economic downturn, VIVUS has remained squarely


on track with our corporate and clinical initiatives. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first few


months of 2009, we achieved a significant milestone in both our Qnexa and Avanafil programs. In


addition, we have continued to conservatively utilize our cash, which remained strong with nearly


$190 million in cash and securities at the end of 2008.


We believe strongly in the potential of our clinical portfolio and the data, which we believe supports


our opportunities to introduce new best-in-class therapeutic options for obesity, diabetes and sexual


health disorders. We are particularly encouraged by the results we have seen in our Qnexa obesity


trials, which in our opinion are clearly best in class. Based on the growing body of data from our


clinical trials, we continue to believe that Qnexa has the potential to significantly impact both the


treatment of obesity and diabetes. We’re also confident that our experience as the management


team will allow us to maximize the value of these large market opportunities once we have a full


Phase 3 data set for Qnexa in hand.


On the management team front, we are pleased to – we were pleased to announce two key


promotions in January of this year. Peter Tam, who has been with VIVUS since 1993 and has been


in the role of Senior Vice President of Product and Corporate Development since 2004, has been


promoted to Chief Operating Officer. As many of you know, Peter has contributed greatly to our


success throughout the past 16 years. Peter was primarily responsible for in-licensing Qnexa,


Avanafil, Evamist, and Luramist. In addition, he has also played a significant role in the


development of the rest of our clinical pipeline. Peter will continue to lead our development and


partnering activities.


Dr. Charles Bowden was promoted to Senior Director, Clinical Development. Since 2007, Chuck


has been a key member of our management team. Most significantly, Chuck has successfully led


our experimental medicine program and most recently assumed responsibility for the Avanafil
corrected transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Phase 3 clinical program. We look forward to the continued contributions of both Peter and Chuck


in their expanded roles.


At this point, I’d like to turn the call over to Peter who will review our ongoing Qnexa studies and the


upcoming milestones for this program, and the Avanafil development program. Peter will then turn


the call over to Tim to review our financial results for 2008 and our outlook for 2009. Peter?


Peter Y. Tam, Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Lee. As Lee mentioned, 2009 will be a critical year for VIVUS and our recent progress,


especially with Qnexa, leads us to believe that 2009 will also be a historical year for VIVUS.


Starting with Qnexa, we recently released positive results from our Phase 3 program in obesity and


our Phase 2 program in type 2 diabetes. In obesity, we released data from the first of our Phase 3


trials, EQUATE or OB-301. The EQUATE study was a 28-week trial conducted at 32 sites designed


to compare the efficacy of Qnexa to each of the two individual active agents at the corresponding


dose levels. The study met the primary endpoint of demonstrating superior weight loss with both


the full dose and mid-dose of Qnexa compared with the individual components and placebo.


Specifically, the primary endpoints were weight loss and the percentage of patients achieving 5%


weight loss. The study randomized 756 obese subjects.


As a reminder, Qnexa is a proprietary, once-a-day pill, containing a controlled release formulation


of topiramate and immediate release of phentermine. The full dose of Qnexa contains 92 milligrams


of topiramate and 15 milligrams of phentermine. And a mid dose contains 46 milligrams of


topiramate and 7.5 milligrams of phentermine. The mid and high dose of Qnexa contain only one-


quarter to one-half the approved dose of phentermine and less than one-eighth to one-quarter of


the approved top dose of topiramate.


On an intent-to-treat basis, with last observation carry-forward, subjects treated with the full dose of


Qnexa experienced an average weight loss of 9.2% and subjects treated with the mid dose Qnexa,


the dose that contains less than one-eighth of the approved top dose of topiramate, had an average


weight loss of 8.5% compared with a weight loss of 1.7% in the placebo group. The p-values for


these comparisons were less than 0.0001.


Importantly, both the mid and full dose of Qnexa achieved significantly greater weight loss than the


single agents at each corresponding dose level. Moreover, the weight loss achieved with the mid


dose Qnexa was significantly greater than both the high dose single agent arms of topiramate and


phentermine.


For the full-dose group, the average weight loss was 20 pounds, and for the mid-dose group the


average weight loss was 18 pounds compared with just three pounds in the placebo group over a


28-week treatment period. The percentage of patients losing 5% or more of their initial bodyweight


was 66% for the full dose and 62% for the mid-dose group. Both compares favorably to just 15% for


the placebo group. In addition, the percentage of patients losing 10% or more of their body weight


was 41% for the full-dose Qnexa group and 39% for the mid-dose patient group. Again, this


compares very favorably to just 7% for the placebo group. These data are all ITT LOCF analyses.


Qnexa was well tolerated with no drug-related serious adverse event in the study. The most


common drug-related adverse events for all patients populations including the placebo group were


paresthesia, which is often characterized as mild tingling sensation of the extremities, dry mouth,


altered taste and constipation.


At the end of last year, we also released data that demonstrated for the first time that Qnexa may


be able to avert the development of type 2 diabetes in obese patients who are pre-diabetic and on