raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the VIVUS Inc. Second Quarter Financial Results and Product Development


Highlights Conference Call. Joining the call from VIVUS are Le Wilson, Chief Executive Officer;


Peter Tam, Senior Vice President of Product and Corporate Development; and Tim Morris, Chief


Financial Officer. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.


During the course of this conference call, VIVUS may make projections or other forward-looking


statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to


caution you that such statements are just predictions and the actual events or results may differ


materially. Investors should read the risk factors set forth in VIVUS’s Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31, 2004, and the periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ


materially from those contained in our projections or forward-looking-statements.


Following the speaker’s prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions.] I


will now turn the conference call over to Leland Wilson, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead


sir.


Leland F. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning everybody. Pleased to be with you today. Our agenda today is I will


first review our clinical accomplishments and highlights for the second quarter. Then Tim will


discuss our financial results and Peter will follow that with the pipeline update. And then we’ll have


a question and answers session.


I want to start out as I said by talking about our clinical accomplishments for this past quarter. And I


want to take a moment and pause to say that I’ve been obviously on this job now for almost 15


years, I guess something in that neighborhood and the clinical accomplishments at VIVUS this past


quarter have to rank right up there with some of the best quarters that we’ve ever had. So, very


pleased with the data that we have and I am going to take a few minutes to dwell on a couple of


them, so bear with me.


The first one I think and most outstanding is that we had released the Avanafil Phase II results, and


I want to take just a few seconds to talk about that study. This study was a comparison Multicenter,


double-blind study, well randomized, parallel-design, and that we’re looking at it for as a dose-


ranging study and the study size was very substantial, 284 patients here. So, I want to just again


say that, few times in your life in doing clinical trials, which I’ve been doing for 30 years now, you


get results that meet all your expectations for a clinical program.


Let’s get down to goals that we had set for this clinical trial. The first thing we wanted to


accomplish was to find what were the appropriate doses that we will be able to take into Phase III


testing. The second goal was to demonstrate comparable safety and efficacy to other PDE5


inhibitors that are on the market. The third one was to test the validity of instructing patients to


attempt sexual intercourse 30 minutes after taking Avanafil. I want everyone to remember that this


is less than half the time we recommended in the labeling for other PDE5 inhibitors. And the fourth


goal was to test the concept of not limiting food and alcohol. I can say without hesitation that we


met or exceeded every single goal in this clinical study. So, my heart felt congratulations to our


clinical department for a job well done.


We found the maximum effective dose and for those of you’ve studied the data carefully, it’s clear


that 200 microgram or milligrams dose achieved the maximum response and that 300 milligram


dose would not be required. Now this does not say that this is a dose that we are actually going
raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


into Phase III testing. Clearly we’ll work with the FDA and internal considerations here as long as


with our partner Tenhove [ph] to determine the final dose, but it is nice to know that we did find the


maximum dose in this trial.


We demonstrated also that we had at least comparable efficacy and safety and for those of you’ve


looked at our efficacy results, they are outstanding. And so, we can say that they are at least


comparable on a safety, benefit and on an efficacy analysis. And in fact, there is hence, in this


study, that we may have an opportunity to have superior efficacy, specifically at the earlier time


point such as that 30 minutes, and efficacy and safety in this trail was exceedingly good. No color


vision changes and just a wonderful safety profile that we were able to demonstrate in this trial. So,


the goals were completely met for this study and we are very happy to say that we’re now working


to advance this clinical program with an end of Phase II meeting with the FDA as quickly as


possible.


Next the data that we announced during the quarter was the Avanafil twice daily dosing study. The


goal of this study was to see if patients could take Avanafil 12 hours after taking the first dose


without risk of increasing there plasma concentrations. Now, I’d say, why would we do something


like this? I think it’s clear that we want to establish a profile because the market has been


established out there right now, largely because of the work with Cialas that you can have the late


weekend pill.


Now what we wanted to establish here, is to demonstrate that in that rare occasion when a patient


wants to take the medication, say on, Friday night, say at 7’0 clock, that he could have, begin


sexual activity within 30 minutes. And that, and it would have a window of opportunity for sexual


activity which would last at least 3 to 4 hours. So, that will take him up to 11’0 clock at night. And


then in next morning if he wakes up and wants to have sexual activity again at 7’0 clock in the


morning, he is certainly able to accomplish that with another window of 3 to 4 hours of activity. And


then if he wanted to have sexual activity again on Saturday night and Sunday morning et cetera, he


would be able to do that with this medication.


It’s very simple, the concept that the marketplace is being defined by, to a great extent by this


whole time of onset and length of duration of activity. We are at one end of the spectrum, that is,


fast onset and rapid disappearance from plasma and out, so fast-in-fast-out, there when you need it


and gone when you don’t need it as in comparison to Cialas which is relatively slow to get in and


has, stays around for quite some period for time. So, this study was looking at treating patients that


wanted to have sexual activity more than once.


This was an open label PK study comparing blood levels of Avanafil on healthy volunteers, taking a


single dose of Avanafil with blood levels taking Avanafil, with those taking Avanafil twice daily,


every 12 hours for 7 days. And the results were that we saw no significant plasma accumulation of


Avanafil after taking a twice daily for 7 days. So, this gives us great comfort than that we can do


this on at least an intermittent basis over the weekends et cetera. And so this is very positive


results and an important, helping us to be able to position this product in the marketplace.


The third study was the Nitrate Interaction Study, and I would say that these studies are always


very complicated and we did learned a lot in this study. But in spite of some of the design issues


that we can correct I think on future studies, we were able to meet the goals of the study with great


ease here. The study was conducted to evaluate effects on blood pressure and heart rate and


subjects pretreated with either placebo, Avanafil or sildenafil citrate or VIAGRA and then they were


challenged with trinitrate glyceryl to test as I said the effects on heart rate in blood pressure.


Overall, the result revealed that Avanafil had less impact on blood pressure and heart rate in Viagra


and that is exactly what we hoped to demonstrate and we think it will be able to refine this even


more in future studies.