raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the VIVUS Incorporated Third Quarter 2006 Financial Results Conference


Call. Joining the call from VIVUS are Leland Wilson, Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Wesley Day, Vice


President, Clinical Development; and Timothy Morris, Chief Financial Officer.


At this time all participants are in a listen-only-mode. During the course of this conference call


VIVUS may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future event or the


future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are just


predictions and then actual events or result may differ materially. Investor should read the risk


factor set forth in VIVUS' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and periodic reports


filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents contain and identify


important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained in our


projections or forward-looking statements. Following the speaker’s prepared remarks we will hold a


question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over


to Mr. Leland Wilson, President and CEO. Please go ahead sir.


Leland F. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. In today’s call, I will touch on some


of the highlights since our last call and then Dr. Wesley Day our Vice President of Clinical


Development will give you an update on each of the Clinical programs we have in development.


Tim Morris our CFO will then review the financial results for the quarter in the nine months ending


September 30th, 2006.


First the highlights since our last conference call. As you know in the third quarter we submitted a


new drug application for Evamist, our metered-dose transdermal estradiol spray for a treatment of


menopausal symptoms. This represents a significant milestone for VIVUS. I would like to thank all


of our employees and consultant who participated in this submission. I have been involved with a


number of NDA submissions and I can tell you the time and effort that goes into an NDA following


is monumental. I would like to specifically mention the efforts of our Clinical and manufacturing


development groups for making this happen.


And even this NDA submission is important to VIVUS for several reasons, first it demonstrates our


ability to take a product from in-licensing in 2004 through phase III development to NDA submission


in 2006. We will continue to leverage this core competency as we move our other products through


phase III development.


Second, Evamist utilizes the MDTS delivery technology, the same delivery technology we employ


with our transdermal testosterone product. Our experience with the Evamist would directly benefit


the development of Testosterone MDTS. And third we believe the US estrogen market has


stabilized at $1.1 billion with Premarin dominating the market with sales greater than $800 million.


Market share for the transdermal portion of the market continues to grow and prospects for future


growth are excellent. Evamist in our opinion is not just another transdermal estrogen product. The


patient preferred characteristics of Evamist spray delivery system we believe will for the first time


enable a transdermal estrogen product to effectively compete with Premarin, the market leader.


Using Evamist is as easy as taking a pill. No glass, no water, no swallowing, just a simple spray to


the forearm. In addition Evamist dries in 60 seconds, it is invisible, it is non-irritating, it is not


affected by washing and will not transfer to clothing or other people. Another potential benefit of


Evamist to over conjugated declined estrogens was discovered in focus group discussions. When
raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


women were given the choice they prefer to take Estradiol, the estrogen naturally found in their


bodies rather than a group of estrogens found only in pregnant marijurans [ph].


From a safety standpoint transdermal estrogen eliminates the safety concerns related to the first


half metabolism associated with oral therapy. When a woman takes Premarin the liver reacts and


mechanisms are set in action that work to rapidly eliminate the product from the body. High doses


are therefore required to overwhelm the liver allowing 10 to 20% of the administered product to


enter systemic circulation will convert to achieve its therapeutic benefit.


Exposing the liver to therapeutic doses of Premarin causes the liver to react and to alter its


production of proteins and lipids. For example Premarin is known to cause an increase in high


density lipoproteins which are associated with the decrease in cardiovascular risk. Premarin


however also increases the levels of triglycerides, low density lipoproteins and C-reactive protein,


all markers associated with an increase in cardiovascular risk. In response to Premarin the liver


also increases production of factors that mediate coagulation such as fibrinogen, factor seven, anti-


thrombin III and TPA.


Please remember it was Premarin that demonstrated an increase in thrombic events such as stroke


and MI and a WHI study. Interestingly Premarin also increases circulating levels of hormone-


binding globulins which in turn reduces circulating levels of free estrogen and free Testosterone


with possible impact on bone density, muscle mass and even sexual desire. Given the potential


convenience of the spray application and a favorable safety profile, we believe even this can


effectively compete against Premarin and can capture a – some portion of the oral market as well


as a significant portion of the Transdermal market. Turning to Qnexa, in response to increase from


Investors on August 16th we held a conference call with doctors Gadde and Najarian to discuss the


phase II clinical trial result. The call was well attended with over a 150 participants and lasted


nearly two hours.


In addition Dr. Gadde recently presented the phase two results in a podium presentation at the


annual scientific meeting of the North American association for the study of obesity. While the top


line data had been previously released this was the first time the medical community had the


opportunity to examine the data in great detail. The presentation was well attended and the data


was well received. Data from other obesity compounds in development were presented as well.


Although head to head trials have not been completed, the efficacy and safety profile Qnexa


speaks for itself. I will now turn the call over the Dr. Wesley Day who will give an update on each of


our clinical programs.


Wesley Day, Ph.D., Vice President, Clinical Development


Thanks Le. I will now briefly review each of VIVUS' four clinical programs, Qnexa, Evamist,


Testosterone and Avanafil and some of the milestones we expect to accomplish by the next


conference call.


Qnexa is our proprietary treatment for obesity. This program has made excellent progress over the


last quarter. As we told you previously we are required by the FDA to complete a standard battery


of genotoxicity studies as well as some standard three month toxicology studies with Qnexa prior to


initiation of phase III in humans. The genotox studies were completed this quarter and I am pleased


to say that there were no adverse toxicity findings in any of the required study. The three month


toxicology studies in two species are underway and we expect the studies to be completed by


yearend. We hope to give you an update on the non-clinical toxicology studies during the yearend


conference call. With respect to the formulation for Qnexa, plans are in place to begin the


necessary human PK studies before the end of the year.