Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Carey — Managing Director, Lazar Partners Ltd.
John P. Amos — Chief Executive Officer & Director, VIVUS, Inc.
Mark K. Oki — Chief Financial Officer & Chief Accounting Officer, VIVUS, Inc.
Santosh T. Varghese — Chief Medical Officer, VIVUS, Inc.
John D. Vandermosten — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc. (Small Cap Research)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the VIVUS Second Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. For introductions and opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. David Kerry of Lazar Partners. Please go ahead.

Thank you operator. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's teleconference. With me on the call is John Amos, VIVUS' Chief Executive Officer; Mark Oki, Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. Santosh Varghese, VIVUS' Chief Medical Officer. Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that during this conference call VIVUS will make certain statements that are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, hope, likely, may, opportunity, plan, potential, predict, and should, among others. These forward-looking statements are based on VIVUS' current expectations and actual results could differ materially.

There are a number of factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Investors are advised to read the Risk Factors set forth in VIVUS' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed on February 26, 2019 as well as periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as VIVUS' Form 10-Q filed earlier today.

VIVUS does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made on this call. I'll now turn the call over to John Amos.

Thanks, David and thanks to everyone on the call for your time this afternoon. Fiscal Q2 2019 represents the completion of quarter four of our 10-quarter turnaround. The newly integrated management team has been working on improving the business for over a four year. I would like to compare and contrast the last four quarters of performance ending on June 30, 2019 with the fourth quarters of performance ending on June 30, 2018.

From July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019 we generated revenue of $72.7 million compared with $54 million in the prior year period. This reflects a revenue growth rate of 34.7%. From July 1, 2018 to June 30 of 2019 we generated non-GAAP EBITDA of $14.4 million compared with $155,000 in the prior year. Later in the call Mark will further expand on some of our expense management and provide some finer points of the last 12 months of management of the business as well as review second quarter of 2019 financial results.

I'd like to begin with a review of Qsymia. Emphasizing that in the second quarter of 2019 we grew scripts for the product by 5% compared with the first quarter of 2019. As noted in our prior quarterly call, we see the performance of Qsymia in the first quarter of 2019 as the baseline from which we intend to grow. We also noted that we have re-launched the product utilizing our Advantage platform and in just a few months, it is already beginning to realize its potential generating 6,800 scripts in the second quarter compared with only 1,800 scripts in the first quarter of 2019.

The Qsymia Advantage Program was corrected several issues that patients had accessing the product. We've lowered the out-of-pocket costs by approximately 30%. We have flattened pricing across all strings and we've made significant strides in moving new patients from the 14-day free trial offer to a six-week titration and initial therapeutic dose. The free trial offer historically represented 8% of our total prescriptions. These prescriptions were effectively [ph] a sunk (00:04:05) marketing expense and patients only convert to a paying customer approximately 50% of the time. The prescriptions create a negative patient perception of Qsymia and we're also wildly unprofitable.

By moving to flat pricing across all strengths, we wanted to remove the cost barrier to patients to move onto the higher therapeutic dose that are prescribed by the physician. Historically, this strength trend accounted for 22% of our total scripts, in Q2 2019 this strength accounted for 23%. We believe that this change is significant as patients will continue to lose weight potentially increasing their durability to treatment.

Going forward, we expect to see some fluctuations in our script volumes, this is due to the elimination of the free trial offer and because we do not report our Qsymia Advantage scripts, which will comprise a greater portion of our scripts through the normal data services. Overall, in the second quarter 2019, we generated 86,000 scripts compared with the 82,000 scripts in the first quarter of 2019. While the company had historically seen some fluctuations in quarterly volume. These occasional positive changes we're not driven by active commercial efforts, while we do not consider Qsymia fixed, we are starting to see improved commercial performance. [indiscernible]

(00:05:26) a number of other commercial and clinical initiatives in the pipeline over the Qsymia brand, including the planned roll out of telemedicine capabilities and an improved payer strategy. We expect announcements on both of these by the end of the year. Dr. Varghese will provide an update on our clinical activities later in the call.

Overall, we're pleased with VIVUS's performance in re-launching Qsymia. Yesterday, we announced that our Korean marketing partner Alvogen attained marketing approval for Qsymia from the South Korea Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. VIVUS will receive a $2.5 million milestone payment related to the approval and our agreement also includes future milestone payments tied to commercial launch of Qsymia and achieving certain sales goals. VIVUS will also receive royalties on Alvogen's net sales of Qsymia.

Let's review PANCREASE. In the second quarter of 2019, we expected to generate 6,000 total prescriptions. We were below that number by 291 scripts, which translates to 2 scripts per territory, per week. We believe, we will close this gap and we will see growth in performance in Q3 and Q4 of 2019. To review, we also re-launched this product in of 2019 with [indiscernible] (00:06:44) representatives covering healthcare providers. We've also initiated our payout coverage.

Prior to the VIVUS re-launch, there have been no commercial effort supporting the product since 2012. Typically, the prescriber needs to be visited seven to eight times to change prescriber behavior. On average, we have seen our targeted physicians four times through the end of Q2. Dr. Varghese will cover the PANCREASE clinical programs that we are in the process of considering and initiating.

Our development program VI-0106 for PAH is still in stability testing. As we have mentioned previously, while we are working to make improvements in the stability of the product before we submit an investigational New Drug Application to the FDA. The number of inbound inquiries related to partnering this product have increased in the past quarter. However, our desire to partner the product will be somewhat limited until we are comfortable with the final formulation.

The STENDRA/SPEDRA product is either partnered out or licensed in various global territories. We continue to collect royalties and manage the manufacturing process for marketing the license partners. We are working with the various partners in this program to reduce our working capital exposure for the product and to improve our return on invested capital. A key part of our strategy has been focused on acquiring or partnering additional EBITDA generating products. Today, we have reviewed several deals, but have not found a transaction that met the criteria we have previously laid out. We will continue such efforts and remain opportunistic on appropriate asset acquisitions going forward.

Let's shift over to our debt. As a reminder, we have $181.4 million of convertible bonds due in May of 2020. We're in the process of executing the plan that will either be implemented in Q4 2019 or Q1 of 2020. We will utilize our on-hand cash and refinance the balance of the $181.4 million in excess of our on-hand cash to close out the bonds. The bonds are not callable, therefore the closer we wait until the maturity, the more we will be able to minimize double payment of interest. We are already actively engaged with lenders of potential financings in an effort to be prepared for the payoff of the convertible bonds. As we have stated numerous times, we expect that turning around [indiscernible] (00:09:06) will take 10 quarters, when completed 40% of the turnaround. Based on the metrics, we have seen to-date, we believe we are on schedule in total.

I will now turn over to Mark Oki to review the financials of Q2 2019 in more detail.

Thank you, John. I will now review the second quarter 2019 financial results and then turn the call over to Dr. Varghese, who'll provide an update on our clinical programs. As John discussed in depth, we just completed the four quarter of the 10 quarter turnaround, which included re-launching both PANCREAZE and Qsymia in the first quarter of 2019. As a result, we believe that comparing second quarter of 2019 with the first quarter of 2019 rather than the second quarter of 2018, will provide you with a better indication of how the turnaround efforts are progressing.

Qsymia net product revenue was $10 million and $8.4 million in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. Shipments were approximately 87,000 units and 75,000 units in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively.

As John discussed we began to see the positive effect of the Qsymia Advantage Program in the second quarter of 2019. In the second quarter 8% of scripts were dispensed to Qsymia Advantage Programs direct to patient model, up from 2% in the first quarter of 2019. PANCREAZE net product revenue in the U.S. was $5.1 million in both the second and first quarters of 2019, which represented 27,000 units and 26,000 units of PANCREAZE shift in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. We anticipate that future PANCREAZE product revenue will increase as a result of our re-launch efforts in the first quarter.

Supply revenue from our licensees, Menarini and Metuchen for SPEDRA and STENDRA were $1.8 million and $1.6 million in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. We remind you that both Menarini and Metuchen have minimum order requirements and their orders do not necessarily reflect end user demand. The increase in revenue is due to the timing of order from these commercialization partners. We recognized $1.5 million and $1 million of royalty revenues from Canadian PANCREASE MT sales and from Menarini sales of SPEDRA in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively.

Canadian PANCREASE royalty revenue was approximately $400,000 higher than in the first quarter, a result of the transition to VIVUS [indiscernible] (00:11:53) commercial responsibility for Canadian sales in August of this year. This transition results in approximately 10 weeks of zero shipments to wholesalers. To ensure sufficient product available to our customers, additional product will ship to our wholesalers ahead of this 10-week period.

Beginning in the third quarter, we will record Canadian PANCREAZE sales as net product revenue and recognize associated cost of goods sold in operating expenses. Total cost of goods sold excluding amortization was $4.4 million and $4.3 million in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. The increase was primarily the result of the increase of revenue during the quarter. Amortization of intangible assets was $3.6 million in both the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. This amount was primarily the amortizations cost capitalized related to the acquisition of PANCREAZE.

Research and development expense was $2.4 million and $2.5 million in the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively. Research and development expenses were primarily activities related to the Qsymia adolescent safety and efficacy study, PANCREAZE post-marketing requirements assumed from Janssen and ongoing PANCREAZE product improvement initiatives.

Selling, general and administrative expense was $10.1 million and $9.8 million for the second and first quarters of 2019, respectively, and included selling and marketing expense of $4.6 million and $4.5 million, respectively. VIVUS expects selling, general and administrative expenses to fluctuate with business development activities.

Total interest expense net was $3.9 million in both the second and first quarters of 2019. On an annual basis, we'll continue to pay approximately $19.6 million in annual cash interest on our outstanding convertible and senior secured notes.

Net loss for the second and first quarters of 2019 was $5.9 million and $7.9 million, respectively. Cash, cash equivalents and available for sale securities were $94.4 million at June 30, 2019.

Non-GAAP EBITDA for the second and first quarters of 2019 was $2.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found in the press release filed earlier today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In regard to the timing of refinancing our convertible notes due in May of 2020, I'd like to point out that due to the convertible feature of these notes that is not included a prepayment feature. Therefore, for every month that we've refinanced ahead of the May 2020 due date, we would incur interest on the new debt along with the approximate $680,000 of interest earned on the convertible notes. As a result of this, we're balancing the efficient use of our cash with resolving the uncertainty surrounding the repayment of these notes.

With that, I will now return the call over to Dr. Varghese for the clinical and product lifecycle update

Thanks, Mark. I will review the clinical and regulatory aspects of Qsymia, PANCREAZE and VI-0106 as we have made significant progress in advancing clinical programs and projects for new data. With respect to Qsymia, in the second quarter of 2019, we enrolled the first subject in a Phase 4 study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Qsymia, these adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17 years. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that nearly 21% of adolescents aged 12 to 19 years are obese.

And a study conducted by the World Health Organization found that obesity in children ages 5 to 19 years has risen ten-fold in the past four decades and estimates that more children globally will be overweight rather than underweight by 2022. We believe that Qsymia can be an important part of integrated strategies to address adolescent obesity. And this study is designed to provide clinical data to support a potential label expansion for this indication. We continue to have productive discussions with the FDA regarding a study designed to evaluate the effect of Qsymia on ambulatory blood pressure.

We believe this study could provide us with new data to further inform our dialogue with the FDA regarding our post-marketing cardiovascular outcomes trial that was required as part of the initial approval of Qsymia. We noted in the last call that we had submitted a protocol for this study to the FDA. Since that time we have received feedback from the FDA and are incorporating their guidance into a revised protocol that we expect to submit in the third quarter. We continue to explore regions and markets where Qsymia could benefit patients on their weight loss journey.

John already mentioned about the recent South Korean approval of Qsymia. In addition to this we are continuing our efforts to engage certain European regulators in connection with our plan to re-filing of a new Qsymia marketing authorization application on a de-centralized basis. We expect to have more to report on this in the third quarter of 2019. Finally, we are working with researchers at major institutions to develop clinical protocols and initiate the related clinical trial to evaluate health technology platforms to augment and track patient's efforts in weight management. We hope to have more information in the coming months regarding the results of these efforts.

Regarding PANCREAZE, we continue to evaluate additional pancreatic studies including those in pancreatic oncology. We're currently finalizing the study with Cedars-Sinai Hospital to look at the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in patients with pancreatic cancer. With respect to our VI-0106 program for pulmonary arterial hypertension or PAH, we anticipate moving forward with an IND filing in the second half of this year. This filing and the initiation of the planned Phase 2 clinical study will require the pending stability data on our unique proprietary once daily extended release formulation, which we believe will facilitate therapeutic drug levels while minimizing immunosuppressive effects for patients with PAH. The stability testing is ongoing and the results will dictate the timing of our IND filing.

Operator, you may now open the line for the question-and-answer period.

Thank you. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from John Vandermosten with Zacks Small Cap Research. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, everyone, and great results today, especially on the top line. First question is on gross margin, it seems like it improved nicely over where it had been in the first quarter. And I was wondering if you could attribute that or what you could attribute that to?

Part of it is just the growth in Qsymia revenues and then the other part is just a little bit of timing of the manufacture of some of the Qsymia inventory, which allowed for the absorption of overhead. So a little bit of accounting, a little bit of growth.

Okay. Very good. And on the telemedicine program, it looks like that is working nicely so far and based on the revenues in that segment. Is there a anecdote of the success there that might be representative of what's going on with the new sales strategy?

Yes. There's a couple of things that are kind of ferreted away in our data. One of them is men are starting to utilize Qsymia more through this program. There's definitely a psychological effect with men going into a pharmacy and asking for a weight loss or BMI therapeutic. And so what's great and what we surmise before we did this and execute with this strategy is that we expected to see a little bit of lift in the male population. So that's been pretty nice.

The second thing that we've seen in our data is that the number of 90-day scripts has increased by quite a bit. So these are patients that are moving on to a longer durable therapy. And then the third and final point, which we mentioned in our – and I mentioned in our – my earlier comments, but that's a high-end therapeutic dose which does drive better efficacy and results is starting to be a larger seller for us as a result of the better pricing. But we've added number of physicians, who have told us over the years that I've been here at least that we wanted to move these patients onto this higher therapeutic dose, but a lot of the patients were de-motivated by the pricing and by fixing this pricing to move into the flat pricing that we have now.

We're seeing that unit of measure, that NDC start to expand on utilization which is great for us because that means patients are getting a better medical result and staying more durable to the therapy. So a lot of the things that we saw have been corrected with the Advantage Program.

Okay. And it looks like you reported there was an 8% of the scripts were from the Advantage Program in the second quarter. Do you have a sense of how that trend will progress or a target for that trend as we go through to the second half?

Yeah. I think though – if it stays on kind of par with the growth that we've seen, we're expecting a slowdown a little bit as the year goes on. But we expect to see probably 85% of the market converted to the new platform; it's more profitable for us within a three quarter to four quarter time period. So it's a focus for the sales team. It's actually focus for physicians on the program as well too because, because of that flat pricing, they can get better results for their patients by moving them up to this higher end dose.

But we were also doing a couple of other things. We're having discussions. Now that we've seen some growth and we solved some problems in Qsymia with the commercialization we are seeing a broader discussion with some of the retail pharmacies to as they – a lot of the retail pharmacies now have been integrated with health plans and PDMs and they're focused on self-insured employer and trying to drive weight loss programs for them. So we're having some broader discussion there, which are great for us. We hope those will drive results and we'll talk about those in latter part of this year.

Okay. And congratulations also on the approval in South Korea. I myself I am not that familiar with the other process there goes for pricing and what that might turn out to be eventually, but can you give us some clues on how that might progress. And I know that Alvogen is working on that, but I just thought maybe you could provide some commentary on what to expect in that market?

Yeah. So – yeah, that's great. So we're really excited, the team did a great job on getting that product approved and it's really nice to see Qsymia be recognized as in an additional territory and then obviously we're working through to get an hopefully get an approval year two out in Europe or parts of Europe, I should say.

In terms of pricing, Alvogen controls that process. They are the marketing team over there. But one commentary that we can make is that the [indiscernible] meds, the BMI therapeutics are not reimbursed by the national insurer in Korea. They do have a national coverage system there that normally with a – the different type of pharmaceutical would potentially; you'd have a negotiation between the pharmaceutical manufacturer and the national insurer. That's not the case here, it is a cash pay business much if it is here in the United States and other than that, it's really the questions are probably best of luck for Alvogen.

Okay. Thank you guys. Appreciate it.

Yeah, thank you, John.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from [ph] Robert Mendralla (00:25:14). Your line is now open.

Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for a very good earnings report. I was pleased with that. Just two questions, my first question with the PAH, hypertension. I was curious with the second half and the plan for an IND for this year, are there any plans or you add a little bit of color to the potential for a partnership there may be a long term partner it's a great marketplace, it's huge. so I just wondered, can you add a little bit more color on that?

Yeah. No, it's a great question. I think as I've done probably 33 various forms of pharmaceutical deals and the analogy that I like to use is that you're baking a cake and right now the way that we look at it one of pharmaceuticals still on stability testing, it's got to still in the oven. And until we see the final results from the stability testing and what the final formulation looks like, it drives your decision around what type of partner that you want to have.

There are pure financial partners which we're having discussions with there's people who can perform in enhance your clinical development, people that you can bring – that can bring the product to other markets, and then, there's partners with technical capabilities that we may or may not be able to access through the free market from a contract manufacturing perspective. So in terms of the United States, in terms of getting the product manufactured and marketed here in the United States, the marketplace size is a perfect size for specialty pharmaceutical company as we are as VIVUS is becoming. So the idea of partnering it out at this moment in time doesn't make really fiduciary sense or clinical sense.

That being said, once we get to a point where we file the IND and understand the other 14 or 15 aspects of the drug and how we'll think about it, as well as global territories that potentially we qualify some of the partners that we've had discussions with and potentially eliminate some of the other. So I like to make and we like to make decisions with as much information as possible and some of the information is still being developed. But it's certainly something that we're open to. We just – we need to do a couple of things before we pull the trigger on that.

Okay. Thank you. My second question goes to the long-term debt, we discuss that a little bit in this call today. And I think that the stack is basically unlocked, I think it should be much higher personally and I think...

That also is agreed.

And I think what keeps some of the – if you will the retail investors because it's got a good a decent institutional holding and growing, is the long-term debt. And you added a little bit of color on addressing that. Is there any option there I know that originally there was an option for some of that to be converted into stock is that still on the table or is that something that doesn't make financial sense at this time?

Yeah. So in terms of the convergence, the holders of the convertible bonds right now, the conversion price is extraordinarily high in relation to our current price of our stock. So for them financially, that trade just doesn't make sense, it's really out of money trade. I think the convertible bonds when you think about them, we really just view them as 4.5% debt. And the goal there is obviously to pay them back and we will have to refinance a portion of that, and then utilize some of our cash on hand. It's something that we're focused on and that we know we get a few questions about it from the investor community pretty regularly, and we certainly understand why. But on the flip side, our primary focus is improving revenue, improving earnings, improving working capital management, improving our products clinically, and improving the commercialization of our products, and those are the things that we're focused on and the debt and debt capacity, now what we're focused on.

When we first took the company over, there was a question of, oh, boy, that's awful lot of debt and we've got to go sort it out. Now it's more a function of what is the weighted average cost of capital that we're going to have we believe post this partial refinancing partial repayment. And so the longer that we are – the more we move towards May 2020 date, we have more time to put performance up on our quarterly results.

And while we can potentially do something now, [ph] why don't we (00:30:33) would double pay an interest, which would be just asinine, we'd just be burning $680,000 per month, which would be horrible from a fiduciary responsibility. But secondarily, as we move through the turnaround and through the re-launch of the products, our performance will hopefully get better. And that allows us to have different conversations around the weighted average cost of capital post transaction.

Okay. Very good. And I have one last question. With respect to future... [indiscernible]

(00:31:04)

...acts, in terms of what you're looking at, are you looking at primarily finished product with a marketplace or could it be like the instance of PAH an unfinished product that needs to be developed and taken to market or both?

Yeah. Yeah, no, it's a great question. So we have a nice pipeline of what we refer to is in-development products, but they're not things that we're going to transact on right now. This company given where the balance sheet is and given where we are in the re-launch of PANCREAZE and Qsymia, it doesn't warrant the – or nor have the ability to take on additional financial and development risk associated with development assets. Primarily our focus has been...

Okay great.

Yeah, our focus has just been looking at cash flow generating assets that we would do that we believe that we would be able to deliver an internal rate of return north of 18% to 20% based on the acquisition price. We've looked at all out a lot of frogs. We just haven't been able to find one that we like yet.

Okay. Very good. Thank you, and a good job on the turnaround so far. Thank you.

I appreciate that very much, sir.

We have a follow up question from John Vandermosten with Zacks Small Cap Research. Your line is now open.

Hi, everyone. I think, Mark this is for you. I think you mentioned the number of PANCREAZE shipments, but I missed that for the second quarter. Could you repeat that for me, please?

John, let me send that to you. I don't want to quote you a number off top of my head that maybe wrong.

Okay no problem. Thanks so much you, guys.

Thanks.

If there are no further questions, I'll turn the line back to John Amos for closing remarks.

Yeah. Thanks to all of you for your time today and your continued interest in VIVUS. I believe that interest is warranted given the – both the potential value of the products and the momentum we are generating toward fully realizing that value for patients and shareholders like. The VI or the VIVUS health platform and our Qsymia Advantage Programs for both PANCREAZE and Qsymia are already demonstrating their ability to increase awareness for current commercial products and we're pleased that they are transformative infrastructure that we can leverage to build out a portfolio of cash flow positive assets that make a difference, patients, physicians and healthcare system as a whole.

Clearly building that portfolio and fully realizing the value of Qsymia and PANCREAZE will take additional time and investment. But we believe that our achievements in the second quarter clearly demonstrate that we have the strategy and determination knowhow to get it done. We're not even halfway through the 10 quarters that we believe are needed to turn VIVUS around. And we are already seeing important revenue gains and operational efficiencies that we believe are strong indicators of our continued progress.

I look forward to updating you on that progress in the months ahead. Turning back over to you, operator.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's call. All parties may now disconnect.