raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Vivus Incorporated Third Quarter Financial Results and Product


Development Highlights Conference call. Joining the call from Vivus, are Lee Wilson, Chief


Executive Officer; Peter Tam, Senior Vice President of Product; and Corporate Development and


Tim Morris, Chief Financial Officer. At this time all participants are in on a listen only mode. During


the course of the conference call Vivus may make projections or other forward-looking statements


regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution


that these statements are just predications and that actual event’s or results may differ materially.


Investors should read the risk factors set forth in VIVUS' Form 10-K for the year ended December


31, 2004 and periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These


documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ


materially from those contained in our projections or forward looking statements. Following the


speakers prepared remarks we will hold the Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn


the conference call over to Leland Wilson, Chief Executive Office. Please go ahead sir.


Leland F. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, welcome to the second quarter conference call, with me today are Peter Tam, Senior


Vice President of Product and Corporate Development and Tim Morris our CFO. Our agenda for


today is to first review our accomplishments and highlights for the third quarter which I ill do and


then Tim will discuss our financial results and Peter will update us on our pipeline and we will close


with the question and answer session.


I will start the review with our third quarter accomplishments. For Evamist we had two significant


accomplishments. First we completed enrollment in our Phase III trial on time. We enrolled over


400 patients at 43 centers throughout the United States. This phase III study is being conducted


with the benefit of a special protocol assessment. And we expect to follow our MDA, mid-year, next


year.


We also initiated a significant market research study accepting how patients and doctors view


Evamist, when compared to existing therapies. Although research is not complete preliminary


results are encouraging and indicate that Evamist is viewed favorably by current passed gel [ph]


and even oral estrogen users. This afternoon Dr. Susan Davis presented our Phase II study results


at the North American society annual meeting in San Diego. These results indicated that patient


treated with Testosterone MDTS, more then double there number of satisfactory sexual events as


compared to both placebo and baseline.


On September 12, we met with the FDA to discuss Phase III requirements for Testosterone MDTS.


Although Phase III protocols have not yet been agreed upon, we are able to get a clear direction


from the FDA on their requirements for the size and duration of the Phase III study. We are


currently resubmitting or phase III plan with the goal of obtaining a special protocol of assessments


before beginning phase III trials.


For Avanafil, we have five abstracts being presentation at this year’s sexual medicine society


meeting held of November 17th to 20th, in New York city. The abstracts includes increasing


patients by a canopy of Avanafil’s selectivity and specificity for PDE5 as compared to other PDE


enzyme systems. And then I will also present results of animal studies to include electroretinogram


studies as well as nitric interaction fenile [ph] studies. Our Craig Peterson will present Human PK


Study results, Dr. Nehra [ph] will present Nitrate Interaction Study results and Dr. Kaufman will


present our Phase II Study results. Needless to say this is an important scientific meeting where


for the first time peer scientists will have a comprehensive view of Avanafil.
raw transcript


VIVUS, Inc.
 
VVUS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On the marketing front we have completed a large market research study with 3 goals in mind on


Avanafil. First is to assess the future of the PDE5 market, the second to determine Avanafil


potential in that market and third to determine the optimal positioning strategy for Avanafil. The


study included among other things interviews with doctors and patients across the United States


and Europe. We view these study results as a key part of our Avanafil corporate development


strategy along with the abstracts at the SMS [ph] Society meeting this market research forms the


core of our Avanafil corporate development presentations which is now being presented and sent to


companies in the US, Europe and Japan. I’d now like to turn the meeting over to Tim to review our


third quarter financial performance.


Timothy E. Morris, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President-Finance


Thank you, Lee. For the third quarter of 2005 VIVUS reported a net loss of $6 million or $0.13 per


share. This compared to a net loss of 4.9 million or $0.13 per share in the third quarter of 2004.


The increase in net loss was due to higher R&D expenses as compared to the third quarter 2004


mainly due to clinical trial costs for both Evamist and ALISTA. Total revenue for the third quarter


2005 was 3.3 million this compared also to the 4.3 million of revenues for the third quarter of 2004.


Revenue from the domestic sales of MUSE was lower mainly due to a couple of factors. First of all


the wholesalers continue to use the inventory of MUSE that they had on hand and acquired in late


in 2004. Second of all, the retail demand for MUSE is down as compared to that same period last


year, we estimate the retail demand is down around 12% from the third quarter of last year.


However, our average number of retail units both retail and US government is still slightly under


200,000 per quarter, which was roughly the same as we saw in the second quarter. We had


slightly higher revenues from the international shipments of MUSE mainly due to increases in the


transfer price. For the first 9 months of 2005, revenues were 5.6 million, which was lower when


compared to the 9.5 million for the first 9 months of last year. The net loss was 23.4 million or


$0.55 per share, which is higher than the net loss of 20.7 million or $0.54 per share for the first 9


months of 2004. The decreased revenue was due to lower product sales, again mainly due to the


large buying that happened in the fourth quarter of last year and the decrease in demand for MUSE


in the first 9 months as well.
 
The increase in net loss for the first 9 months of 2005 resulted


primarily from the decrease in MUSE revenues.


Our guidance for MUSE sales for 2005 remains the same at 15 million, again this assumes we see


the same buying in the fourth quarter that we have seen in prior years. At the end of September,


VIVUS had approximately $33.5 million both in cash, cash equivalents and available for sale


security. This compares to the 39.5 million we had at the end of June of 2005 and the 29.8 million


we had at the end of December 2004. The decrease in cash for the quarter of approximately $6


million is mainly due to cash used in operations to cover clinical trial expenses. Keep in mind that,


for the first quarter of 2005, our operations were essentially cash neutral mainly due to large


amount of accounts receivable that was collected in the first quarter of 2005. For the year, 9


months to date, exclusive of the proceeds from the public offering, the decrease in the cash and


investments for the first 9 months was approximately $16 million.


One the IR/PR side, in the third quarter, we presented at the UBS Life Sciences Conference in New


York. We also presented last week at the Bio Investor Forum 2005 in San Francisco. For the third


quarter, we held one-on-one meetings with over 50 participants. We also had a series of road


shows consisting of one-on-one meetings targeted institutional investors. During the quarter, we


visited several investors in – investment professionals in New York, San Francisco, Florida and


Boston. For the remainder of 2005, we will focus our efforts around the SMS meeting and the


numeric [ph] abstract that we had previously told you about. In addition, in the fourth quarter, we


will be presenting at the Rodman & Renshaw Healthcare Conference in New York on November 8,


the SG Cowen Global Healthcare Conference in Barcelona on November 10, and again at the


BioTech Forum in San Francisco on December 8.