Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, McQuilling Holdings
Douglas Scott Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.
Brian James Harper — Founder, Harper Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference. Today's program is being recorded. At this time, I would like to hand things over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation first quarter 2016 earnings call. I'm Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

On today's call, Niels will start the presentation by providing an overview of the market, and then Erik will go into more depth on operational performance in the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to review our current financial position. After that, we will gladly take your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports.

I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I welcome all of you to our first quarter 2016 earnings call. Before Erik's Strategic Plan update and ongoing operations report and Manny's review of our discussions with our lenders and lessors and our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments.

While the various segments of the worldwide dry-bulk cargo market have shown improvement when compared to 2015 year-end and January 2016 severely depressed levels, market fundamentals continue to be negative with a significant overhang of new building vessels to be delivered in 2016.

Also, vessel valuations have continued to fall off since we successfully divested our dry bulk cargo assets. As we have reported to you before, improvement in the depressed dry bulk cargo market will only come with an improved vessel supply and demand balance.

The current dry bulk cargo market conditions have pressured all listed dry bulk cargo companies' shares to trade at severely depressed levels. In our case, even though we are substantially different company based on our diversified portfolio of niche businesses, while our shares have traded up recently, our shares continue to trade at depressed levels.

When Erik provides his Strategic Plan update, you will see that we have made significant progress in accomplishing the objectives of our Strategic Plan while being faced with extraordinary market conditions. Despite the progress we have made with our Strategic Plan, as you know, we were unable to pay our preferred stock dividends last month as our liquidity at this stage of our Strategic Plan and the conditions of our creditor agreements precluded payment.

We continue to work through our Strategic Plan which, by its very nature, will evolve as we seek to maximize the value of our long-term contracts and strong customer relationships. We still firmly believe that our long-standing strategy of focusing on niche market cargo-centric activities is our best path forward. While we struggle with ongoing liquidity issues, we believe that the successful execution of our Strategic Plan will make us a more focused company with improved leverage and liquidity.

Before I turn the call over to Erik, I would like to advise that yesterday at our annual shareholder's meeting, pursuant to our board's succession plan, I reported that I would retire as Chairman and CEO on June 30, 2016, and then I would be succeeded by my cousin, Erik L. Johnsen. Also in our shareholder's meeting, I was elected to and will continue to serve on our board of directors.

I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels. Good morning. The market has seen glimpses of improvement in the first quarter. However, global market, maritime markets are not yet at acceptable levels. Despite that, our contract coverage in the niche markets has helped us manage our core fleet utilization much more efficiently during the first quarter this year.

Our dedicated team continues to manage our business on a day-to-day basis while we execute a very aggressive Strategic Plan to delever the balance sheet and add back the proper liquidity. I'll briefly outline the operating performance of our core segments in the first quarter.

Our overall, gross profit for the quarter was $7.8 million despite the traditional weather days experienced in the Gulf of Mexico at this time of year in the Jones Act segment. Overall, each of our segments were in line with our expectations with the exception of the supplemental cargo for the PCTCs, which was marginally less than anticipated, but should be made up during the remainder of the year.

In the Jones Act segment, our gross voyage profit was just over $3.5 million in the first quarter. We will continue to emphasize that the successful execution of our Jones Act operation is predicated on the efficient deployment of vessels and our ability to limit ballast [ph] voyage (06:29) by engaging in two-way service on a substantial portion of the voyages, which we are uniquely well-suited to carry out as largest player in the Jones Act dry bulk trade.

We continue to act – we continue to take action across a number of fronts to improve our operations, unlock the inherent value of our Jones Act operations and restore this segment to better profitability.

The U.S. UOS team is focused on key metrics that drive satisfactory results for this segment from contracting additional cargos to increasing vessel utilization, voyage efficiency and diligently working to streamline our operating costs. In addition, we continue to work on [ph] extending (07:19) our existing contracts with our long-standing high-quality customers.

The five Pure Car Truck Carriers all performing as planned on long-term charters in the supplemental cargos associated with the four U.S. vessels slightly lower than projections for the fourth quarter. We believe that we'll be able to bring these in line with our annual expectations.

The Specialty segment year-on-year comparison is skewed as we have done a number of transactions within the segment in conjunction with our Strategic Plan. We concluded the sale of our minority interest in two chemical and two asphalt tankers. We concluded the sale of our minority interest in the mini bulkers.

We concluded a firm four-year bareboat charter with options up to four additional years of potential eight years in total, ice strengthened multi-purpose vessel. The two bareboat chartered-in heavy lift vessels performed satisfactorily during the quarter. We filed two applications last week with the Maritime Administration to replace the two chartered-in container vessels that were redelivered to the third-party owners at the end of September 2015.

When approved, this will allow us to return our U.S. Flag Maritime Security Program fleet back to eight vessels within the next few months. Continuing with the specialty agreement, as earlier advised, we acquired through the sale of our interest in the mini bulker partnership of small multipurpose vessel which went on long-term charter to our Indonesian customer in late March. Together with other vessels, this business performed as planned in the quarter.

The Rail-Ferry segment performed better than planned, mainly from increased volumes from our rail repair yard facility. The cargo volumes both south and north on the Rail-Ferry itself remained strong during the quarter.

Turning to the company as a whole, we continue to implement our Strategic Plan that will reshape ISH into a more focused, streamlined company, participating in the stable niche markets where we are most established and have the strongest market positions.

In the first quarter, we completed the sale of all of our remaining International Flag Dry Bulk Carriers and subsequently in April, the sale of our New Orleans building as well. Disposing of several non-core Jones Act assets that have been laid off for some time.

Our debt was reduced by a further $42.8 million in the quarter and as of March 31, it was down to just over $117 million. We have had several further transactions pending as part of our overall Strategic Plan to streamline the company going forward.

While we could not disclose the nature of those transactions today, once concluded, they will greatly assist us in stabilizing the company, by not only paying down additional debt but providing us liquidity to operate the company going forward. We are working closely with our lenders and with their continued assistance in these unprecedented times, we will accomplish our goals.

I will now ask Manny to provide an update on the financials.

Thank you, Erik. I will now provide some details on our financials for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. We reported a net loss of $8.5 million, which included total non-cash charges of $3.4 million. Excluding these, our net loss was $5.1 million. This compares to a net loss of $1.7 million for the 2015 first quarter, excluding non-cash charges of approximately $2.8 million.

Revenues decreased to $53.8 million from $68 million in the same period in 2015. This drop is attributable to a reduction of the company's owned and operated vessel fleet from 53 in 2015 to 24 in the current quarter. Our gross voyage profit was $7.8 million compared to an $11.5 million gross voyage profit in the 2015 first quarter. The total gross voyage profit drop of $3.7 million year-over-year is directly related to the fleet reduction as the company executes its Strategic Plan.

The Jones Act segment gross voyage profit of $3.5 million, which is an improvement of $1.3 million year-over-year reflects operating improved efficiency. The Jones Act segment currently operates 5 vessels compared to 10 vessels in the 2015 first quarter.

The 2016 PCTC segment gross voyage profits reflect operating two less vessels than the comparable 2015 period. The contribution from supplemental cargo tonnage was approximately $500,000 lower than projected. However, for the fall of 2016 year, we expect to reach $7 million gross voyage profit contribution.

The Rail-Ferry segment reported an improvement of year-over-year gross voyage profit of approximately $700,000, driven primarily from an increased rail car repair volumes. The Specialty segment which now consists the vessel supporting an Indonesian contract, NOI strengthened multipurpose bulk carrier on a long-term bareboat contract, reported a gross voyage profit of $1.1 million, which is in line with our estimates.

The company's other segment, consisting primarily of a brokerage company, reported a $38,000 gross voyage profit contribution. While administrative and general expenses were approximately $500,000 lower than the comparable 2015 three-month period, the company is pursuing initiative to reduce A&G to $4 million per quarter. We reported interest expense of $3.1 million for the 2015 first quarter in comparison to $2.7 million for the 2015 first quarter, with gross debt obligations of $117.1 million at March 31. We continue to explore refinancing alternatives to reduce our existing debt service cost.

At March 31, 2016, the company had a negative net working capital of approximately $119 million which include net outstanding obligations of $113.7 million. While the company has successfully reduced its debt obligation, a further injection of liquidity is required. Accordingly, while the divestitures we have made thus far have been limited to assets within our non-core segments, we will explore potential opportunities to sell assets and turn it favorable to the company and its shareholders.

During April, the company reached agreement with most of its principal creditors, which, among other concessions, provided relief from making principal and lease payments until May 15, 2016. The company remains in technical default of its financial covenant and will need to achieve waivers to those covenants beyond June 30, 2016 or successfully amend those covenants. We continue to work together with our creditors to achieve financial stability.

The company did not pay dividends on its A and B Preferred Shares, as terms under its loan agreements prohibit those payments. In order to pay those dividends, the company must meet the following among other financial covenant: A minimum liquidity of $20 million, as of March 31, the company had approximately $6 million; positive net working capital, which as of March 31, the company had a negative working capital of approximately $119.4 million. We continue to work towards amending our financial covenant or successfully refinance into a facility that will provide covenant relief.

However, even if we are successful, we can give no assurances that our future operating cash flow will be adequate to make dividend payments. The reported gross voyage profit of $7.8 million in the first quarter, represents off [indiscernible] (16:39) the company, disposition of non-core segment. These [ph] results are subjected (16:42) to improve from [ph] our (16:43) supplemental cargo contribution and increased annual payments beginning in the 2016 [ph] four (16:51) from the Maritime Security Program.

However, in order for the company to achieve financial stability, we must also meet its goal to reduce administrative and general expenses of $16 million, achieving a quarterly run rate of $4 million by the 2016 fourth quarter with further initiatives in 2017 to reach an annual A&G expense of $13 million.

In addition, the company stated targets to refinance some of its high interest rate debt obligations by the end of 2016 third quarter need to be achieved. In conjunction with this objective, the company is also evaluating a number of options through its existing capital structures.

This ends our prepared remarks, and we will now take your questions and we will now take your questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question today from Mark Suarez, McQuilling Holdings.

Hi, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my questions here.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning, everyone. So, just to go back, and I think, Erik, you touched on this – on the Strategic Plan. I know there are some other transactions you guys are exploring at this point in time. And without going into detail, I'm wondering if you have a target debt level in mind. I know you talked about below $110 million. Maybe you could be a little bit more specific – just give us, maybe a smaller range. And also with that, if you achieved those levels, I'm wondering also if you have a pro forma EBITDA level that you feel comfortable [ph] reaching a run rate, if you will, (19:01) for 2016?

Yeah. Mark, I'm going to answer part of that and then I'll let Manny answer part of it as well. I think on where is the comfortable level on debt, I think we have to continue to look at the businesses that we keep, and rationalize the value of those remaining assets, the contracts associated with that, and a debt level that is, I'm going to call more reasonable, but I think it's very difficult to sit here today when we are still working through a Strategic Plan and to put a target on debt level. Clearly, we wanted under $100 million at the end of the day, which we've said to you back, I think, in October-November when we started this process, but to [ph] pen (20:00) it down exactly, I think is very, very difficult at this point.

And then on the...

Yeah. On the – Mark, on the EBITDA, in the first quarter, I think our EBITDA was about $7 million. I think the improvement there is going to come from supplemental cargo and also, the anticipated increase in Maritime Security Program payment beginning in the fourth quarter. So, I would tell you that around $30 million EBITDA number, perhaps a little bit better, is something that the company can achieve from its remaining pieces of business.

Okay. That's really helpful. And then going back to the Jones Act segment. I know that you guys done a fairly good job so far in the first quarter on [indiscernible] (21:04) that and increased utilization. I'm wondering if you can give us a more color as to what you have done to improve that trend and perhaps if you can talk about how volumes are tracking so far in the second quarter and how the operating efficiency planning beginning to work out?

Yeah. One of the reasons that we asked Peter Johnston to go down to Tampa is really from his operating expertise. So, he is and he still has has work to do, but I think a lot of it has to do with simply being more efficient in the way we operate in our vessels. And then I would tell you that our two major customers in Tampa have worked well with us to adjust their contracts to allow us more efficiencies which both – doing both of those things obviously help us on our bottom line. And we are in the process of extending those two contracts with our two major customers out beyond 2017, and we think we will have that done in the near future.

Got you. And so you feel that the volumes are going to be turning positive as you go into second quarter and to the back half of the year on that segment?

Yeah. I think you've got both things in this equation. You have to look at one, clearly from a utility point of view, they have ebbs and flow on their cargo, but we think it's pretty consistent. And, number two, in terms of the commercial side business on the other, there again, those cargo levels seem to be trending up and, therefore, they are working with us to maximize each voyage. But there again, it's purely customer driven on their part as well.

Yeah, Mark. I would tell you that the revenues from a comparative year-over-year are going to be lower than 2015. And as we said before, that's really a direct result of the lower tonnage movements on one of the customers. However, the gross margin is much better as a result of just the operational efficiencies.

And we mentioned the fact that last year, we were servicing the Gulf with a full Jones Act with seven vessels and now, we're doing it with five, so you can do the math. But clearly the operating margins are going to be much better even though the revenues year-over-year may be down.

Got you. Okay. Well, thanks for your time as always, guys.

Thanks, Mark.

You're welcome.

Next up, we'll hear from Doug Ruth, Lenox Financial Services.

Hi. Thank you for hosting the call. Manny, last year – last quarter, you were able to give us an adjusted book value. I found that really helpful. I was wondering if you might be able to provide that again?

Doug, I think we're going to disclose in the 10-K which is scheduled to be filed tomorrow. I think that number is about $207 million, which I believe is correct. There's $207 million is the [ph] it's our (25:03) book value, but it's appraised value, market value, based on recent appraisals.

Okay. And you feel pretty good about that number?

The market is constantly changing. So, it's very fluid but that is based on the most recent appraisals from our assets.

I think that you folks deserve -

[indiscernible] (25:32)

I'm slightly – say that again, please? Say that again please.

Manny was saying that – I was saying to Manny that – Doug, that that value is higher than book value.

Yes. Okay. I think you folks deserve a lot of credit. You've done a really wonderful job. You had a tough task to initiate the Strategic Plan, but you pretty much have done what you said you were going to do and there's tangible evidence that you've got the Jones Act business operating better and you've really given us a lot of disclosure, and I'm optimistic that you'll be able to get the banks to work with you.

Thank you. Doug.

Okay. Thank you for answering my question and I wish you the very best.

Okay. Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Next up is Brian Harper, Harper Asset Management.

Hi. Thanks for taking my call. I noticed, I know you guys don't have the Q out yet, but there was a big jump in notes receivable and I was wondering if you could – what that's attributed to? And also is there any potential for re-buying the Indonesian related notes receivable, like with the local bank or with somebody else in terms of just monitoring those? Thanks.

I think that those receivable is a jump and as I remember on that – that has to do with the mini bulker that we acquired and then sold down to a partner Indonesia. So, that's the jump on that long-term contract.

And on the refinancing, we're trying to see if we could do on note receivable, Brian. It's challenging because those vessels are Indonesian flag assets, and it's that assets that are easily bought in to by institutions to allow us to get some liquidity on those note receivable. So, it's a challenging environment to – on those Indonesian assets.

Okay. And what's the remaining? So, the incremental $12 million, what's the timetable for kind of amortization of those notes or repayment?

It's a 10-year amortization, Brian.

Okay. Thanks.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And we'll go back to Brian Harper.

Yeah, One more. I have missed – I don't know if you've mentioned the New Orleans headquarters. I thought you may have said something about that. Where do you guys stand with the sale of that? Is that under contract or was that any progress?

That was closed just under end of the quarter, first week of April, and we have sold it.

Okay. And you guys can't provide an updated current debt balance?

No, other than that, what we've already disclosed at this point in time, Brian, no.

Okay. Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] And everyone, there appear to be no further questions. I'll hand things back to Niels Johnsen for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, operator, and thank you, all, again for joining us today. We look forward to continuing our dialogue with you as we go forward with our Strategic Plan, and we wish you all a good day. Thank you.

That does conclude today's conference. We would like to thank you all for your participation.