Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President & Director, International Shipholding Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Call. Please be aware that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct the question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next week by dialing 1-877-870-5176 for U.S. callers and 1-858-384-5517 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code 5341283.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's second quarter 2011 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are, Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the quarter and insights on the market trends. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our second quarter 2011 results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statements.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels.

Thank you, Manny and thank you all for joining us today. During the second quarter we continue to execute our growth strategy for our fleet of diversified vessels operated as expected. For the three months ended June 30, 2011 we reported net income of $2,800,000 and our Board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.375 per share. In addition, we secured permanent financing for the acquisition of two car carriers that we agreed to purchase from the lessors. And as of July 20 our Oslo Bulk joint venture has received all 10 newbuilding Mini Bulk carriers.

On previous earnings calls we have commented on the challenges facing dry bulk shipping which we have continued in the most recent quarter. Issues in this market are created by changing pricing practices for commodities, newbuilding vessel deliveries and cargo availability. In fact the Capesize and Panamax Bulk Carriers have themselves become commodities which contributes to the significant volatility in the markets that they serve and differentiate these vessels from the smaller Handysize and Mini Bulk carriers that are not a commodity and provide diversified ocean transportation services to a wide array of different cargo and trade routes. While smaller bulk carriers do suffer somewhat from a large bulk carrier overhang, we continue to have a view with the underlying fundamentals of the small bulk carrier markets are positive.

I would also like to point out that our portfolio of United States flag and International Flag, Pure Car/Truck Carriers, are employed on Time Charters, and therefore, our operating results are not directly impacted by the number of automobiles transported by our vessels. However, the underlying fundamentals of the automotive ocean transportation markets have a direct impact on our Time Charter customers.

Plus the developing recovery in Japan from the tsunami and earthquake devastation, as well as increased automobile sales in the United States and other parts of the world has been a positive for our customers. We have a unique business model, which consist of identifying niche ocean transportation needs and then procuring vessels to operate in these markets. This differentiates us from the typical dry cargo operator to first obtain a vessel and then endeavor to find employment.

Part of our strategy, we also seek to operate our fleet, our medium to long-term contracts, in order to provide predictable cash flows even when market conditions are volatile. We feel that our model and strategy provide a measure of protection from the cyclicality of our industry and provide stability for our shareholder.

By pursuing our growth strategy, we will continue to act opportunistically in seeking accretive investments. Given the current macroeconomic environment, financing the banks have historically provided to our industry has become more difficult to procure. Therefore, we must continue to seek other means to meet our capital needs, but we reassure you that we will act in shareholder's best interest and grow in a disciplined way.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik who will provide you with an overview of our second quarter operations.

Good morning. Thank you, Niels. This morning, I will review the operations of our U.S. Flag and International Flag Time Charters, Contracts of Affreightment, Rail-Ferry Service, and Investment in Unconsolidated Entities. To begin with, we are pleased to report that 100% of our fleet operated as planned during the second quarter.

We continue to operate on the U.S. Flag side, three military pre-positioned vessels on the contract with the Military Sealift Command, while the rebidding process for this contract continues. We expected this process to conclude during the second quarter. However, there has been no war to-date and as a result all three of the vessels and chartered contracts have been further extended through the end of the third quarter.

We have been told that until the bidding process is complete, which now appears to be sometime in the fourth quarter, we will continue to operate all three of these vessels on extensions under the same terms of the original contracts.

All six of our U.S. Flag Pure Car/Truck Carriers that operate under long-term charters with the same Japanese shipping company, performed as planned during the quarter. Just to reiterate, the tragic earthquake in Japan has not affected our revenues as these ships operated under long term contracts. But understandably, our customer has adjusted the vessel schedules. However, as we began the third quarter, we are seeing a return to the normal operating patterns.

In addition to the contracted revenues from these vessels, we continue to buyback space to book supplemental cargos as opportunities arise. While demand for supplemental cargos has declined following the period of unusually high value it is now trending at historic levels and we expect it to remain at these current levels going forward.

The U.S. Flag self-discharging coal carrier, which operates on the U.S. East Coast, operated without incidents during the period. Our Molten Sulfur carrier, which transports cargo from Texas to Florida continues to operate soundly and remains the primary carrier of Molten Sulfur in the U.S. Gulf. A Contract of Affreightment is now formed through December 2013 and guarantee the shipment of a minimum of 1.3 million tons of Molten Sulfur per year.

On the International Flag side, the operations of our five vessels that support a mining company in Indonesia performed as planned during the second quarter. Although our customer experienced a week long labor strike at its mine site there were no impact to our revenue since these vessels operate under medium to long term contracts. Currently one of the vessels is going through its routine regulatory dry-docking as originally planed.

The Rail Ferry service, which runs between Mobile and Coatzacoalcos, Mexico performed well in the second quarter and results for the first half of 2011 were ahead of expectations. While these results will remain extremely sensitive to vessel performance and cargo volumes, which can be difficult to predict we are cautiously optimistic on cargo inquires and bookings for the second half of this year.

The Oslo Bulk Joint Venture with our Norwegian partners, where we have a 25% equity interest, in 10, 8000 ton vessels continues to progress as scheduled. Nine vessels operated for most of the second quarter. But positioning voyages on – of the newly delivered vessels did have an effect on our results for the quarter. The 10th vessel delivered from the shipyard on July 20 and currently all of the vessels are trading either in Southeast Asia or the Americas. We will continue our efforts of employing these vessels on short-to-medium term time charters and operating them on the spot market.

The three 36,000 deadweight Handysize bulkers, that operate under a revenue sharing agreement with our European partners continues to perform well. We expect the portfolio of cargo being developed for these vessels to produce a better result than the current dry bulk index. We also continue our effort to find opportunity to increase the number of participating vessels under commercial management, which will create more flexibility and give us enhanced capability worldwide.

Our Capesize vessels operated soundly during the quarter and continues under its existing charter. Of note, the delivery time line for the Handymax newbuilding contract is on schedule for delivery in January 2012. Our commercial relationship with our formal partners for these vessels remains in place and we will continue to work with them for future opportunities.

Now, I will turn the call over to Manny to review financial and operating results. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. Building on Niels' and Erik's comment, I like to provide some details on our financials for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011. Gross revenue for the period were $70 million as compared to $85 million in the second quarter of 2010. This decline is based primarily on the performance of supplemental cargos and reflects the high volume we saw in this segment during the second quarter of 2010. Supplemental cargos are now trending slightly above historical levels and we expect volumes to remain close to the current levels for the third quarter.

Approximately, $43 million of this quarter's revenues were from our fixed contracts as compared to $46 million for the same period in 2010. You'll note that our contract revenues typically vary in a fairly narrow range. The variable revenues for the quarter were derived primarily from supplemental cargos, the results of our three Handysize vessels operating under a revenue sharing agreement and the Rail Ferry segment.

Our gross profit for the second quarter was $12 million, a decrease of approximately $6.6 million, from the year ago period due to the lower supplemental cargo activity. The decline in supplemental cargo was partially offset by the results from a full quarter of operations of our three Handysize vessels and the Rail Ferry service, which benefited from increased northbound tonnage.

I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross profit results for each of our segments which are the U.S. Flag and International Flag Time Charters, the Contracts of Affreightment, Rail Ferry and Other on a year-over-year basis.

Our U.S. Flag Time Charter segment decreased approximately $7.6 million, due again primarily to the drop in supplemental cargo.

Our International Flag Time Charters were flat for the quarter, as a result of our three Handysize vessels and the Capesize vessel were offset by the loss of revenues from our container vessel which was scraped in the third quarter of 2010.

Our Contract of Affreightment gross profit decreased by $410,000, due to lower tonnage move and slightly higher operating cost. The gross profit for the Rail segment improved by $1.5 million, due to an increase in the northbound tonnage and lower depreciation cost.

Gross profit for the Other category, which consists of our supporting services improved by approximately $200,000 from the previous year due to an increase in brokerage commission revenue.

Beyond our gross profit results, for the quarter, we recorded a $1.9 million foreign exchange loss, associated with our Yen-denominated loan. The loss was due to a strengthening of the Yen to the U.S. dollar during the quarter. This loss offsets the exchange gain we recorded in the first quarter.

Our equity in net income of unconsolidated earnings was lower for the quarter by approximately $800,000. Last year's results included the result of the joint venture, which operate as a Capesize vessel which we now own a 100% and whose results is included in the International Flag Time Charter segment. In addition, the results of our 25% investment in the Mini Bulker, reflected a slight loss due to positioning voyages.

Our working capital is at approximately $32 million, and our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $49 million as of June 30, 2011. You will recall that we exercised the option to purchase one U.S. Flag and one International Flag car carrier by the beginning of the third quarter. We secured financing for those vessels and have funded approximately $19 million of equity at the respective closings.

Finally, the company's Board of Directors authorized the payment of $0.375 dividend for each share of common stock owned as of the record date of August 16, 2011 payable on September 1, 2011. We remain committed to providing value for our shareholders through the distribution of the dividend and since reinstituting our policy in October of 2008, we have declared 12 consecutive quarterly dividends totaling $5.25 per share.

We intent to continue to declare dividends on a quarterly basis and while all future payments remain subject to the discretion of our company forward, this year we fully expect to meet our previously stated $1.50 annual target. That ends our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions] At this time we have no questions in the queue [Operator Instructions] . We have no questions at this time. Now, I'll turn the conference over to Mr. Niels Johnsen.

Thank you very much, operator. I'd like to thank everybody again for joining the call today. The management of the company appreciates the opportunities that these earnings calls provide for us to communicate directly with our shareholders and we will continue these calls going forward in order to keep the lines of communication open. Thank you very much and have a good day.

And that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.