corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation’s


Shareholder Update Conference Call. Please be aware that today’s conference call is being


recorded and is now being webcast at the company’s website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a


question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time. A


replay of the conference will be accessible through the next week by dialing 1877-870-5176 for


U.S. callers, and 1858-384-5517 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the


pass code 7540573. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada,


CFO. Please go ahead, sir.


Manuel G. Estrada, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding


Corporation’s third quarter earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company’s Chief Financial


Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L.


Johnsen, our President. Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the


quarter and insight on market trend. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segment. I will


return at the end of the call to briefly review our second quarter 2010 results and then we will open


it up for your questions.


Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today which are not historical


facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


estimates or expectations expressed in those statements, and certain factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC report. I direct you to


our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor Statement.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Neils. Neils?


Niels M. Johnsen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Manny. I’m delighted to welcome all of you to our quarterly earnings call. Before Erik


discusses our third quarter operation and Manny discusses our third quarter financial results, I


would like to touch on a few of our recent highlights.


Earlier this year we set a quarterly dividend target of $0.375 per share. Yesterday our Board


approved our quarterly dividend at this target level. While it is our policy for the Board to review and


approve all dividend payment, we feel that our dividends will be sustainable at our target levels


given our projected cash balances and our existing book of business.


On October 13th we filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. And


we can now report that the registration has been declared effective by the SEC. Having the ability


to offer and sell up to 200 million of common and preferred stock, debt securities, warrants or any


combination thereof provides important flexibility for us to access the public capital markets in order


to respond to accretive business opportunities.


We intend to continue our long-standing growth strategy of identifying market niches requiring


specialized vessels, which are employed on term contracts or commercial management agreement.


This strategy has proven successful and has helped us to mitigate volatility in market cycle while


establishing long-term relationship with a quality customer base.
corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


For some time, we have been considering taking a non-cash impairment charge relating to our rail


ferry segment. Yesterday, our Board approved a non-cash impairment charge that Erik will discuss


further in his remarks.


The uncertainties in the dry bulk markets that I have described to you previously continued in the


third quarter. The overhang of new building vessels in a number of market segments is still


apparent and cargo volumes remain uncertain. These market dynamics underscore the importance


of employing vessels on term contracts and establishing diversified commercial management


structures.


As you know, Pure Car Truck Carrier are an important component of our time charter business


segment both United States flag and international flag. While our results in this business segment


are not dependant on the number of automobiles transported, the market supply and transportation


demand fundamentals do have an inflow on our longer-term development of this business segment.


Therefore, it is worth noting that while European automobile sales have not recovered from their


earlier downturn, we have seen improved activity in other sectors of the market, in South Asia,


Africa, and South America.


Our best estimates of vessel supply and transportation demand, given the current new building


order book show a positive future trend. We hasten to repeat that current uncertainties and


conditions in the market will provide us with growth opportunities, and we will continue to pursue


our strategy of positioning the company to take advantage of these opportunities. However we


reiterate that we will not grow for the sake of growth, but will focus on opportunities that will improve


the value of our company for the benefit of our existing shareholders.


At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik who will provide you with an overview of our operations


for the quarter. Erik?


Erik L. Johnsen, President


Thank you Neils. Good morning. We’re pleased to report 100% of our fleet again operated


satisfactorily during the third quarter. This morning I will review the operations of our U.S. flag and


international flag time charters, Contracts of Affreightment, rail ferry service and investment in


unconsolidated entities.


On the U.S. side the three military pre-position vessels under charter with the Military Sealift


Command performed as planned during the third quarter. As we stated during our last call, we


continue to operate these contracts during the Military Sealift Command rebidding process. The


Government Accounting Office upheld our protest of the previous award and required the Military


Sealift Command to request the resubmission of bids.


During this requirement, we agreed during the quarter to further extensions on all three existing


contracts. One through the first quarter of 2011 and the other two through mid-May 2011. The six


U.S. flag Pure Car Truck Carriers performed well during the third quarter. All six vessels are now


operating under long-term contract with the same Japanese shipping company. As opportunities


arise, we buy back space on these vessels to book supplemental cargos in order to maximize our


revenues.


Demand for supplemental cargos declined in the quarter compared to the first quarters of 2010,


and we reported lower revenues. This trend has continued so far in the fourth quarter. The U.S. flag


self-discharging Coal Carrier, which operates on the U.S. East Coast had a good quarter as it


performed without incident, and benefited from extra additional operating days during the period.