Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman, CEO & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, Director & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Katya Voronchuk — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Doug S. Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.
Greg M. Macosko — Partner & Portfolio Manager, Lord, Abbett & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Please be aware that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I would like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's second quarter 2013 earnings call.

I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing an insight on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our second quarter results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome all of you to our second quarter 2013 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments. During the second quarter and year-to-date, we continued our strategy of operating a diversified fleet, primarily on medium to long-term contracts, while at the same time, positioning the company for long-term growth and strengthening our balance sheet.

During the second quarter and year-to-date, we increased the number of vessels in operation by reactivating a Jones Act tug/barge unit and we priced our second successful Perpetual Preferred Share offering. While the shipping industry continues to be affected by near-term challenges, even though there has been some improvement in the dry bulk market, we remain insulated from spot rate volatility due to the fact that a majority of our revenues are generated by medium- to long-term contracts.

To complement our stable cash flows and enhance our position for operating through the current cycle, we have taken steps to reduce costs and increase efficiencies throughout the company. With traditional debt financing for accretive acquisitions remaining constrained, as I've mentioned, we have now priced two Perpetual Preferred offerings this year raising $53,950,000. With our financial flexibility and our access to capital, we remain in a strong position to continue to respond to maritime transportation needs in niche markets and capitalize on accretive acquisition opportunities to grow our fleet as we have done in the past. In pursuing growth, we will continue to focus on increasing our contracted revenue, partnering with experienced operators, and expanding our customer base with creditworthy counterparties.

Before turning the call over to Erik, I reemphasize that we continue to provide our shareholders value through a quarterly dividend payment. Yesterday, our Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend payment of $0.25 for each share of common stock. This is the 20th consecutive dividend payment since reinstituting our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008, representing a cumulative payout of $7.50 per share since that time.

I will now like to turn the call over to Erik for his comments. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning. Our fleet performed well during the second quarter, generating stable cash flows despite having close to 112 ship days out of service for routine regulatory dry dockings in the quarter.

Our second quarter results reflect the strong performance of our Jones Act segment due to the contribution of our United Ocean Services operations. We now have two full quarters of contributions from our United Ocean Services operations, and continue to successfully integrate UOS into our operations. As part of this process, we continued to rename the vessels as they go through their regularly scheduled regulatory dry dockings.

We continued to – we intend to rebrand these operations under a new name, Coastal Carriers, going forward. During the first week in May, we completed the reactivation of one of the two laid-up tug/barge units acquired as part of the UOS transaction. This barge fully deployed on contract business through the end of the year. Meeting our customers' needs is a priority for us. And the reactivation of this unit will ensure that we will have no disruption in our service, while two units in the fleet are undergoing dry docking this year. Although this additional tug/barge will not increase tonnage in 2013 beyond what we currently anticipate, it will position us well in 2014.

Within our PCTC fleet, all seven of the vessels are on long-term contract at favorable rates. We are currently in discussion to extend one vessel's contract during a time when the remaining PCTC fleet remains fully contracted out into the future.

In our Variable business, we continued to generate strong results and benefit from our success booking cargos above historical levels. In addition, our Rail Ferry service results were strong as demand remained stable, enabling us to achieve better cargo capacity both Southbound and Northbound during the quarter.

Our Dry Bulk operations experienced a volatile quarter with some improvement in the Cape Size sector. However, overall, we continued to face challenging conditions as the near-term supply and demand fundamentals remain unfavorable. Despite this, we believe the medium- to long-term prospects for bulk carrier market are positive. Therefore, we have maintained our focus on developing opportunities to selectively increase our Handysize bulk carrier portfolio and enhance our strategic position in this market niche.

Finally, we remain focused on enhancing the efficiency of our business, while we also pursue growth opportunities. We are constantly working to improve the operations of our vessels as well as our onshore facilities in order to increase our profitability and we continue to make progress. As part of this important effort, during the first half of the year, we successfully renewed all of our vessel insurance policies at rates better than expiring terms. This validates the good performance of our shipboard personnel and the due diligence of our shore side staff over the past year. We take great pride in our continued efforts to streamline and manage the vessel operating costs, especially since a majority of our revenues are generated from fixed contracts.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for a review of our financials for the quarter. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I'd like to provide some details on our financials for the second quarter ended June 30, 2013.

We reported net income of $1.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2013, which included a non-operating gain of $1.8 million from a Yen-denominated loan. For the comparable three months ended June 30, 2012, net income was $704,000, which included a non-operating loss of $1.7 million on our yen-denominated loan.

For the second quarter of the year, revenues increased to $74.9 million or approximately 24% year-over-year, driven primarily by the additional revenues from the second full quarter of contributions from our UOS operations, which we acquired late last year.

The company's gross voyage profit representing the results of its six reporting segments was $13.3 million compared to $13.9 million in the 2012 three-month period. Our gross voyage profit was impacted by weaker results from our Pure Car Truck Carriers, the Dry Bulk segment, and Specialty Contracts and was partially offset by our Jones Act and Rail Ferry operations.

Operating income for the three months ended June 30 was $1.4 million as compared to $3.5 million for the same period a year ago. We generated approximately $51 million of revenue during the second quarter from our fixed contracts, which represents approximately 68% of the total revenue, while variable revenue was 23.9% or 31.9% of total revenue. This compares to fixed and variable revenue in the second quarter of 2012 of $33.4 million and $26.9 million respectively.

I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments for the quarter. As a reminder, beginning with our fourth quarter 2012 results after the UOS acquisition, we realigned our operating segments to more closely support the operations of the vessels in each segment. The improved gross voyage profit for the Jones Act segment reflects the results of a second full quarter of operation for the United Ocean Services, which we acquired in late 2012.

While year-over-year, the Jones Act segment benefited from UOS, the results of UOS in the quarter were impacted by 79 non-operating days, while two of the units underwent scheduled dry dockings.

Gross voyage profit on the Pure Car/Truck Carriers segment decreased due primarily to lower charter rate of 1 U.S. Flag PCTC effectively July of 2012 and on our international flag PCTC, which went into effect April 2013. Supplemental cargo results, which is a component of the PCTC results, were approximately $600,000 lower in the quarter when compared to the comparable 2012 second quarter.

Gross voyage profit for our Rail Ferry segment improved as a result of higher Northbound volumes. The Dry Bulk market, while slightly from the beginning of the year, continues to be at depressed levels. Our Cape Size vessel was operating in the last year of a long-term contract at above-market rates during 2012, thus comparable 2013 results are lower.

Our Specialty Contracts segment reported decrease in gross voyage profit due primarily to the ice strengthened vessel which performed below expectations. Administrative and general expenses incurred in the second quarter of 2013 increased over the same period of 2012 as a result of higher expenses associated with the integration of UOS as well as accrued bonus payments not earned during the same period in 2012.

Interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2013, was approximately $204,000 lower than the comparable months in 2012. Debt service was reduced from the proceeds on the sale of the two international flag PCTCs and the two U.S. flag PCTCs, which we've sold and leased back as well as regularly scheduled debt payments. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, the Japanese yen weakened in relation to the U.S. dollar from ¥94.22 to ¥99.15 to the U.S. dollar, producing an exchange gain of $1.8 million in the period.

On July 25, we priced $27.5 million of 9% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock. Subsequently, the underwriters have exercised their full 15% over-allotment, providing us with total net proceeds of approximately $30.2 million from the transaction. We intend to use these net proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes including using a substantial portion of the funds to repay certain indebtedness and to finance vessel investment costs.

The company's working capital was $15.5 million, an increase of $500,000 from March 31, 2013, while our cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $22.4 million. The company's total debt obligations at June 30, 2013, was approximately $213 million, while EBITDA generated during the 12-month period ended June 30, 2013, was approximately $56.9 million.

The Company's Board of Directors approved the dividend payment of $2.37 on its Series A Preferred Stock, which represents a regularly scheduled payment. Additionally, the Board of Directors declared a $0.25 dividend payable on September 4, 2013, for each share of common stock owned on the record date of August 16, 2013. All future common stock dividend declaration and amounts remain subject to the discretion of our board. We are reaffirming our guidance for 2013 net income before preferred stock dividends of between $10 million and $12 million, while dropping our EBITDA to within a $60 million to $63 million range as a result of continued depressed dry bulk rates and additional non-operating days on our UOS fleet.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator? Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Mark Suarez from Euro Pacific Capital.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning.

Just turning on to the UOS business for a moment. You noted you had a solid quarter and we see that in the results here. But you talked about the two units that have already been dry docked. Should we expect any further dry dockings this year?

Yes. The dry docking's across the quarter. So, we have two units that are dry docking as we speak today. And that will be the last of the ones in the third quarter and then we'll have one in the fourth quarter.

Yes, Mark, this is Manny. From a comparable, we reported 79 days of our UOS in the second quarter. That number will be higher than that in the third quarter. However, you've got to keep in mind that we reactivated a unit in the second quarter. So from a fleet makeup, we'll be comparable in the third quarter to where we were in the second quarter.

Got it. Okay. And...

Fourth quarter will be much better than the second and third quarter from a capacity perspective.

Great, now that's very helpful. Now in terms of all the- have all the units been r reactivated now or how is that going?

We still have one laid up in Tampa.

Okay, great. And now just turning to the PCTC vessels, you mentioned you locked – you recently locked U.S. and international PCTCs. How do you see the charter rates for that market behaving through the year? I know you guys like to lock them in the long-term charters, but how do you see the market sort of moving as we go from third quarter to fourth quarter?

Mark, I think the – from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, I think the market is going to be stable. As we mentioned, we're in the process of having discussions for the extension of one of our existing contracts, which would occur during the course of next year, and we're seeing stability in the long-term rates. And we definitely will continue our practice of concluding medium- to long-term contracts for those vessels.

Okay. And any – any of those facilities opening up this year or all of them pretty much are locked in through the end of the year?

No, they're all fixed through the end of the year.

Okay, great. And you talked about the dry bulk market still being depressed, but at the same time, you feel there are some attractive opportunities. Would it be fair to say that you will be focusing primarily in the Handysize segment as you mentioned in the conference call today? Or could you be looking at other segments? And would you even consider, for example, new builds, as opposed to second-hand vessels?

We are going – as we said before, we are going to continue to focus on the Handysize segment. We think the fundamentals on the supply side of that world fleet continue to be positive. And if you look back over the entire year, you'll see a certain stability of day rates for the Handysize segment, particularly when you compare it to the Cape Size segment, which at the beginning of the year, was severely depressed.

The large ships at that time, were only receiving something like $4,500 to $5,000 a day. And at the end of June, those rates, as I alluded to in my remarks, spiked back significantly, and at one point, were over $14,000 a day. The rate, since that time through the last 30 days, has settled back to something around $11,000 to $12,000 a day. So the flexibility of the Handysize segment and the mini-bulk carrier segment that we're active in, we feel is better than the larger sizes. There may be opportunities in the larger sizes. We never turn a blind eye to the entire segment, but I think the fundamentals of the smaller sizes are better.

And so, do you feel that that the – so would you say that the smaller-sized segments will actually improve more dramatically or I would say more pronounced improvement vis-à-vis the larger-sized segments, despite the fact that you have seen – we have seen at least over the past, say, year or and a year and a half a cascading effect as some of those liner companies are demanding more of the large-sized vessels as opposed to the smaller-sized vessels. How will you sort of reconcile those two things?

Well, the larger-sized vessels are very much commodities in themselves compared to the smaller-sized vessels. And the smaller-sized vessels allow us to service a more diverse cargo base and a more diverse port portfolio than the larger vessels do. So we like that flexibility. You're going to see – in my mind, you're going to continue to see a certain amount of volatility in the larger size, which is reflective of a direct correlation to the amount of iron ore and coal being shipped around the world. So, we're not that keen to try to second-guess the commodity pricing practices and the commodity demands on those segments when we have a segment where we have more predictable cargo availability and more diversified cargo availability, than we have with the larger vessels. And we think that's going to continue to be the phenomenon as we go forward.

Got it. Okay. And just finally turning on to the balance sheet, I know that so far, you have paid about $41.8 million in debt. How should we be thinking about debt repayments for the rest of the year? I know you just recently did a capital raise on the preferreds. Any other opportunities to further pay down that debt and maybe possibly lower your average interest rate going forward?

Mark, our debt scheduled payments is what we anticipate paying for the second half of the year. I will tell you that we are in the midst of looking at the possibility of refinancing our U.S. flag fleet facility, which will give us a couple of things. One, it will allow us to get some capital from the equity that we have built into that fleet, number one. Number two, it would increase the amount of line of credit that we have available to us from $35 million to $50 million. And the amortization payments on that debt would be less than straight line. So as a direct answer to your question, we are in the midst of looking at refinancing the U.S. flag fleet, which could impact the amount of prepayments that we're making in the third quarter. But going beyond the third quarter would put us in a position to have additional dry powder on the line of credit and improve the amortization payments on the remaining debt.

No, great. That's very helpful, well, that's all I have for now, thanks for your time guys.

You're welcome.

We'll go next to Katya Voronchuk from Sidoti & Company.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Katya.

Could you comment a little bit on the aging of the UOS fleet and what are your plans regarding that?

Certainly, this is Erik, Katya.

Hi Erik.

As you know, Jones Act vessels trade many more years than international vessels for a number of reasons, one of which is the cost of replacement. So we take great effort in making sure that when we go through dry docking periods that the vessels maintain the proper steel quality and do the proper overhauls of the machinery. So I would tell you that we wouldn't have bought UOS if we didn't think we had many more years of service out of the equipment, nor would we have reactivated the unit in the first and second quarter this year. So I would tell you longevity-wise that you can look at our Jones Act fleet being at least 40 years old, if not, older.

And Katya, to just throw out some numbers. You recall that when we purchased UOS, we anticipated putting a significant amount of CapEx into the fleet to ensure the longevity and give us the return. And in the first half of the year, we certainly have done that and in the second half of the year, as Erik said, we have two vessels in dry dock – two units in dry dock, I should say, and then one of the bulkers coming into dry dock in the fourth quarter.

So 2013 CapEx, as we had said before, will probably be in the $35 million to $40 million range, primarily driven by the amount of work and preservation that we're putting into that fleet.

And just another question. I know everyone is saying that dry bulkers are still very depressed. When do you expect the rate to really start to pick up? Could you comment on that a little bit?

This is Niels Johnsen. Everybody says it will get better in two years and they say that every year. We don't – we don't run our business by trying to second-guess what the dry bulk rates are going to be because we learned a long time ago that you never really get it right as smart as you think you are. I think that we're going to continue to see volatility in the larger sizes because of my – the earlier comment that I made as to how closely tied they are to commodity activities and they're actually a commodity themselves, whereas the segment where we're more highly concentrated is more cargo-centric to a diversified cargo base and a diversified utilization of ports around the world.

So, I think what you see in that segment and what we should see is that as the fleet ages and the fleet size actually is maybe even somewhat smaller than it is today, there will be an improvement coming out of projected cargo growth. And there is projected cargo growth in that segment and – over the years, and you typically, depending upon which analyst you're looking at, there's something like 5% to 7% or 8% cargo growth. And if you look at the Handysize, the aging profile of the Handysize fleet, which is comprised of something north of 2,000 vessels in total, there are more vessels reaching 30 years of age than are being built. So, that's a positive phenomenon in that segment. But I'm not going to try to tell you what the time charter rates are going to be next year because if I do, I'm not going to give you the right answer.

Okay. Well, that's all from me. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Thank you.

We'll go next to Doug Ruth from Lenox Financial Services.

Hi. Good morning. Thank you for hosting the call. This week, we've heard news about the fertilizer markets and specifically, potash. Do you think the company might be affected by that at all?

This is Erik. Good morning. We have had and continue to have discussions with our customers in the Gulf of Mexico, and we are not saying any or have heard of any direct effect by the issue with the potash. Certainly, it is going to be our customers' issue and as we go on, we will have discussions with them. But we – for what we move for our customers, we see no impact.

Okay, that's helpful. Can you comment – I have the schedule of the debt. Have we paid off like the bonds, like for instance, in 20 – are you able to tell us if you paid off like the bonds that are coming due in, like, 2015 or 2017?

The bonds, no, we paid, Doug, we paid that off two years ago. You talking about notes?

Well, the notes, the notes payable are at variable rates.

You talk about just the traditional bank debt, yes, we've got the bullets that are coming up as I said, I think previously to Mark Suarez, we're in the midst of looking at refinancing our U.S. flag fleet. And if we accomplish that, we will use those funds to refinance one of the bullets that comes up in 2015.

Well, is that like $12.7 million? Is that what we are talking about?

That's correct. Yeah, that's correct.

And so that's the year that you're focusing on right now?

That's correct, right.

And what about the line of credit, the whole line of credit that matures in 2014?

Again, as part of the discussions that we're having on the refi, that line of credit will be addressed. What we're looking to do is really increase that line from a $35 million facility to a $50 million facility and extend that out.

Okay. And will that debt be hedged or will it be – or use – do you think you'll be using swaps or is this going to be a straight...

Doug, at this time, we are not anticipating using any kind of hedge facility. It doesn't mean that if the interest rate environment changes, we won't consider it. But right now, we're comfortable not hedging on that – on the new facility.

Okay. Okay. Thank you and congratulations on being able to place at the second Perpetual Preferred.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Gregory Macosko from Lord Abbett.

Yes. Thank you. Just a couple brief questions. With regard to the UOS fleet, are you saying that by the end of – by fourth quarter, all of them will be overhauled?

No. We have one additional unit that would be dry-docked during 2014.

So, first, second quarter in 2014, you expect that fleet to be in shape?

Yeah. Let me back up. We purchased, with UOS, six units. Four tug barges, two bunkers. Then we had, of that total of six, we had two laid up. So, we reactivated one of the two that were laid up. We are dry-docking three – two tug barges and one bulker during 2013 and then we'll dry-dock the last one in 2014.

So, there's two that you won't work on at all. Is that right or?

One.

One you won't – doesn't need any overhaul or dry docking?

No, the one that's laid up, we're not anticipating at this time reactivating it.

Well, my counting – I wasn't very good in arithmetic, but then – finally then – oh, would you talk about – I know that you had some Defense contracts, et cetera. Would you go through that, I mean, how that has changed or not?

We continue to be a participant in a global transportation contract with the Department of Defense. The actual cargo activities are not public information. But I think I can say that given worldwide activities that there's been an evolution of those cargo movements back to a more normalized rate that we've seen earlier, which we expected given what's going on in the Middle East. So, the answer to your question is that we have seen, during the course of this year, a more historically normal cargo volume, although we've been slightly over that during the course of the year.

And that's, I believe, six ships? And I mean, does that mean the revenues are down from that just because there's less activity?

Yes.

Okay. So that's a part of the sort of the year-over-year decline in – or a change in revenue, not decline.

That's correct.

Correct.

I think Manny actually commented on that in his remarks.

Yes.

Sorry, I missed that. And then, the increase in voyage expense, I see, that I assume is that – it's increased more than the revenues, that's primarily a function of the UOS coming on, being acquired?

Yeah, that's correct.

That's correct.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Greg.

This does conclude today's Q&A session. I'll turn it back over to Niels Johnsen.

Thank you very much. Again, thank you all for joining us today, we appreciate the opportunity to answer your questions, and we look forward to continuing these quarterly conference calls with you in the future. Have a good day. Good bye.

This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.