corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Call.


Please be aware that today’s conference call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the


company’s website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question and answer session after the


opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be


accessible through the next week by dialing 877-870-5176 for U.S. callers, and 858-384-5517 for


those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code 3947104. At this time, I


would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO. Please go ahead, sir.


Manuel G. Estrada, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


All right. Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International


Shipholding’s second quarter earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company’s Chief Financial


Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L.


Johnsen, our President. Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the


quarter and insight on market trend. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segment. I’ll


return at the end of the call to briefly review our second quarter 2010 results and then we’ll


welcome your questions.


Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today which are not historical


facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


estimates or expectations expressed in our statements, and certain factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC report. I direct you to our


earnings release for the full Safe Harbor Statement.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Neils.


Niels M. Johnsen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Manny. I’m delighted to welcome all of you to our quarterly earnings call. Before Erik


discusses our second quarter operations and Manny discusses our second quarter financial results,


I would like to touch on a few second quarter highlights.


Earlier this year, we set a quarterly dividend target of $0.375 per share per quarter. Yesterday, our


board approved our quarterly dividend at this target level. While it is our policy for the board to


review and approve all dividend payments, we feel that our dividend will be sustainable at our


target level given our projected cash balances and our existing book of business.


Pursuant to our board’s earlier authorization to buyback up to 1 million shares, during the quarter


we bought back a total of about 223,000 shares, bringing our total buyback under the current


authorization to about 715,000 shares. We will continue to evaluate the desirability of buying back


additional shares based on an analysis of how we can best utilize our cash resources to deliver


value to our shareholders.


In addition to providing tangible value to our shareholders during the quarter, we continued working


to enhance our earnings potential. We agreed with our Norwegian partners to add two additional


vessels to our mini-bulk carrier order book. Our expanded participation in this segment is consistent


with our strategy of identifying market nature, requiring specialized vessels.
corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Also during the quarter, we finalized a long-term time charter for one of our United States Flag pure


car truck carriers, which had been trading on voyage to voyage contract cargoes since earlier this


year. Under a time charter, our results are more predictable given the fact that we are not


dependant on the number of automobiles carried onboard our vessels. However, there has been


improvement in automobile sales worldwide which we all know, which is good news for our time


charter customers. Concluding this time charter is consistent with our longstanding strategy of


maintaining underlying medium to long-term contract employment for the vessels in our fleet.


We concluded a revenue sharing agreement for our three new building handysize bulk carriers


which were delivered to us the beginning of next year. This type of agreement has proven to be a


successful approach for us in the dry bulk markets with the other bulk carriers that we have


operated over the years. As we participate in the results of a commercial footprint which is


significantly larger than that provided by our own vessels. The volatility and uncertainties that I


described to you last quarter in the dry bulk market continued in the second quarter. There is still a


significant overhang of new buildings, primarily in the capesize bulk carrier segment and the large


container vessel segment. We are certain that the current market conditions and challenges facing


us will provide growth opportunities for us, but as is our practice we will not grow for the sake of


growing, but we’ll continue to focus on growth opportunities that can help us improve the value of


our company for the benefit of our shareholders.


Finally, we have received a number of inquiries from you asking what impact the BP oil spill in the


United States Gulf has had on our operation. Our vessels that routinely trade in the United States


Gulf have experienced some deviation expense. We have filed a preliminary claim against BP to be


reimbursed for this expense. However, this expense does not have a material impact on our


financial results.


At this time, I will turn the call over to, Erik, who will provide you with an overview of our operations


for the quarter.


Erik L. Johnsen, President


Thank you, Niels. Good morning. This morning I will go through the operations of our Time


Charters, Contracts of Affreightment, Rail Ferry Service and investment in unconsolidated entities.


The three military prepositioned ships currently under charter with the Military Sealift Command


performed satisfactorily during the second quarter. As we stated during our last call, these contracts


were set to expire in the middle of this year, and we had entered our bid for the follow-on contracts


with anticipation of hearing the results sometime in the second quarter. The Military Sealift


Command did announce an award on June 3, but unfortunately the follow-on contracts were


awarded to a competitor. However, we immediately asked for debriefing and subsequently filed a


protest asking the Government Accounting Office to review and rescind the award. The GAO did


find grounds to stay the award for up to 100 days while they review the contracting details. We


learned last week, the Military Sealift Command has now agreed to fully re-bid those contracts. As


a result, our existing contract should be extended until the re-bidding is concluded. We would


expect the extension to last at least through the fourth quarter.


The six U.S. Flag pure car truck carriers performed well during the second quarter. Of note, we


negotiated, as Niels said, a contract during the quarter to place one of the vessels on charter that


has been trading on voyage-to-voyage contracts since earlier this year. The vessel delivered to the


customer in mid-July. All six of the vessels are now operating under long-term charters with the


same Japanese shipping company. However, we continue to buy back space when possible to


utilize the vessels on supplemental spot cargos in order to maximize our revenues from these


ships.