Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman, CEO & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, Director & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Katya Voronchuk — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Doug S. Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.
Ryan R. Adkerson — Analyst, IBERIA Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Please be aware that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I would like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's first quarter 2013 earnings call.

I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing insight on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our first quarter results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome all of you to our first quarter 2013 earnings call.

Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments. In the first quarter of this year, we continued to implement our strategy and take steps to enhance the company's position for growth and long-term success. In particular, we completed a capital raise, acquired a new vessel and began the process of reactivating a vessel that we acquired in our UOS transaction.

Erik and Manny will speak to these events in more detail later on in the call, but needless to say, we remain active and we'll maintain our focus on taking advantage of near-term uncertainty in the shipping industry which has created compelling acquisition opportunities for companies with access to capital.

As we all know, the global financial system continues to face headwinds and continues to impact the ability of banks to lend capital for ship financing. Therefore, companies such as International Shipholding Corporation that have a proven ability to finance acquisitions stand to benefit from current market trends. During a time when many companies have had to decrease their fleet sizes, we have successfully taken advantage of the environment to expand our operations through accretive transactions.

Our company has a unique focus on identifying maritime transportation needs in niche markets, which has served us well throughout our history, and we will maintain this focus as we further grow our fleet.

While the near-term outlook remains challenging, we believe that our strategy of operating a diversified fleet, primarily on medium-term to long-term contracts, will continue to benefit the company and its shareholders. Although freight rates remain at depressed levels and supply continues to outweigh demand, a majority of our revenues are fixed and therefore unaffected by volatility and spot rates.

With stability in our cash flows, we are able to provide our shareholders with value through a quarterly dividend payment. Yesterday, our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter dividend payment of $0.25 per each share of common stock. This was the 19th consecutive dividend payment since reinstituting our policy in the fourth quarter of 2008, representing a cumulative payout of $7.25 per share since that time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Erik for a review of our operations. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning.

We are pleased with the performance of our fleet during the first quarter as all of our vessels operated as expected. A majority of our revenues for the quarter were generated from fixed contracts, which consist primarily of our Jones Act vessels, Pure Car Truck Carriers, and our Indonesian operations.

In particular, our Jones Act Segment benefited from the first full quarter of contributions from our United Ocean Services operations. We continue to achieve notable progress integrating UOS into our existing platform. We have begun renaming the vessels and intend to rebrand these operations under a new name, Coastal Carriers, going forward.

We have been working on the reactivation of one of the two laid-up tug/barge units that we acquired as part of the UOS transaction, which is expected to be deployed by the end of this month. The reactivation of this unit will ensure that we will have no interruption in our service, while two other units in the fleet are undergoing dry docking later this year. While this additional tug/barge will not increase tonnage in 2013 beyond what we currently anticipate, it will position us well in 2014.

Within our PCTC fleet, we have renamed the CSAV Rio Geike, our International Flag PCTC, which will now be called Glovis Countess. This vessel was recently placed on a long-term contract at favorable rates.

In our variable business, we improved our results for supplemental cargos as we successfully booked cargos above historic levels. In addition, our Rail Ferry service results were strong as demand remained stable enabling us to achieve better cargo capacity both South down and North down during the quarter. Importantly, we recently concluded a life extension study for our two Rail Ferry's that are now expected to operate through 2025 compared to previous expectations of useful life lasting only through 2020.

Our dry bulk operations continue to face challenging conditions during the quarter as the near-term supply and demand fundamentals remain unfavorable. However, as we have said many times before, the medium to long-term prospects for the bulk carrier market remain positive. Therefore, we have maintained our focus on developing opportunities to selectively increase our Handysize bulk carrier portfolio and enhance our strategic position in this market niche.

During the first quarter, we acquired a resale of an existing new building contract for one eco design Handysize bulk carrier that will deliver in the first half of 2015. This acquisition demonstrates our ability to take advantage of compelling opportunities in the current environment, strengthens the earning potential of our existing Handysize bulk carrier fleet for the cargo portfolio of the revenue sharing agreement, in which our Handysize bulk carriers operate.

Additionally, we have recently completed the scheduled dry docking of the Green Wave, at which time we renamed her Oslo Bulk. She will now operate as part of the Oslo Bulk Group. Finally, we remain focused on enhancing the efficiencies of our business, while also pursuing growth opportunities. We are constantly working to improve the operations of our vessels as well as our onshore facilities in order to increase our profitability, and we continue to make progress in this effort.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for a review of our financials for the quarter.

Thank you, Erik. I'd like to provide some details on our financials for the first quarter ended March 31, 2013.

We reported net income of $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013, which included a non-operating gain of $3.2 million from a Yen-denominated loan. For the comparable three months ended March 31, 2012, net income was $7.9 million, which included non-operating gains of $3.8 million and $3.6 million from the sale of our two International Flag Pure Car Truck Carriers and the Yen-denominated loan respectively.

For the first quarter of the year, revenues increased to $81.1 million were approximately 24.4% year-over-year. This was driven primarily by the additional revenues from a full quarter of contribution from our UOS operations. The company's gross voyage profit representing the result of its six reporting segments was $11.3 million compared to $14.4 million in the 2012 three-month period. Our gross voyage profit was impacted by weaker results from our Pure Car Truck Carriers, Specialty Contracts and the Dry Bulk segment. This was partially offset by the result of our Jones Act operation. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2013, was $306,000 as compared to $2.5 million excluding the gain on the sales of two previously mentioned PCTC assets in the first quarter of 2012.

We generated approximately $55.9 million of revenue during the first quarter from our fixed contracts, which represents approximately 69% of our total revenue, while variable revenue was $25.1 million or 31% of total revenue. This compares to fixed and variable revenues in the first quarter of 2012 of $40 million and $25 million respectively.

To briefly review our quarterly gross profit results from each our operating segments for the quarter, as a reminder beginning with our fourth quarter 2012 results after the UOS acquisition, we have realigned our reporting segments to more closely support the operations of the vessels in each segment. Improved gross voyage profit for the Jones Act Segment reflects the results of the full quarter of operation for United Ocean Services, which was acquired in late 2012 as well as slightly higher tonnage levels moved by the sulfur carrier vessel in the first quarter of 2013.

Gross voyage profit on the PCTC segment declined due primarily to a fewer number of vessels operating in this segment and the lower charter hire rate on one of our U.S. Flag PCTCs, which was partially offset by slightly better supplemental cargo volumes. Gross voyage profit on our Rail Ferry segment improved due to slightly better margins and the results of our rail car repair facility, which we acquired in the latter part of 2012. The lower results of the Dry Bulk Carrier segment reflect the overall depressed dry bulk market as well as determination during the quarter of the charter on our cape size vessel, which is now operating under the revenue sharing agreement. In addition, one-time delivery and positioning cost on the newly acquired four additional mini-bulkers is reflected in the quarter results.

Our Specialty Contract segment reported a decrease in gross voyage profit due primarily to the termination of the three operating contracts with the government, which occurred in the first quarter of 2012 and a one-time cost associated with the redelivery and positioning of the ice-strengthened vessel renamed Oslo Wave from its government contract. The company's other segment reported comparable year-over-year results. Administrative and general expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2013 were at comparable levels to the same period of 2012. Higher expenses associated with the integration of UOS were offset by lower professional fees during the period.

Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2013, was approximately $526,000 lower than the comparable three months in 2012. Debt service was reduced from the proceeds on the sale of the two International Flag PCTCs and the two U.S. Flag PCTCs sold and leased back as well as regularly scheduled debt payments. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, the Japanese Yen weakened in relation to the U.S. dollar from 86.74 to 94.22. This produced an exchange gain of $3.2 million.

During this quarter, we issued $25 million of 9.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, which after deducting underwriting discounts, provided net proceeds of $23.75 million. This capital raise helped to strengthen our balance sheet and has provided the capital to reactivate a tug/barge unit which Erik previously discussed.

The company's working capital increased $3 million from the year in 2012 to $15 million at March 31, 2013, primarily driven by cash flow generated from a prepayment of the charter hire on the Company's self-loading coal carrier and the net proceeds from the Series A Preferred Stock. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $31 million. The company's total debt obligations at March 31, 2013, was approximately $216 million, while EBITDA generated during the 12-month period ended March 31, 2013, was approximately $65.5 million.

The Company's Board of Directors on April 10, 2013, approved a dividend payment of $1.79 on its Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the Board declared a 25% – $0.25 dividend payable on June 3, 2013, for each share of common stock owned on the record date of May 16, 2013. All future common stock dividend declarations and amounts remain subject to the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors.

We are reaffirming our 2013 net income guidance between $10 million and $12 million and EBITDA within a $63 million to $67 million range.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we will take our first question from Mark Suarez, Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi there. Good morning everyone.

Good morning, Mark.

Just if you go back on the capital raise of $25 million, now that you've reactivated the tug/barge unit within the UOS business, how much of that of an additional contribution should we expect from the UOS business for the remainder of the year? Do you have any sense as to would it be material in addition to the numbers we're currently forecasting?

No. I think as Erik mentioned in his segment, the reactivation of this unit in this year is really to help support the operations as they exist today because of the fact that we have two units that are going to be dry-docked into the second half of the year.

So, Mark, for this year, the reactivation of the unit is really incrementally not going to add margins, but as Erik mentioned, it positions us well for 2014.

Gotcha. Okay. Just to be clear.

And then going back to the acquisition of the existing new building contract, I know you did acquire an eco Handysize vessel. Can you talk a little bit about that and how that transaction came about? did the source come from one of your lenders or brokers? Just to give us a bit of background on how that came about.

The transaction is confidential, and therefore we haven't reported any details of that transaction. However, the opportunity developed as a result of our activities in that segment within our revenue-sharing agreement where we are routinely in contact with all of the various constituencies in that market segment. So it really – it's a result of our ongoing, aggressive commercial activities in that market segment.

Okay. And just to – and maybe we talked about this before, but is this strategy here within the dry bulk segment to charter these vessels out as you acquire them, or to enter into revenue sharing? I just want to get a better sense as to what the strategy is going forward as you buy more of these vessels, if that's the case going forward.

The strategy, as we said before, is to continue to place the vessels in revenue-sharing agreements.

Those revenue-sharing agreements, which I think you understand, allows for a larger fleet of vessels to better service the various customers that the revenue-sharing agreement works with. That agreement concludes the various contractual businesses and spot businesses that the vessels are deployed on.

So our strategy is to continue to work in these revenue-sharing agreements for the Handysize, Handymax and Cape-size vessels in our fleet.

Okay. And so would it be [ph] for us (20:55) to say that, assuming you have the opportunities available and the opportunity set is attractive enough, that you would consider expanding your dry bulk segment before the Jones Act Segment? Or am I getting that wrong? Just want to – so in terms of, if you were to prioritize, which segment would you expand first? Would it be fair to say that the dry bulk will be number one?

Not necessarily. I think when we're looking at accretive opportunities for the company, we look at the prospective future value of each of one those opportunities. And we pursue that opportunity, if it is in a segment where we think the fundamentals are placed for growth in the future.

So I would not characterize our process going forward is focusing on dry bulk exclusively. That would not be the case.

I want to add, Mark, that when we – our structure is set up where we're trying to balance different segments in the market.

So clearly, we always have to take into consideration, also, how much we have invested in any given segment. And our strategy has shown to date that the reason we diversify the way we do is when there is a weak segment, we're able to take over and help us through those periods. So we have to balance that, as well, as we go forward with expansion.

Got it. And now just turning to dividend for a moment. Do you have – do you guys have like a cash level in mind that you need to have in the balance sheet before the Board begins to consider the possibility of raising dividends going forward? Or is that mostly a function as to your potential acquisition strategy?

Mark, to answer the question directly, no. We don't have a set amount. I mean clearly, we need a certain level of working capital to be able to pay the bills. And certainly we have that available to us right now in the balance sheet.

The strategy and the policy on the dividend is it gets evaluated every quarter and the Board of Directors then determines going forward the payment of that dividend.

But there is no set minimum amount of working capital. No set payout ratio. But again, it's a product of where we are today, and the vision we have going forward.

Got it. Okay, that's all I got for now. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And next we will go to Katya Voronchuk with Sidoti & Company.

Hi.

Good morning.

Thank you for taking my call.

Good morning.

Could you talk a little bit about Maritime Security Act? Do you have any information if it's going to be impacted by the governmental cuts? And if so, what is your plan to offset the revenue loss?

The program will be impacted by sequestration. And obviously, the final impact that we might see for the current fiscal year, which ends the end of September 2013, will depend a lot on what the Congress eventually does.

What we do know is that, if the Congress does nothing, that there will be some impact. However, we are carefully reviewing right now what steps we might need to take in order to mitigate that impact.

We don't expect the overall impact for this year to be more than 10%. And looking at next year, we've received advices at this point that the program will be fully funded, as per President Barack Obama's budget.

So I don't – we don't expect a significant – I mean it's a problem, but we think that we can work through that.

Is there any timeline by when you will know how exactly it's going to work out?

I would say, at this point, within two or three months, we'll know what will be going on through the end of the fiscal year.

So basically you're saying this year is going to be impacted to some extent, but then next year, it should be back in [ph] full mode? (26:07)

We can't say that – we can't say that for sure, but we've been told that that is going to be the case. And we've been told that by the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportation.

Okay. That's all I have. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And next we will go to Doug Ruth with Lenox Financial Services.

Hi good morning. Thank you for having the conference call.

Good morning. You're welcome.

Good morning. You're welcome.

We're hearing strong car sales in America, and I'm wondering why is the PCTC business down based on the strong car sales?

The car sales generally have increased in the United States. If you drill down on that information, however, you will note – and if you look at the imported car sales from Japan and Korea, they're actually down marginally, comparing the first quarter of this year with the first quarter of last year. However, as we've said before, our underlying commercial contracts for our Pure Car/Truck Carriers are not impacted by the volume of automobiles being transported, given the nature of our contracts.

So the main impact is the composition of our car-carrier fleet now, as it was in the quarter that we're comparing it to, implemented and supplemented by the supplemental cargo that we carry.

Doug, you may recall that we sold two International Flag Car Carriers, subsequent to first quarter of last year. So quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year comparison, when you're looking at the PCTC drop, that's the driver – the fact that we've got two less vessels.

Okay. With the dry bulk market, does the company disclose the name of the European partners?

No.

No.

And is there a benefit to have two partners? I mean would one partner be sufficient or do you want more than two partners?

It varies according to the circumstance. We have no definitive parameter on how many partners or how many participants we might have in a revenue-sharing agreement. Over time – and we've been in these revenue-sharing agreements for many, many years. Sometimes we have one partner. Sometimes we may have as many as five or six in a revenue-sharing agreement.

Could you give us a sense of the type of partner – are these people – would these be competitors? Are these financial people that are your partners? Can you give us a little sense of that?

They're not competitors. They are not financial people. They're generally companies similar to ours.

Any idea, is that each partner is able to help finance the size of the fleet, so the overall fleet could be bigger?

Well, it's not a question of financing because each partner functions independently in that respect. The important commercial impact of a revenue sharing agreement is that it allows a larger fleet and a larger ability to service our customers' cargo requirements.

So, by having more vessels potentially anyone of them might be able to be – a special vessel might be able to be called into service.

It provides worldwide service. The larger number of vessels under commercial operation provides a greater basis for expanding cargo activities.

Okay. How will you build on the success of the UOS business. Now that you have it, is there obvious new opportunities with that business that you're seeing?

The Jones Act business is pretty much of a contract business. So, we're buying contract revenues in a sense with equipment that is existent. Pretty high barrier of entry because of the cost of new buildings and also UOS has very quality customer base. So, where you go in Jones Act really depends on contract business that could become available and may not become available. We didn't buy it to necessarily say that that's a tremendous growth area, we bought it because there were consistent contract revenues and that's ties into our strategy.

Okay. With some – one of the things that's in the annual report you talk about with the Rail Ferry, some of the customers potentially may not want to cross the Texas, Mexico border. And that's why they're willing – they're willing to put the rail car on the ship. Why would customer not want to cross the Mexican, Texas border?

Time. Time and customs. Anything east of the Mississippi river from a time point of view, it's one, it's a two third savings in time to go via our Rail Ferry as opposed to go across the Texas border.

Can you give us that in like hours or days, how do measure that exactly?

Yeah, I think, Doug, at all to be more efficient on this discussion and I'm more than happy to field all those questions, maybe better if you give us the call offline.

Okay.

And please feel free to do that and we'd be happy to discuss those in greater detail.

Maybe I got two general questions that maybe you could answer now, and then I'll -

Sure.

That brokerage business that you have, could that business be expanded?

Yes. And it's been larger in the past.

Okay. Because it seems like it's really profitable and just seems like that would be a really good use of the company's time?

Yeah. We've done that, we've done that kind of business as part of our company's activities almost since the company was formed.

I'm very – as a financial person, I'm very impressed with the results. It's really a nice contributor to profits. And the last question, some of the leases on the offices are coming up, if you – are you staying in the same facilities or are you looking for different office space?

Doug, the only facility that is coming up would be Tampa. We're evaluating that right now.

Okay. All right. Well, thank you for answering my questions.

All right, thank you.

You're welcome.

And next we will go to Ryan Adkerson with IBERIA Capital Partners.

Good morning. And thanks for taking my call.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Two quick questions. One, investors obviously have various different outlooks on preferred stock. We tend to view it as a debt instrument, all right. Could you kind of talk about why you use preferred stock relative to other options and I guess specifically, you can't actually deal your stock for a below $15, but recently it's traded towards $20, is there any chance you'd like to raise equity here or is it a preferred raise enough for you guys?

Doug, this is Manny – oh Ryan, I'm sorry.

Yeah.

Fielded too many questions from Doug. You raised a very good question. The strategy that we use going into the preferred market is we wanted to have some exposure in that market so that as we continue to grow, it would be another source of capital for us. That's why when we went in, we went in for a fairly small amount of $25 million. We really wanted to be exposed to the market that had not been exposed to us for quite some time. As to whether we would go back on a common equity raise, never say never, but even today at the $18 levels that we're trading at right now, it still has a significant discount to book, so I would tell you that that well would still be a source, it would not be a primary source.

Understood, understood. Agree. And secondly, this is more of a general question just in reference to your cape size going to the stock market, we're just trying to get a hand on maybe where you guys operated or how you – certain macro shipping factors like ore, coal or grain shipment by cape size rates, how that might impact UOS business with the cape size?

As you know from our other quarters, we had two ships – two capes on long-term charts that came off in the first quarter. With the depressed rates for capes, what we're trying to do is take one of those ships and place it on a period basis if the rates are – I don't want to describe this – are significantly better than spot, and the other vessel we continue to run on spot, but because of the revenue sharing agreement, we're averaging the results. And in this marketplace when you have cape size spot market at $4,000, $4,200 a day, you're not fixing long-term on those type of bases. So, our average between the ships I would tell you is significantly better than spot. But we're not very happy about those results, but we got to wait until that market recovers.

On the Handysize, which we have a bigger participation on where we – where because of the revenue sharing agreement and the number of ships we have in that agreement, we are able to outperform the index. In every $1,000 improvement in the index, we should be able to improve our net results on an annualized basis somewhere between $1.7 million and $2 million a year. So, if you take the position and that the – that market is pretty stable and actually is a negative growth market, that market in the Handy should come back quicker than maybe the other markets and if we are in fact close to the bottom and we think we are at the bottom, the improvement quarter-over-quarter as that market increases is going to be pretty significant to us.

And just to be specific, if you look at the Handysize spot index, that index improved from the beginning of March, it was around $6,700 a day and yesterday it was trading at over $8,000 a day, whereas the cape size segment as Erik commented was more or less flat during that period.

Great. Great. Thanks. It's very helpful. I appreciate of taking my question.

You're welcome.

You're most welcome.

And it appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Niels Johnsen for closing remarks.

We thank you all again for participating in the call today. We always appreciate this opportunity to have discussions with interested parties and our shareholders, and we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. Have a good day. Thank you.

And that does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.