corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Manuel G. Estrada
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Vice President


Niels Mercer Johnsen
 
– Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


Erik L. Johnsen
 
– President


Other Participants


Bruce C. Baughman
 
– Senior Vice President, Franklin Advisory Services LLC


Donald S. Porter CFA
 
– Vice President, Dalton, Greiner, Hartman, Maher & Co.


Herbert Buchbinder
 
– Managing Director-Investment Services, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation’s


First Quarter 2011 Conference Call. Please be aware that today’s conference call is being recorded


and is now being webcast at the company’s website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-


and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.


A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next week by dialing 1-877-870-5176 for


US callers and 1-858-384-5517 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the


pass code 1869778.


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO. Please go ahead,


sir.


Manuel G. Estrada, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International


Shipholding Corporation’s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call. I am Manny Estrada, the company’s


Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO;


and Erik L. Johnsen, our President. Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview


of the quarter and insight on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of our operating


segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our first quarter 2011 results and then


we will welcome your questions.


Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical


facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you


to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?
corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Niels Mercer Johnsen, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Manny. I would like to open the call with some brief remarks on our performance for the


quarter and the current state of our industry. I will then turn the call over to Erik, who will discuss


our first quarter operations and then Manny will discuss our first quarter financial results.


Yesterday, we reported net income of $24.1 million for the first quarter, which includes a gain on a


non-monetary transaction of $18.7 million. This non-monetary transaction increased our equity


stake to 100% in one Capesize bulk carrier and one Handymax bulk carrier new building scheduled


for delivery in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, our board approved a dividend of $0.375 per


share for the first quarter.


As we have commented on in the past, there are a number of challenges that continued to confront


our industry and our company, specifically, spot market volatility will continue to affect the dry cargo


market. We expect this volatility to continue given constantly changing commodity pricing practices,


new building vessel deliveries, and cargo availability.


Second, just as our industry benefits from global GDP expansion, vessel operations are always


susceptible to the impact of economic slowdown and geopolitical risks, such as the instability in the


Middle East, the threat of piracy and the devastation resulting from the tsunami and earthquake in


Japan.


And finally, there are risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates, and exchange rates


that must be carefully and prudently managed. Despite the macro environment, we will remain


focused on our company’s performance by operating a diverse fleet of vessels, serving niche


markets, while maintaining significant contracted revenue to create value for our shareholders.


Additionally, we believe that challenges produced opportunities to grow our business and enhance


our earrings potential. We will seek to take advantage of these opportunities in a disciplined


manner and we’ll not grow simply for the sake of growth.


At this time, I’ll turn the call over to Erik, who will provide you with an overview of our operations for


the first quarter. Erik?


Erik L. Johnsen, President


Thank you. Good morning. This morning, I will review the operations of our U.S. Flag and


International Flag Time Charters, Contracts of Affreightment, Rail Ferry services, and Investment in


Unconsolidated Entities.


To begin with, we are pleased to report that 100% of our fleet operated as planned during the first


quarter.


On the U.S. Flag, Jones Act vessels, the three military pre-positioned vessels continue to operate


under charter with Military Sealift Command during the rebidding process. While we had expected a


response to our rebid during the first quarter, there was no award at that point. As a result, one of


the charters has been further extended into the third quarter.


Last week, we also received notification that the government will extend the charters on the other


two vessels for a similar period. We are being told that until the bidding process is complete, we will


continue to operate all three of these vessels under extensions.