Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's fourth quarter and year end 2014 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation by providing introductory comments and then Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to review our fourth quarter and full year results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome you all to our fourth quarter and year end 2014 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory remarks. Before I begin though, I would like to highlight the widespread bipartisan support that the Jones Act and the Maritime Security Program experienced during recent discussions in Washington. We continue to believe in the value of these programs for both the United States flag maritime fleet and more broadly for the long-term security and preparedness of the United States.

As many of you are aware, the fourth quarter of 2014 saw a very depressed international dry cargo market. This was expressed most acutely in the international dry bulk rate environment for Handysize and larger vessels. While our diversification across niche maritime segments and focus on medium to long-term contracts with high quality counterparties provided us with insulation from the extremes of this depressed environment the negative earnings contribution from our spot traded Handysize vessels did impact our results. Thus, we move to make difficult decisions that we believe to be the most prudent course of action for creating shareholder value over time.

Foremost amongst the steps taken was our decision, discussed on our third quarter call, to actively market our three Handysize vessels and a laid up Jones Act tug/barge unit for sale. In line with those previous comments, this resulted in a non-cash impairment of $38.2 million. At the same time, the net proceeds from the sale of these vessels will enable us to more accretively redeploy the capital rather than passively maintaining our presence in an underperforming market sub segment. We remain committed to owning and operating a diverse fleet and participating in a variety of niche maritime markets, and we have actively pursued this strategy throughout 2014, adding chemical and asphalt tanker positions to our already diversified market participation.

Additionally, we continually optimize our positions to emerging trends across market segments by reflagging vessels, adjusting our mix of fixed contract versus spot market employment and pursuing additional business opportunities to maximize voyage efficiency. We feel that our ability to do so in a flexible opportunistic manner is one of International Shipholding Corporation's key attributes. Our willingness to make tough decisions when warranted by market realities creates long-term value for our shareholders and is what has enabled us to successfully operate our business for almost 70 years.

Finally, before turning the call over to Erik, our Board of Directors has declared a $0.25 dividend for the fourth quarter, delivering on our $1 dividend target for the full year of 2014, despite a difficult market environment. This fourth quarter dividend represents our 26th consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008.

Since that time, we have returned a cumulative $8.75 per share to our common shareholders. With the current depressed rate environment, we remain dedicated to providing our shareholders with a dividend and also continuing to make accretive investments in our business.

To this end, as we preserve cash during these difficult times, the board has set a dividend target of $0.05 per share for the first quarter of 2015 and remains committed to an ongoing dividend policy. With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels and good morning to everyone. This morning I will provide you with an update of our operations as well as some additional detail on the developments that Niels has just described.

In the fourth quarter and subsequently, we have continued to operate the fleet at a high level while also taking a number of decisive steps to secure the visibility and stability of our future earnings, to align our fleet's profile with the specific demand that exists in the market and to pursue active fleet management across niche maritime segments.

Turning first to our largest segment the Jones Act, we have made significant strides in securing the majority of our capacity to multi-year contracts. First, in coming to an agreement with The Mosaic Company in late 2013 and then culminating in our successful contract extension with Tampa Electric during the fourth quarter of 2014.

Beyond the tonnage that we are currently contracted to move with our Jones Act fleet, we believe that our existing customer base has additional unmet needs for transportation of their cargoes. We are confident that the scale and efficiency of our fleet, the largest Jones Act dry bulk fleet by tonnage, positions us well to successfully compete for this additional business.

Turning to the supplemental cargoes, which we discussed in recent quarters is in the low range of our $6 million to $8 million guidance has resulted in a decision during the fourth quarter to reflag an additional PCTC to international flag. Over time, we have reduced from six U.S. flag PCTCs down to four through reflagging, as a result of supplemental cargo demand, which has moved back in line with historical levels.

The decision to reflag has an immediate positive impact on vessel gross profit margins without affecting the vessel's ability to serve – to service its primary contract. Furthermore in January, we added a U.S. flag breakbulk heavy lift vessel to the fleet specifically adapting our fleet to most effectively and efficiently meeting needs of our customers.

In our Rail Ferry segment, which generally generates a consistent earnings contribution, our northbound cargo volumes during the fourth quarter were lower than the usual as a result of U.S.

Department of Commerce Countervailing Duties investigation on sugar exports from Mexico. An agreement has since been signed and we expect shipments to recommence in late February or March.

As Niels mentioned, the spot rates for Handysize segment continue to be very weak. While the class is not the same magnitude that some larger vessels, particularly Capesize vessels, have experienced in recent months, the persistent weakness in the Handysize space has caused us to reconsider our participation in it at this time.

We therefore placed our three Handysize vessels in the market for sale and are exploring opportunities to redeploy that capital more accretively. Currently, we have a firm MOA in place for the sale of one of the Handysize vessel and continue to consider offers for the others. Depending on the specific opportunities available at the time of any such vessel sale, we could potentially redeploy that capital into one of our existing segments, which includes more attractive sub-segments within the international dry bulk space, into a niche market, where we do not currently participate, or to strengthen our balance sheet.

At the same time, we continue to believe in a long-term value of the Handysize vessels, and as such do not feel compelled to consummate any sale of those vessels that does not meet our criteria. Also during the fourth quarter, we sold our small single skin international flag tanker and signed a firm MOA for the sale of our laid-up Jones Act tug/barge unit.

As a result of our decision to market the three Handysize vessels, the laid-up of Jones Act tug/barge unit and the small single skinned international flag tanker for sale, we recognized a non-cash impairment loss of just over $38 million in the fourth quarter. In summary, we are actively engaged in managing our fleet's make-up and profile to ensure that the capital is deployed across the niche market Maritime markets in the most accretive manner possible. We believe that attractive growth opportunities exist that will enable us to create significant value through an emphasis on medium to long-term contracts, high quality counterparts and the flexibility and dedication to meet the ever evolving demands of our customers in the broad market. With that, I will turn the call over to Manny to discuss our financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some detail on our financials. For the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014, we reported a net loss of $48.3 million, compared to net income of $17.2 million in the 2013 period. The loss for the quarter was a result of a non-cash impairment loss of $38.2 million associated with the previously announced decision to market the sale the company's three Handysize vessels and it's Jones Act laid-up tug/barge unit as well as a $11.6 million non-cash tax valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. Excluding these non-cash items, the company's net income for the three-month period was $1.5 million. For the fourth quarter of 2014, revenues decreased to $71 million compared to $76.2 million in the same period of the previous year. Our gross voyage profit, which represents the results of our six reporting segments, was $13.6 million for the quarter, down from $17.9 million in the 2013 fourth quarter.

Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2014 was $37 million compared to operating income of $6 million in the fourth quarter last year. We generated approximately $56 million of revenue during the fourth quarter from our fixed contracts as compared to $58 million for the 2013 period. This represents 79% of our total revenue. The other 21% was derived from our variable revenues, which consist of supplemental cargoes, our Handysize vessels and the Rail Ferry segment.

While we typically aim to generate approximately 60% to 70% of our revenues from fixed contracts, the recent weakness in the international dry bulk and supplemental cargoes market resulted in a higher percentage of our overall revenues being generated by our fixed contracts.

I will now briefly review our year-over-year fourth quarter gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit increased to $9.1 million from $9 million in the prior-year period. The 2014 results include an additional eight non operating days; a result of the company's decision to drydock its self-unloading coal carrier earlier than scheduled in order to have the flexibility to deploy the vessel interchangeably in the company's East Coast and Gulf Coast Jones Act contracts through 2015.

The Pure Car/Truck Carrier segment declined by $0.6 million, primarily attributable to higher operating costs on our U.S. flag car carriers. Our Dry Bulk segment results declined by $1.3 million in the fourth quarter compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by the continuing depressed rate environment in the Handysize market.

The Rail Ferry segment decreased by $1.2 million as a result of lower Northbound volumes, which Erik just discussed.

The Specialty segment reported a lower gross voyage profit of approximately $400,000, primarily due to the decreased earnings contribution from [ph] our high strength and (16:24) multipurpose vessel.

Our Other segment, which consists primarily of our chartering brokerage and agency services, was down $0.9 million on lower revenues from its brokerage services and onetime charges from our ship management services related to the closing of our Singapore office.

Administrative and general expenses incurred in the fourth quarter of 2014 were approximately $800,000 lower than in the 2013 period, which included an accrual for cash bonus earned. Bonus levels were not realized in the fourth quarter of 2014. Interest expense in the three months ended December 31, 2014, was higher than in the comparable 2013 period, reflecting the financing costs in the U.S. flag PCTC, which we purchased from its lessor in the third quarter of 2014. The foreign exchange gain reported in the 2013 fourth quarter results was from the yen denominated loan, while throughout the fourth quarter of 2014, the company had hedged its exposure to the yen through a foreign exchange forward contract that covered the entire yen loan balance.

Total debt obligations were at higher levels for the 2014 period ended December 31 than in the comparable 2013 period primarily from the acquisition of the Green Bay from its lease.

As of December 31, 2014, working capital was approximately $9.4 million, a decrease of $1.2 million from the previous quarter attributable primarily to a $2.5 million repayment on our line of credit. Cash and cash equivalents were approximately $21.1 million with an available borrowing capacity under our line of credit of approximately $3.7 million. Our total debt obligations at December 31, 2014 were approximately $243 million and EBITDA for the 2014 fiscal year was approximately $54 million.

As reported, we recorded a non-cash tax valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets of approximately $11.6 million in the fourth quarter. While our long-term projections of U.S. taxable earnings indicate that these tax benefits would be recognized, the more stringent GAAP guidelines required the recording of the tax valuation allowance in this quarter.

As we generate U.S. taxable earnings primarily from our Jones Act segment, the valuation allowance will offset tax provisions that would otherwise have been recorded. Accordingly, while the full negative impact of the non-cash valuation allowance was recognized in the fourth quarter, future operating quarters will benefit.

As Niels mentioned earlier, the company's Board of Directors has set a $0.05 per share common stock dividend target for the first quarter of 2015. For the fiscal year 2015, we project EBITDA in the range of $55 million to $63 million, and estimate that 2015 cash outlay on capital expenditures, which includes drydock costs, but excludes our investment in our office building in New Orleans, will be within the $35 million to $40 million range.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi. Good morning guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning. Maybe, if we can just start with the supplemental cargo here. I know, Erik you mentioned that supplemental cargoes contribution during this quarter was sort of at the low-end of the range and maybe Manny you can also answer the question. I'm wondering whether the 2015 EBITDA guidance sort of reflects a return to the normal range in gross profits, would that be a fair assessment?

Mark, that's correct. The EBITDA guidance does include a return to historical levels that we have been below. Manny, I don't know, do you have any further color on that. I think that...

No. The only thing I would add to that Mark is it will be in the lower range of the $6 million to $8 million guidance that we have provided before but compared to 2014, it is an improvement that we're projecting. And so far, we're seeing that come to pass.

Got you. And I'm assuming that also includes the sale of the three Handys, I mean, assuming that comes to fruition as you market the vessels?

That is correct. We estimated that by the end of the first quarter. But keep in mind that those three Handys didn't contribute an awful lot to begin with in 2014 EBITDA. So...

Right. Okay. And how close are you, I know you announced the sale. How close are you at selling those Handys and the Jones Act tugboat, and are you finding the market to be receptive of those sales?

We have – as Erik mentioned, we have concluded a memorandum of agreement for the sale of one vessel, which we expect will be concluded during the course of this month. The other – the remaining two vessels we continue to actively market and we have a number of prospective buyers that are interested and we're in the process of active discussions in that respect. So we expect to be able to conclude.

Okay.

And Mark, let me just add. In terms of the impairment that we took in the fourth quarter, that impairment reflects what we're seeing in terms of market values on those ships.

Got you. That's the kind of what I thought on the Handys here. And now maybe going to the Tampa Electric contract, I know you guys announced last quarter you extended it through at least 2017. I know you have an option of two years on the contract. And I'm wondering how close are you at building on that relationship or leveraging that relationship, maybe outside of that contract to maybe add capacity in the Jones Act space.

Erik, you want to give a little color on that.

Yeah. Mark, we've had a relationship with Tampa Electric that goes back into the 1970s. So I think we have a very solid relationship with them. Clearly, we have extra capacity on the [ph] U.S. (23:58) vessels, especially with bringing the Energy Enterprise which is the self discharging vessel we've had up on the East Coast partly, during the year down to the Gulf. So, as Tampa Electric has incremental tonnage, we will certainly participate in that.

And I think that also goes for Mosaic as well as some of our other traditional customers in the Gulf. We – the two long term contracts we have are The Mosaic and the TECO. But clearly, we have what I describe as evergreen contracts where we have year-to-year cargo commitments. And we see that continuing to develop in a positive way for 2015.

Okay. That's very helpful. And then finally I guess on the minority investments. I am wondering if you can give us a sense of the contribution this quarter, what's your feel as to pricing in the [ph] chemical and asphalt (25:08) tankers. And should we expect any additional minority investment such as these as another way of deploying your capital as you get some fusion from the sale of the other dry bulk vessels?

Mark, I'll let Erik give some further color on that. But if you look at our activities over the last five years to ten years, you'll see that we have very effectively utilized partnerships and minority investments in our business, probably more so than we had done in the early years of our company. So we continue to have multiple opportunities in that space which we'll continue to pursue. And, Erik, do you want to add anything to that?

Yeah. Let me go in reverse order, Mark. As far as the chemical tankers those particular pieces of business are pretty firm contracts that go out well beyond three years to five years. So from that point there is certain agreements that we can get slight improvements depending on the performance of the vessels, but I would say that's a pretty fixed contracts and you feel comfortable with the revenues there. The other partnership that we have in respect to the mini bulkers, I think that's an issue that certainly gets somewhat effected by the downturn in the economy and the market, however, in a much less severe manner. And we have been able to find in that particular group of vessels where we are able to find niche markets and those vessels fit very well in the niche market arena. And so from the point of view of scale that now is 15 ships to 16 ships in that partnership and majority of those ships are in very interesting niche markets.

Yeah, Mark, and the contribution on those investments I think we would look at it in a range of $1 million to $1.5 million. It gives us certainly double-digits return on the equity that we put in.

Great. So my sense is that you guys feel that this could be another way of deploying capital as you go into maybe other types of minority investments. That'd be a fair read on this or...

That is correct.

Okay. Great. Well, that does it from me today. But thanks for your time as always.

Thank you for your questions.

Bye, Mark. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

. It appears we have no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Niels Johnsen for any additional or closing remarks.

Again, we'd like to thank everyone for participating in today's earnings call. We appreciate the opportunity to be in close touch with our shareholders and investors, and we thank you for your participation. We undertake and commit to you that we will continue to communicate with you actively as we go through the course of the year. Thank you very much, and have a good day.

That does conclude today's conference, we appreciate your participation. You may now disconnect.