Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Douglas Scott Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to today's International Shipholding Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, it's my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host for today's call, Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation by providing introductory comments, and then Erik will provide an operational overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to review our second quarter financial results, and then we will take your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC report. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome you all to our second quarter 2015 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory remarks. As many of you know, International Shipholding owns and operate a diverse fleet of vessels across niche maritime markets, primarily on fixed long-term contracts. Our term contracting strategy serves to minimize the impact of the cyclicality of our industry and our strong customer relationship, many of which we have maintained for a decade given our high level of service, consistency and professionalism, provides us with predictable cash flow.

Furthermore, our focus in niche market where we are a major player gives us additional shelter from some of the extremes of market volatility. While the majority of our business is focused on long-term contracts, we do maintain a degree of exposure to some spot markets, such as international dry bulk where our results are affected by market cyclicality.

However, as I mentioned last quarter, the international dry bulk market, which has put pressure on shipowners globally has continued to show some improvement with rates rising from historical lows. While our exposure to the international dry bulk space is limited to about 5% of our gross revenues, increasing rates improve the prospects for our two remaining handysize vessels which we have decided to return to service.

We also made the final decision during the quarter to sell our oldest Pure Car Truck Carrier from which we realized the gain. In this respect, we would highlight that over the years, we have selectively sold older vessels and acquired newer vessel to reduce the average age of our Pure Car Truck Carrier fleet and to ensure that we have the most up-to-date vessel capability to service our customer.

We believe that there is the potential value on our fleet in our proven customer relationship averaging nearly 30 years in duration and our sizeable contractive revenue stream and the depth of managerial and operational experience across our segment and our diversified opportunistic fleet management strategy. We are diligently working to ensure that this [ph] value (04:40) is fully realized, and we are prepared to make prudent decision and reshape our business, when doing so will create value for our shareholders.

Looking at our company's history since its founding, our opportunistic focus, strategic flexibility and a willingness to enact changes are the very core of our identity and differentiate us from other participant in the shipping markets. This is what has enabled us since 1947 into the diversified marine transportation company and niche market that we are today.

Finally, before turning the call over to Erik, I can report that our board of directors has declared a $0.05 dividend for the second quarter. This dividend represents our 28-consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008. Since that time, we've returned a cumulative $9.05 per share to our common shareholders.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning, everyone. I'll take a few minutes now to update you on our operations and our current operational initiatives. Across our segments, we have maintained operational costs in line with our budget, and our customer relationships remain productive, strong and collaborative. We have maintained many of our most important customer relationships for decades because we emphasize customer service and work closely with our customers to ensure that the interest of both parties are well served. That state of affairs continues to this day and is something we consider to be a key to the way we do business day in and day out.

While our overall results in the first half of 2015 have fallen short of our expectations, it's important to understand that we have actually achieved our performance goals for each of the segments with the exception of the Jones Act, which was largely impacted during the second quarter by reduced cargo volumes, reduced revenues, as well as operational issues.

In the international dry bulk segment, as Niels mentioned, we have returned our two remaining handysize vessels to service rather than continuing to hold them for sale. Our strategic flexibility enables us to be responsive to the market condition and in recognizing the disconnect between current asset values for handysize vessel and the near- and long-term prospects for those vessels. We believe that that greatest value at this juncture comes from operating them within our fleet. As such, we have decided to enter those vessels into a pool where they will contribute to revenue and EBITDA.

In our Jones Act segment, we are taking steps to improve our operational efficiencies in the second half of the year. We have dedicated substantial energy and resources to securing multi-year contract for this segment and to improve the vessels themselves. Most recently in the modifications that we made through our self-unloading coal area in the second quarter to enable us to service contract in the Gulf. Improving our efficiency there and supplementing our ability to participate in two-way voyages which improves voyage profitability.

We are hard at work in ensuring all of our segments operate as they should and provide us with the consistency, high-quality performance that our customers expect and that we demand. I am confident that we are taking the steps necessary to ensure that all opportunities for operational improvement are seized and I look forward to updating you on the progress of these efforts in the coming quarters.

With that, I will turn the call over to Manny to discuss our financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some detail on our financials. For the second quarter ended June 30, 2015, we reported a net loss of $0.2 million, compared to a net loss of $0.7 million in the 2014 period. The second quarter results include a $4.7 million gain on the sale of a vessel and an impairment loss of $1.8 million related to the two handysize dry bulk vessels that have been returned to service.

As Niels mentioned, the $4.7 million gain was generated from the sale of a 1994-built PCTC. Excluding these two items, our net loss for the three-month period was $3.1 million. For the second quarter of 2015, revenue decreased to $67.3 million, compared to $76.8 million in the same period of the previous year. Our gross voyage profit, which represents the result of our six reporting segments, was $9.8 million for the quarter, down from $13.4 million in the 2014 quarter.

Operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2015, was $1.6 million, compared to operating income of $1.7 million in the second quarter of last year. We generated approximately $47 million of revenue during the second quarter from our big contract, as compared to $58.8 million for the 2014 period. This represents 70% of our total revenue. The other 30% was derived from our variable revenue, consisting of supplemental cargoes, our dry bulk vessels and our Rail-Ferry segment.

I will now briefly review our year-over-year second quarter gross voyage profit result for each of our reporting segment. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit decreased to a slight loss of $0.3 million, from a profit of $6 million in the prior year period. This decrease is due primarily to unscheduled non-operating days related to the modification and repair of self-unloading coal carrier, a drop in tonnage carry and lower rate.

Our Pure Car Truck Carrier segment increased by $2.1 million to $4.4 million, as supplemental cargo volumes continued to trend well within their normal $6 million to $8 million range. Our Dry Bulk segment results declined by $0.6 million in the second quarter, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by lower rates in the handysize market.

Our Rail-Ferry segment reported a slight increase of $0.4 million. Our Specialty segment's gross voyage profit increased by $1.1 million, primarily driven by the minority investments that we made in late 2014 and ventures owning chemical and asphalt tankers, as well as bareboat income from our multi-purpose ice-strengthened heavy lift vessel, which operated at a loss in the comparable 2014 period. Our other segment, which consists primarily of our charter hire brokerage and agency services experienced a small drop in its gross voyage profit result, $0.2 million from $0.5 million in the prior year period.

Administrative and general expenses incurred in second quarter of 2015 were approximately $300,000 lower than in the 2014 period due to lower insurance costs, partially offset by the company's slight increase in wage and benefits on a year-over-year basis. Interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2015, was higher than the comparable 2014 period due to the financing on a U.S. Flag that we purchased from a lessor in the third quarter of 2014.

Total debt obligations, we have lower levels for the 2015 period ended June 30, 2014, year-end, primarily attributable to paying off the debt service on the Handysize vessel sold in the first quarter and from paying down $7.5 million on our line of credit. As of June 30, 2015, working capital was approximately $0.2 million, a decrease of $6.1 million from the previous quarter.

Cash and cash equivalent were approximately $13 million with an available borrowing capacity under a line of credit of approximately $1.6 million.

Our total debt obligations to June 30, 2015 were approximately $219 million compared to approximately $243 million at December 31, 2014, while EBITDA for the second quarter was $10.1 million. We are lowering our annual EBITDA guidance to a range of $50 million to $55 million, primarily due to our Jones Act result in the first half of the year.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi, there. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning, Mark.

Niels, you talked about the handys, the two handys we named we turned that into service. I'm wondering what your plans are in terms of employment here. The plan is to keep them under the pool, are you still looking to sell the unit?

We're going to put the vessels in a pool. We're changing from a pool that they were in previously to a new and larger pool. We finalized an agreement within the last two weeks to enter those vessels into that pool. And as they come off their current voyages, they will commence employment in the pool. This is a longstanding successful pool that operates sister vessels of our vessels up to at least 20 vessels in their operation, which is larger than we were in before.

And based upon the success that we've had in our Supramax pool, that's a good quantity of vessels giving flexibility to minimize expenses and to increase the performance out of the pool. So, we're very positive and excited about this new opportunity. As we do with all our assets, we continue to look at their value on a resale basis based upon their projected future employment, and we will continue to do that for these vessels as well. But for the time being, we've withdrawn the vessels from the sale and purchase market.

Got you. So, given the – you mentioned efficiencies from this pool, should we assume are these vessels running on a positive EBITDA at this point given those efficiencies, if you will?

That's correct. And the difficulty that we've run into in the transitional period from one pool to the other is that we were only operating two vessels. And while the voyages that they were on, we're successful and positive. We quite often had positioning expenses [indiscernible] (17:23) that when we're operating in a larger pool of vessels we would not have incurred.

Got you, okay. And maybe we can just talk about the [ph] general deck (17:34), but – and Erik, I know you mentioned you had some downtime this quarter. I'm wondering what are your expectations with regards to dry dock and additional downtime for the back half of the year? And maybe if you can describe for us how are those tonnage volumes trending so far in July and how do you see it trending for the back half of this year?

Yeah. One of the calls we had in the second quarter, the Mississippi River actually was quite high. And actually, one of the discharging pads that we're using for the Energy Enterprise was underwater with a number of weeks, which created some operational issues, of course, with us trying to do two-way voyages, so that hurts. And I think for the second half of the year, we anticipate much more two-way voyages than we've had in the first half. And really, you have to look at second quarter when the Energy Enterprise really shifted down to the Gulf.

And then, one of our customers because of their cargo being seasonal was very low on fertilizer for the second quarter, which has now returned to normal levels. So we believe and are working towards this two-way efficiency, and that should in itself give us better results for the second half of the year.

Got you.

And then, Mark, you asked about dry dock.

Right.

We do have one vessel that will be dry docked in the third quarter, but the other vessels should be able to handle the capacity, the cargo, the volume. So, that should not affect us diversely in the second half of the year.

Got you. And now I remember last quarter you were talking about the potential sale of two units within the Jones Act. I'm wondering if you can give us some color as to where you're in at that stage.

Repeat that again, please.

I think last quarter you were talking about – talked about that you were talking about – yeah, in the Jones Act and I'm wondering if you have any color with regards to that.

We do have those vessels held for sales still on our book and we had interest from, but at this point we have no deals in play.

Got you, okay. And then, I guess, you obviously just sold one of the carriers your – one of your older tonnage. Should we assume maybe further asset sales on some of your older tonnage as part of your fleet renewal program as we go forward, especially on the car carrier segment of the business?

We will continue to really handle our management of that fleet capability as we've done over the years since we entered that business back in the mid-1980s. And as I believe we commented we sold the older vessel, but we're constantly looking at younger vessels that will replace that. And it's important – it's very important in that trade to have state-of-the-art modern vessels with improved capability because the cargo mix demands that. And if you don't adjust vessel capability to the cargo mix, that can prejudice the employment of the vessel and that's been part of our strategy since we started in this business in the mid-1980s.

Got it. And I'm assuming, would you need additional borrowing capacity? If so, [indiscernible] (21:47) strategy of viewing those vessels on the PCTC side?

We will. If I understand your question correctly, do we need additional capacity? We have tailored our business for the capacity that we have when we enter a new vessel into service, and we'll do that in reaction to increased cargo demand and increased business opportunities, which we will be taking advantage of. We will not and we never have contracted for the acquisition of this type of vessel unless we have contract employment for it.

Yeah, Mark. And as to the borrowing capacity, if we were to acquire a new vessel, yes, we would certainly add some additional capacity by collateralizing that new vessel. If the transaction takes place further down the line with the cash that we're projecting to generate in the second half of the year, and perhaps with continued success in selling the assets held for sale, the amount of borrowing capacity, of course, would drop in relationship to how much cash we have.

Got it. That makes sense. Well, thanks. Thanks for the answer, guys.

Thanks, Mark.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Doug Ruth at Lenox Financial Services.

Good morning. Thank you for hosting the call. We have a few questions for you.

Good morning, Doug.

Good morning, Manny. Could you talk some about where the new business is coming from for the Jones Act?

Doug, this is Erik. Good morning. It's not necessarily new business. It's more efficiency on a contracted business. There are always spot pieces of business that we will take advantage of if we have extra capacity on the vessel. But for the most part, it is contracted business and having the customers properly spread the cargoes over the year and our efficiencies on our vessel.

Okay. Was that the right decision, you think, to move the coal carrier to the Gulf?

Yes, absolutely. It's the most efficient ship that is running either on the East Coast or the Gulf. And Doug, she will spend still at least 100 days a year on the East Coast moving cargo up there.

All right. That sounds positive. What about the Pure Car Truck Carriers, are you projecting higher supplemental cargo volumes for the second half of the year?

We're projecting, which we did at the beginning of this year, a return to historical levels. And we expect the improved performance during the first half of the year to continue in the second half of the year. So that year-on-year, there will be a significant improvement.

All right. That's also a positive trend. I wanted to – I'm sorry.

It is a trend.

Yes. I want to say that you did – I thought you did a great job with the Specialty segment, that that was a nice improvement there. And then you had thought previously about refinancing some of the unencumbered assets. Can you give us an update as far as what you're doing with that?

Doug, we continue to evaluate all the options in front of us in terms of our capitalization. We have not come to any conclusion or really far along enough in the process to be able to report to you one way or the other. But rest assured, we continue to look at ways that we can strengthen our capital base.

Okay. My final question is more of a commentary. We have a stock trading at a very large discount to the book value, and those capital are somewhat stressed with the – it might be difficult to do a stock buyback. But I think the investment community would really be impressed if the Johnsen family personally would consider buying some stock, it would really show us that you have confidence in the future of the company.

Thank you for that input, and we'll take that under advisement.

Okay. Thank you for hosting the call and answering my questions.

Thanks, Doug.

>: You're welcome.

That does conclude today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the call now to Niels Johnsen for any additional or closing remarks.

We would all like to thank you for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to communicate with you and update you on our activities. And we look forward to continuing this practice in the future. Good morning, and have a good day.

This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.