Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation by providing introductory comments and then Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to review our third quarter results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome you all to our Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory remarks.

Throughout the third quarter of 2014, we continued to execute our strategy of employing a diversified fleet primarily on medium- to long-term contracts with quality counterparties in niche maritime markets. The stable, predictable cash flows generated by our fixed contracts provide us with the financial strength to operate in a volatile market, while the strategic flexibility we gain from our diversified fleet enables us to actively manage our exposure to specific niche segments, vessel types and employment profiles.

As we have discussed in the past, the ongoing evaluation and optimization of our exposures to prevailing and upcoming market trends and rate environments is a central component of our strategy.

This active management approach, combined with our presence in multiple market segments, enables us to take action and redeploy underperforming assets for their underlying capital when changes in the market environment either alter our original investment rationale for investing and deploying a vessel or when a more attractive capital allocation opportunity presents itself.

Furthermore, our long established reputation as a participant in diverse market niches provides us with broad visibility on [ph] deal flow (03:44), which enables us to identify the best investment opportunities across maritime segments, and we believe that this is one of our competitive advantages.

Finally, before turning the call over to Erik, our board of directors has declared a $0.25 dividend for the third quarter, maintaining our $1 per share target for the full year 2014. This current dividend represents our 24th consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008. Since 2008, we have returned a cumulative $8.50 per share to our common shareholders.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning, everyone. This morning, I will provide you with an update on our operations, as well as some additional detail on the developments that Niels has just described.

While we are quite pleased with the high level of operational performance across our fleet during the quarter, our financial performance was negatively impacted primarily by the underperformance of two segments; international dry bulk, particularly our Handysize vessels, and supplemental cargoes.

As many of you are likely aware, the international dry bulk rate environment has been depressed for much of this year. While Capesize rates have recently experienced a significant uptick, that improvement has not trickled down into the Handysize market where we operate three vessels.

Given the more diversified nature of the cargoes carried by Handysize vessels relative to the Capes, the handy segment is generally less volatile in response to swings in the broader market, and this is one of the things that we consider to be appealing about Handysize bulkers. At the same time, the rates that class of vessels has earned in 2014 have [ph] immediately (06:14) fallen short of our expectations.

Additionally, at the end of the third quarter, the newbuilding contract for one eco design Handysize due to deliver in the first half of 2015 was cancelled due to shipyard bankruptcy. We have submitted our refund guarantee to the bank and expect to receive a refund of approximately $4 million within the fourth quarter, fully recovering our installment payments to-date.

While we still believe that the rate environment for Handysize vessels is likely to recover from the cyclical lows currently being experienced, we presented a strategic plan to our board last week that included a divestiture of selected underperforming assets, including our three Handysize vessels. Subject to finalizing an agreement on the sale of these underperforming assets, the company would expect to generate approximately $18 million to $20 million in net cash proceeds after retiring debt collateralized on these assets of approximately $42 million.

A successful divestiture of those assets would result in a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $32 million to $38 million. We are actively evaluating several opportunities to redeploy that capital more accretively. However, any such transaction will be dependent upon the specific terms and uses of proceeds.

In terms of supplemental cargoes, while we anticipated that earnings contribution from that business would be lower than normal for the first half of 2014, the recovery that we expected in the third quarter did not materialize. However, we do expect to generate the returns more in line with our normal quarterly expectations for supplemental cargoes in the fourth quarter.

As we have said previously, the U.S. flag supplemental cargoes segment is one that we choose to participate in and one that has historically helped improve gross voyage profits for ISH at average levels of demand. If demand level for supplemental cargoes continued to fall short of historic averages, we'd have the ability to reflag some or all of those vessels to international flag, and we continue to evaluate our options in that regard.

While we are on the topic of PCTC fleet, I'll just quickly mention that during the third quarter we negotiated the early buyout of one of our U.S. flag PCTCs, the Green Bay, back from long-term lease. That transaction was executed at attractive terms, freeze up about $2 million of previously restricted cash and brings the Green Bay back into our fully owned fleet.

Turning now to our Jones Act segment, we have reached a preliminary agreement with Tampa Electric to extend our contract with them through the end of 2017, subject to finalizing the contract. Along with the multi-year extension that we have signed earlier this year with Mosaic, the extension of our contract with TECO, once finalized, will establish a firm, long-term platform from which to aggressively pursue additional business in the Jones Act dry bulk space.

We continue to identify opportunities in the current market and we believe that our position as the largest provider of Jones Act dry bulk tonnage puts us in a favorable position to compete for additional business.

Overall, I would like to emphasize again that our fleet's operational performance during the third quarter was very strong and that we are closely evaluating opportunities to actively manage our fleet's exposure away from underperforming markets into employments where our high-quality ship management, crewing and cost controls can more predictably translate into high-quality earnings. This active management is at the heart of our strategy at ISH, and we fully intend to continue executing it by aligning our fleet with the best opportunities that exist in the market.

With that, I will turn the call over to Manny to discuss our financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some details on our financials. For the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, we recorded a net loss of $2.6 million compared to a net loss of $2.2 million in the 2013 period.

For the third quarter 2014, revenues decreased to $74.4 million compared to $77.9 million in the same period of the previous year. While revenues decreased, our gross margin improved slightly as our gross voyage profit was $12.6 million for the quarter versus $12.7 million for the comparable 2013 period. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2014 was $1.1 million compared to $2 million in the third quarter last year.

As you will recall, we had expected to recognize non-cash gain of approximately $11 million from the early buyout of our 2007 PCTC, the Green Bay, in the third quarter. Our independent auditors recommended that the $11 million instead reduce the basis of the purchased PCTC. This will result in a lower depreciation expense of approximately $610,000 annually over the remaining 18 years of economic life of the vessel.

As this was a non-cash event, the $11 million had not been included in our EBITDA guidance and, thus, the different accounting treatment has no impact on our current EBITDA guidance.

We generated approximately $58.8 million of revenue during the third quarter from our fixed contracts, as compared to $54.7 million for the 2013 period. This represents 79% of our total revenues. The other 21% was derived from our variable revenues consisting of supplemental cargoes, our Handysize vessels and the Rail Ferry segment.

We target to generate approximately 60% to 70% of our revenues for fixed contracts. However, the weakness in the international dry bulk and supplemental cargo markets, which Erik described a moment ago, has resulted in a higher percentage of our overall revenues coming from the stable results of our fixed contracts.

I will now briefly review our year-over-year third quarter gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit increased to $6.8 million from $6.6 million in the prior-year period due primarily to increased gross revenues on the company's United Ocean Services fleet, as those results reflect a higher number of operating days in the 2014 period.

The Pure Car Truck Carrier segment declined by $0.5 million, primarily attributable to a drop in supplemental cargo volumes and an increase of 33 non-operating days to fulfill scheduled drydocks.

Our Dry Bulk segment results were flat, primarily driven by the continuing depressed rate environment in the Handysize market, offset by the results of our Capesize vessel which is on a fixed-rate charter through the first quarter of 2016.

The Rail Ferry segment decreased by $0.5 million as a result of lower Northbound volumes.

The Specialty segment reported a higher gross voyage profit, reflecting the results of the charted-in/charted-out multi-purpose heavy-lift vessel and the contributions from our 30% equity investments made earlier this year in the two chemical and two asphalt tankers.

Our Other segment, which consists primarily of our chartering brokerage and agency services, was up $0.3 million on higher chartering brokerage revenues.

Administrative and general expenses in the third quarter of 2014 were approximately $300,000 higher than in the 2013 period, primarily from a one-time increase in the company's medical insurance premium.

Interest expense in the three months ended September 30, 2014 was comparable for the same period in 2013. In 2013, we also reported an exchange loss of $457,000 on the company's yen debt facility, which is currently fully hedged under forward currency contracts that we purchased in late 2013.

Total debt obligations were approximately $56 million higher in the 2014 period ended September 30 than in the comparable 2013 period, primarily from the acquisition of the Green Bay.

As of September 30, 2014, working capital was approximately $10.6 million, a decrease of $300,000 from the [ph] previous (16:34). This was attributable primarily to our operating cash flow and a $10 million draw from our line of credit, [ph] which partially (16:42) offset by equity payments on the early buyout of the 2007 PCTC previously operating under a sale-leaseback financing agreement and by our dividend payments.

Cash and cash equivalents were approximately $21 million, with an available borrowing capacity under our line of credit of approximately $1 million.

Our total debt obligations as of September 30, 2014 were approximately $253 million and EBITDA for the 12 months ended September 30, 2014 was approximately $59 million.

The company's board of directors has approved dividend payments of $2.375 and $2.25 on its Series A and Series B preferred stock, respectively, as well as $0.25 dividend payable on December 3, 2014 for each common share owned on the record date as of November 17, 2014.

Our common stock dividend target for 2014 remains at $1, which is consistent with the levels we have paid in recent years. [ph] As always (17:57), all common stock dividend declarations are subject to the approval from our board of directors.

As a result of the factors which we have discussed here today, we have lowered our expected EBITDA for the fiscal year 2014 to a range of $56 million to $59 million. Additionally, we have increased our projected cash outlay for capital expenditures, including drydock costs, to be in the range of $21 million to $23 million.

The increase is a direct result of the early drydocking of our Jones Act coal carrier in order to allow the vessel to service Jones Act contracts in both the East and Gulf Coast throughout 2015.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from Mark Suarez of Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi there, guys. Good morning.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning.

Erik, you mentioned the cancellation of the Handies and the potential sale of those three assets there. I'm wondering, should we read this then as a move more into the Jones Act in an effort to grow your business maybe, if you can may be talk about sort of opportunities, [ph] if it give us enough (19:34) attractive opportunities in this space at this point in the cycle that will complement your business, if you will.

Mark, I think, first, remember we are a diversified company. So as I said, we invest in different segments of the business. There is no way we are abandoning the dry bulk space. But clearly on our capital structure, we can't be in a situation where we continue to see depressed markets and not take an active management approach and see if there's a better opportunity to return capital or to return results to the company and to the shareholders.

So I would tell you that Jones – clearly, the segment that we would look at, Jones Act. We'd also look at other segments in the dry space, including both the smaller size as well as the larger size. And we're probably too early to make a call on where we would redeploy the cash. But certainly, it would be within the segments we currently operate. That answer your question?

Okay. So, it could be also within the Dry Bulk but in different segments, is that kind of the way I should be reading it, so the Jones Act is not your number one priority?

Well, as we've said throughout this period, Jones Act is a segment that you really have to have contracted space and contracted capacity before you go out and build. And it really is a point that we're not going to go acquire secondhand tonnage. We don't see that on the early horizon. But we are absolutely there for Jones Act if the opportunity arises.

Mark, this is Manny. Our number one priority is to find where within all our sectors the opportunity for the highest return exists. So, it may be Jones Act, may be Dry Bulk, maybe PCTC, but we're not going to restrict it to just the Jones Act. Whichever one within our sector gives the shareholder the higher return.

Got you. That's helpful. Now – and maybe if we can go back to the supplemental cargoes – I'm wondering if you can give us how it came in this quarter and whether the $6 million to $8 million gross profit contribution range is a good range to look forward as we head into 2015.

Mark, this is Niels Johnsen. Let me address that. We expect the fourth quarter to return to historical levels. We are not certain and we have no visibility, and this is a normal situation for this type of cargo, of what all of 2015 will look like. But we expect that 2015 will be approximately similar to what we're going to see in this quarter, in the fourth quarter, which will be in a range of what we've seen historically. I think we've said – Manny, I think we've said $5 million to $6 million?

I think in the past, Niels, we have guided in the $6 million to $8 million. But to your point, the fourth quarter, we'd be annualizing towards the lower end of that guidance.

Right. I think that gives us a good deal with that, Mark.

No, that's great. That's very helpful. Now, maybe we can talk about the CapEx guidance. I know you went up and I'm wondering, is that just solely a function of the early drydocking or are there some other items that are driving the increase here? [indiscernible]

(23:56)...

No, Mark – yes, sir. No, Mark. That's exactly what it is. The Energy Enterprise was scheduled to drydock in April, May of 2015. As we sat here and evaluated the best use of the fleet vis-à-vis whether we would use it in the Gulf, it came the opportunity to go-ahead and drydocking that vessel early. So, the increase is strictly a product of moving expected drydock costs in 2015 into the 2014 period.

Got you. Okay, that's all I have for now. Thanks for your time again. Thanks.

Thanks, Mark.

Thanks. [Operator instructions]

And with no further questions in the queue, I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Niels Johnsen for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you very much. I'd like to thank you all again for joining this call today. We appreciate your interest in our company and we welcome the opportunity to communicate with you on a regular basis to keep you updated on our activities. Thank you very much and have a good day.

This does conclude our conference. Thank you for your participation.