Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President & Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Bruce C. Baughman — Senior Vice President, Franklin Advisory Services LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call. Please be aware that today's call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website at, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and presentation. Instructions will follow at that time.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's Third quarter 2011 earnings call. I'm Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are, Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing some introductory comments and Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our third quarter 2011 results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statements.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. Before Erik discusses our operational highlights and strategies, and before Manny reviews our financial results, I would like to make a few introductory comments.

During the third quarter, our fleet generated results that were in line with expectations at a time during which we continued to implement our growth strategy. Of note, we were awarded a time charter contract to transport supplies for the Military Sealift Command. Not only does this contract enhance our firm's contracted revenue stream, but the purchase of a multi-purpose ice strengthened vessel to service this contract will further diversify and increase the size of our fleet. This contract is another example of our ability to build and maintain solid customer relationships, as we have worked with the United States Department of Defense in different capacities for over 60 years.

I would now like to make a few comments on our industry. As we have previously discussed, the dry cargo shipping market continues to face challenges. We have always held the view that challenging times present opportunities for growth. Many ship owners and shipyards are facing defaults, lack financing, and have need to generate cash, which simulates the availability of new building and trading vessel re-sales. Therefore, as we manage our performance to enhance our existing operations, we evaluate new accretive opportunities which will benefit our shareholders. However, we will continue our cautious and conservative approach to dealing with the volatility and uncertainty in the dry cargo market as we seek to grow.

Although we continue to identify opportunities for growth, the bank lending markets remain tight. The difficulties facing the European bank markets have created a sea change in the availability of debt financing, which traditionally has been employed by ship owners in order to fund growth. Thus given that traditional sources may not be available to fund growth, we will explore additional means of financing to position ourselves to take advantage of these opportunities.

Our positive ongoing financial results during uncertain times in the shipping industry validate our various growth strategies. While this includes participation in joint ventures and revenue sharing agreements, we do not intend to deviate from our longstanding core business model of identifying niche ocean transportation requirements and then procuring vessels suited to fulfill those requirements.

Additionally, we will continue to maintain a portfolio of underlying cargo contracts, which provide a hedge for the cyclicality of our industry and a foundation that allows us to take advantage of spot market transactions.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels. Good morning. I would like to take a few minutes now to review some of our recent operational highlights. During the third quarter, all of our vessels that operated on fixed medium-to-long-term time charter contracts continued to perform as planned. I would like to point out that while our U.S. Flag Jones Act Coal Carrier did have fewer operating days on a year-over-year basis, this was due to a third-party commercial voyage in the third quarter of 2010 that took place outside of its normal time charter. As part of our strategy, we seek to capitalize on opportunities such as this that allow us to utilize our vessels outside of their normal time charter operations in order to maximize our revenue generation.

As Niels mentioned, we recently signed a new contract with the Military Sealift Command for transporting supplies to both Antarctica and the Arctic. This contract is for initial one-year period with options for an additional three years and 11 months. We expect to generate approximate revenues of $10 million from this time charter over the initial one-year period, and a total of approximately $50 million in revenues if all of the options are exercised. As for our other Military Sealift Command operations, we are still awaiting results of the re-bidding process and continue to operate these vessels on extensions under their original terms of the contract. Although the current extensions are set to expire at the end of October, based on recent conversations we expect to receive further extensions that will last through the end of this year while the bidding process continues.

On to our Indonesian operations, while the labor strikes at our customers mine sites have been ongoing, we remain unaffected given the nature of our long-term contracts that these vessels operate under. Furthermore, because of the type of cargos we carry, a slowdown or a halting of production at the mine does not directly affect our operations. We will continue to monitor the events in this region, but we do not currently anticipate them having an impact on the business segment.

Our Rail Ferry service operated as we anticipated during the quarter. Although volumes were down from a year ago period, you may remember, our third quarter 2010 results benefited from an increase in northbound cargo volumes owing to weather-related track outages in Mexico. We have been pleased with the performance of this segment over the first three quarters of this year and while the fourth quarter is traditionally a slower period because of seasonal weakness, we anticipate the current quarter to be slightly better than 2010.

Our three Handysize bulkers, which operate on short to medium-term charters in the spot market under a revenue sharing agreement with a European partner, outperformed the Dry Bulk Index in the third quarter. Additionally, the 10th Mini Bulk carrier in the Oslo Bulk joint venture delivered in July, and all 10 vessels are now operating in the Americas and South East Asia. While these smaller sized niche vessels are not yet operating at our target levels, we maintain a positive outlook for this asset class over the long term. The underlying fundamentals in this niche area remain attractive.

Now I'll turn the call over to Manny to review financials and operating results. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I like to provide some details on our financials for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011. Gross revenues for the period were $67.1 million as compared to $74.4 million in the third quarter of 2010. This decline in revenue was due primarily to lower volumes of supplemental cargo, fewer operating days on the U.S. Flag Coal Carrier and lower results from the Rail Ferry service. As we have previously stated, for a period between 2008 and 2010, we experienced heavy supplemental cargo volumes, which positively impacted our variable revenue stream and overall results. However, these volumes have now returned to historical levels over the past several quarters and we anticipate supplemental cargos to remain at current levels going forward.

Additionally, the lower comparisons from the third quarter of 2010 for our Coal Carrier, as well as the Rail Ferry service were due to increased revenues from one-time circumstances, but overall, these operations met our expectations. Approximately $42 million of this quarter's revenue were from our fixed contracts, which typically vary in a fairly narrow range, as compared to $45.5 million for the same period in 2010. Variable revenues were $25.1 million for the quarter, which were primarily from supplemental cargo, our three Handysize vessels and our Rail Ferry segment.

Our gross profit for the third quarter was $13.4 million, a decrease of approximately $6.2 million when we exclude the impairment charge of $25.4 million taken in the third quarter of 2010. This decrease in gross profit was due to a decline in supplemental cargo activity and lower results from our Coal Carrier and Rail Ferry service, partially offset by the operations of our three Handysize vessels.

I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross profit results for each of our segments, which are the U.S. Flag and International Flag Time Charters, Contracts of Affreightment, Rail Ferry and Other and doing so on a year-over-year basis.

Our U.S. Flag Time Charter segment decreased by approximately $5.9 million. In addition to lower results from supplemental cargos and our Coal Carriers, this segment was impacted by fewer full operating days on our vessels under the Military Sealift Command contract.

Our International Flag Time Charters were higher from the third quarter 2010, as all three of our Handysize vessels operated for the full quarter and our Capesize vessels performed as expected.

Our Contract of Affreightment generated gross profit that was in line with the same 2010 period. Although our Rail Ferry segment performed as expected, gross profit declined by $1.6 million on a year-over-year basis, as the 2010 results show a one-time extraordinary increase in tonnage, due to storm-related track outages. The third quarter 2010 comparable amount excludes the $25.4 million impairment charge.

Gross profit for our Other category, which consists of our supporting services, was comparable to the result in the third quarter of 2010.

Beyond our operating segment, for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, we recorded a $2.7 million non-cash charge for the foreign exchange loss associated with our yen-denominated loan, as that currency continued to strengthen versus the US dollar. Our equity and net income of unconsolidated earnings was lower by $2.2 million as a result of our Capesize vessels, are now accounted for under our International Flag Time Charters segment. In addition, we incurred costs for positioning three vessels in our Oslo Bulk joint venture and also reported a charge of approximately $650,000 on an interest rate swap position entered into by Oslo Bulk.

As of September 30, 2011, our working capital was approximately $11.9 million, which is down approximately $20 million due to funding of the equity portions of the acquisitions during the quarter of our two previously leased car carriers. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities stood at $31 million at the end of the quarter and we generated approximately $10.9 million in cash from operating activities, while paying down debt service of approximately $8.4 million.

Finally, yesterday the company's Board of Directors authorized the payment of $0.375 dividend for each share of common stock owned as of the record date of November 16, 2011, payable on December 1, 2011. We remain committed to providing a return to our shareholders in the form of a dividend on a quarterly basis and while all future payments remain subject to the discretion of our Board, this year we expect to meet our previously stated $1.50 annual target. That ends our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Bruce Baughman with Franklin. Sorry about that.

Okay. Good morning. Bruce Baughman at Franklin.

Good morning, Bruce.

Good morning, Bruce.

Quick one for Manny. I've got some other questions too. But the two different lines on the P&L for the equity and unconsolidated entities, can you explain how those work and why there are two of them?

Bruce, just to make sure I'm looking at what you are referring to, you talk about the equity and net -- in particular in the [indiscernible] .

Yeah, there is also equity and net income of unconsolidated entities of $3.853 million.

No, I think – yeah, Bruce, let me just go back to that --

That's before.

Yeah, that's before. That 3.8 is before, and then that one line item of 852 reflects the results of our equity in those entities for the quarter.

Okay, thanks for that. The other thing I wanted to get into was – first, thanks for the introductory comments around the industry conditions and the strategy. From the comment it sounded like you are opening the possibility of raising equity. Was that your intention?

Bruce, we have been looking at a number of different alternatives to grow our business. We have not definitively decided what path we're going to go down. We are concerned about the viability of moving into the equity markets at this time. So we're being cautious about that because there are other opportunities that we feel will be available to us when we see accretive growth opportunities.

Okay. And when you – in regard to the growth strategy overall, how do you define growth, is it revenues, tonnage, just what you're looking at?

We're looking at revenue, and the vessels, obviously, produce that revenue. So the key in our mind is not necessarily adding steel to the equation, but adding revenue. That's what we characterize as growth, not just adding ships to the fleet.

Would it make sense to think of growth in terms of growth in return on investment?

Yes, it would and we look at it that way.

Okay. As you look at the different growth initiatives you've got underway or maybe are -- that you are looking at as opportunities today, where do you see the opportunity to improve the return on equity? For example -- go ahead and answer -- but one example I guess would be the new contract with the Military Sealift Command from which you're going to make an investment in a new vessel?

Bruce, this is Erik Johnsen. I would say that you have to keep in mind always that our business and our industry is opportunity. To say we're going to grow one sector or another is pretty difficult to project. But clearly in a challenging market there are opportunities and we have to be flexible and nimble enough and have the resources to be able to take up those opportunities and put contracts behind them. But at the same time, even though we may have an opportunity to buy depressed assets, without the other side of the coin of the contract to go with them, it doesn't make much sense. So we are seeing some opportunities out there. What we have to do is cement all sides of that equation.

And, Bruce, I know you've followed us for some time now and I think you also -- based on what Erik is saying, I think when you look at – when you look back over the years at transactions that we've done, there is a substantial residual value play in all transactions, and when we look at a transaction and we look at target returns on investment, we have a – we develop a view of the entire life of the asset in determining the return on the initial investment, and I think you've seen that in other transactions that we've done.

All right. At the same time, though, it's difficult to – it's difficult to see a return on investment, return on assets, return on equity and so on that would support a stock price above book value over time. I know that's the goal, I assume that's the goal, but I'm just wondering if better clarity is coming or not.

Bruce, this is Manny.

Hi, Manny.

We'd love to have the [ph] saturated debt at book value. As you know, it's significantly discount to book value right now. So the investments that we've entered into here over the past 12 months, we think are good investments that are going to give us debt returns that will allow, at a minimum, book value to be achieved and as the market strengthens, certainly a premium to book value.

Okay. Thanks a lot for the answers and I'll get back in line.

Thanks, Bruce.

Thanks, Bruce.

[Operator Instructions] Moving to a question from [ph] Richard Rugley with Glenberg Capital.

Well, hi, guys. This is [ph] Richard Rugley from Glenberg Capital. I just had two questions, really. One on the Sealift extension. I understand you are expecting that from what you've said to go out to December. But my understanding also is that even if you do get, it's going to be substantially less than it was. But with the $10 million you're projecting for the ice breaker, are we hoping to get back what was lost there, you see what I mean, by the low amount, really extension plus the ice breaker?

Yeah, Richard, this is Manny. You are correct, in that, if we were to achieve getting that contract going forward, the rate that contract has been re-bid at is substantially lower. Through the combination of us having the new vessel with Military Sealift Command and being awarded the extension going forward, we are not going to capture 100% of that lost revenue, but we'll probably get in about the 75% to 80% of that revenue achieved with the combination of both.

Okay. Thank you. And my other question was on the Mini Bulkers. Now, you said they are not operating at the target levels, yeah, and my question is two-fold really. One, when do you hope that they will be operating at those target levels? And second, it would be great if you could explain a bit more how it fits in with your overall niche strategy? I'm not quite clear why the Mini Bulkers counts as a niche, and maybe you could give a bit more color on where exactly they are – I know you've given the continent, but what cargos they're carrying and maybe even some of the customers. Thank you.

Richard, this is Erik. Good morning.

Good morning.

There are a few questions you have in there. So let me see if I can answer them sort of separately. In terms of the operating results, our partners have chosen to include into our results, expensing all of the positioning voyages out of the shipyards, which all but two of them, so eight out of the 10 did this during 2011. So that created, obviously, a situation where when you're taking them out of the yards, you are not in the position where you are going to operate them on a consistent basis. So you're taking at the rate that you can achieve coming out of yards with cargo, so that creates a little bit of a depressed average on the whole. Then, in addition to that, when we did position them in the Caribbean or the Americas and Southeast Asia, the market is pretty sloppy out there. And so what happens is you may get a good cargo to a destination and then have to do some ballasting to the next cargo and so we need that market to get a little bit firmer, where it's more consistent. So that's creating -- and we're not that far off from where we wanted to be, but that creates some of the downward results, if you want to say.

In terms of the niche market, these ships can go into ports that are shallow draft, more Caribbean Island, Southeast Asia with all the islands in that area. So you're servicing a smaller market, but the requirement of cargo still remains consistently good. So I think in that regard the niche idea is the fact that you are in a segment that, one, is a pretty balanced segment in terms of number of vessels, number of scrappings. It's not everyone and their brother buying that sized ship, so it's a smaller market, it's a smaller area to deal in, and that's why we like it.

Thanks. That's very helpful.

Let me expand on that a little bit. I think, Erik, gave you a very good – this is Niels Johnsen. I think, Erik, gave you a very good answer, and I would just add one further comment on that with respect to the niche. I think we've commented before that the larger bulk carriers, particularly the Capesize and Panamax bulk carriers, which handle predominantly iron ore and coal have themselves become a commodity like the commodity that they carry, because of the nature of those marketplaces for a lot of different reasons. And the mini bulkers are not in that same category. They still are used to cover, as Erik said, specialized cargos to areas that are not accessible to all vessels and they are more cargo-centric and more service-oriented type vessels than the larger vessels have become.

Great. Thanks very much. I appreciate the color.

[Operator Instructions] We will take a follow-up question from Bruce Baughman. Please go ahead.

Yes, just to follow up a bit on the other, the prior question, to the extent that there is a reduction in revenue related to the legacy contracts with the Military Sealift Command, and then there is this -- somewhat offset by this new contract. The new contract requires new assets. What happens to the assets that have been dedicated to the Military Sealift Command up until now? Does the new ship replace some of that capacity or will the existing vessels just be working for less revenue?

Let me -- Bruce, Niels Johnsen -- let me remind you. I think you know this. The existing contracts, the three existing contracts are operating contracts. The vessels are owned by the U.S. government, but there is no capital – there is no capital investment in that from our side.

Yeah, Niels, I should have known that, but I forgot.

Yeah. So that's the answer to your question.

Okay, thanks

You are welcome.

At this time there is no additional questions, I'll turn the call back over to Niels Johnsen for closing remarks

Again, I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to communicate with interested parties about our company and discuss our results and our views on important matters and we look forward to continuing these calls in the future. Thank you very much and have a good day.

Ladies and Gentlemen that will conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation.