Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman, CEO & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, Director & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Andrew P. Casella — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Doug S. Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Please be aware that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We'll conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I'd like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's third quarter 2013 earnings call.

I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

As usual, Niels will begin today's presentation by providing insight on the market trends, and then Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our third quarter financial results, and then we would be happy to take your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome all of you to our third quarter 2013 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments. During the third quarter, we remain focused on executing our operating strategy, while taking steps to further strengthen our balance sheet. Specifically, we continue to operate a diversified fleet primarily on medium to long-term contracts, enabling the company to generate strong and stable cash flows for our shareholders.

In the third quarter, we reaffirmed our commitment to maintaining our leadership position in the Jones Act dry bulk market by exercising a buyout option on an integrated tug/barge unit that we had previously operated on a sale and leaseback agreement. We also refinanced our U.S. flag debt facilities which Manny will discuss in more detail later in the call.

With a large portion of the scheduled dry-docking completed by the end of the third quarter, we are now beginning to see revenue contribution levels from our Jones Act fleet, that reflect our expectations, when we acquired United Ocean Services late in 2012. The former UOS fleet which we have rebranded as Coastal Carriers, operates under long-term contracts with high quality counterparties.

By integrating these U.S. flag Jones Act dry bulk ships into International Shipholding Corporation's fleet, we have simultaneously increased both our exposure to the Jones Act market and the proportion of our overall fleet that operates on medium-to-long term contracts. Having completed two public offerings and a refinancing in 2013, International Shipholding has both the financial flexibility and proven access to capital that will allow us to maintain our position and strength in pursuing accretive acquisitions to address maritime transportation needs in niche markets.

At the same, we will maintain a disciplined approach to growth in order to best serve our shareholders. Before I turn the call over to Eric, I would like to point out that yesterday, my Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend of $0.25 for each share of common stock. This is the 21st consecutive dividend payment since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008, representing a cumulative payout of $7.75 per share since that time and underscoring our commitment to returning value to our shareholders through our quarterly dividend.

I will now turn the call over to Eric. Eric?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning. Our fleet once again performed well and generated stable cash flows during the third quarter despite several challenges. We incurred a 152 ship days out of service for routine regulatory dry-dockings in the quarter, which impacted our results by $1.5 million. Additionally, due to sequestration in the 2013 fiscal year, our maritime security program payments from the U.S. government were reduced by $2 million. We would like to note that the U.S. Congress Continuing Resolution 2014 which was signed into law on October 16, 2013, included a specific provision for fully funding the MSP payments from October 1 through January 15, 2014.

Our third quarter results reflect the continued strong performance of our Jones Act segment, even with extensive scheduled dry-docking taking place in the quarter. We now have three full quarters of contribution from our United Ocean Services operations and have fully integrated UOS into our operations.

The renaming of the vessels continues as they go through their regularly scheduled regulatory dry-dockings. As of January 1 of 2014, we will describe these operations under the new name Coastal Carriers. As discussed, we would remind you that we completed the reactivation of one of the two laid up tug/barge units acquired as part of the UOS transaction during the second quarter, and this unit is now fully deployed on contract business through the end of the year.

Along with this unit, we were able to use the Energy Enterprise, our Jones Act self-unloading bulk carrier to complete seven UOS voyages in the U.S. Gulf. Our fleet size provides us the flexibility to meet our customer needs and to ensure that we have little or no disruption to service while units in the fleet undergo dry-docking. Although this additional tug/barge and the Energy Enterprise will not increase tonnage in 2013, we believe that we are all well positioned to capitalize on this expanded Jones Act activity and capacity in 2014.

Within our PCTC fleet, all seven of the vessels continue to operate on long term contracts at favorable rates. The vessel that had been due to end its current contract term in the middle of 2014 has now been extended at favorable rates on a multi-year basis. Additionally, we reflagged one of the PCTCs from U.S. flag to international flag during the quarter, with no effect to its long-term contract. This allowed us to add a younger multipurpose heavy-lift vessel to our MSP fleet.

In our variable business, we continue to generate good results and benefit from our success booking cargos in line with historical levels, even while facing the ongoing effects of the government sequestration. In addition, our Rail Ferry service results remained strong in a stable demand environment, enabling us to achieve better cargo capacity both southbound and northbound during the quarter as compared to the third quarter of 2012.

While our Dry Bulk operations continued to experience volatility in the third quarter, we have seen some improvement in the sector in recent weeks. We are seeing signs of sustainability in the rates and hope that our fellow ship owners demonstrate restraint in ordering newbuildings. Overall, we maintain our belief that the medium to long-term prospects for the bulk carrier market are positive. As such, we remain focused on the opportunistic – opportunistically increasing our dry bulk area portfolio and strengthening our strategic position in this niche market.

Finally, we actively seek to maximize the efficiency of our business while also pursuing growth opportunities as they arise. We work consistently to improve all facets of our operation both onboard the vessel and at our shoreside facilities. In order to increase the profitability of our business, we continue to make progress in these efforts.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for a review of our financials for the quarter. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would like to provide some details on our financials for the third quarter, ended September 30, 2013. In the quarter, we reported a net loss of $2.2 million, which includes non-recurring charges of $2 million related to the impact of sequestration on U.S. Maritime Security Program and $1.6 million of transaction expenses related to the refinancing of debt facilities on our U.S. flag fleet.

On an adjusted net income basis, that excludes those one-time charges, our net income of $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compares to net income of $1.8 million for the comparable period of 2012.

For the third quarter of the year, revenues increased to $77.9 million or approximately 27.4% year-over-year driven primarily by the additional revenues from the third quarter of contributions from our UOS operations, which we acquired late last year. The company's gross voyage profit representing the result of its six reporting segments was $12.7 million compared to $15.9 million in the 2012 three month period. Our gross voyage profit was impacted from weaker results from our PCTC, Dry Bulk and Specialty Contracts segments, while partially offset by improvements in our Jones Act and Rail Ferry operations.

Operating income for the three months ended September 30 was $2 million as compared to $4 million for the same period a year ago. We generated approximately $54.7 million of revenue during the third quarter from our fixed contracts. This represents approximately 70% of total revenue while variable revenues was 23.2%, excuse me, $23.2 million were roughly 30% of total revenue.

This compares to fixed and variable revenue in the third quarter of 2012 of $30.4 million and $27.8 million, respectively. I would now like to review our third quarter gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments.

As a remainder, after the UOS acquisition and beginning with our fourth quarter 2012, we adjusted our reporting segments to more closely align with the operation of those vessels.

The improved gross voyage profit for the Jones Act segment reflects the results of the third full quarter of operations for United Ocean Services, UOS, which was acquired in late 2012, while year-over-year, our Jones Act segment continues to benefit from the addition of UOS, the results of UOS in the quarter were impacted by a 139 non-operating days related to scheduled dry-docking, which resulted in a negative impact of approximately $1.5 million for that segment. I want to emphasize, that the number of non-operating days due to scheduled dry-docking in the second and third quarters of this year is significantly higher than what we consider to be normal quarterly level. For context, our scheduled dry-docking for this fourth quarter involves only a single ship that will experience approximately 45 non-operating days.

The gross voyage profit of the Pure Car Truck Carriers, the PCTC segment decreased from the comparable period of 2012, due primarily to the impact from sequestration and lower supplemental cargo level. Additionally, one U.S. flag and one international flag PCTC experienced lower charter hire rates in the comparable period of 2012.

Gross voyage profit for our Rail Ferry segment improved over the third quarter of 2012, primarily as a result of higher Northbound volumes, a trend, which we have seen since the second quarter of this year. The Dry Bulk market, which has recovered somewhat since September of this year continued to be a comparable lower levels throughout the third quarter.

In 2012, our Cape Size vessel was operating in the last year of a long-term contract at above market rates. So the comparable 2013 results are lower. Our Specialty Contract segment reported a decrease in gross voyage profit due primarily to the impact of the bulk market on the spot rates demanded by our ice-strengthened vessel.

Administrative and general expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2013 were lower than those in the same period of 2012, as there were no accrued bonus payments in the 2013 quarter.

Interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2013, was approximately $965,000 higher than the comparable three months in 2012, primarily due to the non-recurring transaction fees related to the refinancing of the debt facility. This refinancing, which we concluded in September retired all the debt outstanding on our U.S. flag fleet, while providing us some covenant flexibilities that allow us to act on accretive growth opportunities as they arise. The derivative loss of $768,000 is related to the unwinding of an interest rate swap on one of our U.S. flag PCTCs. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, the Japanese yen strengthened in relation to the U.S. dollar from 99.15 to 98.24. This produced an exchange loss of $457,000 in the period.

The company's working capital was $15.9 million, an increase of $400,000 from June 30, 2013. Our cash and cash equivalent balance was approximately $29.2 million. The company's total debt obligations at September 30, 2013 were approximately $205 million, while EBITDA generated during the 12 month period ended September 30, 2013 was approximately $66.2 million. The company's Board of Directors has approved the dividend payment of $2.375 and $2.25 on its Series A and Series B preferred stock respectively. Additionally, yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a $0.25 dividend payable on December 3, 2013, for each share of common stock owned on the record date of November 15, 2013.

All future common stock dividend declarations and amounts remain subject to the discretion of the company's Board of Directors.

We increase our guidance for 2013 net income before preferred stock dividends to a range of $14 million to $16 million, which anticipates the reversal of the company's tax valuation allowance of approximately $10.5 million. EBITDA is reaffirmed in the range of $60 million to $63 million. This ends our prepared remarks. We now would like to open the call for questions. Operator?

[Operator's Instruction]. And we'll take our first question from Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.

Hi. Thanks for taking the question. I guess bigger picture, you guys have done a great job, kind of getting a lot of dry powder available between your debt refinancings and cash from the preferreds. When you think about opportunities in growth going forward, where are some areas you want to focus on? I heard you mention Dry Bulk carriers, but are you looking at doing second-hand deals or new builds, or if you could just give some added color, that'd be appreciated.

Good morning. This is Erik Johnsen. We certainly have seen with the recent tick up in the bulk market that there are more and more opportunities available. We're always conservative to some degree on counterparties, because the counterparty risk continues to be higher. So we see the growth areas really in the four segments we've been concentrating on in recent years, and that is the car carriers, the Jones Act and the bulker trades. The good thing is we certainly see some more sustainability in the bulk market where, as we all know in recent years, it's been pretty weak.

I'll add. This is Niels Johnsen, I'll add a little bit to what Erik said on the dry bulk side. Since July of this year – I think you know that we concentrate on the Handysize and the Mini Bulk Carrier segment, but since July of this year we have seen a steady gradual increase in the time charter rates for the Handysize segment. In July, the index was at around $8,300 a day and, as we speak, it has increased to $9,400 a day.

So that type of gradual increase we think demonstrates a continued stabilizing trend, increasing trend in that segment as compared to the tremendous volatility that we saw in the Capesize segment which increased from July to September up to over $40,000 a day and has corrected back, as we speak, to something at $17,000 a day. The other consideration in the Handysize segment is that as of the end of September, we have actually seen negative fleet growth as between new-building orders and vessels that have been scrapped. As of the end of September, there were 139 new-buildings versus scrapping of 175 ships which is negative growth of 36 ships and that's the only segment in the bulk side that we see that type of phenomenon.

Got it. And Manny, two financial questions, the $2 million of lost MSP profits, is that expected to be repaid or realized in fourth quarter? Or is that lost forever? And then just going to CapEx, if you could provide guidance for 2013 dry-docking CapEx and then maybe some color on what you're expecting for 2014?

Yeah. Hi, Andrew, the $2 million impact in the third quarter from the sequestration is lost. We had to take the impact all in the third quarter because that's when the sequestration took place in that program. As Erik mentioned in his script that the Congress and the President signed into law under Continued Resolution 2014 net coverage that program through the middle of January 2014 and in addition, the program is exempt from further sequestration cuts as a result of that resolution. So 2013 is behind us. We believe given the landscape out there that would be very little to no impact on that program going forward.

As to CapEx, Andrew we don't give guidance that far ahead in 2014, but what I will comment on is that for 2013 and CapEx we define as both improvements to the assets and regularly scheduled drydock charges. For 2013, that number will come in at $42 million to $44 million level. 2014 will be significantly lower as the UOS assets have been drydocked, all except for one UOS asset. So, while we don't give guidance, what I think we've said is that we expect 2014 to come in back to the normal quarterly, excuse me normal annual capital expenditure, and we provided some guidance in the past, and that's between $10 million and $14 million. So, that's a range that we expect I think for 2014. Does that give you specifics?

Great. Thank you. No, it does and that's all I had for now, I'll get back in the queue. Thanks again.

Thanks

Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi there. Good morning everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Just to piggy back on the first question in the Q&A session here, I know Niels you mentioned you're very interested in the Handysize segment. You feel that it's one of the most sustainable segments in the dry bulk. I'm wondering what you think of the maybe really pouring some of that capital in the UOS business, and why not may be taking a closer look at some of the opportunities? Is it because a lot of that is new builds, you don't want to tie up capital for a long time or maybe some of the second hand vessels are in bad shape, I'm wondering what the- what's your view in that particular segment there?

I'm not sure I totally understand your question, but you're asking if – why aren't we redeploying some of the capital from our Jones Act segment into the International Dry Bulk segment?

No. My question was more relating to potential acquisitions in the UOS segment, as to if you feel that there might be some opportunities there beyond the Dry Bulk segment, specifically the Handysize segment?

Right. Okay. I'm sorry. I didn't understand what you were getting at. The Jones Act dry bulk market that we are focusing on is a relatively mature market and as we have told you before, fundamentally, most of the businesses are done under longer term contract business with specific assets. We have a view that over time, we will have opportunities to grow that business, but it is a significantly different market dynamic to the International dry bulk market, which is a much larger and more diversified market, but be assured that we will concentrate on developing new business, new dry bulk business in the Jones Act marketplace.

Got you. Okay. And just turning to the PCTC fleet, can you talk a little bit more about the demand that you're seeing within car carriers market? I think you mentioned the last quarter that rates are trending or have been trending fairly stable, is that continue to be your view as we are moving to 2014?

That continues to be our view I think that overall worldwide, we are seeing a growth pattern in the requirement for the transportation of automobiles and rolling stock. Remember that we are for the international commercial market. We are fundamentally a tonnage provider to the operators of car carrier fleets. So that our business model is not necessarily impacted by the volumes being shipped quarter-to-quarter because we get paid the same amount regardless of the number of automobiles that we're carrying. However, when there is strengthening market trend in the demand for the transportation of automobiles, it provides a strong foundation for the continuation of our business model and we certainly see that will continue as we go into 2014.

Okay. And just turning into I believe the – some of vessels in that segment, they go through the end, the contracts go through the end of 2014. So, I'm assuming they're going to be – they're coming up for renewal – I'm sorry at the end of 2013. So, I'm assuming they're coming up for renewal in 2014, is that correct?

Well, what we – what Eric said in his remarks is that we really only have one ship in 2014 that was coming up for renewal.

Got you.

That ship has already been extended for a multiyear basis, that's a firm agreement to continue the deployment of that ship.

Got it. And...

Very good....

And just to add to that, I would tell you that for the next several years the vessels are all fully employed.

Got it. And what about bringing this Specialty Contracts segment? Any charters coming up for renewal next year?

We have, with our contract in Indonesia for a mining company. We periodically have discussions with them on renewals and we're in that process now. There is nothing to report at this point, but we do not foresee any problem with doing a further extension out on a multi-year basis and that contract, currently ends in the – at the end of 2014. So, we're already engaged in discussions to extend that out further.

Okay. Great. And now finally....

Mark, before you go, can I add to that, remember we've had that contract for a long period of time. So, that's a relationship that we've had for a significant amount of time and, as Erik said, there is no reason to believe that that will change in the future.

Right, right, right. Okay, good. And then finally, I think you mentioned the ice strengthened vessel resource were not as good as last year. What is the expectation there for next year? Is the expectation there to continue to employ this vessel under a spot in 2014 or do you have any other plans for that vessel?

If you remember – if we go back into the end of the third quarter in 2012, that ship -- the government elected to terminate that contract in September of 2012, and we then took that vessel and put it on business with our partners in the Oslo Bulk Segment, the Mini segment, and the results across the board on the bulk carriers were not what we would have liked them to be over the past year. But as Niels has said and I've said in my remarks that we see continued improvement in that segment, both minis and handys, and for 2014, while we can't give exact amounts if this continued sustainability is there, the results for that vessel along with the rest of the bulk carriers will be better.

Okay, great. Appreciate your time as always.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will take our next question from Doug Ruth with Lenox Financial Services.

Hi, good morning to you all. There was an article – am I on?

Hello. Okay.

There was an article in the paper that Mosaic is in the process of buying a fertilizer plant in Florida. Did you see that article?

Yes. We did.

Yeah. That sounds like it could be a good opportunity for the company, could you offer any commentary as far as what's happening?

Yes. Mosaic is a large customer of ours and we have had a relationship with them dating back many years. And we currently do business in both our UOS fleet as well as our other Jones Act, the business in the sulfur business. And so while it's way too early to discuss what we will or can do, there will certainly be discussions on their new acquisition and where we can play a role to assist them. And because of our long relationship, we've really developed a partnership in transportation that I think will redound to us in more business with them.

It just sounds like your relationship with them could expand, is that a fair statement?

Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, we would like to hope so, until we have those discussions and sign an agreement, we can't be absolute about, but we think there is opportunity growth for us with them.

Okay. Thank you for that. I have two more questions. Could you talk a little bit about the – some of the customers with the – are the automobile customers, are you maintaining relationships with them for the Pure Car Truck Carrier segment, specifically Honda, Toyota and Hyundai?

Our original agreements for our Pure Car Truck Carriers, which at the time were called simply Pure Car Carriers, were concluded in the mid 1980s. At that time, we entered into an agreement – one agreement with Toyota and one agreement with Honda.

Over the years that was original contracts had matured into a more diversified cargo base than we had originally, and we have done that intentionally because we created a structure where our vessels are on time charter to operators in the car carriers segments.

So, as I commented in response to an earlier question, our business model does not depend on the actual number of automobiles shipped as our vessels are on time charter. However, with the increasing demand for the transportation of automobiles worldwide, not only between Korea and the United States and Japan and United States but around the world, there is a sound fundamental to maintain the time charter demand for our business model. So, to answer your question we have a worldwide ongoing interface with operators in that segment, which has continued consistently from the middle 1980s until today. And we except will continue into the future.

I understand that. My final question is, just sort of from a philosophical standpoint, is the company's viewpoint that – looking out just a little bit, that the most opportunity remains in the Dry Bulk segment? I mean that's where you see maybe the best – most improvement in rates?

The simple answer to that question is no, because we've seen opportunity across all of our businesses. And remember that one of our fundamental strategies longstanding strategies is that we – on an ongoing basis are always looking for specialized niche market opportunities. So our activities in the dry bulk market, if you compare us with other dry bulk operators, you'll see that we're very targeted in our approach, and we're not a company that trades in the value of steel, of assets. We have a very good idea and we have a plan on how our equipment will be deployed on cargo activities, and we're not going to deviate from that approach.

Okay. Thank you for answering my questions. I am grateful that you folks are there.

Thanks.

Have a good day.

And at this time there are no other questions in queue. I'll turn it back over to Niels Johnsen for any closing remarks.

Thank you very much and thank you all again for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to answer your questions, and give you an overview of our activities for the quarter. We look forward to providing calls in this respect in the future and wish you all a good day. Thank you.

That concludes today's conference call. We appreciate your participation.