corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation’s


Shareholder Update Conference Call. Please be aware that today’s conference call is being


recorded and is now being broadcast at the company’s website, www.intship.com. We will conduct


a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time. A


replay of the conference will be accessible through the next week by dialing 1877-870-5176 for


U.S. callers, and 1858-384-5517 for those outside of the U.S. To access the replay, please enter


the pass code 4326637.


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO. Please go ahead,


sir.


Manuel G. Estrada, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International


Shipholding Corporation’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Call. I am Manny Estrada, the company’s Chief


Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik


L. Johnsen, our President. Niels will start the presentation today by providing a few introductory


remarks. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call


to briefly review our fourth quarter 2010 results and then we will all welcome your questions.


Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today which are not historical


facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


estimates or expectations expressed in those statements, and certain factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you


to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor Statement.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Neils. Neils?


Niels M. Johnsen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Manny. I’m pleased to welcome all of you to our quarterly earnings call. Before Erik


discusses our fourth quarter operations and Manny discusses our fourth quarter financial results, I


would like to make a few introductory comments.


As per our press release of yesterday, our Board approved the fourth quarter dividend of $0.375


per share. Having filed our $200 million shelf-offering statement, we continue to evaluate our capital


structure with an eye toward growing the Company by pursuing accretive opportunities that benefit


our shareholders. As we’ve told you before, we will not grow for the sake of growth but we will focus


on our longstanding strategy of identifying market niches requiring specialized vessels.


Given the continued uncertainty in the dry bulk market resulting from fluctuating cargo volumes and


overhang of new building vessels in a number of market segments, we will continue to carefully


manage our market risk. In addition, we will also continue to carefully monitor and control our


currency and interest rate risks employing various hedging strategies. With the changed landscape


in Washington, support for United States flag programs including the Maritime Security program


and capital construction fund remained strong. As always, we will work closely with the United


States Maritime Administration and the United States Department of Defense to ensure that these


programs continue in order to support the operation of vessels under United States flag.
corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Furthermore, most of you know that last month the existing tax law governing the treatment of


international source income was retroactively extended from January 01, 2010. We together with


many other companies within our industry and within other industries continue to support the


current tax law in this respect.


During this month, we issued press releases confirming the delivery of three new building


Handysize bulk carriers, which were delivered to us from a Korean shipyard. As you will hear in


Erik’s presentation, these vessels are now operating on their initial cargo voyages. I would like to


emphasize that a significant percentage of our quarterly revenue continues to be provided by our


fixed contract revenues, which in a volatile freight market produce stable and predictable operating


results. Manny will provide further comments on this in his presentation.


At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik, who will provide you with an overview of our operations


for the fourth quarter. Erik?


Erik L. Johnsen, President


Thank you, Neils. Good morning. This morning I will review the operations of our U.S. Flag and


International flag time charters, Contract of Affreightment, Rail Ferry service and investment in an


unconsolidated entities.


To begin, we’re pleased to report that 100% of our fleet operated as planned during the fourth


quarter. On the U.S. Flag, Jones Act vessels, the three military pre-positioned vessels continue to


operate under charter with Military Sealift Command during the rebidding process. We re-submitted


our final bid during the fourth quarter and we expect a response sometime before the end of March.


Until the bidding process is complete, we will continue to operate all three vessels under extension,


one of which runs through the first quarter of 2011 and the other two until middle May 2011.


All six of our U.S. Flag Pure Car Truck Carriers are now operating on the long-term charters with


the same Japanese shipping company. As opportunities arise, we buyback space on these vessels


to book supplemental cargos in order to maximize our revenues. Demand for supplemental cargo


space declined in the fourth quarter compared to early quarters in 2010, which lead to a decrease


in revenues. The U.S. flag self-discharging Coal Carrier, which operates on the U.S. East Coast


had a good quarter as it benefited from additional operating days during the period. Our molten


sulfur carrier, which transports cargo from Texas to Florida continues to operate soundly and


remain the primary carrier of molten sulfur in the U.S. Gulf.


On the International flag vessels, the operations of our five vessels that support a mining company


in Indonesia improved during the period, which we believe is a direct result of our continued efforts


in Southeast Asia to focus more on our customer businesses. Also of note, we purchased a small


chemical tanker during the quarter for just under $8 million to transport diesel oil in support of the


mining operation. This is a strategic decision for the company as the acquisition of this vessel


provides us with potential cost savings in the long run.


The Rail Ferry service, which runs between Mobile and Coatzacoalcos, Mexico performed better


than expected in the fourth quarter, both vessels underwent their five-year regulatory dry dockings


during the quarter without incident and within budget. This business unit will remain extremely


sensitive to vessel performance and cargo volume. We are encouraged by the cargo bookings thus


far in the first quarter and the number of enquiries our people are receiving today.


The Oslo Bulk Joint Venture with our Norwegian partners where we have 25% equity interest


continues on schedule. The first five vessels have been delivered and are currently on positioning


voyages to the Atlantic and Caribbean basin. We anticipate the delivery of the next five vessels