Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, McQuilling Holdings
Douglas Scott Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.
Daniel H. Reich — Principal, Banyan Global Investment Advisors
John C. Power — Consultant, Redwood MicroCap Fund Inc.
Kent E. Engelke — Chief Economic Strategist, Capitol Securities Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's fourth quarter and year-end 2015 results call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

On today's call, Niels will start the presentation by providing an overview of our current position and outlining our strategic direction. Erik will then go into more depth on operational performance in the quarter and on specific courses of action that we have chosen to take. I will return at the end of the call to review our current financial position and provide an update on our ongoing discussions with lenders. After that, we will gladly take your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny. And thank you all for joining us today. I welcome all of you to our fourth quarter and year-end 2015 earnings call.

Before Erik's Strategic plan update and ongoing operations report, and Manny's review of our discussions with our lenders and lessors and our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments.

The worldwide dry bulk cargo markets continue to be severely depressed. All market fundamentals are negative. There is a significant overhang of new building vessels to be delivered in 2016. All cargo projections for 2016 except for South American grain estimate low or negative demand growth projections. Younger vessels are being scrapped. Over recent months, there has been a constant stream of vessels of being placed in lay-up. Improvement in the depressed dry cargo market will only come with an improved vessel supply and demand balance.

Meantime, all indexes are at the lowest historical levels. These current dry cargo market conditions have pressured all listed dry cargo company shares to trade at severely depressed levels. And in some cases, in order to meet listing criteria, listed companies have initiated reverse stock splits.

In our case, even though we are a substantially different company, based on our diversified portfolio of niche businesses, our shares have traded down. And as we have already reported to you, we were notified by the New York Stock Exchange that we were not in compliance with the continued listing standards, because we have fallen below the continued listing standard requiring listed companies to maintain an average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading day period of at least $15 million. As a result, we are now trading on the OTCQX market.

When Erik provides his Strategic plan update, you will see that we have made significant progress in accomplishing the objectives out of our Strategic plan, are being faced with extraordinary market conditions. While we could not achieve asset disposition prices as we had initially projected, we have been able to significantly pay down outstanding debt. Despite the progress we have made with our Strategic plan, as you know, we were unable to pay our preferred stock dividends in January. But we are highly motivated to pay these dividends, while liquidity at this stage of our strategic plan and the conditions of our creditor agreements precluded payment.

We continue to work through our Strategic plan, which by its very nature, will evolve as we seek to maximize the value of our long-term contracts, strong customer relationships, and extensive industry experience. We still firmly believe that our longstanding strategy of focusing on niche market cargo-centric activities is our best path forward. We believe that the successful execution of our Strategic plan will make us a more focused company, with improved leverage and liquidity, positioning us to provide value for the benefit of our shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you. Good morning. I would like to echo Niels' comments that we are in the midst of unprecedented times that I have not seen in my 37-year business career. Our contract coverage in niche markets has helped us weather the storm to some degree, but none of us throughout the shipping community were immune from the poor state of the global transportation markets and the corporate stress it has created. Nevertheless, our dedicated team is managing our business on a day-to-day basis, while we execute a very aggressive strategic plan to eliminate the nonperforming segments of our business and delever the balance sheet.

Before turning to the strategic plan, I'll briefly outline the operating performance of our segments in the fourth quarter. Our overall gross profit for the fourth quarter was a positive $5.2 million after backing out noncash items and assets held for sale. Despite the continued weakness in the Jones Act and Dry Bulk segments. In each of our other segments, results were in line with expectations.

In the Jones Act segment, our gross profit was slightly better than breakeven in the fourth quarter, after taking a provision of about $2 million for disputed items with our customers. As I stated in our third quarter call, the successful execution of our Jones Act operations is predicated on the efficient deployment of vessels and our ability to limit [indiscernible] (07:44) by engaging in two-way service on a substantial portion of our voyages, which we are uniquely well-suited to carry out as the largest player in the Jones Act-Dry Bulk market. We continue to take actions across a number of fronts to improve our operations, unlock the inherent value of our Jones Act operations, and restore this segment to profitability.

Peter Johnston, our Executive Vice President, has mentioned in the last call, as stepped in to lead our Jones Act team and is spearheading efforts to maximize the value of our existing contracts by increasing the reliability, up time, and operational efficiency of those vessels. It does not happen overnight, but his team is making good progress. The UOS team is working on contracting additional tonnage for the business that will enable us to increase vessel utilization, voyage efficiency and overall results. In addition, we continue to explore extensions of our existing contracts with longstanding high-quality customers.

Turning to the company as a whole, we have made significant progress in implementing a strategic plan that will reshape ISH into a more focused, streamlined company, participating in the stable niche markets, where we are most established and have the strongest market positions. We have, over the span of the last four months, concluded 10 transactions; divesting of most of the non-core segment resulting in gross proceeds of just under $99 million; and allowing us to pay down debt by $90 million, representing about 42% of our debt from September 30, 2015. We fully realize we have more to complete our strategic objectives. We are in an unprecedented times and must remain flexible yet steadfast in our approach to accomplish our goal.

As we work through the various transactions in a deeply depressed market, it was important to remain flexible both in structuring and completing each and every one. For example, on several of the bulker, as well PCTC sales, we had a number of separate buyers fail on contracting terms after having signed the MOAs. That required us to remarket the vessels up to as many as three times on given vessels. We also successfully concluded a PIK, payment-in-kind transaction, wherein we exchanged shares in our many bulk partnership for 100% ownership of one of the vessels. That vessel is being placed on a long-term contract in our specialty sector at satisfactory levels.

We believe that we can create a stronger ISH that is more insulated from the volatility of the commodity market and more focused on niche maritime markets, where our success will be more determined by strong long-term customer relationships built on consistently high levels of customer service. Additionally, the successful execution of our strategic plan will provide us with liquidity, enable us to significantly delever the balance sheet, and reduce our cost base, and put us in a position to pursue a recapitalization of the company. At the same time, this plan also enables us to move forward in our current discussions with our lending group, where I will now ask Manny to provide an update.

Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I will now provide some detail on our financials for the quarter. For the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015, we reported a net loss of $167.8 million. The loss included noncash impairment losses and other impairment-related noncash entries of $157.1 million. This impairment was a result of write-offs of approximately $99.7 million on assets that were or are held for sale, as well as write-downs on some of our Jones Act assets held for use of approximately $33.1 million.

In addition, we wrote-off approximately $22.1 million of intangible assets related to our UOS service, which is part of our Jones Act segment. Excluding these noncash items, our net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2015, was $10.7 million compared to the 2014 fourth quarter results of a net loss of $10 million, after excluding noncash items.

Revenues decreased to $58 million from $71 million in the same period in 2014. Jones Act segment revenues decreased $6.9 million due to lower rates and volumes, while the PCTC operating segment reported a decrease of $4 million primarily from having one less vessel after the sale of that vessel as part of our strategic plan.

Our gross voyage profit was approximately $5.2 million after backing out the impairment charge related to mini bulk investment. This compared to a $13.7 million gross voyage profit in the 2014 fourth quarter. Excluding the non-cash charge, the total drop of approximately $14 million, the Dry Bulk operating segment, which we have successfully completed divesting, was responsible for $5.3 million. The Jones Act operating segment reported a drop in gross voyage results of approximately $9.1 million. For the full year of 2015, gross voyage margin in the Jones Act segment was 1%, while we experienced a 21% margin in 2014.

As Erik reported, the successful execution of our Jones Act business and the acceptable gross voyage margins are to a large degree driven by limiting non-revenue ballast legs. The 2015 fourth quarter results reflect an unacceptable amount of ballast legs driven by contractual requirements. So far, in 2016, we have begun to experience improved fleet reliability and operational efficiency, with the target to achieve in 2016 an approximate 20% gross voyage margin.

The gross voyage profit results of our PCTC and Specialty segment, both driven by contracted business, were at comparable levels to the results generated in 2014. The Rail-Ferry segment reported an increase of approximately $1.1 million, primarily from lower operating cost. Administrative and general expenses were approximately $2.3 million higher year-over-year driven primarily by professional services related to the various financing-related activities. These were partially offset by lower wages and benefits from a reduction in corporate staffing.

With the unusually high A&G expenditures in this fourth quarter, the full year 2015 overhead is approximately $22.8 million. As we have previously communicated and as part of fully executing a strategic plan, we are committed to reducing our overhead to an annual run rate of $16 million by the fourth quarter of 2016 which further reductions beyond that target.

We reported a net interest expense of $4.8 million for the three-month period ended December 31, 2015. This was an increase of $2.7 million from the 2014 fourth quarter. The increase was driven by the write-off of deferred charges in the accrual of liability representing the unpaid coupon premium on our preferred stock. Excluding these two items, net interest expense for the 2015 fourth quarter was approximately $2.6 million.

At September 30, 2015, prior to the adaption of the company's strategic plan, the company reported a $200 million working capital deficiency, which included current debt of $211.4 million. At December 31, 2015, the company had a negative working capital of approximately $111 million, which includes the outstanding debt of $158.6 million. The improved leverage and working capital reflect the strategic plan transactions executed in the fourth quarter, as well as additional estimated proceeds from assets held for sale of $51.8 million.

Since the beginning of 2015, we have successfully further reduced our debt from the $158.6 million to $123.4 million. At the full execution of the strategic plan, we initially had targeted a debt level of $85 million to $80 million, which we have revised to a range of $100 million to $110 million. The increased debt target is the direct result of exchanging our shares in a mini bulker venture for 100% ownership; and a 2008-built mini bulker, which has been placed on a long-term contract supporting-our Indonesian business.

Since the inception of the strategic plan, which was approved by our board on October 21, 2015, we have completed 10 transactions. All except one monetized asset values, generating gross proceeds of approximately $99 million. The one noncash transaction added the 2008-built mini bulker that has been placed under contract through 2021 at attractive returns.

We have reduced our debt profile from $214 million on September 30, 2015, to approximately $123 million as of today. The $91 million reduction was achieved from the gross proceeds generated from the strategic plan execution.

During these challenging times when a number of shipping companies are receiving loan forbearance or standstill periods to meet their obligations, we had made all of our regularly scheduled principal lease and interest payments to all of our lenders. We have maintained total transparency with our lenders and maintained open line of communications with each of them.

On February 9, 2016, we were notified by our senior facility syndicate that due to missing a deadline to sell the rail repair yard business, which we expect will be achieved, and following the low required loan asset value levels, we were in technical default of that loan. While not waiving their rights, the facility has communicated to the company that they will not accelerate their debt service nor cease assets, and they will continue to support the company in its effort to execute strategic plan and recapitalize.

Lastly, the non-cash impairment losses and intangible write-offs recognized in the 2015 fourth quarter are a product of reducing assets held for sale to current market values and a reevaluation of the assets servicing our Jones Act segment as result of recent flat results in that segment. As a result of this write-off, the company's net worth is reported as $86.3 million as of 2015 year-end. Backing up the preferred stock and adding back other comprehensive losses, net worth would reflect a value of approximately $42 million. While underlying asset values could further deteriorate, we believe that at this time, this is a fair representation of the underlying equity in the company.

This ends our prepared remarks, and we would be happy to take your questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Mark Suarez with McQuilling Holdings.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my questions, yeah.

Good morning, Mark.

Good morning.

Maybe we can start with the Jones Act for a second. I know you mentioned, I reckon, on your prepared remarks that you may be looking to secure additional tonnage, if you will. I'm wondering how those thoughts are going. And you also mentioned the extension of contracts, and I'm wondering if you can give us an update on that.

Yeah. Mark, good morning. We are doing a number of different things within the Jones Act group. We've also seen because of the depressed market and we have assets available that we have had a number of inquiries to move spot cargos. That is what Pete Johnson's group is looking at. We have had an opportunity to move a few spot cargos.

The longer-term contracts is a more protracted environment. Obviously, we're not trying to secure business at depressed rates on a long-term basis, but we're covering ship days and potential lay-ups because there are some adjustments on our contract tonnages going forward.

So, I would say, those things are ongoing, but the encouraging thing is we're getting a lot of inquiries, and we are seeing certain spot cargos that we've been able to carry. We've done one board, for example, out to the Middle East on a grain cargo, a PL-480 cargo. We've also moved some cargos on the East Coast that we haven't moved before. So, those things are positive. Obviously, we'd like to see the rates get up.

Got you. Okay. And just to get a sense of how volume – if you look at volumes so far in the first quarter, I'm wondering if you could maybe talk about that. How do you see that trending? And are you seeing improvements in how to use that capacity utilization? And have you seen those operational efficiencies that you discussed last quarter beginning to improve as we go through the first quarter?

Yeah. You've got a number of questions within a question. So, let me see if I can address that. First, weather conditions always, in January, are a big question mark. And we've all felt these fronts coming across the country. So, we've had some volume issues, mainly, I think, related to weather. We've had some of the coal tonnages down, because the weathers in Florida has not been as cold as anticipated. So, that's always a moving target at this time of year, so we've seen that. The other side of this is making sure our fleet is properly aligned with the cargos that we do have. And as I said in the earlier comment, we are doing that, and we're addressing that.

Okay. And then finally on the strategic plan, I know you paid down a significant amount of debt. I'm wondering if you could maybe take us through what's the next stage to get you to the $100 million to $110 million guidance you provided going through June of this year, and how are those talks evolving, and how are they going? And I'm wondering if you get to that level of debt, if you will, if you have a sort of an estimate of the pro forma EBITDA once you have completely divested and executed that plan.

Yeah. I'll answer part of that, and then I'll let Manny answer the last part. I think in terms of strategic plan, we are very focused on getting our debt down and delevering the balance sheet. We are in the process of having a number of different discussions with various parties. We think, as Manny said, in his prepared remarks on the rail repair facility that, that will get accomplished in the next 30 to 45 days. I think there'll be several other transactions that we'll be able to conclude. And we are positive in our belief that we will get those transactions done and our debt level down to the projected levels that Manny mentioned in his prepared remark.

As to EBITDA, I'll let Manny handle that.

Mark, as you noticed, we didn't provide any guidance in 2016 for EBITDA. We did so, because the execution of the strategic plan is dynamic. And not only executing within the strategic plan, but we're also evaluating potential transactions outside that strategic plan, should they arise. So, it's tough to get a handle on a number, which is why we didn't provide the guidance. Having said that, we're comfortable in the $30 million to $40 million range of EBITDA. And that will be driven by exactly what core businesses we have, once the strategic plan is completed.

Got you. Okay. Well, listen, guys, I appreciate your time as always.

Thank you, Mark.

Thank you, Mark.

And we'll go next to Doug Ruth with Lenox Financial Services.

Am I here?

Yes. Yes. Good morning, Doug.

Good morning, Doug.

Okay. Thank you. I want to tell you that I think you're doing an excellent job under very difficult circumstances, and I think you deserve a lot of credit for what you're doing. I think the transparency is really amazing, and you've been honest with the shareholders. And I think you're doing the best that you can for us during these challenging times.

Appreciate it, Doug.

Thank you.

Thank you.

A little bit more about the Jones Act. You had talked about the 20% gross margin. Is that sort of a run rate throughout the year, or how should we think about that number?

Doug, this is Manny. That's a margin that we will achieve during the year. I'd be honest by telling you, we're not at the 20% margin in this quarter. But it has improved significantly from the fourth quarter. So, that's our target run rate so to speak for 2016. It's a number that we believe it's achievable. As Erik I think responded to the first question, think we have rightsized the fleet, and we continue as a result to improve margins by really moving two-way cargos.

And then, the number of non-operating days then should be down year-over-year?

Yeah. And Doug, this is Erik. I think the answer to that is yes. But as you rationalize the fleet, you may take vessels out of service and hold them for future business. So, while we don't like the idea of laying up vessels, we're also not going to run them at a dead loss. So, part of this is rationalized in that fleet for the cargos that are moving into 2016 but with the full understanding that as cargoes ramp up, we want to have the equipment available to do that. So, it's a fine line and a delicate balance that we've got to sort of meet here.

Okay. I appreciate that. You talked about it, some of the vessels needed to be repaired before you're going to be able to put them back in the services. Is that type of work have been done at this point?

Yes. We have one vessel that's laid up at this point. And she's due for dry dock. She remains in class, but you suspend the certificate at this point. And what happens is when you bring it back in service, you've got to go through regulatory dry docking. And the cost of that's somewhere in the $6 million range. So, you're not going to do that for one cargo. You've got to sit there and contract out, because you got to cover that cost. And it just doesn't make economic sense to do it unless you have sufficient cargo over the next year to be able to do that. So, again, fine line because you got to get them back in service and we intend to, but we're looking for something more than just a spot cargo.

Okay.

And Erik, maybe you could comment on the duration that the $6 million would be paid off over based upon your intervals between dry docking? Just to clarify that for them.

So, you're paying the cost at the time of the dry dock, but you're amortizing it in your financials over 2.5 years.

Right. Thank you.

And how are you doing with the supplemental cargo for the PCTC segment?

This is Niels. So, Doug, the projections for the completion of the first quarter of this year indicate that we're right on target to meet our plan. As you know, from our various statements, we normally are in the $6 million to $7 million range for that business during the course of the year. And looking at our current projections sort of the completion of the first quarter, we're right on track to achieve that target for the full year.

Well, that's encouraging. And then, it sounds like in a fact what you're going to do is you're going to have a fourth segment, maybe it's a small segment, but you're going to continue then in addition to the three core businesses, there's going to be somewhat of a specialty segment from what you're talking about now.

Yes. And as I said, we were in discussions with a number of parties, because our focus is clearly delever the balance sheet. So, based on those discussions and how that falls out, there will be a specialty segment. I can't really describe what's going to be in that at this point, but it will be a leg of the stool.

Okay. I just again want to congratulate you. The way you're working with the lenders and communicating with them, that gives me personally confidence about the future, and that the company can ultimately recover from this really challenging time. And I appreciate you answering for my questions.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, Doug,

Okay. Thank you. Doug.

We'll go next to Lori Fernicola with Banyan Global Investment Advisors.

Hey. It's Danny Reich at Banyan Global. I have two questions on clarity. You mentioned in your prepared statements about the conditions of the credit agreement precluded payment on the preferred dividend. Any clarity on what those conditions are? And now, we're finding out on this call, I believe, for the first time, that you're in technical default without any acceleration. That sounds a little opaque. Can you comment on that?

Yeah. If I understood your question, really you're looking for clarity as to what prevented us from making the preferred dividend payment, correct?

That's one. And number two, this is the first we're hearing about a technical default. I don't see anything in the press releases. So, there are negotiations going on with the lenders that are not clear to the equity holders for that matter. Can you comment on that?

Yeah. So, we were unable to pay the preferred, first and foremost, because we did have liquidity issues at the time, first and foremost. Number two, the agreements that we had with our lenders required that we have a certain amount of liquidity and had paid down debt to a certain level. Those were not met by January 30. Subsequently, there have been...

What were those levels? I mean, that's what we're looking for. I'm looking for clarity.

Well, it's individual debt levels that we have not disclosed at this point in time, because they're confidential to each one of the lenders.

Right, but at this point in the company, the confidentiality is somewhat moot. There's a question that the equity holders have as to whether or not it survives as an ongoing entity. And without clarity into those agreements, it leaves for a lot of speculation.

Okay.

And you're not meeting the targets. I mean, I understand what you're saying, I understand the complexity of the business. But without clarity on them, I don't know when I'm getting paid.

Yeah.

And I need a comment. I need some sort of clarity on that, where you can obfuscate the confidentiality of all those agreements in some discernible way where your payments are going up to what, 13.5%? There's no way you can make those payments. Am I wrong?

No. There is a way that we can make the payments. I mean, as we continue to execute the plan, as we continue to divest the assets, as our Jones Act segment results improve, and as we get that liquidity in here, we do project to have the wherewithal to be able to do so. Now, a lot of moving parts left to hit. There's no ifs and buts about that. But it's clearly, as Niels said in his prepared remarks, we're certainly motivated and have a target to pay off the preferred and become current under-preferred.

And what's your drop-dead date on that before you have to go into receivership?

I don't know if there's a direct answer to that. The next preferred dividend payment, as you know, is April 30. We're working to be in a position to meet that payment. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to do so. In terms of when we were going to receivership, that's certainly not the path that we're following. We're doing everything we can to sell and dispose of the noncore assets and be a viable company for the long run.

No. I understand the objective. That's not my question. My question is more related to what you mentioned as technical default. If you can't cure the technical default, how are you going to pay the preferred dividend? So, can you disclose when the technical default will be cured?

Yeah. So, we can be specific on that. The technical default really dealt with three issues. The first issue was that under the agreement that we have reached with the lenders, the rail repair yard facility had to be sold by the beginning of February, I believe. That, we have met. So, technically, just by that sale not taking place, we were in technical default. And as I said, if...

Okay. So, once you sell the rail yard, you're at a technical default, correct?

On that one particular piece. The second item that was raised was based on the lenders' most recent appraisal of the underlying assets collateralizing the loan. The loan-to-value threshold was not being met. So, the way to cure that is to pay down the debt, and we certainly, as part of our strategic plan, when we look out to it, we will certainly meet those levels and be within the loan-to-value.

[indiscernible] (39:33)

By March 31.

So, by March 31, you expect to have your LTV in compliance with the covenants?

Hey, listen. At this time, we're working – as you can appreciate, when you're dealing with a number of parties to conclude and execute transactions within a timeframe, a lot of what happens is beyond your control. So, what we can tell you as of this time, that's our target. Can it move? Sure, it can move. Is it something that we still believe we can execute, whether it's March 31, April 15, April 30? Yes.

Okay. And the second question. I mean, if we can get more clarity from the lenders, because it really is very muddy, that will be very appreciated. And I think that if you would convey that to them, that's an important point, because lenders, particularly Regions, is in trouble. And we don't know how much they're going to be forced to accelerate their acceptance of any kind of further technical default. So, I have concerns, and my company has concerns about that.

The second question I have for you is on the gross proceeds of $99 million that you reported, what was the last 2014 mark on those assets? In other words, how much of a markdown did you have to take from the reported value? And then the second part to that question is do you think that, that's indicative of future sales?

So, at December 31, in the assets held for sale number that we reported, those reflected writing down to fair market value, values that we believe would be held at the time of the transaction whenever those transactions took place, which most of them had taken place in the first quarter. So, the writedowns were down to fair market values and indications of potential sales price.

Yeah. And I would tell you that the main drop in price value was on the bulkers, that we had four that's sold or out of that business now. So, you never can predict where you're going to end up on a transaction price, but I would tell you that those are the significant areas where the value has just plummeted.

No. I understand that. I'm just trying to get an overall generic sense of how big the market has become. Because, I don't know if it's in your last call or in one of your statements, you had instituted a plan in October, November timeframe. And by the time you executed in December, we were in a different market...

Yeah. You just...

...so I'm just trying to get a grip on how bad the market is and whether or not it's a fair assessment of the marketability value of the vessel.

Yeah. I would say, just as in terms of the market, the vessels we sold between $10 million and $12 million of fees. Today, we've seen prices on that same age vessel in which you would think is in reasonable good condition in the $7 million to $8 million range. So, the market has further deteriorated another 30% to 35%.

But the good news is for us on the bulker side, we're out of it. But I would tell you, the people that remained in it on, if you look at just normal, say, leverage of 60% to 65%, I would tell you the operating deficiency is probably $1.5 million to $2 million a year. And then you add on your principal interest payments, you're probably looking at a $4 million ship negative.

Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah? [indiscernible] (44:07) there. I lost them again.

Hello? Hello?

I think his line disconnected. We'll go next to John Power with Redwood Fund.

Good morning, gentlemen. And I would second Doug's comments from earlier about everything you guys are doing, so we do appreciate that. Just to further clarify the technical default, so you'd referenced, there were three items, and you started to kind of walk through those, and then I don't think we're able to finish. So, just how much is the dollar amount of the difference between the collateral value, and where you need to be on that loan facility?

Yeah. This is Erik. The dollar amount is about $7 million, which once we do the transaction with the rail repair facility that get you almost down in line. So, as I said, we're still shooting for sometime in March to conclude that deal. So, we think we'll be able to take care of both of those deficiencies within March. And then the third item was really a misunderstanding between the lending groups and their consultant, and what is considered a vessel in-class or out of class. And that was the laid-up vessel I had talked about in my earlier comments. And that vessel is in-class, but you suspend class when you are in lay-up. So, that technicality has been cleared up, and we're okay on that one.

Okay. Very good. And one other, in prepared remarks, you referenced the potential recapitalization of the company. And it was a little, if you could add some color. It sounds like you have some desires to raise additional capital beyond your strategic plan right now. Is that the situation?

Yeah. This is Erik. And Manny and I'll try to take that question. I think there's a few things. One, when you get in a stressed position with your existing lenders, we are obviously paying down more debt than what the original loan amounts call for. And I think as we get down to a certain level here, it makes sense in a smaller group to look at really what our total loan outstanding amounts are and see if we can do a better job of consolidating those and putting them together instead of having as many as nine facilities. And we're trying to do that in terms of maybe one or two. That may be an aggressive approach to it, but I think in the long haul with a smaller company, we've got to re-evaluate, and we are doing that, in where we go for the future.

Very good. Well, thank you, and good luck.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And we'll go next to Kent Engelke with Capitol Securities Management.

Hey. Thank you for taking my call. You've answered a lot of my question. I just have really a clarity here. You commented that the equity in the company asset preferred is $42 million. Did I hear that correctly? I was interrupted in the middle when you made that statement. Was that a correct statement, and when is that as of?

So, Kent, this is Manny. Yeah, that $42 million is a product of just a simple taking the net worth balance at December 31, backing out the net worth and adding back the other comprehensive losses or the net worth come down to a net of $42 million. So, that is what we are saying. As of December 31, it's fairly representative of the equity value in the company.

And as you commented earlier where you're already out in the bulker, so that's where your greatest decline in values in the shipping market is right now, if I heard you correctly. Is that correct?

Correct.

That's correct.

Then, second question. Again, I know you're not forecasting and the like, but if heard you correctly on a pro forma basis, based upon everything that you think will materialize, and again, I'm using the word, think in quotation mark and in italics...

Right.

It'd be around $30 million to $40 million on the EBITDA basis.

That's correct, Kent. And it's such a wide range, because again, the fluidity of executing the plan, when it's going to be fully executed.

Okay. Hey, I appreciate your comments. Thank you.

All right, Kent. Thank you.

And that does conclude our question-and-answer session. I'll turn it back to Niels Johnsen for any closing remarks.

Again, I'd like to thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to communicate with you. As we've said before, we're committed to providing you with an ongoing dialogue, as we'd work through our plan, and we will continue to keep you closely advised. Thank you, and have a good day.

And that does conclude today's conference call. We appreciate your participation.