Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President & Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call. Please be aware that today's conference call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, CFO. Please go ahead sir.

Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's fourth quarter 2011 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO, and Erik L. Johnsen, our President. Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the quarter and insights on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our fourth quarter 2011 results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And, certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels.

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome all of you to our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings call. Before Erik discusses our operational highlights and strategies and before Manny reviews our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments.

During our earlier earnings calls, we commented on the many challenges facing our industry. The world's shipping markets have always been cyclical and volatile. However, analysts have opined that in recent times we have entered a period of trendless volatility. Whether we are dealing with a new era of increased volatility or historical cyclical trends, our longstanding business model of identifying niche water transportation requirements continues to be a strategy which allows us to reliably create value for our shareholders.

At the same time, it is important for us to maintain a portfolio of cargo contracts within our identified niches, not only as a hedge against market uncertainty but also to provide a foundation from which to take advantage of profitable spot-market transactions.

We must continue to be opportunistic because, given the conditions in the world financial markets, being able to respond to accretive opportunities is in the best interest of our shareholders.

Sometime ago, we recommended to our board the reinstatement of our dividend policy, and our board approved the reinstatement. We then had a number of quarters when we were able to reward our shareholders with robust dividends, given our strong quarterly operating results.

Even though calendar year 2012 will be a difficult year for the shipping markets, our book of business and our future portfolio of cargos will allow us to maintain a dividend policy. However, our board has determined that it will be prudent for us to reduce our dividend target for 2012 to $1.00 per share. At a time when other companies in our industry have suspended paying dividends altogether, a $1.00 dividend is still a substantial dividend.

Also, as you all know, most of the other listed companies in our industry have experienced a significant reduction in their stock price, which is clearly a reaction to the fact that they have not been able to produce the predictable results that our business model has created for our shareholders.

As I have said before, we will continue to follow our business model in order to sustain our dividend policy and create value for our shareholders. At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik, who will provide you with an overview of our operations for the quarter. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning. I would like to take a few minutes now to review some of our recent operational highlights.

During the fourth quarter, all of our vessels that operate on fixe, medium-to-long-term charter contracts continue to perform as planned. During the quarter, we purchased and took delivery of a 2000-built ice-strengthened vessel to service a new contract with the Military Sealift Command for transporting supplies both to Antarctica and the Arctic.

The vessel renamed Green Wave was retrofitted for the contract in Mobile, Alabama and delivered to the Military Sealift Command on the West Coast of the United States in December. The contract is for initial one year period with options for an additional three years and 11 months. We expect to generate gross revenues of approximately $10 million from the time charter over the initial one-year period and a total of approximately $50 million, if all the options are exercised.

As for all our other Military Sealift Command operations, we were recently informed that we did not win the rebidding process for the three preposition contracts that we had been operating. Unlike the Green Wave, we did not own these three vessels, so they will be redelivered back to the Military Sealift Command during February of this year.

Onto our Indonesian operations, the labor strikes at our customer's mine site were settled in December and conditions are slowly returning to normal. While this is certainly a positive for our customer, due to the nature of the long-term contracts these ships operate on, it is important to note that we were unaffected by the events. Furthermore, because of the type of cargos we carry, a slowdown or halting of production at the mine does not directly affect our operations.

Cargo volumes for our Rail Ferry Service remained strong during the fourth quarter and provided a solid contribution to our overall results. We are pleased with the performance of this segment over the past few years and believe this investment will continue to pay off. While we did not provide guidance for the Rail Ferry Service, based on trends in this segment, we anticipate 2012 results to be comparable to 2011.

Our Capesize vessel continues under long-term charter well above the current Baltic Index, while our three Handysize Bulkers, which operate on short-to-medium term charters in the spot market under a revenue-sharing agreement with a European partner, continue to outperform the Dry Bulk Index as well. Although it remains a challenging environment for the dry bulk industry, our team is working diligently to generate solid returns. All 10 of our Mini-Bulk Carriers that are part of a joint venture are currently operating in the Americas and/or Southeast Asia. While these smaller-size niche vessels are not yet operating at target rates, the long-term outlook for this asset class remains positive.

Unlike the larger vessels in the dry bulk industry where the order books remain large and demand is weak, the underlying fundamentals for these ships are much more attractive and fit well into our strategy of identifying niches and niche areas in shipping that are overlooked and require specialized vessels to meet our customer needs.

Now, I will turn the call over to Manny to review financial and operating results. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I'd like to provide some details on our financials for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011. Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2011 increased by approximately 7% year-over-year. This is owing to an increase from our Capesize vessel which we acquired 100% ownership in the first quarter of 2011, the three Handysize vessels that also began operations in the first quarter of 2011, and an increase in volume from our Rail Ferry segment. These increases were partially offset by the decline in revenues from our supplemental cargos and the roll-on/roll-off vessels operated for the Military Sealift Command.

Gross Voyage Profit and operating income numbers were $10.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively, in line with our 2010 results. We generated approximately $40.2 million of revenues from our fixed contracts in the fourth quarter, representing 65% of our total revenues compared to $42.2 million for the same period in 2010.

During this quarter, our variable revenues were $21.6 million, which were derived primarily from our supplemental cargo, the three Handysize vessels and the Rail Ferry segment.

Now, I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross profit results broken down for each of our reporting segments. Gross profit from our U.S. Flag Time Charter segment decreased by approximately $3.5 million. This was primarily the result of lower supplemental cargos, fewer operating days under three railroads operated for the Military Sealift Command, and higher operating costs for our Pure Car Truck Carriers.

Our International Flag Time Charters reported higher results from the comparable fourth quarter 2010, as a result of the employment of the three Handysize vessels and our Capesize vessels both under contract, both performed as expected.

Our Contract of Affreightment and Rail Ferry segments reported higher gross profits as a result of increased tonnage carried during the quarter. Our other segment, which consists primarily of our brokered services, improved slightly from the 2010 fourth quarter results.

During the three-month period ending December 31, 2011, the exchange rate of the yen to the U.S. dollar did not materially change, ending the year at a rate of ¥76.9 to $1.00 U.S. dollar. Therefore, there was no significant impact to our earnings in the quarter from our exposure to the yen. The results from our unconsolidated entities were lower by approximately $5.5 million, as a result of our Capesize vessel now being accounted for as part of our International Flag Time Charter segment.

Additionally, the 2010 fourth quarter results in that segment benefited from a non-recurring $3.9 million reversal of an income tax provisions. As of December 31, 2011, our working capital was approximately $19.3 million. Although this reflects an improvement of $11.9 million from September 30, 2011, we did draw a $9.5 million from our line of credit during the quarter, all of which has been repaid in January. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash was approximately $30.3 million at year's end.

During January, our $8.9 million of restricted cash was used to reduce the balance of the yen- denominated loan, reducing the exposure to a U.S. dollar equivalent of approximately $52 million on that loan facility. Finally, the company's board of directors authorized payment of a $0.375 dividend for each share of common stock owned as of the record date February 16, 2012 and payable on March 1, 2012. We remained committed to providing a return to our shareholders in the form of a dividend on a quarterly basis. And, while all future payments remain subject to the discretion of our company's board of directors, we expect to meet our stated annual target of $1.00 per share.

That ends our prepared remarks and now we'd like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Snyder with Sidoti.

Hey, guys. Do you – how much was the supplemental cargo revenue this quarter? And do you think that that level will maintain, or do you think it's going to increase or decrease?

Yeah, Chris, we don't disclose the gross revenue on that cargo. But, the results in the quarter were what we expected – that's slightly higher than our normal levels have been historically. So, while we expect a good amount of supplemental cargo, the fourth quarter levels are probably slightly higher than historical levels have been.

Okay, thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And, we'll go back to Chris Snyder with a follow up.

So, what was the main driver in the year-over-year revenue increase because the first three quarters in 2011, you know revenue was down year-over-year, now you have a nice little increase – what was driving that?

You mean a decrease year-over-year?

Well, for the fourth quarter.

Yeah. Well, our supplemental cargo dropped some, but we did have increases in our Rail Ferry segment. We had increases in our Contract of Affreightment segment. And also, our Handysize vessels reported a little bit better results in the fourth quarter.

Okay.

And Mr. Snyder, did you have anything further?

Well, when – I mean I can't remember from the top of my head – but when does your first pure car and truck carrier come off contract? So you have any coming off in the next couple of years?

We have one ship that comes off in the middle of 2014 and one ship that comes off later in the year. When you say coming off, we're talking about the expiration of firm charter periods...

Yeah.

All of the charters have optional periods, which historically the charters have – charterers – have exercised and extended.

Yeah, yeah, yeah...

I'm just talking about the actual firm periods now because they all have optional periods that exceed...

Yeah, yeah, I was talking about the firm period.

Right.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

[Operator Instructions] And, there appear to be no further questions at this time. I'll turn it back to Niels Johnsen for closing remarks.

Thank you very much. And thank you all again for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to communicate with our shareholders. We want you to understand that we're always available to answer your questions and to clarify our activities. We also intend to continue these earnings calls going forward because it gives us the opportunity to be in contact with you.

Thank you very much for joining us and good bye.

Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the International Shipholding Corporation's conference call for today. We do appreciate your participation. You may now disconnect.