Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, International Shipholding Corp.
Andrew P. Casella — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Please be aware that today's conference call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I would like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's first quarter 2014 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO, and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing introductory comments and then Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return, at the end of the call, to review our first quarter results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome you all to our first quarter 2014 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I'll make a few introductory remarks. In the first quarter of 2014, we maintained our strategy of operating a diversified fleet primarily on medium to long-term contracts with high quality counterparties in niche maritime markets. This strategy has served us well over time and we expect to continue to benefit from our proven approach as we strive to continue to create long-term shareholder value.

We have recently taken a number of steps to address events that occurred during the first quarter, which we believe to be limited in both scope and duration. Having completed repairs and returned to service, our Jones Act vessel, which had suffered a machinery casualty and having decided to transition our international dry bulk vessels onto short to medium term time charters as they complete their current voyages.

We believe that our results in those segments should return to levels more in line with our earlier expectations. The fundamentals of ISH's business remain strong and the steps we are currently taking combined with our significant revenues from fixed contracts position us for improvement through the second quarter and the remainder of the year.

During the first quarter, we continued facing extreme volatility in the Capesize dry bulk market. The Capesize daily spot index started the quarter at about $35,000 per day and ended the quarter at about $9,000 per day. The daily average for the quarter was $15,850. This average rate as below the daily rate we arranged for our Capesize vessels employment for this entire year and validates our strategic approach of arranging employment producing predictable results in a volatile market segment.

The other main Dry Bulk segments, Panamax, Supramax and Handysize, characteristically have significantly less volatility from the Capesize segment, although all segments ended the quarter at daily rates lower than the beginning of the quarter.

As we have previously reported, asset values have increased significantly. During the last year, asset values for 10-year old second-hand Handysize, Supramax, Panamax and Capesize vessels have appreciated by as much as 40%. These increased asset values occurred even though the daily time charter rates at the end of the first quarter were lower.

Also, new building valuations have increased and are in line with new building valuations last seen three years ago. We still maintain the view that the fundamentals of the Handysize Bulk Carrier market are positive given the fact that the fleet aging profile is well balanced against the existing new building order book.

Our robust contract coverage combined with the success we have had in recent quarters bolstering our strategic and financial flexibility puts us in a strong position to evaluate a wide range of potential accretive growth opportunities. In pursuing growth, we will remain disciplined and continue to pursue acquisitions across diverse maritime segments.

By constantly managing our exposure to different niche markets and appraising the various opportunities that exist for fleet growth, we believe that we can continue to maximize long-term value creation.

Finally, before I turn the call over to Erik, I can report that our board of directors yesterday declared a $0.25 dividend, in line with our $1 per share target of the full year 2014. The first quarter dividend represents our 23rd consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008. In that time, we have returned a cumulative $8.25 to our common shareholders.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels. Good morning, everyone. As you all know from our press releases and Niels' introductory remarks, the challenges that we faced in the first quarter were effectively in three discrete areas. I would like to provide you with some additional color on those issues and on steps that we have taken in order to address them as well as to help you put our first quarter results into a larger context of our ongoing operations moving forward.

First, within the United Ocean Service portion of our Jones Act fleet, we experienced 21 days of off-hire related to unusual severity of this year's winter storms in the United States. Additionally, one of our Jones Act vessels suffered a machinery causality that resulted in 25 days of off-hire while it was repaired. As we have completed repairs on that vessel and returned it to service, we expect our Jones Act results for the rest of the year to return to levels that we have previously expected.

Second, demand in our supplementary cargo business was lower than expected during the first quarter. While we expected supplemental cargos to remain challenging in the second quarter, we believe that demand will recover in the second half of the year bringing up supplemental cargo results for that period of the year closer to levels that we would typically expect to see. That being said, while we expect supplemental cargo demand to improve, we do have the ability to quickly manage our exposure to this space if these assumptions were to change.

We have always used the U.S. flag PCTC in supplemental cargo business as a niche business that we choose to participate and only to the extent that doing so is ruminative. While by this very nature volumes in the business are lumpy, if we felt that the lower demand that we are currently seeing was to establish – was establishing itself as a longer-term trend, we have the ability to reflag those vessels capturing substantially cost savings while continuing to service their primary contracts with no disruption. We will continue to monitor the supply demand balance in this space and we'll make adjustments at such time as doing so would be prudent and would create value.

And third, as many of you are likely aware, the dry bulk rate environment continues to be depressed. At the beginning of the year, rates appeared to be establishing a positive trend that was widely believed would continue. As such, we operate much of our dry bulk fleet in the spot market in order to maximize our exposure to improving rates and to capitalize on upside that this variable business provides us.

As rates deteriorated, however, much of our international dry bulk fleet was exposed to that deterioration. In retrospect, our earlier decision to fix our Capesize vessel to a charter for the duration of 2014 at rates in the mid to high teens was clearly the right move. The performance of that vessel allowed us to capture above market rates for much of the quarter and to realize a year-over-year improvement in that segment despite the effect of lower rates on the other vessels.

Given this rate environment and in line with our strategic focus on generating stable cash flows and avoiding excess volatility, we expect to transition additional dry bulk vessels on to medium term time charters. Throughout our dry bulk fleet, we are always looking for opportunities to lock in acceptable rates and to provide stability and forward visibility where possible. We feel that such opportunities currently exist and as such we look to act on them in the near term as our vessels complete their current voyages.

Over the years, we have been successful in establishing a level of strategic and financial flexibility that enables us to provide, to respond quickly and effectively to changing market conditions. In line with this, we are actively evaluating a wide range of opportunities that exist throughout the maritime market. And we continue to believe that there are acquisitions to be made that will be appropriate for our strategic – for our strategy of operating primarily on medium to long-term contracts with strong counterparties and also accretive to our shareholders.

In addition to this, as the market evolves over time, we maintain an ongoing dialogue on any measures that we can take in order to optimize our business. Because of this, we have been able to quickly and prudently manage the flagging of our vessels, the nature and duration of our charters, and our exposure to various trends, segments and geographies.

We believe that the steps that we have taken in this quarter have strengthened our business and that with our strategic flexibility and substantial contracted revenue stream, we are well positioned to continue generating significant EBITDA. We will continue to seize these opportunities as they arise, maximize the profitability of our business and adapting to the ever-changing conditions in the maritime markets.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for his review of our financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some details on our financials. For the first quarter ended March 31, 2014, we reported results in line with the preliminary guidance that we offered in early April. For the quarter, we reported a net loss of $3.2 million compared to a net loss of $1.5 million in 2013 after excluding a $3.2 million non-operating gain on our yen-denominated loan.

For the first quarter of 2014, revenues decreased to $72.7 million compared to $81.1 million in the previous year. Gross voyage profit, which represents the results from our six operating segments, was $9.9 million, which compares to $11.3 million in the 2013 quarter. This year-over-year decrease is primarily attributable to the issues that Niels and Erik have just discussed.

We generated approximately $54.9 million of revenue during the first quarter from our fixed contracts as compared to $56 million for the 2013 period. This represents 76% of our total revenues. The other 24% was derived from our variable revenues consisting of supplemental cargos, our Handysize and Supramax vessels and the Rail Ferry segment. As we have said in the past, our strategic preference is to generate approximately 60% to 70% of our revenues from fixed contracts. This mix ensures that we have a firm foundation of stable cash flow that supports the dividend, but also enables us to participate in upside potential.

I will now briefly review our first quarter 2014 gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit decreased to $4.2 million from $6.3 million in the prior year period due primarily to increased non-operating days on our UOS operations.

The Pure Car Truck Carrier segment declined by $1.8 million, primarily due to lower supplemental cargo volumes that were experienced in the previous year's quarter. Our Dry Bulk segment results improved by $2.7 million, primarily as a result of our decision to fix our Capesize Bulk Carrier to a time charter through the end of 2014 at a daily rate in the mid to high-teens.

The Rail Ferry segment results decreased by $0.7 million as a result of lower volumes on its northbound voyages.

The Specialty Contracts segment improved by $0.5 million, primarily due to the increased operating days where our ice-strengthened vessel in 2014 relative to the 2013 quarter when it experienced [indiscernible] (15:39) days following its redelivery from a government contract. Our other segment, which consists primarily of our charting brokerage and agency services, was down slightly and somewhat lower brokerage revenues than we experienced in the first quarter of 2013.

Administrative and general expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2014 were approximately $146,000 higher than the 2013 period as a result of higher legal and professional fees. Interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2014 was slightly lower than the comparable 2013 period as we made scheduled debt payments in the 2014 period.

In the 2013 period, we reported a $3.2 million non-cash gain under company's yen-denominated loan facility. At the end of last year, we mitigated our exposure to the yen by entering into forward currency contracts for the full amount of our yen facility.

As of March 31, 2014 working capital was approximately $4.7 million, a decrease of $11.8 million from the previous quarter. This decrease is attributable primarily to our minority investment in a joint venture to own two chemical tankers and a yard payment for the Handysize vessel that is scheduled to deliver in 2015. One of the chemical tanker vessels delivered on April 9 while the second vessel is expected to deliver at the end of the second quarter.

Our cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $11.4 million with an available line of credit of approximately $25.5 million. Our total debt obligations at March 31, 2014 were approximately $194 million and EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2014 was approximately $55.7 million.

The company's board of directors has approved dividend payments of $2.375 and $2.25 on our Series A and Series B preferred stock respectively as well as the $0.25 dividend payable on June 3, 2014 for each common share owned on the record date of May 16, 2014.

While common stock dividend declarations are subject to the approval of our board of directors, we may remain committed to paying a regular dividend to our common shareholders. Backed by our significant contracted revenue stream, our common stock dividend target for 2014 remains $1, which is consistent with the level that we have taken in recent years.

As a result of the factors which we have discussed today, we have adjusted our expected EBITDA for the fiscal year 2014 to the range of $60 million to $64 million. Additionally, we reaffirm our estimate that our cash outlays for capital expenditures including drydock costs will be in the range of $13 million to $16 million.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question today from Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess, Manny, if you could just help us understand the next nine months how you kind of see the progression of EBITDA. It still sounds like there's going to be some weakness in the second quarter. If you could just guide us directionally how we should expect the next nine months to shake out on guidance wise.

Well, certainly, you're going to see an improvement from where we were in the first quarter. That's going to be driven primarily by the improved – the projected improvement in the UOS segment. How much, Andrew, we don't give out that EBITDA by quarter. But if you look at the fact that UOS probably contributed about $2.5 million to $3 million of the impact in the quarter, we certainly expect to recover that in that second quarter. The rest will be a slight improvement on the Handysize vessels for where we were at the end of the first quarter. So those two will be the drivers in the second quarter from the first quarter.

Got it. And when we – if you could just remind us on the supplemental cargos, can you kind of quantify the contribution for this month and how much below the usual quarterly run rate you're running at?

Yeah, Andrew, we don't – again, we don't disclose by quarter on the supplemental cargo. We have disclosed that our normal levels are between $7 million to $8 million a year is what we expect. And I believe Erik, in his comments, indicated that we expect to be at a normalized run level starting in the third quarter.

But just generally speaking, was there no contribution or just a slight contribution? Just trying to quantify how much was missing from the quarter that should return kind of in the second half.

There was a slight contribution in the first quarter.

Got it. That's helpful. And then also in your guidance, can you kind of help us understand how you guys are looking at the bulk rate environment, what you're implicitly assuming in your Handysize rates in that $60 million to $64 million number relative to where spot rates are today?

So the first quarter, if you take today's market rate for the handys, you're probably about where we were in the – for the first quarter. For the ongoing quarters, again, if we could predict the market perfectly, we wouldn't be sitting here. But I think the second quarter will be a good bit higher than the current rate based on some voyage charters and time charters that we put in place. To what degree it'll be for the full year, we still think there's a trend up. So we're being a little bit cautious where we're fixing where we can at acceptable rates, but we're not going out to what I'd say year out. The rates just had dipped to the point where that doesn't make sense.

Got it. And...

I think just to elaborate on what Erik said is that, we could go out a year, but our view is that as we progress through the year, as we get closer to the end of the year, we're likely to see some continued improvement so that we're positioning ourselves as we've said in our remarks with short to medium term time charters rather than going out longer, which we could do.

Okay. That makes senses. And then just my final question before I get back in the queue. Any update on the Tampa Electric contract, and in the guidance, if you're assuming if that's successfully rebid?

The Tampa Electric Company [indiscernible] (23:54) last week and the process which was supposed to be completed within the month of April, they've delayed it for any announcement until sometime next week. So it's another six days, seven days to 10 days before they make any determination.

Okay. Thanks. I'll get back in the queue.

And next, we'll hear from Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Mark.

Just to and maybe follow-up on your thoughts during comments on the guidance from $60 million to $64 million, are you – should we assume that the goal here is to fixed most of the remaining dry bulk fleet in the short-term to medium-term contracts? Could that be a fair assumption behind that guidance? What's the – I know you're very disciplined to sort of time to market when to fix and when not to fix, but what sort of the assumption going forward in terms of fixing those contracts?

Yeah, yeah.

Yeah. Let me talk about the contracts and then Manny may be able to add to that. If you look at today, the market rate, the index is at $7,600 a day. It doesn't make sense to set charters at those levels. If we see that we can achieve low-double digits, we're probably going to take advantage of that and what we'd say in this marketplaces are acceptable levels and we're looking for that.

And we think that for the second quarter, we have an opportunity to be close to that, but we're not going to be anyway fixing things out for more than say four months to six months. The fourth quarter, we still believe that we're going to see some upside and so we're managing through this unfortunate depressed situation.

Yeah. And Mark...

So just to be clear – just to maybe, so you have basically you have an opportunity to fix them short to medium or short-term contracts in the second quarter and then maybe reopen it in the fourth for a reassessment, would that be a fair assessment?

That's fair.

Okay. And on the – just to maybe you talked about the chemical tanker they're now being delivered one of them by the end of the second quarter. How long are these vessels employed for? I know it's a minority investment, but...

Well, Mark, just to be clear, one was delivered on April 9, the second one is expected to be delivered...

Yeah.

...by the end of the second quarter. The contribution in this year is not material enough to impact the EBITDA guidance that we've given in one way or the other.

Got you. And on the Handysize new build, maybe you can refresh my memory, but is there a charter contract attached to that vessel already or are you looking to employ these vessel as it is being delivered?

That vessel is going to be employed in our existing revenue sharing agreement for Handysize vessels.

Okay. And then on – yeah.

And Mark expected for delivery second quarter sometime next year.

Great. And just turning to the balance sheet for a quick second, I know you have the credit line, you have some room there plus the cash that's about, if I do the math right, $37.5 million in dry powder, and [indiscernible] (27:41) you need to do more acquisitions and it sounds to me like you're looking for target. Do you feel the need to maybe raise some capital in the medium term? And which sort of form of funding do you prefer if you were to choose one over the next 12 months to 18 months?

Mark, you did the math right; that's the dry power that we have on the balance sheet. As we have given guidance and spoken to our shareholders, any need to go into the capital markets to raise cash would be done so when they are an accretive opportunity. So when we feel the time is right and if it returns value to the investor, then we'll access the markets.

Okay. I'll go back into the queue, guys. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Next, we'll move to Katja Jancic with Sidoti & Company.

Hi, guys. Thank you for taking my call.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Could you provide some information on what the costs associated with the machinery casualty was?

Fleet wide we have an insurance policy and the casualty was fully covered by insurance. But obviously when you don't have operating days, you're losing your revenue from your customer. That was machinery casualty that's happened on unfortunately other vessels in the fleet over my history. And the repair was done properly. The ship's back in service and should perform without incident going forward.

Now, did this happen because of the age of the vessel, is this something that could be a concern going forward with the UOS fleet?

No. And I think that's a good question, but this is not an age issue. This is an issue that as I said has happened on other ships, has happened on younger ships, it's happened on ships that are older. So I would not say that it's anything for concern going forward. It is a crank case issue that happened. The vessel's out of service. It had to be properly machined to put it in proper alignment and vessel's back in service without incident.

Okay. Thank you. That's all from me.

Okay. Thank you.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Niels Johnsen, I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

I want to thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunities that we take to communicate with our shareholders on this occasion and we look forward to providing you with further updates in the future. Thank you very much and have a good day.

Once again that does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.