Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation by providing introductory comments and then Erik will provide an operational overview of the quarter. I will return at the end of the call to review our first quarter financial results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I am pleased to welcome you all to our first quarter 2015 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory remarks. International Shipholding is a diversified operator participating in a range of niche market segments. The continuing depression in international Capesize, Panamax, Handymax and Handysize dry bulk markets has exerted a downward pressure on certain aspects of our business, most notably in the performance of our spot-traded Handysize bulk carriers.

In this environment, we have seen developing indications of a rational reaction for market participants, including the formation of commercial alliances, the laying up of vessels, conversions of new building bulk carriers into tankers, and vessel scrapping well above last year's levels. While these steps are being taken to control the growth of the world's dry bulk fleet, it's important to keep this in perspective and to acknowledge that these steps will only bear fruit if we see improved, sustained cargo demand, enabling the dry bulk market to ultimately regain equilibrium.

While this dry bulk market downturn has been particularly pronounced, shipping is inherently cyclical. The current situation underscores the important benefits of our differentiated strategy which enables us to weather such downturns, while positioning ourselves for growth where opportunities resulting from the market downturn exist. We maintain some participation in short-term vessel employments, but our fundamental chartering strategy is focused on medium- to long-term contracts, locking in predictable and stable cash flows that are insulated from the sharp swings of the spot market. Similarly, we maintain long-lasting relationships with high-quality customers, limiting our credit risk and putting us in a good position to compete for new business.

Finally, by maintaining the strategic flexibility to diversify our deployment of capital across niche market segments, we are able to limit our exposure to the extremes of volatility that may impact a particular market or vessel type. It is because of this commitment to diversification and active management that we've moved to market our three Handysize vessels and a laid-up Jones Act tug-barge unit for sale. We have since completed the sale of one of these Handysize vessels and maintained a disciplined approach to evaluating offers for the remaining vessels.

Our strategy enables us to consider a wide range of capital allocation opportunities and to either move rapidly to seize an attractive opportunity or to exercise patience when doing so is the most prudent course of action. This way, we are pursuing a strategy that has served us well throughout the history of our company and that we believe maximizes long-term value for our shareholders.

Finally, before turning the call over to Erik, our Board of Directors has declared a $0.05 dividend for the first quarter. This dividend represents our 27th consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008. Since that time, we have returned a cumulative $9 per share to our common shareholders.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik.

Thank you, Niels, and good morning, everyone. This morning, I will provide you with an update on our operations in each of our segments. Throughout the first quarter, our diverse fleet has continued to operate well as we took action to adapt to the changing market to increase our vessel efficiency and to position ourselves to pursue additional business.

As Niels mentioned, the international dry bulk market has remained significantly depressed. With that in mind, I will take a moment here to provide more detail on both our Handysize vessels and our overall exposure to the market.

Having completed the sale of one of our Handysize vessels, we continue to market the remaining two vessels for sale. In the absence of terms we feel to be appropriately reflective of the value of these vessels, we will remain disciplined and continue to operate the vessels in the international market.

I want to make it clear, however, that even with our Dry Bulk segment, our direct exposure to this difficult market environment is limited.

Our Capesize vessel continues to earn attractive rates on a fixed contract lasting through early 2016 and our other dry bulk vessels, particularly our Oslo Bulk mini bulkers continue to perform well in their niche market environments.

Turning to the Jones Act, our results for the quarter were negatively impacted by a vessel bottom contact damage which resulted in 33 out of service days. While we have insurance coverage that offsets the direct cost of the event, our capacity was reduced during the repair period resulting in lower gross profit.

As we move into the second quarter, our belt self-discharging bulk carrier will be redeployed from the Atlantic Coast into the Gulf of Mexico, where it will remain for an average of 250 days per year. Having done that, we will now be able to more efficiently service our existing contracts while freeing up additional capacity for us to put to use on new business which our sales group is actively pursuing.

During our last quarterly call, we advised you that we had a firm MOA in place to sell our laid-up tug-barge unit. Subsequently, the buyer failed to finalize the contract and the units are currently being re-circulated in the market. We have seen renewed interest in the purchasing of the vessel with a number of inspections already arranged for potential buyers.

In our PCTC fleet, demand for supplemental cargoes experienced a recovery in the first quarter, trending back towards historical levels. This trend has continued into the second quarter and our US Flag PCTC fleet is well positioned to benefit from this recovery.

The Rail-Ferry segment performed in line with our expectations as the resolution of the trade dispute in the sugar industry, which we discussed last quarter, enabled northbound volumes to improve over the course of the quarter.

In the Specialty segment, all the vessels performed as expected in the quarter. We continued to benefit from our minority interest in the chemical and asphalt tankers, as well as our vessel servicing the Indonesian mining operations, which performed well during the quarter. As a central part of our strategy, we continuously seek to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our operations, to identify opportunities to expand existing customer relationships, and to position ourselves to benefit over the long term.

By remaining flexible and adaptive, while serving our customers well and emphasizing the stability of medium and long-term contract, we believe that we can maximize value for the shareholders in this cycle and the next.

With that, I will turn the call over to Manny to discuss the financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some detail on our financials. For the first quarter ended March 31, 2015, we reported a net loss of $4.5 million, compared to a net loss of $3.2 million in the 2014 period. The results for this quarter include a $2.8 million interest rate derivative loss associated with the refinancing to US dollars of our outstanding Yen based facility. Excluding the derivative loss, our net loss for the three-month period was $1.7 million.

For the first quarter of 2015, revenues decreased to $68 million compared to $72.7 million in the same period of the previous year. Our gross voyage profit, which represents the result of our six reporting segments, was $11.5 million for quarter, up from $10 million in the 2014 quarter.

Operating loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $0.2 million compared to an operating loss of $2.3 million in the first quarter last year. We generated approximately $51 million of revenue during the first quarter from our fixed contracts as compared to $55 million for the 2014 period. This represents 75% of our total revenues, with the other 25% derived from our variable revenues consisting of supplemental cargoes, our Handysize vessels, and the Rail-Ferry segment.

I will now briefly review our year-over-year first quarter gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit decreased to $2.2 million from $4.2 million in the prior year period. This decrease is due primarily to an increase in non-operating days, in our United Ocean Services fleet, as one of the Jones Act bulk carriers experienced grounding while servicing a major customer.

While our insurance coverage offset some of the voyage margins and the vessel has since been successfully repaired, segment results were negatively impacted by deductibles and lost opportunity.

The Pure Car Truck Carrier segment increased by $1.7 million to $4.1 million as the demand for supplement of cargoes in the quarter trended upwards towards its historical level. Our Dry Bulk segment results declined by $0.3 million in the first quarter compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by the continuing depressed rate environment in the Handysize market, partially offset by the performance of our investment in a fleet of mini bulkers.

The Rail-Ferry segment decreased by $0.4 million as a result of lower northbound volumes, prior to the resolution of the trade dispute in the sugar industry.

The Specialty segment's gross voyage profit increased by $2.4 million, primarily driven by the minority investments that we made in late 2014 in ventures owning chemical and asphalt tankers, as well as a one-time benefit of $1.4 million from the final settlement with the US government on the early redelivery of our ice-strengthened vessel in September 2012.

Our Other segment, which consists primarily of chartering brokerage and agency services, was essentially unchanged year-over-year at $0.4 million.

Administrative and general expenses in the first quarter 2015 were approximately $400,000 lower than in the 2014 period due to lower non-cash executive compensation. Interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was higher than the comparable 2014 period due to financing on a US Flag PCTC that we purchased from its lessor in the third quarter of 2014.

Total debt obligations were at lower level for the 2015 period ended March 31 than in the comparable 2014 period, primarily from paying off the debt service on the Handysize vessel sold in this quarter. As of March 31, 2015, working capital was approximately $6.1 million, a decrease of $3.3 million from the previous quarter, primarily from capital expenditures in the quarter.

Cash and cash equivalents were approximately $21.4 million, with an available borrowing capacity under a line of credit of approximately $1.4 million. Our total debt obligations at March 31, 2015 were approximately $226 million compared to approximately $243 million at March 31, 2015.

While EBITDA for the first quarter was approximately $12.1 million, we are maintaining our annual guidance in the $55 million to $63 million range. And finally, yesterday, our Board of Directors set a $0.05 common stock dividend target for the second quarter of this year.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go to Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Good morning, Niels, Erik and Manny. Thanks for taking my questions.

Good morning, Mark.

Maybe we can start with the supplemental cargo here. I know that this quarter versus last quarter, went back to its normal range of – in terms of gross profit contribution between $6 million and $8 million. Should we expect sort of a similar run rate through year-end here?

Mark, as we had on our prepared remarks, we did see an increase in demand in supplemental cargoes in the first quarter, and we're expecting that to continue throughout the year. But, I would hasten to comment that the overall trend of United States Flag impelled cargoes has been down for the current year compared to last year. But, because of our focus in specialized niche areas of that segment, we have been able to see an improvement in demand.

So, our feeling at this point is that the supplemental cargo levels will return to historical levels, which is a significant improvement over last year.

Got you. Okay. That's helpful. And now, maybe going back to our EBITDA for 2015, I know that remains unchanged. Is that, Manny, reflective of the potential sales of the three Handys within your Dry Bulk segment? Or how should we look at that?

No, Mark, the potential sale of the two remaining Handys...

Yes.

... will not have any impact on our EBITDA. I think if you recall, we wrote down those assets to what we considered to be market in the fourth quarter of last year. So we don't anticipate, certainly in our forward guidance, having an impact on EBITDA as a result of that.

The rationale for not making any adjustments to our EBITDA is, we believe that the results certainly in the second quarter involving UOS will be clear of the incident that we had in the first quarter. So the run rate for the first quarter is now representative of what we think we're going to get for the remaining three quarters.

Got it. Okay. And you touched on the Jones Act segment, I'm wondering if we can maybe talk about – I think, Erik, you mentioned in your prepared remarks, you're looking for additional business and I know you have some capacity there. And now, is that business most likely going to come from your two existing contracts, or are you looking outside of those two contracts? Would that make more sense at this point in the cycle? Any updates regarding those sales – or potential sales would be great.

Mark, first, when we moved the – and we made a conscious decision as we went through the renewal of the Tampa Electric contract to position the Energy Enterprise which is the self-discharging vessel off the East Coast to the Gulf. By doing that, we actually created somewhere between 1.5 million to 2.5 million tons of available capacity with the original UOS fleet that we purchased a couple of years ago.

And there are a few areas where we're going to get that somewhat organic growth within the existing customer base because we are seeing some increase in tonnages. Then, we also have quite a bit of US Flag requirements in the Gulf of Mexico that we have not touched, that is bid on almost a cargo by cargo base. And then we also are seeing some other dry bulk without mentioning customers' names that are looking for another home for transportation of their cargos. So, I think we have a good opportunity to put that extra capacity to bid.

Got it. And you think that this could be a second half event or is this more near-term, if you will?

Well, we're clearly working on finding cargos for that, but that's going to be something that we're going to work on and as we fill it, we'll tell everyone. But I can't predict the future.

Got you. Okay.

Mark, if I can just add on that. Our EBITDA guidance assumed some success in that area in the second half of the year. So, yes.

Okay. That's helpful.

And historically – and, Mark, historically, as Erik has commented, we have participated in cargoes outside of our basic contract business that we have in the Gulf.

Yes.

So, we have a track record of doing it. This is not a completely new territory for us.

Okay. Okay. Got it. And I guess, finally, you mentioned you sold a Handy. You have two more remaining Handys to be sold. How will you describe the second-hand buyers' market, given how weak the charter rates are? And maybe if you can compare that to the Jones Act tug-boat, I know that's for sale as well. How will you sort of describe the liquidity in that market? Any color on that will be very helpful.

Mark, I'll let Erik comment on the tug boat. But for the international market, as is well-publicized in many segments of the press, it is severely depressed, and the impact to that is that buyers are being very cautious about stepping up and making commitments because they have, in the back of their mind, if I do it today, it may be higher than what it is tomorrow in my acquisition strategy.

So, that tends to reduce liquidity, but we can still get it done. It's just more difficult than it may have been two or three years ago. There are people buying vessels because they feel the prices are at historically low levels, which is a correct assessment.

And then, it is actually a tug and barge unit, and the buyer and the contract we had was for specific conversion of the equipment and I believe, but I haven't got it confirmed, that the cost of conversion plus the acquisition cost was the problem with the final sale going through. So what we're dealing on – we have three to five people that have shown interest in both the tug and the barge and depending on the potential interest could be – just the tug boat could be the barge. We're willing to sell them as a unit or separately. And there's a good opportunity to sell, but we haven't got an offering yet and we just started to recirculate that but that would be a domestic sale for us.

Okay. Great. Well, I appreciate your time as always, guys. Thanks again.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And with no additional questions in the queue, I'd like to go ahead and turn the conference back over to Mr. Niels Johnsen. Please go ahead, sir.

Operator, thank you very much. Again, thank you all for joining our call today. As always, we appreciate the opportunity to update you on our activities and we look forward to providing you with similar input in the future. Have a good day. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And again, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you all, again, for your participation.