Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Andrew P. Casella — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

MANAGEMENT DISCU.S.SION SECTION

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Please be aware that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I would like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's second quarter 2014 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO and, Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing introductory comments and then Erik will provide an overview of the quarter. I will return, at the end of the call, to review our second quarter results and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome you to our second quarter 2014 earnings call. Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory remarks.

In the second quarter of 2014, we continued to follow our longstanding growth strategy of deploying our diversified fleet with high quality counterparties, primarily on medium to long term charters in niche maritime segments. This strategy continues to provide us with stable predictable cash flows and enables us to provide a sustainable dividend to our shareholders.

In the quarter, we strengthened our predictable cash flows by extending contracts, ensuring long-term employment for multiple vessels, while also insulating our capsize vessel from the volatile dry bulk spot market through at least the end of 2015.

We continue to focus on opportunities to expand our contracted revenue stream and to optimize our asset allocation in such a way that we maximize fleet utilization and minimize operating costs. Also, as evidenced by the equity investments that we have made in both chemical and asphalt tankers during the quarter, we are constantly engaged in evaluating opportunities to make accretive acquisitions that either strengthen our leadership position in our current market segments or that establish a position in other promising niche markets.

In the current challenging market, because of our diversification and successful track record, we routinely received proposals for niche market opportunities. While many of these proposals are not immediately accretive, given current market conditions, we are positioned to seize an accretive opportunity and we will continue to evaluate and identify ways for us to grow our fleet in such a way as creating long-term value for our shareholders.

Lastly, before turning the call over to Erik, our board of directors yesterday declared a $0.25 dividend maintaining a $1 per share target for the full-year 2014. This second quarter dividend represents our 24th consecutive dividend payment to common shareholders since we reinstituted our dividend policy in the fourth quarter of 2008. Since 2008, we have returned a cumulative $8.50 per share to our common shareholders.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels and good morning everyone. This morning I will provide you with an update on our operations as well as some additional color on the developments that Niels has just mentioned. Throughout the quarter, market conditions in certain of our segments continued to be quite challenging. That being said, we were able to take a number of steps that have strengthened our contracted revenue streams, increase the efficiency of our fleet deployment and increase our exposure to profitable new niches of maritime transportation.

Our business segments has done a good job this quarter, renewing and expanding our existing contracts to ensure that we have a solid contracted revenue stream, granting us the forward visibility and financial flexibility that enables us to successfully execute our strategy.

First, we completed a long-term extension to our existing contract with a large mining company in Indonesia for our Specialty Contracts segment. This contract allows us to maintain the full deployment of five to six vessels, delivering necessary supplies to their mine site.

Secondly, and in probably our most visible segment, the Jones Act, our team has been successful in continuing to build out our cargo base. We're pleased to have recently completed a multi-year extension, and more importantly, the restructured deployment of our self-unloading coal carrier for deliveries of coal to New England. Under this contract, we will be able to more efficiently deploy the vessel for discrete periods on the Atlantic Coast, while using it primarily in the Gulf of Mexico.

Our Jones Act team continues to demonstrate its ability to carry out ISH's mission of optimizing the deployment of our fleet. We are now able to utilize this vessel more effectively by putting it to use in multiple geographies, with multiple customers on different cargo contracts.

While we have not finalized the agreement, we are making good progress on long-term extension to our contract with Tampa Electric. Putting all of this into some context, we lift about 7 million to 8 million tons of Jones Act cargo per year. As we complete the process of renewing this cargo base and continue to optimize the efficiency of our vessel deployment strategy, we will now have vessel capacity available to aggressively pursue additional business.

Turning to the international dry bulk space, the environment continued to be very difficult throughout the quarter, particularly in our Handysize vessels. Despite this, we were able to secure an extension to our Capesize vessel's existing time charter contract, locking it up at a charter rate in the low 20s and insulating ourselves from the volatile Capesize spot market through the end of 2015.

We still believe that the international dry bulk market will recover. But we were also aware that the market-wide expectations was for the recovery to already be well underway. As we do on an ongoing basis as a central part of our strategy, we are paying close attention to this divergence from our previous expectations and are evaluating our exposure to that market. Should we ultimately determine that there is a better place than the Handysize dry bulk space for us to deploy our capital, we are strategically positioned and unafraid to do so.

Similarly, in our U.S. flag PCTC fleet, demand on supplemental cargos in the second quarter continued to be below the level that we have seen traditionally, which is in line with the guidance that we provided on the last quarter's call. We do expect to see some recovery in that space in the latter part of the year. At the same time, the U.S. flag PCTC business is a niche segment for us, and our PCTC team continues to evaluate the options that exists to better calibrate our fleet's disposition to expected demand levels moving forward, including by reflagging vessels to international flag.

Finally, our ship management team has continued to effectively manage our fleet's daily operating cost, recently renewing our fleet-wide haul insurance at attractive rates, as well as aggressively and continuously monitoring budgets without sacrificing the performance of the fleet.

In summary, we continue to evaluate our optimum level of exposure to a wide range of niche maritime segments, as well as the profitable and cost-effective ways for us to operate within those segments. We actively manage our fleet on an ongoing basis and our significant contracted revenue stream and balance sheet grant us the strategic and financial flexibility to adjust, in a variety of ways, to changing maritime transportation markets. We have made meaningful progress on this front during the second quarter and we are well positioned to continue to reduce daily operating cost and generate our projected EBITDA in the coming quarters.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for his review of our financials. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I would now like to provide some details on our financials. For the second quarter ended June 30, 2014, we reported a net loss of $664,000, compared to net income of $1.9 million, which included a non-operating gain of $1.8 million in the 2013 period.

For the second quarter 2014, revenues increased to $76.8 million, compared to $74.9 million in the same period of the previous year. While revenues increased, our gross margin dropped slightly as our gross voyage profit was $13.3 million, which was similar to our 2013 results. Operating income for the three months ending June 30, 2014 was $1.7 million, which compares favorably to $1.4 million in the second quarter last year.

We generated approximately $58.8 million of revenue during the second quarter from our fixed contracts as compared to $51 million for the 2013 period. This represents 76.6% of our total revenues. The other 23.4% was derived from our variable revenues consisting of supplemental cargos, our Handysize and Handymax vessels and the Rail Ferry segment.

While we target to generate approximately 60% to 70% of our revenues from fixed contracts, current levels are products of the challenging market facing our Handysize and Handymax vessels. With our strong fixed contract coverage, we ensure that we continue to generate stable cash flow to support a dividend and are able to participate in the upside as our variable revenues rebound.

I will now briefly review our year-over-year second quarter gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segments. For the quarter, our Jones Act segment gross voyage profit increased to $6 million from $5.5 million in the prior-year period. This is due primarily to increased gross revenues and accompanies United Ocean Services' fleet as those operations benefited from a higher number of operating days in the 2014 period.

The Pure Car/Truck Carrier segment declined by $2.3 million, primarily attributable to a drop in supplemental cargo volumes and an increase of 28 non-operating days to fulfill scheduled drydocks. Our Dry Bulk segment results improved by $1.3 million, primarily due to the fixture of our Capesize vessel and higher rates. The Rail Ferry segment, which continues to contribute steady results, increased slightly as a result of higher southbound volumes. The Specialty segment reported higher revenues, reflecting the results of the chartered-in/chartered-out multi-purpose heavy lift vessel that was not operating in the 2013 second quarter.

Our Other segment, which consist primarily of our chartering brokerage and agency service, was up $400,000 on higher chartering brokerage revenues and those experienced in the second quarter of 2013.

Administrative and general expenses incurred in the second quarter of 2014 were approximately $900,000 lower than in the 2013 period, as bonus levels were not earned in the 2013 second quarter period. No bonus levels were earned in this 2014 second quarter.

Interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2014 was slightly lower than the comparable 2013 period. Total debt obligations were at similar levels for the 2014 and 2013 period ended June 30. As you will recall, the company has hedged its exposure on a yen currency. As a result, we had no material impact from our outstanding yen debt facility.

As of June 30, 2014, working capital was approximately $10.9 million, an increase of $6.2 million from the previous quarter attributable primarily to our operating cash flow and a $10 million draw from our available line of credit. These were partially offset by the investment in the asphalt tankers joint venture and dividend payments.

Cash and cash equivalents were approximately $15.8 million, with an available capacity under our line of credit of approximately $15.5 million. Our total debt obligations at June 30, 2014 were approximately $200 million, and EBITDA for the running 12 months ending June 30, 2014 was approximately $71.4 million.

As we continue to actively manage our balance sheet, including our capital structure, we are pleased to report that we have reached an agreement with the lessor of our 2007-built U.S. flag PCTC , the Green Bay, to purchase this vessel in the third quarter. We have obtained permanent financing for this acquisition and concurrently refinanced one of our international flag PCTCs, the Green Dale, through which equity capital was provided. Taken together, these transactions add a 2007-built PCTC to our owned fleet, frees up $2 million of our previously restricted cash balance required under the Green Bay lease and will generate a non-cash gain of approximately $11 million in the third quarter.

Yesterday, the company's board of directors approved dividend payments of $2.375 and $2.25 on its Series A and Series B preferred stock, respectively, as well as a $0.25 dividend payable on September 4, 2014, for each common share owned as of the record date of August 15, 2014. While common stock dividends are subject to the approval of our board of directors, we remain committed to paying a regular dividend to our common shareholders.

Backed by our contracted revenue stream, our common stock dividend target for 2014 remains $1, which is consistent with the level we have paid in recent years.

As a result of the factors which we have discussed here today, we have reaffirmed our expected EBITDA for the fiscal year 2014 to be in the range to $60 million to $64 million. Additionally, we estimate that our cash outlays for capital expenditures, including drydock, will be in the range of $13 million to $16 million.

This ends our prepared remarks. We would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Mark Suarez from Euro Pacific Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

And thanks for taking my call here. Maybe we can just – if you can just maybe talk a little bit more about your recent investment on those two asphalt tankers. I'm wondering how you came across these assets. Are they chartered attach and why are they being employed and for how long, if you will?

Good morning, Mark. This is Erik. We have a long-standing relationship with the partners in Norway, and this was brought to us through that network. And we have done, as you know, other ventures in Norway through that partnership. As you remember, we had the cement business and we had the gas business back in the early 1990s. And that deal came to us through that group. We put it together, and those vessels now are committed on a long-term charter that should go seven to 10 years.

Boy, okay. That's good, okay. And is this consistent with your minority investment on those two chemical tankers, which I believe have already been delivered? And I'm just wondering should we expect more of these additional minority investments, or you see good growing opportunities, given your dry powder in your balance sheet? How should we think about this equity minority investment? Is this a new trend? And maybe you're thinking about doing over the long haul?

Yeah, Mark. We have always taken the position that we will have credit-worthy partners and ventures. And we've done that throughout the history of the company. And we will continue to do that as opportunities present themselves. And certainly, we're not opposed to managing our risk and sharing the risk with other partners.

Got you. Okay. And maybe we can turn to the Jones Act segment. I know you mentioned in the beginning of the call that it seems like you have the capacity now to potentially add more business. Do you feel this business can stem from your existing relationships or you feel that you will to go out there and build new accounts altogether?

Mark, we had existing relationships that require additional carrying capacity. So, to answer your question, it'll be a combination of expanding our existing relationships. But we do have a number of potential new customers that would be added to the portfolio. So it's a combination of both of those possibilities.

And do you feel you can add that business? Is this a 2014 event or would this be something in 2015 potentially?

There is some potential in the fourth quarter of 2014. But it will extend into the future.

Just to add on to that Mark, we have contract coverage currently on the ships through 2014 under the old contracts.

Okay.

So, as we transition to these new contracts we're renewing at this point, gives us more -- what do you call it? -- firepower going into 2015.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. And then, just turning on to your remarks on the Dry Bulk segment, also, we – I know you've extended the Cape now through Q1 2016, consistent with sort of that strategy of locking that vessel up. Should we read this as maybe you guys going into and thinking about locking in the Handies once the markets recover and then sort of getting rid of that variability? Or how should we read this? Do you think that you can maybe translate that strategy into the Handies once you see that recovering in the Dry Bulk segment?

This is Niels Johnsen. Just to remind you, previously, we advised that we were going to continue to watch for opportunities to fix the Handies on longer-term employment.

You're right.

As we speak today, we have not seen the opportunity that we think is warranted for locking up those ships on the long term. There is a, as Erik commented, and as you probably read in other publications or heard on other calls, there is a feeling that in the market that's reflected in the paper market as well, that the fourth quarter will show some improvement. And if we see an opportunity as we did on the Capesize during the balance of this year, you can expect us to move in to locking-in longer-term employment. That's part of our fundamental business strategy as you know. So, we – you'd definitely expect us to do that.

Right. And I guess that's been the – sort of the variability will just basically come from the supplemental cargo [indiscernible] (24:33).

And the rail.

And the rail carrier. Right. [indiscernible] (24:36). Okay. Okay, great. Thanks for your time and I'll get back in the queue, guys.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll now take our next question from Katja Jancic from Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. How are you doing?

Good morning, Katja.

Hi.

My question goes regarding the Handysizes. I know a while back you spoke that there would be a possibility of expanding in this market. Now, considering how the Handysizes are doing, is this still something you're looking potentially at? I would guess that the vessels right now would still be pretty cheap, or is that not the case?

We continue to – first of all, the fundamentals as we've told you before, if you look at the supply side of the four major bulk fleets, Capesize, Panamax, Supramax and Handysize, the fundamentals in the Handysize market are still positive on the supply side. There has been some uncertainty on the demand side and cargo generation that we've been concerned about but we expect that to correct itself in the fourth quarter. However, right now, there is a – in our view, there is a disconnect between the daily time charter values and the pricing of the vessels. The pricing of the vessels has not – has come down a little bit but has not come down to the level that we see in the spot market.

If you look at the indexes since the beginning of the year, the Handysize index started the year during the month of January at a time charter value of around $11,000 a day. And this week, the spot index is something just over $5,000 a day. So, there's been a very significant change there since the beginning of the year. However, the vessel valuations have held up. So, we're temporizing but we're watching carefully because we do expect the time charter rates to come back.

The paper market for Handysize is, as you probably know, is a pretty liquid market. But there is some trading that goes on there. And the Q4 – current Q4 paper market for this year is about $8,500 a day. So, there is a bias there that that's going to come back. And as that come back, we're going to be watching that for two reasons: Acquisitions, but also the opportunity to fix vessels on longer-term employment. I hope that gives you some feel for our strategy in that segment.

No, that's very helpful. I just have one more question. Manny, you mentioned that there's going to be an $11 million of non-cash gain in the third quarter. Is that correct?

That's correct. That's associated with us purchasing back the Green Bay, which we had leased out in 2012. It's a quirk, really, of the accounting associated with the time that we sold that vessel in 2012 and leased it back. When we sold it, we generated about a $14 million, $15 million cash-positive or a gain associated with that sale. Unfortunately, GAAP does not allow us to recognize it at that point. And so, it's been sitting as a deferred gain on our balance sheet since that time. When we buy it back, it frees up that gain that's been sitting in our balance sheet and allows us to recognize it into the income statement. So, that's a long answer to tell you, yes, it'll be about $11 million gain associated with that transaction in the third quarter.

And that's reflected in your guidance?

It is not reflected in my EBITDA guidance. No.

Okay. That's all. Thank you so much.

You're welcome.

We will now take our next question from Andrew Casella from Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I guess, first, if you could just give us a sense of timing, when we could hear from Tampa Electric and get an update on that contract? Or how you guys are feeling about that as far as – incrementally I think last quarter, you had expected something to come out around earnings. Just some color on that would be helpful.

Andrew, this is Erik. Good morning. Tampa Electric is a utility, and this is not specific to Tampa Electric. It's utilities move slowly. We are in discussions with them, in terms of finalizing an agreement. But until that agreement is finalized, we're not going to sit and give you 100%, but we are working with them and we are positive about where we're going with them. But we can't give you any finite determination on it. The existing contract does go until the end of the year, and we feel very comfortable that we're going to be in a position that the new renewed contract will be in place well before the end of the year.

Got it. Thank you. And then moving on to guidance and I guess kind of your outlook for the international dry bulk market. Obviously, with second quarter not being as fruitful on a day rate environment perspective as expected, how are you guys kind of thinking about your guidance for the rest of the year? And what kind of rates were you, I guess, originally you're assuming and potentially do you have to review those in light of, kind of, where the BDI is right now?

Yeah, Andrew, good morning. This is Manny. Right now, in our guidance, embedded in our guidance, we have the Handy market, I believe, in about the 9,500 range, 9,000 to 9,500. So, as Niels made the statement a little earlier, right now, the forward paper market seems to reflect that those numbers are in the ballpark. But certainly, as we move closer to the fourth quarter, we'll reevaluate and determine the impact on the guidance. It's roughly whatever it is for those three ships for those numbers of days. That will be the impact on EBITDA.

Got it. And then, I guess, just finally, I know you guys do have a stock buyback plan authorized. How are you guys kind of looking at the opportunity in the marketplace to pick up some shares? I know they're kind of around $20. Just some perspective on how you view deployment of capital for that purpose.

Well, you're right. We do have that program available to us. We have historically looked at that as an opportunity when we don't see any capital investment opportunities to grow the business. We are seeing and continue to see on a regular basis, opportunities brought our way. And as such right now, we're not geared to deploying the cash to buy back the stock.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. I'll get back in the queue.

Thanks, Andrew.

Thank you.

And this does conclude our Q&A session. I would now like to turn the call back to Niels Johnsen for any closing comments.

Thank you very much. Again, thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate the opportunity to speak to you each quarter, and we certainly intend to continue having these earnings conference calls each quarter going forward. So, thank you and have a good day.

This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.