Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President and Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Mark Suarez — Analyst, Euro Pacific Capital, Inc.
Douglas Scott Ruth — Analyst, Lenox Financial Services, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's third quarter 2015 preliminary results call. I'm Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

On today's call, Niels will start the presentation by providing an overview of our current position and outlining our strategic direction, and then Erik will go into more depth on operational performance in the quarter and on specific courses of action that we have chosen to take. I will return at the end of the call to review our current financial position and provide an update on our ongoing discussions with lenders. After that, we will gladly take your questions.

As stated in our press release issued at the yesterday's close, on this conference call, we will focus on our gross voyage profit results rather than full GAAP financials, as our ongoing discussions with our lending group preclude us from providing that information at this time. We intend to file our 10-Q on November 16 and to provide a full update to you on an additional conference call the following day.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I would like to begin today's call by giving you an update on where International Shipholding currently stands as well as the steps we are currently taking in order to materially improve both our results and our market valuation.

First of all, I want to point out that our gross voyage profit results, which is the best measure of our operating performance, improved or were flat on a year-over-year basis in all our segments except the Jones Act. While our gross voyage profit does demonstrate that most of our segments are performing largely as planned or even ahead of expectations, we are not satisfied with overall results that are down $2.2 million from their 2014 level, of which the recent performance of the Jones Act segment. We are taking decisive steps to improve our Jones Act segment's results, which Erik will discuss in more detail shortly.

Beyond the Jones Act segment, we outlined to our board in late October a strategic plan, which the board has approved to streamline the company around our core segments, the Jones Act, Rail-Ferry and Pure Car Truck Carriers. By ensuring that we are involved in only those niche markets where we have a strong competitive advantage, installation from commodity-driven spot market volatility, high barriers to entry and strong long-term relationships with high-quality customers, we believe that we'll be able to improve our results, focus our attention and resources on our core business and ultimately realize a greater equity valuation. We are actively pursuing our plan and intend to implement it in an expedient but orderly manner.

There is value in International Shipholding. And we are highly motivated at all levels of the organization to take the steps necessary to fully realize the adherent value of our long-term contracts, strong customer relationships, extensive industry experience and leading competitive positions in stable niche markets. Our current discussions with our lending group and our strategic plan are focused on putting us in a position to not only manage the current down cycle, but to thrive and to become a stronger, leaner and more valuable enterprise for the benefit of our common shareholders.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels. Good morning. Before turning to the strategic plan, I will briefly outline the operating performance of our segments in the third quarter.

As Niels mentioned, our overall gross voyage profits for the quarter was down $2.2 million from the prior-year period, driven by the weakness in the Jones Act segment. In each of our other segments, results were in line with our expectations. As improved supplemental cargo volumes drove increased earnings from our PCTCs, our mini-bulkers drove an improvement in our international dry bulk segment despite continued depression in the market.

The Rail-Ferry performance improved based on increased volumes. And our specialty segment saw year-over-year improvement related to increased efficiencies, the activation of a Heavy Lift vessel earlier in the year, and improved results from our minority investments in chemical and asphalt tankers.

In the Jones Act segment however, our results were negatively impacted by 131 non-operating days, which does not include the 92 days of lay-up experienced by a laid-up tug/barge unit. Beyond simply a reduction in revenue days, this reduction in operating days had a meaningful knock-on effect on the both total volumes carried and voyage efficiencies, as we experience an increased number of ballast days in order to service the logistical needs of our clients.

The successful execution of our Jones Act operations is predicated on the efficient deployment of vessels and our ability to limit ballast days by engaging in two-way services on a substantial portion of the voyages, which we are uniquely well-suited to carry out as the largest player in the Jones Act dry bulk market. We are taking action across a number of fronts to improve our operations, unlock the inherent value of our Jones Act operation and restore this segment to profitability.

First, our most Senior Operating Executive, Peter Johnston, has agreed to step in to lead our Jones Act team. While the majority of our contracts in the segment are contracted on multiyear basis, Peter will spearhead efforts to maximize the value of those contracts by increasing the reliability, up time and operational efficiencies of those vessels.

Second, the team will be highly focused on winning additional tonnage contracts for the business that will [ph] able (8:33) us to increase vessel utilization, voyage efficiencies and overall results. They will be targeting not only incremental business to be serviced by our existing Jones Act fleet but also a variety of possibilities for fleet growth through either the acquisition of existing vessels or newbuildings, either of which would be contingent upon long-term contract employment with high quality customers. These opportunities exist and we are determined to act on them in an expeditious manner.

Third, as we continue to adjust our deployment strategy to most efficiently service the needs of our customers, we have redeployed our vessel Energy Enterprise to the East Coast to service our contractual requirement for [ph] Northeastern United States utility (9:24) for the remainder of 2015. While it will take time to see the full effects of these efforts in our earnings, we are already seeing some encouraging preliminary indications from the fourth quarter.

Turning to the company as a whole, as Niels stated, we are moving forward with a strategic plan that will reshape ISH into a more focused, streamlined company, participating in a stable niche – in stable niche markets where we are most established and have the strongest market positions. Jones Act, Rail-Ferry and Pure Car Truck Carrier. This will, therefore, involve an orderly divestment of other non-core segments which we are actively pursuing.

Additionally, it is important for us to improve our liquidity, and therefore, we are in discussions to sell our PCTC Glovis Countess and the rail repair facility that we currently operate as a component of our Rail-Ferry segment. By implementing these strategic plans, we believe that we can create a stronger ISH that is more insulated from the volatility of commodity markets and more focused on niche maritime markets which – where our success will be more determined by strong long-term customer relationships built on consistently high level of customer service.

Additionally, the successful execution of our strategic plan will provide us with immediate liquidity, enable us to significantly de-lever our balance sheet, and reduce our cost base, and put us in a much stronger position to pursue accretive growth opportunities. And at the same time, this plan also enables us to move forward with our current discussion with our lending group, where I will ask Manny to provide an update. Manny?

Thank you, Erik, and good morning, everybody. As we announced in our press release yesterday, our preparation of full and complete financial statements for the third quarter of 2015 has been delayed while we hold talks with our lenders and lessors concerning liquidity issues and compliance with various financial covenants contained within our financing agreements.

Effective at the end of the third quarter of 2015, we entered into separate temporary waiver agreements with all nine of our principal lenders and lessors. Under these agreements, our lenders and lessors waived various financial covenant defaults through November 30, 2015 although two of the lenders provided waivers through November 4, 2015 with ongoing discussions for extensions on those two at least through November 30, 2015.

We are concluding discussions with all our lending institutions to allow us adequate time to execute our strategic plan by providing waivers and amendment to our covenants beyond November 30, 2015 through March 31, 2016.

Although we expect to obtain this relief by the time we finish our preparation of full and complete financial statements for the third quarter of 2015, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. If we fail to maintain such relief from all our lenders and lessors in the near-term, all of our debt would be required on the U.S. GAAP to be classified as current as of September 30, 2015 and we would no longer be in compliance with our financing agreements upon the lapse of the temporary waivers agreements currently in place.

In that situation, our failure to remain in compliance with our financing agreements would accelerate our debt and there would be substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern if any of our lenders or lessors were to demand immediate payment.

However, we have made significant progress towards obtaining the requested waivers and amendments and remain optimistic that agreements will soon be reached, granting us relief to at least 3/31/2016. It's important to note that we have serviced all of our debt, both principal and interest payments. As we announced on October 19, we elected not to make the preferred stock dividend payments of October 30 on both our Series A and Series B preferred stock.

Under the terms of the preferred, no common stock dividend may be declared or paid or set apart at all until all accrued and unpaid dividends on the preferred have been settled. Accordingly, any future common stock dividends will be prohibited until the preferred terms are met.

As mentioned earlier, executive management presented a strategic plan to our Board of Directors which our Board approved on October 21. The plan, once fully executed, will reduce our operating fleet and will result in three reporting segments, Jones Act, PCTC and Rail-Ferry.

If we are successful in fully executing the plan, the company's balance sheet will be significantly de-levered and we will be well within our existing financial covenants. By focusing on the three segments, Jones Act, PCTC and Rail-Ferry, we believe that we can move from a yield return to a value and growth company for all our shareholders.

With that, we would be happy to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Mark Suarez with Euro Pacific Capital.

Hello, guys. Thanks for taking my questions here. Maybe we can go back and talk about the financial covenants and the extensions here. Is the assumption here that you will need to monetize and pay off a portion of the debt, if you will, on – as you monetize the non-core assets to comply with your financial covenants and the remaining debt? Or would an improvement in the Jones Act as you operate the units more efficiently do it? In other words, would it be a combination of those two factors? Maybe if you can give us some more color as to how you can – assuming, of course, that the extension goes through March 31, 2016, how you intend to comply with the covenants?

Mark, this is Manny and good morning. Yes, the plan, as it calls for and as we executed, will divest the non-core assets that Erik explained in his remarks. In addition, the Glovis Countess, which is one of our PCTC, is also part of the disposition under our strategic plan.

So the non-core assets are both collateralizing debt and also excess value. Those that are collateralizing debt, the proceeds will, of course, go to pay down the underlying debt. Excess proceeds, under the agreements that we are in discussions with our lenders, to some degree, the excess proceeds of non-collateralized assets will be used to further pay down all of the lenders' and lessors' outstanding principal.

Okay. So it would have to be a function of – correct me if I'm wrong, it would have to be a function of monetizing these assets prior to the additional extension of the waivers for you to comply with your covenants. Is that correct? Is that a fair assessment? In other words, the unencumbered vessels, cash inflow, if you will, could be used to pay further down the debt.

Yeah, Mark. That's not entirely true. The discussions that we're having with the lenders, first and foremost, will provide waiver/amendments on all our outstanding debt through 3/31/2016. Part and parcel of granting those extensions is our strategic plan being executed, orderly liquidation or orderly divestiture of our assets between now and 3/31.

So the waivers and the discussions that we're having with our lenders right now will give us the time to execute the plan, but it's not based on executing anything prior to achieving those extensions.

Okay. And do you feel that you can, in fact, sell those assets rather quickly? In other words, if the extension is [ph] granted to (18:56) March 31, 2016 that between now and then that you could maybe monetize a big portion of those non-core assets?

Yes, Mark...

Go ahead, Manny.

Go ahead, Niels. [ph]

I said – (19:13) I was going to say to Mark that we feel it is a realistic expectation that we can monetize those assets that we have in the plan to be sold.

Okay. And then, on the PCTC, you just mentioned that's not collateral. Is that correct, or it is? I'm assuming it's not in an effort to increase your liquidity.

No. It is a collateralized asset. However, there is significant equity in the value of that asset.

Okay. And then I guess on that sort of [ph] seeing thought start here (19:50) assuming if you take all the non-core assets together, do you guys have an estimate as to how much cash inflow you would expect to receive between, let's say, now and in Q1 2016? And once you pay that debt, how much equity cash you would have left in an effort to either reduce the debt further or reinvest it into other financial activities?

Yeah, Mark. We rather not give out specific estimates at this point in time that's included in our plan. Perhaps that's something we can address after we release the 10-Q on the November 16. I will tell you that the company, after the execution of the plan, will be significantly de-levered from where we are today, somewhere in the range of $100 million to $150 million in debt with significant or adequate liquidity to allow us to not only continue to operate, but also provide us with some liquidity to take advantage of potential growth opportunities.

Okay, great. And then, I guess, the final questioning on the Jones – specifically on the Jones Act, I know you've had some increase in unscheduled or non-operating days, if you will; I'm wondering what is really driving this. I know that you talked about some volume weakness and some operational inefficiency. So I'm wondering if you can maybe touch on some of the specifics. Is the operational inefficiencies mostly based on the age of the fleet? Do you think there's more [ph] balance? (21:35) Is there more dry docking that you feel that is driving that? Or is it just a function of managing the fleet properly?

Yeah. Mark, part of the issue is, as I said in my comments, you have a knock-on effect. So when you have downtime on any part of the fleet, you have to substitute vessels in to meet your customers' logistics. So that certainly the knock-on effect is obviously, as you create situations where you are having to service A customer on a one-way voyage and coming back [ph] in Dallas (22:18), as opposed to a two-way roundtrip, which is more efficient for us. So that's part of the problem.

The cases where we've had some downtime is, I don't want to say that it's because the fleet is old, because I don't think that is a fair assessment of it, the ships are in good condition, but you do have mechanical problems from time-to-time and we had a generator that had a problem on one of the vessels. On our Energy Enterprise, we had a belt get damaged on the vessel, which created some downtime on her. And then we had an issue with the channel depth going into the terminals in Tampa, which also created a problem because we touched bottom and damaged one of the vessels earlier in the year. So when you start adding that up, the knock-on effect is we got to get out of that cycle and back into two-way train.

Got you. Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks, guys. Thanks for your time as always.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go to Doug Ruth with Lenox Financial Services.

Thank you for taking the call, and thank you for hosting the conference call today. Could you give us a little color as far as how you feel the interaction is with the bankers? What exactly is the relationship do you think there?

Hey, Doug. Good morning. This is Manny. We've always had very good relationship with our bankers. Having said that, clearly, we are in discussions with them now where they are requiring certain things from us outside of the existing loan agreements, which are steps that the company is taking in coming to agreement with the individual lenders. As a group, Doug, I would tell you that we are going to be in a position prior to the release of the 10-Q to be able to take a position that we would get the extensions through 3/31/2016.

So, I guess, the short answer is, we have good relationships. We've made significant progress. Everybody's on the same team in order to come to an agreement as to allow the company to execute the plan. That's the key. If we get the extension, when we get the extension through 3/31/2016, allowing us to execute the plan, we'll be fine.

Yeah. So, you feel like the bankers are generally pretty receptive to what you're telling them or...

Yeah.

...what you're assuring with them?

Yeah. I don't want to characterize it one way or the other. I think both sides agree that we want to find an agreement allowing the company the adequate time to be able to execute the plan.

Okay. At this point in time, is management eligible to buy stock? I mean, that would be such a huge deal for us. If you showed us that you bought stock, it would really be a lot easier for all of us to buy in to the plan.

I'll answer the eligibility. We are in a quiet period at this point in time, Doug. And we won't exit that quiet period until we file the 10-Q on November 16. Thereafter, there would be a 10-day additional quiet period in order for the individuals and the company to be able to take any actions surrounding the common stock.

All right. Is it fair to ask you folks to consider buying some stock after the 10-day period is up? It would really show us that you have confidence in what you're doing.

Doug, this is Niels Johnsen. I'd like to address that by emphasizing to you that the Johnsen family's focus is on the long-term viability of this company. We believe in it. We're already very significant shareholders, as you know. And our primary focus at this time is to create value, not only for the Johnsen family but for all the shareholders, and that's our primary focus. And if that involves the Johnsen family buying additional shares, then the Johnsen family will buy additional shares. But we're focused on the entire group of shareholders, not just the family.

Okay. Well that commentary really helps me. I believe in your plan. It makes sense to me, and I'm optimistic that you'll be able to work through the issues. And I'm grateful that you're taking the time and you're having this conference and telling us what's going on. So, I appreciate your commentary and we're looking forward to your next report.

Thanks, Doug.

Thank you.

Thank you, Doug.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, with no additional questions in the queue, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Niels M. Johnsen – I beg your pardon. One moment, please. And again, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Niels M. Johnsen for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you very much, and thank you all again for joining us today. We appreciate your interest in the company. We also appreciate the opportunity to review with you our strategic plan as we go forward. And we look forward to providing you with further comments after we issue the Q at the middle of this month. Thank you very much, and have a good day.

Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, once again, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you all again for your participation. You may now disconnect.