corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation’s


Shareholder Update Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded.


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Manuel Estrada, Chief Financial Officer.


Please go ahead, sir.


Manuel G. Estrada, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding’s first


quarterly conference call. I am Manuel Estrada, the company’s Chief Financial Officer. With me


today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO, and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.


Niels will start the presentation today by reviewing the key market trends. Erik will provide an


overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our first


quarter 2010 results, and then we will welcome your questions.


Before we begin, I would also like to point out that statements made today which are not historical


facts may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in our SEC filings. I direct you to


our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?


Niels M. Johnsen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Manny. I am delighted to welcome all of you to our first quarterly conference call, and


we look forward to hosting these presentations every quarter going forward. Before discussing our


corporate strategy and our ocean transportation segment, which focused primarily on the carriage


of dry cargo, we will provide some comments relating to current international ocean transportation


market dynamics as background to our discussion.


The dry bulk cargo market remains volatile. In particular, the Dry Bulk Cape-Size market vessels of


170,000 tons cargo capacity has fluctuated dramatically given the significant influence that iron ore


transportation demand has on this market segment. The major producers of iron ore have changed


their pricing practices. As a result of this change FOB iron ore prices increased from $60 per ton to


$115 per ton effective this quarter. If the past is prologue, we can expect continued volatility in


transportation pricing as a result of changing iron ore commodity logistics.


Compared to the Cape-Size market, the Panamax and Handy-Size markets fluctuated in a much


narrower range. For example, the Baltic Handy-Size index, which is an index average of certain


designated time-charter group with $17,524 per day on January 26, 2010, and yesterday was


$20,438 per day. The Panamax market is comprised of vessels with 70,000 tons cargo capacity


and the Handy-Size market is comprised of vessels with 35,000 tons cargo capacity.


Another dynamic facing the dry bulk market is vessel valuation. There has been a significant


downward adjustment in both new building valuation and second hand valuation. The change in


valuation is a function of reduced charter and freight revenues as well as for certain segment and


overhang of a large order book of new building vessels. For example, the current world Cape-Size
corrected transcript


International Shipholding


Corp.
 
ISH
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


fleet is comprised of 793 vessels and the new building order book is comprised of 623 vessels.


That means that the order book represents 82% of the existing fleet. So far this year more than 55


new building Cape-Size vessels have been delivered from builders’ shipyard about one vessel


every two days.


Given the current expectations for demand it is difficult to justify the projected increase in the Cape-


Size fleet. On the other hand, the Handy-Size segment’s order book represents about 36% of the


existing fleet, which is more consistent with historical replacement vessel scenarios.


During the course of the last month, there has been an uptick in the handling of container shipment.


However, the container vessel market still has a large new building vessel order book even though


a significant number of container vessel new buildings have either been cancelled or converted to


other vessel types. For the time being, this market remains depressed. For example, the daily time-


charter rates for shifting 100 TBU geared container feeder vessels of the type we have operated


declined from over $15,000 per day in calendar year 2007, to today’s rate of about $4,000 per day.


We should also note that the cost of fuel has continued to rise. The current price is about $480 per


ton for heavy fuel oil. In addition, we have seen a dramatic increase in prices paid for vessels being


sold for demolition.


Dry Bulk vessel demolition prices have increased by over $100 per ton of vessel weight from early


February to today’s date. The uncertainties and volatilities we have described in our opening


remark continue to validate our long standing corporate strategy or focusing on medium to long


term contracts of Affreightment and Time Charters, employing a portfolio of diversified vessel types


and diversified transportation contracts.


Therefore, we continue to focus on identifying ocean transportation niches requiring specialized


vessels and specialized operating techniques. Our corporate strategy has provided and will


continue to provide us with a successful business model highlighted by stable and predictable cash


flows, diverse businesses aimed at smoothing out cyclical shipping markets, operations in niche


markets often with high barriers to entry and long-standing relationships with our customers.


When you listen to the review of our operating segment, you will clearly see how our current fleet


portfolio has been developed pursuant to our corporate strategy. This year in our letter to our


shareholders, we highlighted that we had successfully extended and renegotiated a number of our


Time Charter agreement and contracts of Affreightment and we placed orders for new building


vessels through our wholly-owned subsidiary companies and joint venture agreement.


Meantime we remain cautious and cognizant of the uncertainties that we and our counterparties


face in today’s challenging global economy and international shipping market. But we will remain


focused on continuing to expand our customer base while working closely with our existing


customers to best serve their needs, rolling and diversifying our operating fleet and cargo contracts,


managing risks relating to currency, interest rates, market voyage and time charter rates and our


counterparties. We are committed to continuing our communication effort with our shareholders as


we work to increase the company’s value.


At this time I will ask Erik to take over and provide a presentation of our operating segment. Erik?


Erik L. Johnsen, President


Thank you, good morning. Through our principal operating subsidiaries we provide specialized


Maritime transportation services to our customers primarily under medium to long term contracts.


This morning I will go through the operations of our Time Charters, Contracts of Affreightment, Rail-


Ferry Service and investment in unconsolidated entity.