Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President & Director, International Shipholding Corp.
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. Please be aware that today's conference call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I'd like to introduce Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the quarter and insights on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our first quarter results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome all of you to our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings call.

Before Erik discusses our operational highlights and Manny reviews our financial results. I will make a few introductory comments.

At our annual shareholders meeting yesterday, we again highlighted certain challenges, which continue to confront international dry cargo shipping companies. Trendless market volatility will continue in a stressed dry cargo market. It will feel the effects of commodity pricing practices, newbuilding vessel deliveries and cargo availability. The shipping practices and policies of China and India will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the dry cargo markets.

The financial difficulties of a number of international shipping companies validate the importance of prudent counterparty risk management. Restricted availability of traditional bank financing dictates that we utilize alternate financial strategies.

While the challenges we faced today are dramatic and far-reaching, they are not new to us. In fact, our longstanding strategy of identifying niche water transportation requirements in which we can maintain a portfolio of cargo contracts has been developed by us over the years to provide a foundation for generating predictable earnings. This foundation also gives us a base from which we can take advantage of profitable spot market transactions.

You will recall that we have already filed a $200 million shelf registration which allows us the flexibility to access financial resources to supplement or substitute for bank financing so we can respond to accretive opportunities presented by stressed shipping companies and shipbuilders facing to defaults and lack of financing.

As you know, our stock price closed at $22.29 yesterday and continues to outperform many other listed shipping companies. We believe the performance of our stock price is a direct result of our focused dividend policy and our ability to produce operating results that outperform day-to-day spot market indices.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning. I would like to take a few minutes now to review some of our recent operational highlights.

During the first quarter, all of our vessels that operate on fixed, medium to long-term time charter contracts continue to perform as planned. Of note, the recently purchased multi-purpose ice-strengthened vessel, Green Wave, which is on a long-term fixed charter rate to Military Sealift Command, successfully completed its first voyage to the Antarctic. As for our other Military Sealift Command operations, we redelivered the three pre-positioned vessels during February as planned and without incident.

On to our Indonesian operations, the labor unrest at our customer's mine site continues to improve and things are slowly returning to normal. It is important to note that during the strikes, our operations remained unaffected. This is attributable to long-term fixed rate contracts on which these vessels are chartered and demonstrates the strength of our business model. Furthermore, because of the types of cargos carried, a slowdown or halting of production at the mine does not directly affect our operation.

Our rail-ferry service continues to provide a solid contribution to the overall results, performing in line with our expectations during the first quarter. Currently, this service operates at 100% capacity on the southbound route and about 80% northbound. And by the end of the quarter, we began to see volumes trending higher. For the remainder of 2012, we expect this service to continue to generate strong results.

Our Capesize vessel continues to operate under a long-term time charter at rates well above the current Baltic Index. And our three handysize bulkers, which operate on short to medium-term charters in the spot market under a revenue-sharing agreement with a European partner, continue to outperform the Dry Bulk Index as well. Although it is a challenging environment for the dry-bulk shipping, our team continuous to work diligently to generate solid returns.

Going down to the mini-bulker joint venture, all 10 of the vessels are operating in the Americas and/or Southeast Asia. Out outlook on these small class of dry bulk vessels remains positive over the long term despite market condition. The underlying fundamentals in this niche space are much more attractive as scrapping of the older less efficient vessels has kept supply at reasonable levels and the order book is much smaller than what we see for the larger dry bulk vessels.

During the first quarter, we finalized transactions involving three of our pure car/truck carriers. It is important to know that given the nature of the sale leaseback transaction which involve the vessel, Green Bay, there will be no impact to our fleet on U.S. flag pure car/truck carriers or our ability to continue to transport supplemental cargos.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Manny to review some financial results. Manny?

Thank you, Erik. I'd like to provide some details on our financials for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $7.9 million compared to $24 million in the prior year period. Included in the recent quarter's results was a $3.8 million gain from the sales of the three PCTCs mentioned earlier by Erik, while the first quarter of 2011 benefited from an $18.7 million gain associated with the dry bulk transaction. Excluding these nonrecurring items, net income for the first quarter was $4.1 million versus $5.4 million in the comparable period of 2011.

Revenues for the quarter increased approximately 1.4% year-over-year, generating approximately $40 million or 62% of those revenues on fixed contracts, approximately the same as the first quarter of 2011. Variable revenues were $25 million for the quarter, which were derived primarily from our supplemental cargo, our handysize vessels and our rail-ferry segment. Our gross voyage profit, which we define as revenues less voyage expenses, was $14.4 million for the quarter, down from $15.3 million in 2011, owing primarily to lower supplemental cargo results and the return of the three pre-positioning vessels to the Military Sealift Command.

I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross profit results for each of our reporting segments. First, our U.S. Flag Time Charter segment declined by approximately $1.1 million year-over-year; again, this was primarily attributable to lower supplemental cargo results and the recent expiration of three contracts with the MSC. However, this was partially offset by the new contract we have in place with the MSC, which is serviced by our multi-purpose, ice-strengthened vessel.

The International Flag Time Charter segment reported an increase in gross profit of over $700,000 from the first quarter of 2011 as the vessels from our dry bulk transaction are now included in this segment.

Our contract of affreightment results declined during the quarter, owing to a lower tonnage from a year ago. We also experienced higher costs in our rail-ferry segment which had a negative impact. However, for the reminder of the year, we expect results to improve.

Our others segment, which consists primarily of our brokerage and agency service, was virtually impacted by the strikes in Indonesia, which affected one of our large chartering customers. As the work returns to normal in Indonesia, we expect results for the rest of 2012 to be comparable to 2011 levels.

During the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the exchange rate of the yen to the U.S. dollar depreciated, which resulted in a foreign exchange gain for the quarter of $3.6 million. Results from our unconsolidated entities declined by approximately $1.3 million when compared to the same period a year ago, reflecting the investment we made in our Capesize vessel that is no longer accounted as an unconsolidated entity.

As of March 31, 2012, our working capital was approximately $24.4 million, which is an increase of $5.1 million from the year-end. Cash and cash equivalents was approximately $34.2 million. During the quarter, the company finalized its equity investment in the Handymax vessel, with a payment of approximately $9 million, and also repaid its temporary line of credit draw of $9.5 million. The company's full $30 million line of credit is available for use.

During the quarter, we paid down approximately $100 million of debt in addition to the regularly scheduled debt payments of $6 million. This action further strengthens our balance sheet and drops our leverage ratio to approximately 3.1%.

Finally, the company's Board of Directors authorized payment of $0.25 dividend for each share of common stock owned as of the record date, May 16, 2012, payable on June 1, 2012.

We remain committed to providing a return to our shareholders in the form of a dividend on a quarterly basis. And while all future payments remain subject to the discretion of our Board, we expect to meet our stated $1 annual target for 2012.

That ends our prepared remarks, and we would now like to open the call for your questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] . And we'll take our first question from Chris Snyder with Sidoti and Company.

Hey, guys. Congratulations on the quarter.

Thank you, Chris. Good morning.

Good morning. So, you guys, I guess in proceeds from the two sales [indiscernible] (14:39) like $130 million and I think you guys paid down around $90 million in debt. Do you guys have any idea what you are going to do with the other $40 million? Are you still kind of exploring your options?

We're currently exploring our options. As we've reported previously, the current market conditions that we see around the world are providing opportunities. We, as we've stated before, want to be very careful about what opportunities we pursue because we have a commitment to our shareholders that those opportunities have to be accretive to our results. So, we have cautiously, over the last six to 12 months, built up our war chest, so that we're in a position to respond, but we're going to be very cautious about what we do.

Okay. And just another question, so you guys obviously – would you expect the sale on the leaseback to cause margins to go down going forward or...

Chris, it's certainly would impact gross profit margins because in lieu of the capital invested in this deal, it will now take the form of operating lease payments which would impact the gross profit margins.

Do you know how big that impact will be or...

No, I don't have that percentage in front of me, but of course, the offset is putting those funds from the sale to use, as Niels just said, in an environment where we can add value to the bottom line.

Yeah. And my follow-up question is obviously you guys had some transactions going on in this first quarter. For the depreciation and the interest going forward, is this first quarter kind of reflect or the effects of the sales and then I guess the delivery of the Handymax, does that – is that fully reflected in the deprecation and the interest expense of the first quarter?

Chris, I think going forward those numbers will be slightly lower because...

[indiscernible] (17:05)

Yeah, because the timing of the sale was near the end of the quarter, but it will drop a little bit I would think going forward when we have a full quarter impact on those assets being sold, but not materially.

Yeah, yeah. Okay, that does it for me. Thanks a lot, guys, and congratulations again.

Thanks, Chris.

[Operator Instructions] And it looks like there no other questions at this time. I'll turn it back to Niels Johnsen for any closing remarks.

Thank you very much. And again, thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate these ongoing opportunities to communicate with the people that are interested in our company, and we commit to you that we will continue to maintain a dialog with you all.

Thank you again, and have a good day.

That concludes today's conference call. We appreciate your participation.