Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Manuel G. Estrada — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, International Shipholding Corp.
Niels Mercer Johnsen — Chairman, CEO & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Erik L. Johnsen — President, Director & Head-Media Relations, International Shipholding Corp.
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International Shipholding Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. Please be aware that today's conference call is being recorded and now being webcast at the company's website, www.intship.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time.

Now, I would like to turn the conference over to Manny Estrada, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for International Shipholding Corporation's second quarter 2012 earnings call. I am Manny Estrada, the company's Chief Financial Officer. With me today are Niels M. Johnsen, our Executive Chairman and CEO; and Erik L. Johnsen, our President.

Niels will start the presentation today by providing an overview of the quarter and insights on market trends. Erik will provide an overview of our operating segments. And I will return at the end of the call to briefly review our first quarter results, and then we will welcome your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that statements made today, which are not historical facts, may be deemed forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements. And certain factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations are detailed in our SEC reports. I direct you to our earnings release for the full Safe Harbor statement.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Niels. Niels?

Thank you, Manny, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to welcome all of you to our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings call.

Before Erik's comments and Manny's review of our financial results, I will make a few introductory comments. Since our last earnings call, the drybulk market has continued to be depressed and our results for the second quarter were negatively impacted by these market conditions. However, as you know, most of our drybulk vessels are smaller size vessels. In this respect, we should point out that the supply fundamentals of the handy-size world fleet continued to exhibit measured growth, more in line with increased shipping demand. In fact, the drybulk spot/time charter rate indices for handysize and Handymax vessels are higher than the daily spot indices for Capesize and Panamax vessels.

Furthermore, our fleet statistics for handysize vessels in sizes ranging from 22,000 to 38,000 deadweight indicates that by calendar year 2015, 528 vessels will reach 30 years of age as compared to current newbuilding orders between now and 2015 of 450 vessels. Plus as newbuilding vessels are absorbed into the world fleet, as older vessels are scrapped and as the newbuilding order book is reduced, the markets for these smaller drybulk vessels should improve. As we all know, international banks continue to be stressed. This fact, combined with vessel valuations which have been affected by reduced shipyards' newbuilding prices and depressed freight markets contribute to a lack of traditional bank financing.

Therefore, required capital for accretive growth must be generated from cash resources and alternative financing sources. This phenomenon, however, creates opportunities for companies with historical access to all segments of international capital markets.

As you know, one of our larger business segments is dedicated to our pure car/truck carriers. This market niche has improving fundamentals as international transportation of fully assembled automobiles and other roll-on/roll-off cargo has been increasing. At the present time, the world pure car/truck carrier fleet totals about 700 vessels with an average capacity each of about 5100 fully assembled automobiles.

By the end of next year, 90 of these vessels will reach 25 years of age. And at the present time, there are only 54 newbuilding pure car/truck carriers on order. Thus we can expect measured fleet growth based on conservative demand projections which will stimulate opportunities for replacement vessel newbuildings.

The current market conditions validate our ongoing strategy of responding to cargo requirements in niche markets with medium and long-term charters and revenue-sharing agreements, which provides predictable cash flows. As you know, our stock price closed at $19.87 yesterday and continues to outperform many other listed shipping companies.

We believe the performance of our stock price is the direct result of our focused strategy and our ability to provide operating results that outperform day-to-day spot market indices. Also, yesterday, our Board of Directors authorized payment of a $0.25 dividend for each share of common stock, which should position us to reach our $1 per share annual target.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Erik. Erik?

Thank you, Niels, and good morning. As Niels mentioned in his remarks, it remains a challenging environment for the shipping industry. However, our strategy of generating a large percentage of revenues from ships operating on medium to long-term charters has enabled us to effectively manage our business during this cyclical downturn.

During the quarter, revenues generated from our fixed rate charters accounted for 55% of our overall revenues, providing us with significant top-line stability. I would like to provide you with an overview of our operations as it relates to our results for the quarter, as well as how some of the businesses are progressing. A majority of our fixed revenues for the quarter were derived from the pure car/truck carriers, the Jones Act vessels, the Capesize vessels as well as our Indonesian operations. Our fixed revenues were complemented by the Rail-Ferry Service and supplemental cargos, which continued to make positive contributions to our results.

The Rail-Ferry segment achieved cargo capacity of 100% southbound and about 70% northbound during the quarter and is a business we continue to believe in. The Rail-Ferry serve a strong creditworthy customer base providing transportation for railcars carrying metals, forest products, chemicals and agricultural cargos. It is an attractive alternative to ground transportation saving our customers significant time when transporting goods to and from Mexico by eliminating the need to transport overland through Texas.

We continue to believe that there is further growth potential in Mexico for this business and given the attractive pricing for newbuildings today, we think this is a good time to explore new opportunities. It is important to note that this is a business that requires significant capital. Therefore, we are working diligently with our railroad partners to ensure that any future investment in this space will meet our return requirements as we seek to expand this unique niche.

Our biggest challenge during the quarter was the drybulk market, owing to depressed rates on the spot markets. While we have one Capesize vessel that is on fixed-rate time charter at very attractive rates, the remainder of our bulk carriers are operating on spot business. However, it is important to know that our handysize ships have continued to outperform the Baltic Dry Index. This is due to a strategic decision we made to operate them as part of a revenue sharing agreement with European partners. This has proven to be a sound strategy as it enables us to reduce our risk of exposure to the market conditions today, while increasingly – by increasing the operating leverage of a larger fleet of 10 to 15 ships.

In line with our focus on medium to long-term contracts, over the long run, we expect a portion of the ships in this revenue-sharing agreement to be fixed on medium to long-term charters as rates improve.

I would also like to provide an update on our Military Sealift Command business. As I've previously discussed, we currently have a multi-purpose, ice-strengthened vessel that began operations for the U.S. Military Sealift Command in the fourth quarter of last year. It was a vessel that we purchased and reflagged under U.S. Flag, specifically for this contract. Its mission includes two ice trips a year, one to the North Pole for the U.S. Air Force and one to the South Pole providing supplies for the National Science Foundation. It is currently on charter for one firm-year with option for additional four years.

This contract is an excellent example of our ability to identify cargo needs of creditworthy customers and provide them with services on medium to long-term fixed rate charters. We have had a relationship with the U.S. government for many decades now and we will continue to seek contract opportunities with them as it makes sense. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the Jones Act Sulphur Carrier that we've repurchased during the quarter.

We originally divested this ship in a sale leaseback transaction in 2007. We were able to negotiate very attractive terms for the repurchase of the Sulphur Carrier and it provides a great opportunity to expand the ownership of our fleet. This is an 18-year-old ship and given the potential lifespan of Jones Act ships, we have the opportunity to generate significant revenue during its usable life.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Manny for a review of our financials for the quarter.

Thank you, Erik. I'd like to provide some details on our financials for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012. We reported net income of $704,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared to $2.8 million in the same period last year.

The recent quarter included $1.1 million of non-cash transaction losses which consisted of a currency exchange loss on our yen-denominated facility, partially offset by recognition of a previously deferred gain on the repurchase of the Sulphur Enterprise, while net income in the second quarter of 2011 included a non-cash currency exchange loss of $1.9 million on the same yen-denominated loan facility.

So, if we exclude the non-cash transactions on a year-over-year basis, we produced net income of $1.8 million in this quarter versus $4.7 million in the second quarter of 2011. Revenues for the quarter decreased by approximately 13.8% year-over-year. Our gross voyage profit was $13.3 million for the quarter, down from $18.2 million in 2011.

The year-over-year decline in both the revenue and the gross voyage profit was primarily due to the expiration of the three operating contracts we had with the Military Sealift Command at the end of the first quarter, the company's divestiture of the pure car/truck carriers and the depressed rate environment in the drybulk market. These were slightly offset by an increase in supplemental cargos and the operation of the ice-strengthened vessel, which we placed on charter to the MSC.

Operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2012 was $3.5 million compared to $6.7 million in the prior-year period. We generated approximately $33.4 million of revenue during the quarter from our fixed contracts, which represents about 55% of our total gross revenue as compared to $43.3 million for the same period in 2011.

Variable revenues were $26.9 million, which were derived primarily from our supplemental cargo, the handy and Handymax vessels and our Rail-Ferry segment.

Now, I'd like to briefly review our quarterly gross voyage profit results for each of our reporting segment. First, our U.S. Flag Time Charter segment declined by approximately $2.7 million year-over-year. This was primarily attributable to the recent expiration of three contracts we had with the Military Sealift Command. However, this was partially offset by a new contract we have in place with the MSC with the multi-purpose ice-strengthened vessel and a higher supplemental cargo volume.

The International Flag Time Charter segment reported decrease in gross voyage profit of approximately $2.8 million from the second quarter of 2011, reflecting the sale of the two PCTCs and the current depressed rate environment in the drybulk market.

Both our Contract of Affreightment and Rail-Ferry segments reported slightly higher results, reflecting lower operating costs during the quarter and the increase in our Other segment, which consists primarily of our brokerage and agency services, was really not material.

During the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, the exchange rate of the yen to the U.S. dollar appreciated from 82.82 to 79.81. This resulted in a foreign exchange loss for the quarter of $1.7 million. Results from our unconsolidated entities increased approximately $1 million when compared to the same period a year ago, reflecting a favorable adjustment related to an effective interest rate swap as well as the 2001 period reported non-recurring startup charges from the 25% investment in the company which owns 10 mini-bulkers.

As of June 30, 2012, our working capital was approximately $10.5 million, which is a decrease of $13.9 million from the previous quarter. Cash and cash equivalents was approximately $21.2 million. The purchase of the Jones Act Sulphur Carrier during the quarter for approximately $23 million was funded using the company's available cash.

During the first six months of 2012, we have reduced our leverage by approximately $103 million. And with the reacquisition of the leased Sulphur Carrier, we have reduced our weighted average cost of outstanding debt to approximately 3.6%, while reducing our debt-to-capital ratio to 46%. While waiting for the correct growth opportunity, we have focused on our balance sheet. Finally, the company's Board of Directors authorized payment of a $0.25 dividend for each share of common stock owned as of the record date, August 16, 2012, payable September 4, 2012.

We remain committed to providing a return to our shareholders in the form of a dividend on a quarterly basis. And while all future payments remain subject to the discretion of our board, we expect to meet our stated $1 annual target for 2012.

That ends our prepared remarks, and we would now like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . And we'll take our first question from Chris Snyder with Sidoti & Company.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Morning, Chris.

I had a question on the Rail-Ferry. How do you guys see the Rail-Ferry segment of the business progressing over, say, the next year or two? And if – I'm just wondering if there's any growth opportunities or potential catalysts for growth in particular that might help the segment?

Yeah, Chris, this is Erik Johnsen.

Hello, Erik.

We, as I said in my prepared remarks, believe in that segment. The strong results that we've seen in each of the voyages, where we have 100% southbound and 70% northbound, has certainly been there now for several quarters. And we're pleased with where we are today after several years of struggling with that service. We also believe that there are other opportunities for different ports in Mexico where the market is certainly – I'm going to call it attractive. So, and then you add to that, that the – for specially built ships that you have to go to a shipyard and build new as opposed to converting and those prices today are very attractive.

So, you put the two together, where we are seeking and making sure that we have the right supporters form the railroads because we become an interchange between the Mexican railroads and the U.S. railroads. And we think there is absolutely an opportunity there to add to that service.

Okay. Yeah, I know...

And I can't go in more detail, but I can tell you as I said in my prepared remarks, we are exploring those absolute opportunities.

Okay, sounds good. And another question, I know you guys had made a little over $40 million remaining from the sale of the two pure car/truck carriers in the first quarter. And now I know you spent about like $23 million in cash on the Sulphur Carrier. I was wondering if you guys were preparing to use maybe the remaining $18 million to purchase the vessel or you guys are just going to hold it in cash and like – in case something happens.

Well, Chris, if you recall, we used the proceeds not only to purchase back the Sulphur, but also to pay down debt, which, as I said, we reduced our debt by over $100 million really from the combination of the proceeds of the sale of the Green Bay in the first quarter and the two car carriers. But we do have some available cash that we certainly would be able to use under the right opportunity, but we have focused on reducing the debt and buying back the Sulphur with the cash that was available to us.

Okay.

And if I can add to that, as Manny alluded to, there are opportunities available to us given the current market conditions, but we're being very careful about what opportunities we pursue to ensure that they are accretive opportunities.

Yeah, of course. That was it for me. Thank you for taking my call. I appreciate it.

You're welcome.

Thanks, Chris. [Operator Instructions]

And there are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the conference back over to Mr. Niels Johnsen for additional or closing remarks.

Again, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for our quarterly earnings call. We appreciate the opportunity to provide our comments to you relating to the quarter and to answer any questions that you might have. We will certainly continue our policy of having these earnings calls each quarters and we wish you all a good day. Thank you for participating.

This concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation.