Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert L. Gaylor — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.
Paul Cho — Investment Analyst, Standard General LP
Jeffrey P. Buller — Analyst, Spectrum Group Management LLC
Greg Kennedy — Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management, PIMCO

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Xinergy First Quarter 2014 Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask question. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Bobby Gaylor, Senior Vice President. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Amy. Welcome to Xinergy's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call, and thank you for being with us today. We released our earnings yesterday after the markets closed and the release and MD&A are posted on our website. Additional information relating to Xinergy has been filed electronically with SEDAR and is available online at www.sedar.com or at the company's website at www.xinergycorp.com.

With me on the call today are Bernie Mason, CEO and President, and Mike Castle, CFO. Before we begin this morning, let me remind you that this call will contain forward-looking-statements. These forward-looking statements should be considered along with the risk factors that we note at the end of our press release as well as in our annual information form and other SEDAR filings.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Bernie.

Thanks, Bobby. And I'd like to thank everyone for your participation on today's call, and your continued interest in our company and our industry. I'm certain that most of you've heard the tragic news of two mining fatalities this week in Boone County, West Virginia. This accident occurred just south of our Raven Crest mine. And when a fatality occurs in the mining industry, it impacts every coalminer, and our thoughts and prayers are with those two families.

Our entire industry takes safety very seriously, but unfortunately accidents do happen whether by geologic situation, equipment failure or human error. But we have a very sharp focus on mine safety and the safety of our employees. We also take our responsibility of environmental stewardship very seriously. And I'm pleased to report that we did not have a single loss time accident during the first quarter and we do not have a single environmental violation anywhere in our company. We're proud of our safety environmental record, but it doesn't come easy. We do and will continue to focus on doing it the right way.

As you review our Q1 filings, I doubt that you'll see anything surprising. Our industry is still mired in a very stagnant market, but we are seeing some signs of life in the thermal and met markets. On the thermal front, we're seeing a few utilities out for RFPs as utility inventories are at our historic lows. I believe if we have a normal summer, we may see inventories at or below 100 million tons. We've seen a reduction of 35% over the last six months.

Here, we have production at Central Appalachia currently at 50% of where it was in 2008, with inventories at historic lows, cap reduction at historic lows, natural gas storage injection far, far behind schedule, and utilities out for RFPs during the shoulder months. I dare believe that these market dynamics point to an increased pricing and demand for the second half of 2014 and it should bode well for open position of Raven Crest and our ability to quickly bring on additional high-quality, low-cost thermal coal.

On the met side, we're still seeing depressed pricing, even though, I guess, the largest steel producer in the world continues to project the growth of world steel consumption to be approximately 3.5% for 2014. We do continue to have a lot of interest in our South Fork Premium Sewell quality. During the first quarter, we shipped our first export coal with direct sales to an end user and we anticipate this business continuing. We are continuing to ship our specialty business and seeing increased volumes. These volumes are relatively small, but are very, very meaningful to us just because of the pricing.

Operationally, Q1 was impacted by weather in rail delays. However, we continue to deliver on our plan for Raven Crest and South Fork. You will notice that we did adjust our production guidance for 2014, and this is a direct result of the severity of this past winter's weather. Raven Crest production development and our new preparation plant were both impacted by weather. And South Fork didn't have serious production issues, but we were seriously delayed with our ability to develop demand in preparation for our third operating unit. This is the reason for modifying our guidance. Neither Raven Crest nor South Fork saw issues impacting production other than weather related.

Raven Crest, at Raven Crest we just completed the startup of our surface mine along with the highwall miner and both restarted very well after being idle for approximately two years. We also finished the construction, began operating our new $9.5 million 300-ton-per-hour heavy media preparation plant. But I have to admit that during the plant construction, I felt somewhat like Noah, must have felt while he was building the ark. I was asked on multiple occasions why we're building a plant when others are idling and closing mines. There are only four plants built during 2013 and two were ours.

Timing is everything, but timing really hasn't been our friend since early days of Xinergy. We've built two very efficient low-cost thermal mines and the bottom falls out in the thermal market. We were seeing market dynamics impacting the thermal market during those times. So we decided to move in to the met space at the time with a benchmark in excess of $200. So we get our premium mid-vol project up and running in an extremely short timeframe and then the bottom falls out of the met market. We have delivered on our promise to build and operate low costs, efficient, productive, safe and environmentally compliant coal mines. However, timing has not been on our side until now.

I strongly believe that the thermal market dynamics are pointing to a rapid rebound in pricing and demand. And we're now in a position to take advantage of a strong market. If we'd waited on our plant construction, we've been on the sidelines watching this upcoming market move. We needed the plant to unlock the complete highwall mining and underground mining potential in Raven Crest.

I've been involved with highwall mining since 1988. I remember what the first prototype of the [ph] adpar (06:45) system looked like as it was designed and constructed in a little shop in Kanawha County, West Virginia. Let's just say that I've seen my share of highwall miner projects during my career and the geology and mineability at Raven Crest is as suitable for highwall mining as any project I've ever dealt with.

We currently blend 50% of our highwall miner production [indiscernible] (07:06). But we've always needed the ability to wash the remainder that contained the higher percentage of ash. We have an excellent team of surface coal miners, however, it's the highwall miner production that keeps our cost in the category of some of the lower cost minings in Central Appalachia.

The success for highwall miner has reasonably built so much inventory. We currently have an excess of 110,000 clean tons of Raven Crest. We are starting to reduce this amount. But it may be two quarters before we zero this out.

Raven Crest has started very well. But during the first quarter, we had refuse sales for preparation plant and sediment control structures for our mine to build, and these were the atoms that were seriously impacted by the weather. We just weren't able to complete these earth-moving projects during the extreme winter weather.

We've previously relocated several pieces of equipment from Raven Crest to South Fork. This has resulted in Raven Crest surface production being projected at only 20,000 tons per month on a going-forward basis instead of our historical production of 40,000 tons. These 20,000 tons are in addition to the 30,000 tons of highwall miner production for a total production of Raven Crest of 50,000 tons per month on a going-forward basis.

I foresee Raven Crest production to be stable at this rate until the market will allow us to initiate production from our Brier Creek underground complex. We do have the ability to significantly increase our production due to having an excess of 40 million tons currently under permit. During Q1, Raven Crest produced 96,000 tons at a cash cost of $68.20. Why so high? We did have a multitude of start-up cost in this total because our March cash costs were $51.70. And I project our cash costs to be $55 to $58, and I still expect this is where we will be. But we need to operate our plant for at least three more months before really knowing our true operating cost.

At South Fork, most of you heard me describe South Fork as maybe not the best mine in Central Appalachia, but the highest. At 4,000 feet in elevation, we have a spectacular view, but winters in Greenbrier County, West Virginia are nothing short of brutal. We received in excess of 140 inches of snow and had days of negative 25 degrees. We saw our production remain consistent through Q1 as we produced 82,000 tons at a cost of $95.45. We did see additional costs associated with equipment and road maintenance. We maintain approximately 16 miles of unimproved road.

We did have an inventory adjustment that brought our cost of sales down to $87.51 for the quarter. We also saw a major reduction in equipment availability during this time. We are reducing at a 2014 gap at South Fork also to between 400,000 tons and 450,000 tons for 2014, and this is due to the first-quarter weather issues. Even though weather did not negatively impact our overall production, it did prevent us from further developing our sediment control and preparation of the start-up of our third fleet of equipment, and this equipment is on-site.

Additional personnel have been hired for an anticipated start-up of May 26. This will give us three operating loader trucks spreads which will produce approximately 42,000 tons per month. But you have to remember, this is a 32:1 mining ratio. The surface mine will continue at this rate until we begin highwall miner production in Q4. We anticipate the highwall miner to produce 20,000 tons per month resulting in total production of 62,000 tons per month and annualize to 744,000 tons.

We may initiate our highwall miner production in Q3, but it will be late Q3 or early Q4. We now have all the pieces of the puzzle in place and, again, we have delivered. But while we're increasing production when others are idling or closing mines and, to be quite honest, I don't consider 12,000 tons as an increase. We're just continuing to develop this mine to where we want it and where we need it, but we still haven't achieved the true operating efficiencies that I know will come when we get further developed into the Blue Knob permits.

We have a relentless pursuit for operating efficiencies, and we will continue with that pursuit. I continue to be pleased with our South Fork operating results. And those of you who have visited South Fork understand that this isn't an easy coal project. It's extremely isolated with high mining ratio of 32:1. I initially projected our mining costs to be $100 a ton. Let's just say that our operating team has more than exceeded my expectations, and now we see areas to improve on. Our team is safety and environmentally conscious and still very, very productive. I think we've proven that. And we've proven that you can do it right but still be a low-cost, quality coal producer.

Again, I want to thank each of you for your participation in today's call. You may have noticed that I really didn't address our sales position. And I'll make you work for that information. It is addressed in our filings. Raven Crest has contracted approximately 60% of our production with the remainder sold into the spot market. And South Fork's contracted position is only 20%, and we've been selling the remainder on a – we've been selling it forward on a quarter-by-quarter basis.

Our industry is extremely competitive right now, and I choose not to openly discuss our sales specifics, but I would be happy to discuss this offline and always welcome your calls and suggest you accept our standing invitation for a site visit. I enjoy showing our coal mines because I'm very proud of our team. And I'm very proud of what we've accomplished in a very short timeframe.

Now, I'll be happy to answer any questions during Q&A, but at this time, I'll turn the call over to Mike Castle, our Chief Financial Officer. Mike?

Thank you, Bernie. I'll review some of the highlights from the results of the quarter, capital expenditures, liquidity. First, the revenues. In the first quarter of 2014, our top line revenues were $11.7 million on the sale of 165,000 tons as compared to revenues of $4.1 million on the sale of 60,000 tons in the same quarter of 2013. The average per ton realization for the first quarter 2014 was $70.94 as compared to $68.16 for the same quarter of 2013. The significant change in revenues in tons sold in Q1 2014 as compared to Q1 2013 was primarily due to Raven Crest starting back into production in January 2014. Raven Crest sold 88,000 tons and produced 96,000 tons in the first quarter while South Fork sold 77,000 tons and produced 81,000 tons in the quarter.

In the quarter, as Bernie indicated, the coal shipments were impeded by uncharacteristically poor weather conditions that led to rail disruptions. This negatively impacted revenues by about $4 million in the quarter and tons sold by about 51,000 tons and, obviously, led to higher inventory levels than we expected to have at the end of March. At March 31, our inventory levels were 161,000 tons with a carrying value of $40.37 per ton as compared to 150,000 tons at December 31 with a carrying value of $40.79. Rail service has been recovering now and should allow us to continue to execute our inventory reduction plans throughout the second and early third quarter 2014.

Our total cost of sales were $14.1 million or $85.19 per ton in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to $5.9 million or $98.90 per ton in the same quarter of 2013. For the quarter, South Fork cost of sales were $92.43 and Raven Crest cost of sales were $77.29 per ton. These costs were negatively impacted both jobs by the 51,000 contracted tons that did not ship in Q1. And at South Fork, we moved approximately 20% more overburdened yardage in the first quarter than we had in the previous quarter, even though we were challenged by the weather conditions that were prevalent throughout most of the quarter.

Raven Crest experienced some costs that were higher due to a function of starting up the highwall miner and the surface jobs, but they began to normalize, as Bernie indicated in the second quarter, and we expect those costs to continue to get down to the previous numbers.

Our SG&A was $1.9 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $1.7 million in the same quarter of 2013 and approximately $300,000 in these Q1 2014 costs were non-cash-related cost items. So our SG&A has continued to stay in line with where we indicated that it should be.

Our net loss for the first quarter was $11.8 million or $0.22 per share as compared to the net loss of $1.9 million in the same quarter 2013, and that 2013 numbers included a one-time gain of $11 million from the sale of our Kentucky operations.

Capital expenditures, we've spent about $2.1 million in CapEx in the first quarter of 2014, of which about $1.4 million was expansion-capital related to the Raven Crest and South Fork preparation plants and $700,000 of it was maintenance capital, the majority of which was related to the start-up of Raven Crest.

I'll not go through the guidance. Bernie indicated some of the guidance has changed in 2014 primarily because of the reduced tons shipped in the first quarter, but we'll be able to answer any questions on your guidance – guidance questions you may have in the Q&A section.

Liquidity, first of all, I want to make it clear, we did make our $9 million interest payment a couple of days ago. At March 31, 2014, we had $10.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $9.4 million in restricted cash. We still have about just under $3 million in restricted cash that's in escrow from the sale of our Kentucky operations, and it will be released in June of 2014. Also at this time, we have no equipment debt, which gives us an available basket of $25 million for equipment financing.

Also in the first quarter, we indicated with the filings, recent filings we close on, a fully subscribed 11 million share common stock offering that generated $4.95 million. Those proceeds are being used to further enhance our liquidity and for general corporate purposes. As was also previously discussed, we continue our efforts to sell non-core, non-strategic assets and efforts to enhance liquidity on future CapEx, reduce our debt and we feel we'll all go to de-lever our balance sheet and improve our capital structure.

That's all I have. I'll turn it over and open it up to questions, and welcome any questions you might have. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Paul Cho with Standard General.

Hi, guys. How are you doing?

Fine.

Good morning, Paul.

Hi, Paul.

Nice job on the operations here. I just have a few questions. I guess I'm sort of curious – I would've thought the – I guess I'm just curious about what your Raven Crest pricing should be going forward? I guess I would've expected a little bit higher in the first quarter given where cap prices are at the moment.

I'm sorry, Paul. I misunderstood the question.

Sorry, I'm just sort of curious, like Raven Crest, I would have expected your pricing to have been a little bit better given where cap thermal prices are right now and I'm just curious – I would expect you to be getting in sort of mid-$60s. Is that sort of a reasonable expectation?

Yeah. You are correct. One reason that pricing was a little low in Q1 is we sold some trains from our existing inventory, from the inventory that's been on the mine for approximately two years, and we sold that as the highest product. We sold at approximately 11,000 BTU to 11,500 BTU in an 18 ash product, so that was really the reasoning. We shipped a lot of raw and without preparation. So that's really what held our overall pricing down. But you're right, I haven't looked at NYMEX pricing this morning. But you're right, it's in the $60, $61, $62 range.

Right, okay. So you're selling inventory and that brought down your pricing, right, unwashed inventory?

We were selling inventory and that's really quite what held our pricing down.

Right, okay, but sort of NYMEX going forward, is that reasonable?

Actually, we should try just a bit above NYMEX just because of our quality. We typically ship a 12,300 BTU to 12,500 BTU at a 1% sulfur. So we're just a little bit better than NYMEX quality.

Right. And then, I guess I'm sort of curious – I know you have a contract for your met tons. Has that spread out sort of ratably over the year or is that sort of backend loaded or -?

This is Mike. It was scheduled for 5,000 tons of mine, that one contract.

Right.

First quarter, they got behind again because of weather. I think I noted there was a few more thousand tons behind in the quarter.

Yeah.

...contracted business, about 11 of it was that particular contract. And they are picking that up and we should be caught up, I would think, by the end of this quarter with that particular customer.

So basically two 11,000 tons were delayed on that contract?

Yeah. They were delayed. It's a trucked product and it was simply weather-related.

Okay.

I expect customer trucks that coal, actually, all over the Northeast and the weather issues was really the reason. They have picked up production now. We're shipping 7,000 tons to 7,500 tons on a monthly basis right now just to pick up that just to catch up.

Just to catch up. By the end of the year, you'll be caught up to the 60,000 tons, right?

Yes. Yeah, absolutely.

Okay, so that brought down your realization in the first quarter, right? Because you only shipped like one month under that contract or probably less than one month, right.

That's right.

So when I look at going forward, you have like 49,000 contract tons from second quarter to the fourth quarter. How should I think about the other tons that are being sold because it seems like spot markets, I mean, I guess, generally, I know you won't talk about your strategy, but I guess generally, how was the market for met coal on the spot basis?

We still are moving our tons, and I did mention that we participated in a sale to an end user. Actually, this coal was exported into Europe and it was premium to the benchmark. Actually, we netted $99 back FOB rail cars. So that equated to about $140 benchmark pricing. So it was at the extreme premium to the benchmark. This is a unique quality. I mean, the Sewell coal is a very, very unique quality. And we're seeing end users show a lot of interest. We really were not set to logistically take care of a vessel shipment, but I wanted the business. I wanted this business so we move forward with it and it worked perfectly. Our coal worked well and we expect continued business with this customer.

We are selling – we're still testing, we're testing with three other end users now with a test shipment next week. So it's taken a little while to get our coal qualities out there with the pullback of production on the met space in Central Appalachia. It has opened some doors for us. And we are talking to a couple of other groups about picking up some sales that have fallen by the wasteland just in production cuts.

Right, right, right. Pretty interesting. So I guess I'm curious though, at a benchmark of $120 or something other like that, I mean, is South Fork sort of a cash neutral sort of entity on an operational basis?

At a benchmark of $120, yes.

It should be cash flow neutral.

Yes.

Okay. That's perfect. And then, sorry, just one final question since I guess you didn't have that much in the queue. You talked about your equipment financing. Could you just go through that again?

We have a financing basket that's available under our indenture that allows us to finance up to $25 million worth of debt. That provides a first lien option on equipment. We have no outstanding equipment to add [indiscernible] (26:04) paid off over the last couple of years.

Okay, see you can basically – what, do a sale-leaseback or just...

We could finance equipment either just through typical asset-based lending agreements, capital leases, whatever may be necessary for the particular needs.

Okay. And how much equipment do you have that could be secured?

At this time, I don't think we have any – we're not out there seeking to buy new equipment.

It's for new equipment?

It's for new equipment or new equipment that's required to certify rebuilds and so forth. It's just available.

Oh, you can't finance your existing equipment? That seems like it would be a pretty logical thing to do.

Yeah. I think that's correct.

Sorry. You cannot or you can?

No, I think we can. We cannot – the basket is available for new equipment financings.

New equipment only.

I think that's correct.

Okay.

We probably could finance any type of a sale leaseback trying to do financing transaction through that basket as well. The intent for that basket obviously is for just equipment needs financing...

Just for equipment. Okay. All right, well that sounds good. I'll hop back in the queue.

Okay, Paul. Thanks.

The next question is from Jeff Shaver at Spectrum.

Yeah. Hi. It's Jeff Buller for Jeff Shaver.

Hi, Jeff.

And I just wanted to – hey, how are you? I appreciate the call. I just wanted to ask about, similar to the answer that you just gave on equipment financing, I wanted to know what other assets, non-core assets you guys were targeting selling and how that process was going?

Well, Jeff, I apologize, but really it's hard to discuss at this point in time. There are other assets and, I mean, it's pretty easy to figure out what we consider as non-core assets. We are in a close negotiation on those. And to be quite honest, I hope to have something to announce in short order. I know that that really doesn't answer your question, but at this point, that's about as good as I can do.

And one quick follow-up question. You had mentioned, or you had disclosed that Bristol Capital was working with you. Are they the ones who are helping you sell these assets?

No.

No.

What are they doing for the company?

We're having a consulting agreement and advisor agreement with Bristol Capital for one year. And at this point, we don't have them active on anything. They are an investor and a strategic advisor as we need them throughout the course of the year.

Okay. And are they in lieu of Deutsche Bank that you had previously discussed having a similar type of arrangement with?

No, they are not. It's a different type set up.

Do you still have that arrangement with Deutsche Bank set up?

Yes.

Yes.

What is Bristol Capital's expertise? What do they do?

I think that Los Angeles based across many sectors. However, they do tend to specialize in energy. And I've worked with Bristol Capital in a past life, in past public company to great success. So I really think highly of them.

Okay. And I guess, on the similar line of questioning, you had mentioned that you are looking to do all kinds of junior capital raises, one of your many things. Has there been any progress on any additional junior capital that you're looking to raise?

Absolutely. That's kind of the open question, but it's – I would say, that we have been testing success to this point, in great discussions, and really discretion is better past that at this point.

I didn't hear the last thing you said, what at this point?

The little discretion at this point is probably best served. We're down those tracks, and working on that every day.

Got it. So Bristol is not working with you on that either? It's just kind of they're there for you if you need them in any kind of advisory -?

That's exactly right. And he may be working some parallel paths but he's not necessarily keeping me on a daily basis up to date with, but we're certainly doing our efforts on a daily basis.

Okay. All right. And one more question on the operations. When you guys have – you guys have disclosed obviously sales price per ton that is certainly less than the cash costs. For how much longer are you guys able to sustain that type of price point and for how many – either timing or tons, however that's most easily answered?

One reason that was the case in the first quarter obviously was the – some of the sales that got pushed out of the first quarter. So that obviously had an impact on our average sales realization. So I think that average sales realization will be substantially different in the next quarter.

Is that both for South Fork and Raven Crest?

Yes.

Okay. All right, appreciate it. Thank you very much. I'll hop back in the queue.

Thank you, Jeff.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thanks, Jeff.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending.

Wait, Amy.

Amy, you got one more just passed in there.

I'm sorry. Question comes from Greg Kennedy at PIMCO.

Hey, guys, just one specific question. Can you just give an update on the True Energy sale process? I know on the last call, you talked about trying to get something done there in the summer months, I believe.

Yeah, Greg. This is Bernie. We're in very close negotiation to finalize that, but until – I've spent my career on the M&A side and I've done multitude of transactions over the last 30 years. But I don't believe a deal was a deal until it closes. So we're still – we're close, but we're not there yet. So we hope to have something in the near future to announce. And as soon as it closes, we will announce that.

Okay. Appreciate it.

Thanks.

Thanks.

Would you like to make any closing comments at this time?

That's it. We appreciate everybody jumping on the call and nobody else is in the queue. So we'll close it up for today and look forward to speaking to everyone next quarter, and some announcements coming up hopefully between now and then.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.