Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert L. Gaylor — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.
Jay Spencer — Analyst, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.
Brian Taddeo — Analyst, Robert W. Baird
Zachary Zolnierz — Analyst, GMP Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Xinergy Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Ended December 31, 2013 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]

After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity for you to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note today's event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Bobby Gaylor, Senior Vice-President. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you. Welcome to Xinergy's Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Ended December 31, 2013 Earnings Call. And thank you for being with us today. We released our earnings yesterday after the markets closed, and the release and MD&A are posted on our website. Additional information relating to Xinergy has been filed electronically with SEDAR and is available online at www.sedar.com or at the company's website at www.xinergycorp.com.

With me on the call today are Bernie Mason, CEO & President; and Mike Castle, the Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin this morning, I need to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should be considered along with the risk factors that we note at the end of our press release, as well as in our annual information form and other SEDAR filings.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernie.

Many thanks, Bobby, and good morning, everyone. First of all, I'd like to thank each of you for your continued interest and participation in our company. And I guess we've been doing this for about three years now, and I always enjoy reviewing the call roster and seeing names that have been with us since the very beginning. And I truly thank those who continue to believe in our company.

2013 was a difficult year for the company and a difficult year for the entire industry, especially Central Appalachia. We've seen many mines closed or idled, impacting thousands of coal miners. In East Kentucky and South and West Virginia, it's estimated that for every miner, the trickle-down economic impact affects non-service or support jobs. This amount of job loss has absolutely devastated some small communities. This job loss also severely impacts churches, charitable organizations, schools and local tax bases.

2013 U.S. coal production was down only 3% to 4% from 2012. However, Central Appalachia was down almost 12%. And both the thermal and the met markets continue to be somewhat stagnant. But I always believed there's always opportunities during difficult times, and we are hoping we've capitalized on the opportunity to position South Fork and Raven Crest to take full advantage of marketing opportunities by constructing preparation plants at both locations.

There are only four new preparation plants constructed during 2013, and two were ours. We could have easily sat idle, which would have placed us 6 months to 8 months behind any potential move in the market, but we made a difficult decision and the right decision to advance two significant capital projects, and I'm extremely pleased that we did.

We now have a low-cost, high-quality thermal project at Raven Crest and a low-cost, premium mid-vol metallurgical project at South Fork. Both projects are well permitted and positioned for low-cost production well into the future.

Yes, 2013 was a difficult year for the company and our industry. However, we made great strides. I have a friend, who I said his accomplishments were nothing more than three-and-a-half yards and a cloud of dust, and I think that's a perfect analogy for our company. Their accomplishments may not be pretty, may not be noteworthy or go on headlines or touchdowns, three-and-a-half yards and a cloud of dust will continuously achieve first bounce.

But success of our company is based solely on the quality of our employees. I've already stated how proud I am of the group we've assembled. And honestly, I'm surprised that at the size of our company that we've been able to attract such a quality workforce.

And along that line, we never lose focus of the importance of looking out for the health and safety of our employees. We did not have one lost-time accident during the entire year of 2013. The Blue Knob mine is actually two years free from any lost-time accidents. Coal mining is a dangerous and labor-intensive occupation, zero lost-time accidents is nothing short of phenomenal. We also have not had any – or we do not have any outstanding environmental violations on our company. We believe in doing it the right way, and it shows.

During Q4 and most of 2013, we continued to see a sluggish thermal market. Even though we saw a brief movement in most sectors, nothing was sustaining. However, on the thermal side, we did experience one of the most extreme winters on record for most of the Eastern U.S. Extreme winter weather, resulting in high power demand coupled with the drastic production cuts have reduced utility inventories to an eight-year low. Actually, I saw an estimate that February, they expect the utility inventories to be in the range of $120 million, and that's down from well over $200 million about four years ago.

During the first quarter of 2014, we've seen some slight movement in the thermal demand with recent request for proposals from [indiscernible] (05:51) utilities. The met market is also seeing the same type of movement. There are steel makers out with solicitations – was extremely early from the year for domestic purchases. And tat's – the typical domestic purchases on the met side, usually start in – during the late third quarter, early fourth quarter. For this to happen in the first quarter, it is a rarity, and it makes me believe that most end users are thinking that we are at the bottom of the market.

One thing we are saying both in the thermal and the met sectors is buyers looking for better coal qualities, which works perfectly for us. We were very fortunate to have a very unique premium mid-vol at South Fork and a very high BTU, extremely low sulphur project at Raven Crest. Our current market's extremely competitive. And I really – I choose not to give a great deal of color on our market outlook, and I'd be happy to discuss that with anyone individually.

Moving to operations. The completion of Raven Crest preparation plant was pushed in to early first quarter of 2014, basically because of weather issues. We were on schedule to finalize the preparation plant mid-December of last year, but the winter weather actually forced us to postpone that, just basically dealing with the extreme cold weather, snow and ice, while employees were working on steel structure.

Development work continued on our refuse facility for the majority of 2013 in anticipation of the plant startup, along with development work at the mine as we prepared for production start-up in early January this year. And as an update, Raven Crest did start in early January and is currently producing at a run rate of 50,000 tons per month.

The plan is fully operational. We've completed several shipments during Q1. We anticipate our cost somewhere in the range of $55 million to $58 million, and it will take us probably three months of operating the plant to really establish the true plant costs. Historically, Raven Crest has been one of the lowest cost producers in Central Appalachia, and there's no reason this will not continue.

Onto South Fork. South Fork continues – all I say this and it – but South Fork continues to exceed my expectations. We all need to remember that South Fork was nothing more than moose pasture three years ago. We've accomplished a great deal on a very short timeframe. The fourth quarter saw us add a second fleet of equipment, which became operational mid-December. Q4 production was 55,815 tons at a cost of $92.54 per ton, and that's fully loaded on the [ph] car (09:07).

Total production for 2013 was 188,409 tons at a cost of $86.05, and that's also fully loaded on the [ph] car (09:21), $86.05. Many of you will remember me projecting a South Fork, Blue Knob cost at $100. And those of you who know me would agree that I'm not one to promote it or overstate it. I was completely honest in my expectations and estimation.

Yes, we've exceed my expectations. Our Q4 costs were up slightly due to mine development preparation for the second equipment fleet. Their current production is approximately 28,000 tons per month, which includes production from both fleets, and we plan to have the third operating unit in early Q2, which will bring our total production to approximately 40,000 tons per month. And this additional equipment will be relocated from True Energy, which remains idle.

We'll probably continue at this run rate until we had a highwall mining unit later in the year. At this time, our production will be a monthly run rate of 65,000 tons to 75,000 tons. I now feel confident that we will continue to see slight improvements in our cost as our production starts to stabilize. We should see a significant cost reduction when we add the highwall monitor to our production profile.

Those of you who've visited South Fork – those of you who haven't visited South Fork may not understand why I consider both Raven Crest low cost of $58 and South Fork low cost of $86. Both are surface mines, both are using the same type of equipment, but South Fork's extremely remote in the mountains of Southern West Virginia, which results in higher transportation cost for our plant.

And our Blue Knob mining ratio was approximately 32:1, which is extremely high. However, we're efficient with material handling, which compensates for much of the high ratio. Blue Knob's also at an elevation of 40,000 feet, and receives, on average, approximately 120 inches of snow per year. This winter, we worked in temperatures reaching negative 25 degrees.

Wait a minute. I said, we worked, when I meant to say they worked. Am I proud of our team? You're damn right I'm proud of our team. Our business is no different than any business. It's all about controlling cost, and we control our cost. We're hands on, we're there every day, and the lowest-cost producer in any business will survive.

We stated on the last call that we were looking at several scenarios to assist in delevering our balance sheet and assisting with our liquidity. The equity raise that was completed yesterday was our first move in that direction, and rest assuredly, it wasn't our last. Mike and Bobby will both describe this raise in a little more detail.

I have been asked where we are with evaluating the potential sale of our non-core assets. We don't usually comment on potential transactions until they're closed, but I will say that our goal and expectations are that we will sell non-strategic, non-core assets, totaling $50 million by the end of 2014.

Again, I appreciate your participation. I welcome your calls. I'll be happy to answer any questions during Q&A, but feel free to call me anytime. I've received a lot of calls, and I'm happy to answer any questions. I also welcome your visits. I'm proud of our team. I'm proud of our company. I'm proud of our coal mines. So, I love showing our coal mines.

And at this time, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Mike Castle. Mike?

Thank you, Bernie. First, I'll talk a little bit about revenues. In 2013, our top line revenues were $19 million on the sale of 232,000 tons as compared to revenues of $81.2 million on the sale of 1.2 million tons in 2012.

The average per ton realization for 2013 was $82.08 as compared to $67.01 for 2012. The significant change in revenues and tons sold in 2013 was due to the February 2013 sale of our Kentucky operations that in 2012 sold 846,000 tons at $61.93 and 30,000 at $56.84 in January 2013.

Excluding the Kentucky operations from the mix, our 2000 revenues – 2012 revenues were $28.7 million on the sale of approximately 365,000 tons at an average realization of $78.79, with the largest change due to the increased production sales at South Fork in 2013 as compared to 2012 and the idling of Raven Crest in mid-2012, which sold 248,000 tons prior to idling that property.

Our cost of sales – the total cost of sales were $22.9 million in 2013, as compared to $95.2 million in 2012. Again, with Kentucky out of the mix, our cost of sales 2013 were $20.4 million as compared to $44 million in 2012, a difference of about $24 million, which was, again, attributable to the Raven Crest properties that had no sales or production in 2013 but did have some in 2012.

Our cash cost, you hear us referring to cash cost quite often. We define cash cost as our total cost of sales plus or minus the increase or decrease in inventory from the previous period. Our full-year 2013 cash cost at South Fork, as Bernie said, were $86.05 per ton and $92.54 per ton in the fourth quarter 2013. That increase was primarily related to the prep plant that's brought into service in the third quarter.

However, the surface production increases to – as it increases to 40,000 tons a month, we do expect our cash cost to continue to trend downward. When highwall miner production is brought into the mix in late 2014 or early 2015, we expect that production to have a significant impact on lowering the overall cash cost at South Fork.

At Raven Crest, the cash cost for 2011, which was the last full year of production, was under $55 million. In 2014, with the addition of the prep plant, a new valley fill permit and good surface in highwall miner production mix, we still expect cash cost to be in the mid $50 millions. Well, now being able to ship a high quality product for U.S. and export end users.

SG&A, our SG&A was $8.4 million in 2013. Of this total, $1 million was non-cash related share-based expenses and approximately $1 million were one-time non-recurring professional fees. Currently, our cash expenses for SG&A are below $500,000 a month and exclusive with any one-time or deal-specific-related expenses, they're expected to remain at that level or lower.

Net income, net loss. Our net loss for the year was $38.6 million or $0.70 per share, and that included approximately $25 million in one-time non-cash items, which one of them was a $6 million impairment charge for our True Energy property that remains idle and is expected to be sold in the near term and a $19 million reduction in deferred income taxes. We also have one-time gain of $11 million on the sale of our Kentucky operations.

One additional comment about our income tax is that the company has a $122 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards that can be used to offset any future taxable income. Capital expenditures in 2013, we had $39.3 million in capital expenditures, all except about $240,000 was capital – was expansion capital. $6.6 million was for the construction of our prep plant, CSX rail loading facility and rehabbing about seven miles of railways at South Fork, and that was put into service in July 2013 and about $2.5 million of mine development at South Fork, which was for the Blue Knob Surface Mine.

We also spent about $10.5 million at our Raven Crest and Brier Creek prep plant. It was put into service in January 201. And about $2.1 million at Sewell Mountain, which is our mid-vol metallurgical development property in West Virginia.

In January, we provided production sales guidance for South Fork and Raven Crest. At this time, we don't have any changes in that guidance, but we will provide updates with the next quarterly filing in mid-May, which will also hopefully include cash cost and capital expenditures, as well as production and sales going forward for 2014 and 2015.

Liquidity. At December 31, 2013, we had $10.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, $10 million in restricted cash. Approximately $3.5 million of the restricted cash is from the sale of our Kentucky operations, including $3 million being held in escrow that will be released in June 2014. We also have $1.4 million held as collateral with JPMorgan that will be returned at a rate of $2 a ton as we ship under that agreement with JPMorgan, which started shipping in January 2014.

Also, I want to make it clear that we have no equipment debt, which gives us an available basket, $25 million under our indenture for equipment financing needs as they may come up. As we also released last night, we closed a fully subscribed $11 million share offering yesterday, generated $4.95 million. These proceeds will be used to further enhance our liquidity and for general corporate purposes.

As we previously discussed and Bernie touched on, we do – we continue our efforts to sell non-core, non-strategic assets in efforts to enhance liquidity to fund future CapEx or reduce debt with the overall goal, to improve our balance sheet and capital structure.

Lastly, we'll begin efforts to work towards becoming a dual U.S. and Canadian-listed company in the near-term. We believe that a U.S. listing, in conjunction with a Canadian listing will enhance our capital-raising efforts and provide more opportunity to marketplace for us as we work through challenging times our industry has faced over the last few years. Not just in the U.S., but for the international commodities markets as well.

As Bernie stated, at the end of the day, we believe that low-cost producers will survive in any down market. We simply want to give ourselves any opportunity that's available to continue that trend.

Thank you. I'll now open it up for questions, unless Bobby has any further comments he wants to make on the equity offering.

We'll just open it up for Q&A. If anybody's got any questions on the offering, I'll be more than happy to answer them. [Operator Instructions]

And our first comes from [ph] Mark Venulist (20:47) from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I just have two quick ones. Was there any impact to operations at Raven Crest and South Fork due to the extreme winter weather?

Oh, man. Well, Mark, really, it wasn't a major impact at South Fork even though it was the most extreme winter I've ever experienced in my entire life. We may have lost a day hauling occasionally, but we usually made it up on a Saturday or so. So, it really wasn't a major impact. We did have some equipment issues, just trying to operate in sub-zero weather. So, really and surely, it wasn't a – really, I'll say, an impact at South Fork.

Raven Crest was a little bit of a different issue just for the preparation plant. The winter weather made it very difficult to work on a steel structure. That calls this issue. That's really reason that we delayed – we probably delayed our construction by I'll say two weeks to three weeks because of that. On another angle, with South Fork, we did have some impact over the weather with the railroad with CSX. They had some issues, some weather issues, but all in all, air production, it was – the impact was very minor.

Great. What's the status of the low-cost highwall miners at both Raven Crest and South Fork?

Well, our highwall miner's operating at Raven Crest and doing extremely well. Their production this month – or actually in March was 53,000 tons of Raven Crest, and 38,000 tons of that was from a highwall miner, which we're washing about 10% to 15% of that number. And the rest that we're processing, [ph] met (22:54) mine. We're just blending it with coal from our preparation plant. So it's doing well. Raven Crest is a very productive site for highwall miner, and highwall mining is lowest-cost motive of coal mining that we have available to us.

South Fork, we do have an existing permit that we could move a highwall miner to immediately. However, we've chosen that we only have a limited amount of production on that existing permit, so I'm – we're currently modifying that to add approximately 500,000 tons of additional highwall miner reserve to this permi. And we expect issuance in the fourth quarter of this year.

So, when we get to that point, we may even start our highwall miner up a little bit sooner on their existing permit, but I do want highwall miner production in our overall South Fork profile just because of the cost associated. It's extremely low-cost. But at Raven Crest, we own our highwall miner. At South Fork, I'm talking to two different highwall mining contractors, so we may utilize a contractor at South Fork, which is a little bit higher or a little bit more expensive. But still, it's a – we only have one machine today. So, instead of looking at purchasing, we'll probably, at least initially, look toward a contract highwall miner.

Great. Keep up the good work. That's all I've got.

Thanks, Mark.

And our next question from Jay Spencer from Sterne Agee. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, guys. Good morning.

Hi, Jay.

Hey. I just had a question for you about maintenance CapEx. You guys care to put a number on that for this year?

Jay, we haven't provided any guidance on our CapEx as of yet this year. But typically, we will here in mid-May when we make our first quarter filings. But we obviously will have some CapEx associated with both these surface mines, but we're not going to have that number available until we get additional equipment up there from the True Energy job and we get through these last couple of months here. We'll make it available pretty soon.

Okay. My second question was, in the release, you mentioned some inventory sell down, which you think would be about $5 million. Is that thermal or met? And is all of that expected – is all of that $5 million expected before May and after fiscal year in 2013?

Yes. It's all thermal. First of all, it's at Raven Crest. And Bernie can talk about the quality, but it's – we expect to have all of that coal shipped and be paid for by the end of April. And as a matter of fact, that's probably going just a little bit – it'll be going just a little bit quicker than that even though we have had, as Bernie mentioned, some disruptions in CSX rail service. We haven't lost of trains, but we have trains that have been delayed a few days here and there, but all of that inventory should be gone in the next few weeks.

Got you. And that $5 million refers to the amount that would be captured after fiscal year-end of 2013? I just want to make sure the first few months.

Yeah. That's the net realization we expect on selling that inventory, since all that coal was mined in the prior years. And we will incur some washing cost. We will wash part of it, and we'll incur some – a little bit of transportation-related costs and so forth. But it should net – should still be in that range, yes.

Thank you.

Oops. Never mind. Okay.

And once again, if – we have Brian Taddeo from Baird. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Just a quick one, just to clarify a little bit on the non-core asset sales. What is in that bucket right now? Is there anything other than South Fork – or anything other than South Fork and Raven Crest? Just the $50 million you talked about, so basically, what is – or what could go into that bucket?

To date, I would say True Energy and possibly Sewell Mountain, which is another, mid-vol Sewell reserve that we control of 40-plus million tons, so both of those projects. And we also have some surplus equipment from the Brier Creek mining facility, underground mining facility, so we have some available equipment. It could possibly be sold from that asset.

Got it. Okay. Thanks very much. That's all I have.

Okay.

And sir at this time it showing no additional questions . I'd like to turn the conference call back over for any closing remarks.

There's a couple of more.

Actually, we just saw, [ph] Murphy, Christina (28:21), show up, so if they'd like to ask a question, we'll go ahead and let Murphy go.

And Murphy, there you are now in the question queue.

Hi. I may have missed some of the stuff you had talked about earlier, but I was curious just – I know you have talked about the low cost that we've been able to achieve. When the highwall miner comes in, is there more room there to improve those costs? And what's the maximum production you see is best achievable?

You bet, Murphy. South Fork that's really why I want to see highwall miner production in our overall South Fork profile, because it is extremely low cost and with their – at Raven Crest, Raven Crest [ph] co-hype (29:10) is a little bit thicker, so we get a little bit more production. This past March, we produced 38,000 tons from highwall miner at Raven Crest. I don't see that kind of productivity at South Fork. I see productivity more in the line of plus or minus 20,000, maybe even up to 25,000 clean tons per month. And I really project an overall cost of mining preparation, trucking royalty, fully loaded highwall miner in plus or minus $50 range so it'll have a huge impact on our overall South Fork costs.

And when do you see that happening?

That's probably – all of you heard the statement about the fourth quarter. We have an existing permit. It's not like we're going out and awaiting a new greenfield-type permit. This is an existing permit that we're modifying it to add highwall mining, which will have approximately 600,000 total highwall miner tons available to us. And I expect theissuance of that permit modification in the fourth quarter of this year. So, we will – we'll be prepared and begin immediately upon receiving that permit approval.

All right. Well, thank you.

You bet.

And our next question comes from Zach Zolnierz from GMP Securities. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for the questions. My first was a follow up actually to a previous question on the non-core asset sale bucket. I know you mentioned True Energy and Sewell Mountain. I just wanted to clarify, do you consider Raven Crest also in the non-core bucket or no?

Well, I do not, but my career is basically been built on the M&A side for the last 35 years, so I believe in value. I think we always look for value. And if we could look at Raven Crest for real value that would be meaningful to our company and our shareholders. And, of course, we would evaluate any type of offer, but I do consider Raven Crest as a core piece of their overall production profile.

Understood. That's helpful. And then my second question, I think in the last earnings release, you guys had mentioned the May coupon payment on the debt potentially being an issue. And I know you just raised the $5 million of equity, and I think the language changed now to the November coupon payment. So I mean, is it fair to assume that the liquidity you have now, without any additional levers, you do expect to make the May coupon payment?

Yes.

All right. Appreciate it. Thanks, guys.

Okay.

And, gentlemen, at this time, I'm showing no additional questions. I'd like to turn the conference call back over for any closing remarks.

I just want to thank everybody for joining us today. And that concludes this earnings call.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for attending. You many now disconnect your telephone line.