Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Chris Halouma — Director-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.
William R. Snodgrass — Vice President Sales and Mining Operations South, Xinergy Ltd.
Russell Stanley — Analyst, Jennings Capital, Inc.
Jay Spencer — Analyst, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.
David Anthony Charles — Analyst, GMP Securities
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Wojtek Nowak — Analyst, Fraser Mackenzie Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Xinergy Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Halouma, Director, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator and good morning. I'd like to thank all of our participants for joining us on Xinergy's third quarter conference call. Last night, we did file our financial statements for the three months ended September 30, 2011, along with our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations or our MD&A for the corresponding period. Those have been posted on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on the company's website at www.xinergycorp.com.

As a reminder, we will be discussing forward-looking information that involves unique risk involving the business, operation, and financial results of Xinergy. Forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to, statements with respect to tons of coal under contract, price per ton for committed tons under contract, estimated cash cost of production, increased production capacity as a result of [audio gap] (01:39-01:45) recently acquired properties, additional capital expenditures, and additional permitted mines, reserves that have been recently leased or acquired, and the future development of recently acquired properties and lease reserves.

Many of these risk factors and uncertainties are further described in the documents we file with the Canadian Securities Regulatory Authority available on SEDAR, also our AIF, our Annual Information Forms.

Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on such forward-looking information. We make no representation that results – that actual results received – achieved during any forecast period will be the same in whole or in part as forecast result and we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking information indicated here today, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be permit – required by applicable securities laws.

This call is being recorded and will be available for replay approximately one hour after the conclusion of the event through October 31. This call can also be heard live on the Internet and a replay of the webcast will be available in the Investor section of our website. There you will also find the most recent presentation – the most recent version of our investor presentation.

On the call this morning, we have Bernie Mason, Xinergy's President; Mike Castle, Xinergy's Chief Financial Officer; Matt Goldfarb, Xinergy's Vice President – Vice Chairman; and last but certainly not least, Bill Snodgrass, our Vice President of Sales and Mining Operations South. Unfortunately, our Chairman and CEO, Jon Nix is not with us today. One of Jon's lifelong friends passed away last night. We know he's out there listening, so our thoughts and prayers are with Jon as he deals with the loss of a great friend.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bernie.

Thanks, Chris. Thank you, everyone for participating today and we will have Q&A later, so, please feel free to ask any questions that should arise. Just generally, I'd like to state that our coal mines are continuing to perform extremely well and at a very low-cost structure and of that, I'm extremely proud.

Here at Xinergy we stress low cost, we are hands-on co-operators and we continue to strive to make our mines extremely efficient. And I'm also happy to say that our third quarter was our best performing quarter to date, even though we did have some operating issues, which I will discuss later, but it was our best production, sales and EBITDA performance to date.

So, we do continue to stay focused on our mines. We operate our mines in an extremely safe and environmentally-compliant manner. To date, in 2011, we have had eight loss time accidents, only one I would refer to as a serious accident and it was really not mine-related. But – and we also do not have – we have zero environmental violations at this time, so of that, I'm also extremely proud.

We do operate our mines, we keep our reclamation current, I know a lot of you have been on our mines and you've seen that and we strive to basically, to simplify it, we do it right. And we do evaluate our mines constantly and look at how to be more efficient, controlling and/or reducing our mining costs, even at today's environment, I think we can continue to reduce our cost from our current levels.

We did have a couple of operating issues in the third quarter, which pushed our costs a little bit higher than acceptable, especially at Raven Crest and I'll touch on this one a little bit later.

Just a brief overview of the market and I'll let Bill address this one later, but the thermal market in the U.S. continues to be very stagnant and, basically, that's just because of the current U.S. economy. But we continue to maintain our shipments for our current customers and ship on our existing contracts.

However, we do choose not to push a great deal of tonnage into an already flat spot market. The spot market even though we – with our cost structure, we would have a nice margin from our current cost, where the prompt spot is at today's rates, but we choose not to basically push anymore tons into an already flat market.

The met market, the pricing has pulled back somewhat, but it is still extremely hungry for available tons and quality tons. So we have – we are in the met market in – with our Virginia operation and we're very excited to prepare for a step into the met market with our mid-vol project in – at Greenbrier.

I'll move to our operations, our Straight Creek operation. Straight Creek continues to perform extremely well. Production run rate is a steady 125,000 tons per month or 1.5 million tons on an annualized basis and we'll probably keep it there. We do have the flexibility of increasing this production, but we just choose not to do it today just because of the current spot market.

We did pull our guidance back earlier and that was really the reason. It was market-driven. We don't have operational issues that has impacted our production, but we do have two months at Straight Creek that are poised and ready to go into production when we decided to do this. But the 125,000 continues to produced from three surface mine – three surface mines, one high wall miner and one underground mine. A lot of you know that my background is geology and permitting exploration and land acquisition, I mean, that is – it is the lifeblood of any mining company and we stress it. We're constantly looking for bolt-on acquisitions, land acquisitions and we have a very strong exploration program.

So, we're constantly trying to grow all the reserves, grow our permitted reserves because, in my opinion, that's what this business is all about. It's about coal. So, you have to have reserves. You have to have reserves and in front of this production machine. So, we're extremely active around all of our properties trying to increase the reserve position.

At Straight Creek, we have received two new mining permits this year and we have several modifications and amendments in regulatory review. In permitting, you've heard me say it many times on presentations, that all the negatives you hear about the regulatory environment in Central Appalachia, they're all true. But we deal with this on a daily basis. I've spent 30 years of my career dealing with regulatory issues and the various regulatory agencies. I think I counted the other day that we seek approval from eight different regulatory agencies for all of our mines. So, this is something we deal with and we're dealing with it very, very successfully.

As I mentioned, we did have two mines that we were expecting to bring on production at Straight Creek earlier in 2011 and that was our number four underground mine and our number seven surface mines. Both were really expected to be producing in early first quarter of this year. But we chose not to do that just because of weak markets, even though we've already spent approximately 75% to 80% of the necessary CapEx to put these mines into production.

Our Straight Creek market, we do continue to ship on the existing business from Straight Creek while we do focus on new opportunities and we do have additional business available to us from potential customers that have actually already gone through a test burn analysis. So we're poised for the market. We do think the market is moving somewhat not because of the increased demand in power generation but, basically, because of problems that some companies have with production. So production – available production in Central Appalachia is, it has been reduced in 2011 from 2010. So we think we're poised to take advantage of that.

And we're also in a unique position with some of the M&A activity that's happened in Central Appalachia with some of the larger producers. This allows us to take advantage of some market situations because there are several utilities that have mandates where they can only take a certain percentage of coal from one certain entity. So, if you combine two of the larger companies in Central Appalachia, that really is going to poise us to take advantage of a very unique position here.

I really prefer going in to 2012 with having about 70% to 75% of our coal sold forward, which – that allows us to have a window of opportunity to take advantage of any upside in the market. But we are flexible with our production. We can manipulate our production with their working schedule, so I think we're in good shape going into 2012 with the market. And like I said, I'll let Bill address that later within the Q&A.

Moving to Raven Crest, their third quarter production was reduced from prior levels, basically, due to a permit delay and it not only reduced their production but it also caused a slight increase in our operating cost. But since this permit, amendment has been issued. And we expect our production levels and our cost to return to the normal levels in the fourth quarter.

Their high wall miner at Raven Crest continues to produce extremely well. One thing we did do in mid-year, we chose the high wall mine, a coal bed that their predecessor had never high wall mined before. And this was actually a thinner coal bed, so we have been successful doing this but mining thinner coals, it generates a higher ash product. So it caused us some issues on blending this coal off. So we have constructed a small portable cleaning plant on site, where we're washing their high wall miner coal, but this allows us to do a couple of different things.

It allows us to sell a very inexpensive high ash product directly from our high wall miner or it allows us to sell a premium processed coal, which would be about a 12,800 to 13,000 Btu product, very, very low ash which we could sell out on the open market or blend it off with their other surface production, which allows us to a very unique marketing tool there.

But with the success of our high wall miner, we're really looking for our 2012 production from Raven Crest between those – our surface mine and our high wall miner to be in the range of 750,000 to 850,000 tons on an annualized basis for 2012.

Brier Creek which – I always consider Brier Creek a very integral part of Raven Crest, but Brier Creek is the large underground acquisition we've made in early 2011, which is immediately adjacent to the north of Raven Crest. This acquisition was approximately 27 million – that might not be exactly right, but say 25 million tons of permitted underground, high quality thermal coal, which we really were planning on bringing online in 2012. But with the success that we've had with this portable cleaning plant, we've reevaluated this timeline and that we're planning to start at this mine late this month of October or early November.

Our outside facilities are nearly complete, which includes – we established line power, we constructed 100-person bathhouse with offices, shop and supply house. All of our mine canopies are in phase – in place, plus our coal-handling facilities. And this has been done at a CapEx cost of approximately $4.5 million and included in this is equipment to operate a single section.

So, to be quite honest, I'm shocked that we're ready to mine coal at a $4.5 million number, because we've really – we budgeted a larger CapEx number than this, but we are ready to do this and we will start the single section, like I said, here in the next 20 days or so. And we expect this single unit to produce somewhere between 10,000 and 15,000 tons per month. This will be – we'll probably split this coal with 50% of the production going through a cleaning plant and then we'll blend off the other 50% with our cleaner run-of-mine coal, what we generate off of our surface mine.

So even though we're starting this as a single section at 10,000 to 15,000 tons a month, when this mine is fully developed with three – it will be three super sections. It will have the capability of producing somewhere between 900,000 and 1 million tons on annualized basis. So this is going to be a super coal mine. It's all fully permitted. The preparation plant, the empanelment, refuse empanelment, is fully permitted. So we're bringing this one online a little sooner than we'd originally anticipated.

Speaking of our preparation plants, we are constructing a 600-ton per hour heavy media plant, which – and also a very expansive coal handling, raw [ph] ankling (16:48) coal handling facility along with a refuse handling. The refuse empanelment, it's being prepared today. It is fully permitted. We expect this plant to be fully operational by October of – I'm sorry, August of 2012.

So Raven Crest and Brier Creek is poised for the future. It's going to be a nice generator. It's a solid – a very, very solid company with not a lot of moving parts. We have a very strong management team there. So we're – we have this mine situated for the future.

Our True Energy acquisition; the True Energy is the Virginia acquisition that we made in July of this year. It's a high-vol metallurgical mine, and we have integrated the mine into our system and actually it's performing much better on a production level than I anticipated and, actually, at a lower cost. It is a high ratio mine. It's almost a 30:1 mining ratio, but we're doing it on a very efficient basis with our cost in the low- to mid-70s. And our sales position there is $118.50 FOB mine site, so this mine is basically, as we say in the South, it has definitely hit the ground running.

The purchase price was approximately $20 million for True Energy, and that included $16.8 million of cash paid at closing and a $1.6 million note to the sellers. And actually this note to the seller was a buy-down of a 5% production royalty. So, even though it's $1.6 million payout, we will get the benefit of this going forward, because we basically reduced their production royalty by 5%.

In addition to the $16.8 million, there's also a $2 million payment due when a new permit is issued. The existing permit – there's some limit associated with that, that's expected to be issued by the end of the year – end of this year, 2011. So at that time of issuance, we will owe the previous owner a $2 million payment.

Total high-vol reserves in this acquisition were approximately 2.6 million and we are very active acquiring additional reserves, which are really adjacent to our very active mine. To date, we've secured seven additional properties that are under our control and we're in the process of permitting those sites for exploration that we'll initiate sometime mid-fourth quarter of this year. Today, the current high wall market sales is for 10,000 tons per month and runs through March 2012. We're processing, as I said earlier, $118.50 which is FOB mine site.

And we do have the opportunity to extend this existing contract but we're also evaluating other sales opportunities between the NS railroad and the river market to the north of us. So True Energy is – even though it's a small production unit, it is a positive cash generator, so we're pretty excited about this little coal mine. Actually, when you make an – or at least when I'm making acquisition, I always worry about performance, and this mine is performing much better than what we initially anticipated.

Last but definitely not least, our South Fork project. South Fork is our mid-vol project in Greenbrier County, West Virginia and it is getting closer to reality. This is the acquisition that we made and most all of you have seen it in presentations that we've given. But we have received our permit transfers from the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection, which gives us the right to begin development. And actually we can begin that development today. But these are older permits and we have to redesign and modify their air spool handling and that is in the review process with the West Virginia DEP at this time and we expect the issuance early December this year and our plan is to begin coal removal immediately.

When – we expect to begin development – the roads [ph] are in (21:57) to this project, so we expect to begin development with clearing and grubbing, air silt control, building ponds. We expect this development work to begin mid-November with total removal to begin early in December of this year.

We do have our mine management in place and we are purchasing the necessary surface equipment. We're probably, I'll say, 30% away from – or we've already secured 30% of the necessary equipment and within two weeks, we'll have, if not all of the equipment in place, 80% of the necessary equipments. So we are moving forward there. Mike will address CapEx to-date with South Fork and where we're going in the future.

We are permitting a railroad out on the CSX railroad and we anticipate issuance on this permit in the early in 2012. We'll also – we'll begin construction immediately on this load-out. Prior to construction of the load-out we'll have – we'll be utilizing a third party load-out, at least until – anticipate our load-out being ready by Q3 of 2012.

The market for mid-vol – mid-vol is a very unique problem – or a very unique product, and this is a period of mid-vol met product. It is a 27 vol. It's highly sought after. This is a Sewell coal bed in Southern West Virginia and it is extremely highly sought after.

Our market, until our mine is fully developed, what we're doing today, we're discussing this product with several coal brokers and we will continue this until the mine is fully developed. But today, we expect sales to be in excess of $200 FOB mine site for this product.

On the production, we expect our first production from the mine that we will refer to as Lost Flats, and that will be in the range of 15,000 to 25,000 tons per month. We're also permitting another area that's referred to as Blue Knob and we expect issuance there to be Q2 of 2012. And that will be another 15,000 to 25,000 tons per month operation.

We do have an underground mine that is being – well, actually, it is permitted similar to the way Lost Flats is, and we'll have approval on that permit also in December. It is fully phased up and it will have the capacity of 15,000 to 18,000 tons per month.

So this project really has a capability of 50,000 to 75,000 tons per month. And how we take it forward, it will depend on the market. I did feel like the market is going to be there just because of the availability or the lack of available metallurgical coals from Central Appalachia.

So we are excited, to say the least, about the potential of this project. We've talked about it for a long time and – but our talk is getting ready to stop. So we're getting ready to start performing and that's going to happen this year. So we are very, very excited about this one.

Mergers and acquisitions, we – I've spent my career on the M&A side of the business and we're constantly looking at potential acquisitions whether they're bolt-on acquisitions, bolt-on to our existing operations or pure standalone projects. And we've been successful this year with acquisitions in 2011, with our Greenbrier, Brier Creek and True Energy, and we're not finished yet.

So, I'm very proud of our company and a lot of you have heard me say that in presentations. I'm proud of who we are. I'm proud of what we've accomplished in a very, very short timeframe. I'm proud of the team we've put together and I invite all of you down. We love to show our coal mines. We're very, very proud of our coal mines. So, whether we have a tour or a trip for a large group or if you like to come individually, we welcome you. We welcome you down to our mines and we love to show our mines and we want you as long-time shareholders. So, if we can ever assist with the information or whether it's a trip or just a phone call, do not ever hesitate to call on us.

And with that, I'll turn the financial side over to Mike Castle.

Thank you, Bernie. First, I'll review a few of the financial highlights for the quarter then I'll discuss some of the material items and changes in our balance sheet as well as some items in our statement of operations.

Coal sales increased 29% to $48.7 million from $37.7 million in the same quarter 2010, on sales of 532,000 tons as compared to sales of 434,000 tons in the same quarter 2010. Our adjusted EBITDA was $12.2 million for the quarter and that was compared to $11.2 million in the same quarter of 2010.

Another item in the second – third quarter in July, we entered into a long-term supply agreement for the delivery period beginning January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014. This agreement provides for the delivery of 2.16 million tons of thermal coal or 720,000 tons per year from the company's Raven Crest and Brier Creek mines in West Virginia. The agreement represents a minimum aggregate value of approximately $170 million in revenue over the term with a significant potential upside from index-based escalators.

A couple of items on the balance sheet that I think we need to discuss, at September 30, our cash balance was $94.4 million and that compared to $145 million at June 30. A brief reconciliation of those items are as follows, I guess: We, as Bernie stated, we spent $16.8 million on the True Energy acquisition. We also had a share repurchase normal course issuer bid that we completed early part of the third quarter for $17.2 million. And we've moved $12 million in cash from our operating cash to restricted cash and that was to collateralize and support the long-term coal supply agreement that I just mentioned.

Also, our assets, our assets, total assets at September 30 for $285 million compared $153 million in December. Significant increase, obviously a lot of that increase is cash, but we've also had significant increases in property, plant, and equipment and other CapEx.

This year, year-to-date, through September we've spent about – we've incurred about $32 million in CapEx. Briefly, here's sort of a summary: Straight Creek, our Kentucky mines, we spent about $22 million; the Brier Creek operations, roughly, $4.5 million; South Fork about $0.5 million; Raven Crest $4.7 million; True Energy very little, about $50,000 so far this year.

Of that CapEx, about $4 million to $5 million of that has been maintenance CapEx. We have a schedule in the filings that we made last night for proposed – or for the CapEx expenditures going forward and I'll discuss that here in just a few moments.

I'll move to the statement of operations for the third quarter. As I stated, our coal sales volume for the third quarter 2011 was 532,000 tons. It's a 22% increase from 434,000 tons that were sold in the third quarter 2010. The increase in sales was primarily a result of increased production and sales from our Kentucky operations, which had volume increases in this quarter of just under 50% over the previous – same quarter previous year.

Our average sales price per ton was approximately $91.50 for the third quarter compared to $86.86 for the third quarter 2010. Cost of coal sales for the quarter was $32.5 million as compared to $23.5 million in the same quarter 2010. This is directly attributable to the additional production of our Kentucky mines. Obviously, the increase is being driven by the primary factors in our cost structure, which is labor, fuel, blasting, coal handling and preparation costs. We still are having cash cost of under $60 a ton in the quarter and year-to-date this year.

A couple of other items I'll discuss is the depreciation, depletion, amortization expenses for the quarter were $7.4 million as compared to $4.8 million in the same quarter 2010. Obviously, this is being driven by the capital expenditures that we've been incurring, which most of these assets have depreciable lives of two to seven years.

Net income, our net income for the third quarter is $5.4 million as compared to $1.7 million for the same quarter in 2010. This increase is primarily due to an increase in the non-cash unrealized gain. It was associated with our outstanding share purchase warrants that are due in December 2011. This volatility is driven – is primarily through the volatility in our stock price throughout the third quarter. Our share price fluctuated between $2.94 and $4.96 for the quarter.

Turn it back over to Bernie, you want to go through any of the CapEx items that we've not discussed on a job-by-job basis? We have a table in our filing that has estimates of 2012 CapEx. Bernie discussed some of the items in his discussion, but we have approximately, it looks like $65 million to $70 million remaining CapEx that we'll be spending next year, primarily again on the Brier Creek and the South Fork properties. We'll spend some of that money in this quarter, but the majority of that will start being spent in the first quarter and the second quarter 2012.

Bernie, you want to turn it over to questions?

Yes. Does anyone have any questions, comments?

Operator, I think we're ready for questions.

Thanks so much. We will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] At this time, we will pause momentarily to assembly our roster. The first question comes from [ph] Jeff Kramer of UBS (33:49). Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, guys and thanks for having the call.

Hey, Jeff.

Good morning, Jeff.

I'm just interested in your conversations with the utilities recently on the back of [ph] Casper (34:04) and just what you've been hearing on that front, as far as contracting more tons going forward, when you may think you be somewhat market dependent, when you think you'll do that going forward?

I'll – this is Bernie, Jeff. I'll touch base on my belief of [ph] Casper (34:19). Honestly, we don't see any major change in the utilities. And with [ph] Casper (34:28) as itself, just the negativity of it, where plays on the press. I think really, that's the only impact it's going to have. I can't imagine it going through Congress. Actually, I feel almost pretty confident that we'll not move through Congress. But today, we do not see any impact from the utilities.

And there has been some announced plant closures from various utilities, but honestly, those plants were – have been scheduled to be retired over the last several years. So, as of today, we see no change in the way utilities are moving on contracted basis, so I don't see it being an impact. Bill may be able to take that a step further, but I don't see as [ph] Casper (35:23) being an impact outside of – we don't like negative comments that impact our industry. I just think the more negative issues that are thrown out there, where the public picks it up and it's played through the press, that does impact our business but I don't think it will have a physical impact on how the utilities move forward.

Do you have anything to add on that, Bill?

I think it's right down the line. The only thing I would add is some of these plant closings that Bernie spoke about, that has been planned, matching up with production coming out of Central Appalachian seems to be the production may be coming offline quicker than what plant closures are coming.

Right, okay. And just to be clear, I heard on – if I heard correctly, on South Fork, if I understand correctly, the permits from Alpha that transferred and then the additional permits, do you expect those at the end of the year? Or if that's still by the end of the year, was that first quarter of 2012?

Got that. Actually, how that's worked, those were Alpha permits, you're correct. There was three permits and they were – they're older permits. They were not seeing 70-issued permits or mid-70s. Those have been transferred. They have been transferred into our name. So we – they are ours. And those permits give us the right to begin development.

However, it doesn't give us the right to remove coal. We could start roads, ponds, things like that being constructed. But we're in the process of bringing those three permits up to today's standards with spool handling and the various safety standards that MSHA requires. So, that's the process now and we do expect that to be fully approved, actually, it's the second week of December is when we expect that. And that will allow for coal removal. The Blue Knob permit, that's a greenfield project that we permitted ourselves and we're expecting issuance on that one most probably sometime during the second quarter of 2012.

Got it. So that's the driving the $300,000 to $750,000 range – ton range for next year. That's driving the width of that range?

Yeah, that's right. And in that production, it will be a ramp up production, we're going to start just mining in the dead of winter, so we know it will be a few months before it's fully operational. So we're staggering that production moving forward 5,000, 10,000, 15,000 tons per month until it is fully operational.

So, 30's are – 300,000 tons next year, that's – we may beat that just a little bit but that's kind of where we are with it, but whether we bring the underground mine on, that will also be permitted by the end of the year but we could bring that project online and sell that coal. What we can't blend off, run-of-mine, with our surface production, we could sell it locally to a third party perforation plant until we decide to build our own plant. We have a lot of flexibility with that project.

Got it, okay. And just on capital allocation, you guys obviously had a busy quarter between M&A, share repurchases, debt repurchases. Could you just maybe just lay out, I know you touched on the M&A that there is still some more to do. You've got some big CapEx coming up on the first half of 2012. And just kind of priorities there for cash and kind of where you want to keep liquidity at a minimum?

Obviously, our priorities right now are to develop the properties that Bernie's discussed. And as far as liquidity, I think we should always have a minimum of 90 to 120 days in liquidity available at any given time. But we have – we're still developing our budgets for CapEx on these projects as Bernie discussed and we'll finalize that over the next month.

The next question comes from Russell Stanley of Jennings Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Hey, Russ.

Russ.

First question, I guess, on the acquisition front, you spoke to it a bit earlier, but given the weakness in the market, are you seeing any more opportunities pop up and I guess to what extent are you focused on, thermal or met?

With the market, actually there's – that really hasn't changed things. The market really hasn't. We do still see some opportunities from private individuals who are – you've heard me state this in the past, that basically they're tired of the regulatory headaches that we all deal with and are looking at exiting the business. There are some opportunities out there and we're looking at several now.

We're not really focused met. We're not really focused thermal. We're really looking at what's available. And today we're looking a little bit of both. And some are associated with our active operations. I like to call them bolt-on acquisitions. Not a great deal of upfront capital necessary. And we can utilize a lot synergies between our existing properties and we can move those tons through our existing facilities. So, there are opportunities out there and we're very actively looking now. But we're not to a point of really discussing any of them at this point in time, but we'll see how the rest of the year plays out.

Great. Thank you for that one. I guess on the customer side, any efforts being made, I guess, to obtain new customers? And on a related matter, any opportunities on the export side that you consider?

Russ, this is Bill. We have took measures throughout this year developing new relationships with the customers, new customers, as well continuing with our existing customers and their shipments, and we feel that we're in a good place where we've done several tests that the coal has already been approved to move forward in 2012.

On the export side, right now, I think we're really talking with several different brokers on the met coal and they've probably will not release any of that until we get the properties into production.

Russ, really on the export side, as Bill said, we're talking to brokers. We're really not talking to end users at this point in time just because I don't think we will be at a production level to be able to compete globally for at least a year. And until that timeframe, we'll probably just continue to look at various coal brokers that have existing business where we can place our tons.

That's great. Thanks for the color, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Jay Spencer of Sterne Agee. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. I just wanted to get a little more color on South Fork, specifically the 300,000, the 750,000 tons that you're expecting next year. Is that all mid-vol coal?

Yes. That's – all of South Fork is a pure mid-vol. It's a 27 to a 28 vol.

Got it.

So it's 100% mid-vol.

Got you. And there you're seeing current pricing 200 plus, right?

That's 200 plus mine sites. We're seeing numbers in the 265 to 285 range at the port, so that equates back to something north of 200 at the mine site.

Got you. Got you. And so the cash cost there, I think, in the release you said around $100 a ton. I just want to confirm that both Lost Flats and Blue Knob were surface mines and that, that $100 cash cost is a good figure for both of those?

That is correct. They're both surface mines. And to be quite honest, I can't imagine producing coal for $100. That shocks me. But these properties, they are isolated. We have a lot of road maintenance that we'll have to keep up and they're high-ratio coal mines. They're a 27 to 30:1 coal mine, but it – which is very similar to our True Energy mine which our cash – or our costs there are in the mid-70s.

So I'm hoping to better the $100 number but that's the number that we do have in our performance, so we do think we're conservative on the side of costs and actually on the sales also. So we want to air on the conservative side.

Got you. And related to that, given the elevation of Greenbrier and the amount of snow that you guys receive up there, is there at a point in the year which you can no longer operate up there or that operations will be curtailed? Or can you just give some color on how the weather might impact the development of that facility?

That's a good question. It is and it's very high in elevation. It's about 4,500 feet. Extreme winters. Honestly, I think, we can get through December and part of January, maybe the end of January, through parts of February, we'll have to slow our production or maybe even stop production. Honestly, at this point in time, I can't answer that. But I know, going forward, in 2012, what our plans are. Our plan's really to overproduce these coal mines. And we're looking at building our load-outs and building it, actually overbuilding it with silos and having large areas for coal storage. So we can overproduce in the summer months and if the weather impacts us in the winter months, we'll still have enough coal on hand to continue our contracted shipments.

So, how we do – I think the weather may impact us this year going forward because we are ramping up. But hopefully, after we get our mines fully producing, we'll be able to manage that going forward.

Okay, great. Thanks. And last question, regarding your relationship with JPMorgan, have you guys had any further discussions with them about amending that contract to either increase it or perhaps pull it forward or even delay it, potentially. I just want to get some color on what's going on there with JPMorgan.

We really haven't looked at delaying it. Actually, we would have the opportunity to increase the tonnage and really increase the volume. But we chose not to. We, actually, we reduced it by about 30% going into next year, just because I want to be comfortable. I wanted 60,000 tons even though – we know we'll be producing – 60,000 tons on a monthly basis, even though we know we'll be producing more than that, but I wanted some market flexibility.

As I said earlier, I prefer being contracted out in the 75% range, maybe a little bit more than that. But we think this is a solid business. JPMorgan they appeared to be very active in the market in building a sales desk or a trading desk. So, we're kind of excited about how this goes forward. And it also gives us a flexibility of moving coal on the CSX and also on to the Kanawha River, which is just north of us at Raven Crest.

Okay. That's all for me. Thanks.

The next question comes from David Charles of GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good morning, guys, just two questions, maybe the first one is on the deferred shipments with your major customer. You've talked a lot about developing new customers this year. I was just wondering, how does that look for that major customer heading into 2012 or if there were any, again, deferred shipments in 2012 from that customer, could you replace it with newer customers that you're bringing on stream maybe over the next 12 months?

We do intend on carrying some tons over on the existing customer. Customer has indicated to us that they intend to take all those tons. As a backup, we have had several test burns with other customers and we do feel like that we can place those tons into the market.

Okay. Thank you very much. Maybe the second question, I'm just wondering, you clearly said that for Greenbrier and South Fork, if I understood it, that the pricing that you presented is FOB mine site and you also talked a little bit about what the value of these coals would be at the port. I'm just wondering, other than mine site costs, will there be any other transportation-related costs? I think for example the True Energy in your 43-101 that you released yesterday, you described that there's a load-out facility and that you would have to truck to that load-out facility. I'm wondering, if there's any, for either Greenbrier or South Fork, some sort of transportation trucking cost that we should take into account when looking at these mines?

Really, you're right, David. This is Bernie. [indiscernible] (50:39) mine site. But at Greenbrier or South Fork, when I say mine site, I do refer to as the site of our CSX load-out. Even though that has not been constructed yet, it is an over permit. There was a load-out there constructed in the past. So we do envision trucking down to that location. So in their projected numbers, there will not be additional transportation.

On True Energy, we are actually selling that coal on the mine, on the physical mine site even though we do have a load-out on the Norfolk Southern, approximately six miles away. But to date, we're not utilizing that facility. It is idle. But at Greenbrier or South Fork, when we refer to mine site, I do refer to – I do mean that as our load-out location. So there will not be additional transportation.

Excellent. And just going back to True Energy, if you were to use that load-out facility at that point, would there be some trucking cost or that's not envisioned at least in the next 12 months or so.

No, we are looking at that opportunity and there will be additional costs. And actually I'm looking at an opportunity placing that coal onto the Big Sandy River, which is about an $18 costs, transportation costs, but the sales opportunity that we're looking at will more than outweigh the transportation cost. So we're looking at various sales opportunities out of True Energy but they will have additional costs associated with transportation.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, my friend.

The next question comes from Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions.

Good morning, Marco.

Most of my questions have been asked and answered here, but I do have two quick questions. One, I was wondering if you can provide perhaps a little bit more color as it relates to your choice to not put more tonnage into the spot market. You commented that you obviously have a healthy market given the economics at your mines and current prices. I'm just wondering what's kind of driving that decision other than what you've stated thus far.

Yeah, Marco, this is Bernie Mason. Really the reasoning behind that and you're exactly right. The current spot market, actually I haven't looked today, but it's in the $75 to $78 range for NYMEX quality coal. With their quality or sulfur content at Straight Creek, we'll probably take about a $2 discount to that. So let's just say we're $73. Even $73 with our cost structure, we would – we'd have a very nice margin but in my opinion, permits in Central Appalachia, they're golden and I guess I got a little greedy.

I like to sell coal at the highest price. And it's not about volume. Bigger isn't always better and you've heard me say that in the past. We really look for margins. We look for solid margins and with the regulatory climb in Central Appalachia, even though we're very successful dealing with those agencies, I just didn't want to push tons out there in an already flat market that we may even impact that market and drive the spot prices down lower.

So, really we see that not just with us. We see that across the industry and just – I've probably been in the business 30, close to 35 years and this is one of the first times I believe I've ever seen a little bit of hesitation in doing this. In the past, if I had a permit, hell, I'd put it in production, so, but I'm – we're seeing a little bit of caution across the industry with companies choosing not to force coal into the spot market. So, I think it's a good thing.

Yes, do we want to be a 5 million ton producer? Of course, we do but I look at the number at the bottom of the page also. We want to be a – continue to maintain our cost and maintain our margins and I think we probably are doing that as well as anyone in the industry.

Okay, thank you, that's helpful. And then the Kentucky property, Straight Creek, you had a very nice uptick in the average sales price per ton. Were there any sort of one-time items over there that kind of raised the pricing in comparison to the last couple of quarters?

It was really just a mix of customers. One of our larger customers, we shipped a little more coal in the third quarter to that customer than we had in the previous two quarters.

Okay, great. And lastly just to kind of ask one further question in regard to the M&A or acquisition landscape, would you guys be entertaining other geographic locations for acquisitions or are you kind of looking primarily at the Central Appalachia? Thank you.

Well, I don't know. It would have to be a special opportunity for us. Mike and Bill and I, we have experienced throughout, I guess, every coal basin in the U.S. from the PRB to the [indiscernible] (56:09). Really, we're looking at the bottom line what gives us the most attractive return.

Can we compete in the PRB as a company our size, probably not, but we – not to say that we wouldn't look. Since Central Appalachia is our neighborhood and we basically spend our careers here, but we do have quite a bit of experience in the other basins, but we're just looking for the right opportunity. But to answer your question, yes, we would evaluate projects outside of our neighborhood.

Okay, great, thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Wojtek Nowak of Fraser Mackenzie. Please go ahead.

Thanks and good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Question here on – just with respect to your guidance and your approach to restraining production in the depressed market. Like what kind of prices would you like to see out there in order to put more coal into the market and, perhaps, open some of the delayed mines? And with that, kind of what is your outlook going forward?

This is Bernie. We – really, we haven't discussed in the last few days, but honestly, I'd like to see the spot market well into the 80s. I'll say that at least into the low 80s before we look at starting these mines. And I know when we reduced our guidance that was taken probably by most of you as a negative. I didn't look at that as a negative. I looked at it as a positive.

Our mines are producing well. We do not have problems with our mines, but we chose and it was our decision not to put these mines into production. It was a right decision. But do we have a certain return, do we have a certain margin that we're looking at, really and truly we don't. I think every mine is, I'll say, somewhat site specific on cost, production and end of market especially on the surface side.

You've been at Straight Creek and our Raven Crest operation and we deal with a multitude of coal qualities. I mean, and Bill at Straight Creek deals with compliance coal up to 5% sulfur coal, but he blends it all together and ships it on about a 1.5% sulfur contracts. So, it's very unique opportunities.

But to say that we have – we have to have an $82 number, an $85 number, we'll just evaluate that when the market comes to us. I said, we have spent the capital for these two coal mines. It's probably 80% better, 80% of the capital has already been spent, but we chose not to put these mines into operations.

Okay, thanks.

We want to continue with a little bit of restraint.

Sounds good, that gives me some idea there. And secondly, so, if we look at opportunities for off-takes, what kind of opportunities are you seeing to get into off-takes that are above the spot market right now? And you know how have those opportunities changed in the last few months, let's say?

Well, I'll touch that one, just initially and then I'll let Bill really answer your question, but when you really evaluate the reports that we all receive every day, even though the spot pricing may be at $75 to $78, there are very, very few physical trades at those numbers. Reality – physical trades are probably 10% to 15%. So, it's kind of a false market. We think – actually, most of our shipments, even on the spot side, are a little bit above what is reported on a typical spot market reported on a daily basis.

I agree with that 100%. In fact, our last couple trades that we've made in the spot market, with testing some of our coal into our new customer, it was probably $4 or $5 above market. And those burns have been going real well. But we think we can carry that forward into a relationship with the customer and actually achieve better pricing than 4% levels.

And the last question today comes from [ph] Randy Stewart of Merritt (1:00:58) Asset Energy. Please go ahead.

Hello. How it's going, Bernie?

Hey, Randy, very well. Thank you.

Good. Good. I just have a question on capital strategy and plan. You mentioned earlier or I forget who mentioned earlier, you guys like have 9,220 days of liquidity on the balance sheet just in terms of the cash position, I think if I understood correctly. What kind of quantity is that, like what kind of number are we talking about with the minimum cash balance that you like to have?

Well, this is Mike, Randy.

Yeah.

Right now, our cash is still obviously somewhat skewed from the debt financing that we have.

Yeah.

But that ends up being really the equivalent of about two – I consider one month sales to be – say, that number is $12 million or $15 million, whatever that may be. And I'd like to see that considered – that amount to be what I would consider to be our liquidity.

Okay. So one month of that or I guess, three months of that?

Yeah, I'd like to see three months of that.

Three months, so like kind of $40 million plus.

Yeah, it doesn't mean I want to have it, but obviously that's what I'd like to see obviously, yes.

Right, right. Would you ever consider getting a credit facility or something like that to bolster liquidity?

Absolutely. As we go through this process over the next few months, that's exactly one of the things that we intend to try to do.

Okay. All right. And I guess, a lot of the CapEx is kind of spoken for or the cash is a bit spoken for. In terms of evaluating your acquisitions – or not acquisitions, but capital development in real producing assets and things like your stock, things like your bonds. We saw all three of those in the last sort of while. Just would like some color on your guys' rationale around the bond purchase.

With the bond we acquired $2 million worth of our bonds.

Yeah.

On September 30, I believe, at a substantial discount.

Right.

And there was no plans to do that. It actually – it became an opportunity and we did that. We don't have a planned set aside amount of money to continue to buy bonds. But if the opportunity presents itself at a substantial discount, then we certainly will do that and retire those bonds.

Right. And now it's $82 or in around there?

We paid $82 on September 30.

Yeah, right.

But we're trading at – and they have been in the mid-80s recently.

Yeah. So, is it fair to assume or does it make sense for you guys and obviously, you bought stock back so you must have love the of bonds if they are 18 point discounts. That would make sense from your behavior, but if you got back down there, do you think that you'd be interested in considering buying more?

We would certainly consider.

Yeah, okay. Right.

As far as our stock, we did that early part of the third quarter and that cash was really generated from sale of our Elk Horn properties.

Right. Right. Now, it's carved out from the RPs.

Right, which is [indiscernible] (1:04:14).

Right, yeah. Right. And that worked out very well. Okay. I think that's all for me. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, Randy.

Thank you, Randy.

This concludes the Xinergy Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your line.