Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Chris Halouma — Director-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Jon E. Nix — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Xinergy Ltd
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.
Russell Stanley — Analyst, Jennings Capital, Inc.
Randy Steuart — Analyst, Marret Asset Management, Inc.
Jay Spencer — Analyst, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.
Gary Lampard — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
John M. King — Analyst, Western Asset Management Co.
Stephen E. Loukas — Analyst, FrontFour Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Q4 2011 Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Halouma. Mr. Halouma, please go ahead.

Thank you, operator, and good morning. I'd like to thank our participants for joining us on Xinergy's fourth quarter conference call. Last night, we filed our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, along with management discussions and analysis of financial condition result and operations for the corresponding period. Both have been posted to SEDAR and on the company's website.

As a reminder, today, we will be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks involving the business, operation and financial results of Xinergy. Forward-looking information includes, but are not limited to, statements with respect to tons of coal under contract, price per ton for committed tons under contract, estimated cash cost of production, increased production capacity as a result of recently acquired properties, additional capital expenditures and additional permitted mines where reserves that have been recently been leased or acquired and the future development and recently acquired properties and lease reserves.

Many of these risk factors and uncertainties are further described in the documents we filed with Canadian Securities regulatory authorities available on SEDAR. Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on such forward-looking information. We make no representation that the actual results achieved during any forecast period will be the same in whole or in part as forecast result. And we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any information of the forward-looking information indicated here, whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise except as may be required by securities law.

As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay approximately one hour after the conclusion of the event through March 21. This call can also be heard live on the Internet, and a replay of the webcast will be available in the Investors section of our website. There, you'll also find the most recent version of our investor presentation.

On the call with me this morning, we have Xinergy's Chairman and CEO, Jon Nix; Bernie Mason, Xinergy's President; Mike Castle, Xinergy's Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Snodgrass, our Vice President of Sales and Mining Operations South.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jon.

Thanks, Chris. Good morning. I'd like to thank everybody for joining. 2011 was a good year for us. We had record levels of production, sales and revenue and continued operations at some of the lowest-cost mines in Central Appalachian. We have made many important and strategic acquisitions over the last two years that are now beginning to allow us to amass sustainable growth for the future. We have over 100 million tons of reserves that we continue to grow through an aggressive land acquisition program for the large portions of these reserves are being metallurgical.

We have started production in our South Fork mid-vol mine in West Virginia. We expect South Fork, along with True Energy, our high-vol Met mine in Virginia that we acquired in 2011 to become high growth, high-volume mines over the next two years that will produce significant margins and free cash flow well into the future.

We also continue to focus on liquidity. In the last couple of weeks, we worked – our files with two thermal customers that resulted in payments for loss of over $30 million that allowed us to retain the coal. Mike will break out these payments later for us.

As we all know, market conditions for thermal coal have deteriorated very quickly over the last few months. And we made tough decisions to idle three thermal mines in Kentucky and one underground thermal mine in West Virginia. We are currently redeploying equipment and manpower from these mines to South Fork and True Energy which will save us $40 million to $60 million of capital expenditures over the next 12 months.

With that, I'm going to turn it over to Bernie Mason on operations.

Thanks, Jon, and good morning, everyone. I'll just briefly touch on each project and any other issues that can be brought forward in Q&A at a later time. But we continue to and we'll always maintain a philosophy of operating safe and environmentally-compliant coal mines. And our goal is always zero accidents but unfortunately that's impossible when dealing with men and machines. In 2011, we did have eight I'll say the minor accidents but they were lost time accidents. We don't think any type is minor, none more serious but we take safety very, very seriously.

During Q4, we have three environmental violations, and most of you heard me give presentations over the past couple of years where we had zero environmental violations. We did have three in the third quarter. They were weather-related and all three have been addressed. Most of you heard me say how proud I am of our company and the team we've assembled. Every mine continues to perform very, very well keeping us positioned as one of the lowest cost producers in Central Appalachia.

So, I'll just briefly highlight each mine and we'll discuss sales and forecast and production guidance later in Q&A. Straight Creek mine located in East Kentucky continued to perform exceedingly well during Q4. We produced 309,000 tons and we sold 253,000 tons and that is Eastern and Central Appalachia. It is a market we are building inventory there. Our current inventory levels are approximately 200,000 tons. 2011, as Jon said, was a great year for us. We produced 1.2 million tons for the year, Straight Creek, and selling 1.3 million tons. Q4 mining costs at Straight Creek were $51.50 and year-to-date costs in 2011 were fully laudable, $62.50. And these results were from three surface mines and one underground mine.

As I said, I'm not going to touch on marketing conditions this point. But as Jon said, we have idled two mines. We reduced our workforce and repositioned equipment at both of our met projects and we have offered employment for those that have been displaced at thermal location. We have offered employment on our met projects. With this reduction in the workforce, we continue to operate it at approximately 50,000-ton per month run rate.

During Q4, we closed on a reserve transaction that we've referred to as [ph] CSX coal (07:23) which had a 19,000 acres containing approximately 15 million recoverable tons, of which about 4 million are fully permitted. We're in the process of completing a 43-101 to update Straight Creek and also include this new acquisition. In this acquisition, in addition to the reserves, we acquired approximately $6 million worth of mining equipment. So, this will really position Straight Creek to be a solid producer for many, many years to come.

And the Raven Crest operation in Boone County, West Virginia, which we acquired in 2010, had a very strong year. Fourth quarter results were 195,000 tons of production. Year-to-date 2011 was 750,000 tons. Operating costs for the quarter were $57.58. For the entire year of 2011, it was $63.14.

We are continuing to produce approximately 50,000 tons per month of [indiscernible] (8:28) surface equipment more on our mines. In November, we've begun production of our Brier Creek underground mine. And as Jon said earlier, we had since idle that due to the market but we have completely – where we have we completed all of the upside construction. This is a wonderful coal mine. It's very, very productive. But as of today, the market just will not sustain this amount of production. So, we did make the decision to idle Brier Creek due to the market, and we've also temporarily delayed the construction of our preparation plant there.

The True Energy mine in Western Virginia and it's a high-volume met project. We acquired that operation in July of 2011. Q4 results were 28,000 tons produced at a cost of $91. And $91 is somewhat higher, but for the fourth quarter, looking at December with vacations and holidays, it's usually a very difficult quarter. But year-to-date, it was only five months of the entire year of 2011, we produced 51,000 tons at a cost of $74.50. And that's the really where I expect this mine to settle out in the mid to upper 70s going forward.

Our run rate is approximately 10,000 tons per month. This is a high ratio of coal mine but it is a very high quality, high vol metallurgical coal. We've been very active adding to this reserve base. We're very proactive in the area on acquiring properties. We do have an exploration program in place, and we'll update our 43-101 later this year.

We recently received approval from West Virginia or the Virginia Department of Natural Resources for an amendment toward existing permits, and this amendment will add approximately 1 million tons to our Permian reserve. And once that is fully issued and in place, we plan to move some idle equipment from our Straight Creek operation to True Energy and begin ramping up this production. So, we expect this production to grow to approximately 20,000 to 25,000 tons per month by mid-2012.

Our South Fork operation which – we acquired South Fork in January of 2011. We received a permit for Lost Flats surface mine in late November and began immediately – or began to immediately develop the sites. And I'm very, very pleased to say that we will be selling coal this month. It's is a wonderful coal quality. It's a mid-vol. It's a highly sought-after coal quality because it is a pure mid-vol. We expect this mine to produce at a run rate of approximately 20,000 tons per month. We substantially reduced our initial CapEx projections by transferring equipment, idle equipment from other locations. So, this project is moving forward as we – really, as we've expected for the last several months.

But we also recently received a permit approval for our South Fork underground mine. At this point, we don't plan to bring this permit into production until sometime in 2013. We are continuing to work on our Blue Knob surface permit, expect to have this project in production by mid-year. We're also permitting a rail load out on the CSX railroad, and we expect to have this permit issued in August of 2012.

At a run rate of 20,000 tons per month from our Lost Flats surface mine, we expect to have – when Blue Knob is issued, we will immediately begin development and that will also be at initial run rate of approximately 20,000 to 25,000 tons and we will grow that Blue Knob mine to 50,000 tons per month. It's a mass-sized reserve. It will be a 3 million-ton permitted reserve base. So, we expect to have a nice, steady production run rate there for years to come.

We have recently added 21,000-acre reserve position here at South Fork, bringing our total property control to approximately 35,000 acres. And here also we have an ongoing exploration program and expect to update our 43-101 later in the year.

During 2011. as Jon mentioned earlier, we did complete several acquisitions including South Fork, True Energy, Brier Creek and [ph] CSX coal (13:43) and this was completed by continuing to operate very efficient coal mines. It is a difficult time in our industry due to the market conditions, but we're very, very fortunate we have the ability to idle the mine. We keep our mines in condition where we can idle a project. We have to continue to spend [indiscernible] (14:03) reclamation occurrence. We stress reclamation. We stress safety and – because we believe in doing it right the first time. So, I think we are – we have positioned our company to be in a unique place. We're idling a coal mine, and I'd last refer to this [indiscernible] (14:24) idle. We can bring this production back online at very, very short notice.

So, with those comments and I'd be happy to answer questions but Nix said, I'll turn the presentation over to Mike Castle, our CFO.

Thanks, Bernie. First off, we'll review some material items in our balance sheet, and then I'll go through our income statement, then talk a little bit about our sales guidance and some capital expenditures.

At December 31, we had about $73 million in cash on hand. And as Jon stated earlier, we negotiated settlements with two customers recently that have resulted in payments of about $18.9 million plus a return of about $12 million in restricted cash. At year-end, our CapEx has been about $12 million. In addition to that, we've spent about $12 million cash for the acquisition of the reserves and the mining equivalent that Bernie referred as the [ph] CSX (15:24) property, which is in correlation to our Straight Creek property at Kentucky. Today, we have approximately $80 million of cash on hand.

At the end of the year, we had about 375,000 tons of coal in inventory. Today, we have about 400,000 tons, and we've executed deals in the last few days to move in excess of 200,000 tons of that inventory, which should generate anywhere from $12 million to $15 million in cash. Our total assets at December 31 were $289 million compared to $153 million as of December 31, 2010, substantial increase, primarily driven by some of the acquisitions that we've done – we did throughout 2011.

Liabilities. A couple of items I'll point out here, the material differences and our total liabilities year-over-year obviously is related to our $200 million senior secured note offering that we completed in May. Today, we have $195 million outstanding on those notes. We've acquired and retired $5 million of that debt so far.

Income statement. Our revenues increased $166 million on the sale of 2 million tons in 2011, up from $108.8 million in sales of 1.3 million tons coal in 2010, substantial increase, driven primarily from the full-year Raven Crest, True Energy sales and production and increases at Straight Creek as well.

Our costs of sales were approximately $122 million in 2011, up from $74 million in 2010. So, again, this was primarily driven by additional production from Raven Crest and True Energy and Straight Creek.

Our cash cost was $57 in the fourth quarter 2011 and for the full year was $59, which both of these are substantially lower than most Central App coal producers.

Our margins. We achieved 28% increase in margins in 2011 as compared to 2010. Again, these were driven by increases in sales. Our average sales realization was $83.54, and margins on a per-ton basis were $22.20 in 2011; very strong as compared to most of our peers.

We've updated our guidance, which is in the MD&A and also on our website. I will talk a lot about it, but what we have done, in 2012, our thermal coal sales guidance, Straight Creek, we revised that guidance to be 600,000 to 800,000 tons; at Raven Crest, 200,000 to 300,000 tons for the year for roughly – it's roughly 800,000 to 1.1 million tons. We still anticipate our cash cost to be in the range of $56 to $60 at these mines in 2012, which is, again, substantially below what our peers have been.

On the met side, we've also changed our metallurgical coal sales guidance. Our revised guidance for 2012, we anticipate 360,000 to 480,000 tons to be sold at South Fork and 200,000 to 250,000 True Energy, which is a total of 560,000 to 730,000 tons for 2012.

Substantial margins. We expect substantial margins on these mines 2012 and beyond. And Bill will talk about it and Bernie will talk about some sales price ranges on those products right now. We anticipate continuing to have $115 sales prices on our mid – our high-vol property, True Energy; and $165 to $190 per ton sales price at South Fork. And these prices are at the mine.

With that said, I'll turn it back over to Chris. And, Bernie, do you want any more about the market? Bill, do you want to open it up to Q&A?

Okay.

Good.

Amy, I think we're ready for Q&A.

Very good. Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Russell Stanley with Jennings Capital. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Russ.

Good morning, Russ.

I guess first question on the met site, can you give us an update on the marketing of the product, how that's going?

Hi, Russ. We're very, very active on – I assume you're talking about South Fork. To be quite honest, we're entertaining customers now. This is a very unique coal quality. It's highly sought after. As Mike said, we're – initially we had numbers in the range of 65 – $165 to $185 at the mine. But actually, we're seeing some numbers in excess of that, plus 200 at the mine site. So, we're just now in a position to begin physical production there. We have a substantial amount of coal uncovered. And actually, we're having customers on-sites, we have for the last three days. So, we're confident that – I think our projections were $190.

I think $190 was in the 43-101.

Yeah, in the forecast. So, I think that's still a very, very solid number.

Thanks for the color on that. And looking at the revised CapEx guidance, a bit of a range there, can you give us some color, I guess, as to what that range is dependent on?

Yeah, the range we made this year is $4 million to $12 million. The reason for the big range is there's – we anticipated originally $6 million to $8 million CapEx for the rail siding at South Fork. Bernie's making progress to potentially make a – have other alternatives available to us as we're still constructing that facility.

Okay, great. Thank you for that. And just one point of clarification on the inventories that you've got there, you write 400,000 tons. Is that 200,000 tons in each of the Straight Creek and Raven Crest?

That's pretty accurate. And, Russell, we're working on that as we speak right now to lower down that inventory to a number probably with a lesser contract. Right now, we're around 100,000. Bill's done a great job with Chris, and we anticipate that those numbers will be down to the 100,000 range probably sometime in Q2. So, the production you see on there, obviously sales is going to be a little bit higher than what our production is.

That's great. Thanks for the call. I'll get back in the queue.

Our next question is from [ph] David Charles (23:24) with GMP. Go ahead, please.

Yeah, good morning, guys. Just a quick question for Bernie. You said that most of the operations – you described it as hot idled. I'm just wondering what's your ongoing costs are to hot idled on some of the operations.

David, I'll answer that. Our carrying cost at Kentucky is about $1 million a year, same in West Virginia at Raven Crest and that's primarily for minimum royalty payments that are all recoupable.

Okay. So, it's pretty low?

Yes. It is very low, David. And really with labor markets, where it is, it's really a non-issue. I think when we bring – when we decide to bring production back on line, we're talking a matter of 30 days to be back in producing from these operations.

Okay. And when you let go employees, are there major costs there or severance around that or otherwise?

Not that we – actually, we have not offered severance to employees. We have – we do offer the opportunity to transfer to other locations, but we have not been offering severance to our employees.

And maybe just one final question. Maybe, Mike, could you refresh my memory as to how much money were spent on Brier Creek before you stopped or before you decided to stop construction at that site?

Yeah. Between $5 million and $6 million.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Our next question is from [ph] Jeff Cramer (25:15) with UBS. Go ahead, please.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Morning.

Just on the permits for Blue Knob, it has taken a while to really finalize those. Could you talk about where we are in that process and just take us a couple of level around receiving those, I think, by May or June?

We are looking for – it would probably be – I'll say at least June. When we made the South Fork acquisition, we took their Lost Flat permit, and we had it in production in less than 12 months. So, I feel very, very confident that we're still in that timeframe. And I'm seeing some time in the second quarter. Issues you hear about on the regulatory side in Central Appalachian, they're all true, it's a very, very difficult space. But we worked with the regulatory agencies on a daily basis. We don't submit information and wait for a response. We stay with them until we get a response. So, I feel very, very confident at those time frames.

Okay. And so as we're thinking about production right now, it's been at 20,000 tons a month. And then once those permits come in, it would be close to – ramp up closer to 50,000 tons a month, is that right?

Actually the plan is for Blue Knob with one equipment fleet, and that will be for approximately three months until we get the mine opened and developed so we have more work areas where we can work more equipment efficiently. So, at that time, we'll bring in the second equipment fleet and take that production to 45,000 to maybe 50,000 tons just on Blue Knob.

Got it. Okay. And maybe, Mike, just on liquidity front, it looks like there is about $17 million of payable in 2012. I think those are maybe capital leases, the ability to refinance those. You guys – I mean I've seen your notes back in January, just curious if you guys maybe looking to buy some more of those. And just on the [ph] EDL (27:31), I think you have a carve-out for $20 million that often you guys are looking to pursue.

We have – we bought – as I said, we bought $5 million of those notes and retired them. And we've actually boost the gain every time we've done that. We're not actively out there seeking to do that. Obviously, these are people who came to us and we had an interest in doing it at the time. And our intent right now is obviously to continue to preserve liquidity as much as we can and we think we're doing that well.

The equipments, in addition to the high-yield debt deal, that is primarily equipment-related debt. We're paying it down at a tune of about $1.5 million a month. We can pre-pay that. There's no reason to, it's cheap money, and we've used it to finance equipment purchases basically. I don't know if that answers your question, but hopefully.

So those will be paid down, it will be like they will be rolled over?

No, it won't. And if you look at – this is Jon. If you looked at our setup, Mike, we saw the market turning a little bit in November, sort of making a few of these moves with the contract [indiscernible] (28:45) and things of this nature to start shrinking the balance sheet and idling the jobs which Bernie and Bill did a great job on.

On the equipment side, if you look at page 11 on the presentation we put out there, equipment and vehicle notes is $23.3 million. That was included about $11 million of [indiscernible] (29:01) acquisition that were just setting at that time. I think if you really look at it on an active basis right now, we're probably in the $12 million to $15 million range. Is that right, Mike?

Yes, that's right.

And as some of these jobs that are idle, we have a potential, as far as this split, to sell some of the redundant equipment. So, you can see these numbers coming down even faster, so the cash outlay on this will not be as great as Mike is forecasting right now if we move some of the said equipment.

Okay, great. And then just finally, if you guys are looking to pursue that $20 million carve-out – and just to be clear on the CapEx, for the full year 2012, it's $60 million?

I think that's on the high side.

We spent $11 million in...

We spent $11.9 million, January, February. And we've got a fairly large lot estimate of $4 million to $12 million more for the remainder of the year, I believe. Again, that's primarily because of the uncertainty right now in developing that letdown.

While we talk about the uncertainty, it's really because we have – we're looking at different markets for this coal, some of it can be trucked to the consumer. And we're also looking at other projects where this railroad facility may not even be constructed at all. But we're still going to protect your interest and continue to go forward with department heads. So, that's really why we're still somewhat uncertain on how we move forward with this rail load-out at our South Fork operation.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from Randy Steuart with Marret Asset Management. Go ahead, sir.

Hi, guys. Thanks got taking my call – questions. Firstly on CapEx, I'm assuming those numbers ignore any potential M&A. Is that correct?

That's correct.

Correct.

Right. Now, on that, what's your thinking – I guess valuations have come down a lot and there could be interesting things out there. How do you think about balancing, preserving liquidity with spending more on acquisitions?

It's all about ROI right now. So, Randy, right now, we're focusing on liquidity, keeping our balance sheet as strong as possible. And if we'll drop rent right now with thermal flat as we await for the market to come back in our direction.

Right. And when you think about the ROI, do you carry offers as what you can get in terms of the yield on the bonds whether out there at current prices?

There's many different numbers that we put on the equation. What we're looking at right now is more so about free cash flow.

Right.

And we're more so looking at greenfield projects than anything because of the value we put on the company in the past but delaying, I suppose, what we think our strengths are.

And you're talking about redundant equipments, maybe selling some of that. Is there any kind of like ballpark number of equipment value that you view as redundant?

No, we're not certainly complete. Not really yet. We're just getting it right now.

Okay. And on cash SG&A, I'm just wondering, final question, on how – like what's your ballpark there, I guess, in terms of like a per quarter SG&A number given like the reductions in workforce and whatnot? I'm just trying to get a sense of what that looks like.

But internally, just a corporate, we want to drop it about 20% across the board.

Yeah.

So, we're moving it in all angles. Michael will be able to tell you more accurate number right now on a quarterly basis. Do you know what that number is right now, Michael...

It's been about $1 million a month. It's going to drop down into $750,000 a month and then it'll continue to reduce a little bit over the next couple of quarters.

Right. Okay. That's helpful. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Jay Spencer with Sterne Agee. Go ahead, sir.

Hi, guys. Good morning.

Good morning, Jay.

First, I think some people maybe interpreting the release a little differently than we are. I mean we're seeing the full-year CapEx guidance as $16 million to $24 million in 2012, is that correct?

That's correct.

Correct.

Okay. Yeah, that's what we're thinking. And just a question about South Fork, we're looking at 2013 and we could see in South Fork here the revised guidance is substantially higher than previous guidance. Are we to take away from that that you're more confident in getting these expansion permits done? Could you just give us a little more color on what it is that's driving the dramatic increase in South Fork production?

But we are confident with the timeframe to get the Blue Knob permits, and that is really – we follow that from the success of repermitting on Lost Flats and a success on permitting the underground, what we call, South Fork No. 1. And I really haven't talked about that. We're looking at that coming on line in 2013 and that will be an additional 20,000- to 25,000-ton a month run rate. So, with Blue Knob and we're almost through total technical review at Blue Knob, and really while we're successful with these permits is the fact that they've been previously mined or they have been a previous mining contour cut that's been taken on them. So, we do not need valley fills. We do not need to go in stream with ponds, so it really stays out of a lot of the review process.

So, they're very, very – we simplified our permits because we try to simplify our mine plan, and that's really how we can move material as efficient as we do. This is not mainly moving material, that's all this is about, so – but resting here a little a bit, I feel very confident that we will still have this permit issued in time we face them because we do have a hands-on approach dealing with the regulatory agencies, and we've got a 30-year history dealing with these agencies. So, we try to permit everything up front instead of trying to get a permit.

I know a lot of the companies have done the same thing in the past, just get a permit issued and then worry about modifying it later. Well, that's very difficult to do in today's regulatory environment. So, we try to permit everything up front, permit it the way we want our mine is. So, we've been very, very successful this year in moving through the regulatory hurdles and I see no reason why we won't continue to do so.

Okay. Great. And in terms of reserves at South Fork, how many permitted reserves do you have right now? And what do you think that Blue Knob would add in terms of permitted first?

Blue Knob is approximately 3 million tons. Our current Lost Flat permit is about 400,000. And we're also drilling that area and we expect to increase that. And we can increase that with a simple permit amendment. So, in the recent acquisition that we made or actually it was just a lease amendment, they had 21,000 acres, that will also add some reserves to our Lost Flat permit. So, we're growing that reserve base, our underground reserve base with the permit that will be just acquired. That's approximately 2.5 million tons. And that permit, it can also grow to approximately 4 million. So, we can very quickly be into the 10 million, 12 million-ton range on a fully-permitted basis is within a matter of – I think within 2012, we will have even additional areas permitted. So, we're in a strong permitted reserve base position there.

Okay. So, you got the 400,000 permitted tons at the Lost Flats. Is that right? And then the 2.5 million tons of permitted reserves for the underground mines?

That's what we have today. That's what...

About for number one.

Okay. I got you. The Blue Knob had 3 million-plus. Okay. All right. Then I'm sorry guys for putting this over quickly, but the inventory sell-down, how much cash do you anticipate being generated from that inventory sell-down?

Just for the next 45 days, I think you'd probably looking in the neighborhood of – look like ready to sell up 250,000 tons. So, probably...

$12 million to $15 million.

$12 million, $15 million million cash.

We are committed on [indiscernible] (38:30).

Yeah. We were committed – yeah, we'll just wait for the trains to show up.

Okay. All right. That's all I had. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from [ph] David Charles (35:51) with GMP Securities. Go ahead, sir.

Yeah. Mike, just a question, maybe to go back on I think one of the comments you made earlier, did I understand it that you've spent essentially, I suppose it's on South Fork, $12 million in CapEx already in the first quarter? And I'm just wondering when you give the sort of your current liquidity position sort of today generally, it's over $70 million. Is that net of that CapEx or would that still come out of that number?

First of all, the $12 million, about $2 million of that is for True Energy. The rest of it is split up equally between Brier Creek and South Fork. About $6 million of it, I think, is South Fork. And the number I gave you is after those CapEx dollars were spent there, I think.

Excellent. Thank you very much.

Okay.

Our next question is from Gary Lampard with Canaccord Energy. Go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking my questions. I've got a couple on the South Fork, the cross guidance range of $165 to $190. The first one is you referenced a few market publications, and I'm wondering what benchmarks you think are the most appropriate ones for your coal from South Fork. Another question related to that is, did you know if any other regional producers are actually getting coal prices in that $165 to $190 range at the moment? And also I'm wondering if you can remind us what the washing requirements – arrangements are for that coal?

I'll start it out. [indiscernible] (40:44) is how it's thought after seeing as we really begin to bring [ph] him over to talk about it. (40:42) If you look at the some of the coal locations that are out there [indiscernible] (40:49) their trading consultants, you can see that those ranges are varying and you've seen recent numbers at the 205 and it gets to 210 range. So, you've got a payment on top of that. Yes, if you know the companies that are around us there that are public companies, you have the ability to get the same number that's discussed on few other disclosures.

On preparation, Gary, we're going to run our surface mines, all [indiscernible] (41:18) will be run-of-mine. Their current ash from the surface on a run-of-mine basis is just only 6% so we won't look for preparation for these times. It'll be different when we start underground. We'll be able to split some of that coal out without preparation, but 75% of that will have to go through preparation and we're on a process of permitting along at our load-out a small preparation plant just for those times.

Okay. I guess that means you're confident you won't have any pricing discounts because the coal is not going to be washed.

It doesn't matter if it washed or not. It's always – it's on an ash basis.

Okay. Thank you. My next question, would you be able to tell us what contracts remain for 2013 and 2014? You mentioned about 360 kilotons per annum from Raven Crest. Have all other contracts been released?

Those tons are what's remaining on the – I think we disclosed it in a press release in the fall at JPMorgan, those tons will remain.

But do they still have – did they still have a minimum price attached to them?

It got a floor and a ceiling. The floor next year is 81 and what is it...

It's index-driven. If you look at the release we've put out earlier, you'll be able to see which prices are index-driven, and the least number we shipped, it's up to $4.50 at discounted payment [indiscernible] (42:58) at large.

That's right.

Okay. So those tons are still intact?

Yeah.

And other thermal contracts above and behind those wells?

Yes, we've got probably about – I'm guesstimating about 0.75 million range in industrial contracts across the board so [indiscernible] (43:18) some being on quarterly basis that we'll mostly ship out of the operation.

And can you give us an average price for those in 2013 and 2014?

In 2012, we'll go just north of 70.

Yeah, on the industrial side, it's just north of 70, and we thought it's quite all over the board right now. If you go industrials, I mean your 70 is a good number but if you're going to look at these – most of these contracts prices are in industrials [indiscernible] (43:58) contract, they roll over year over year over year so we don't go for years out, we'll go one year at a time.

Right. We're saying today, Gary, that we're above market in all of those schedules.

And they're the customers we've been dealing with for 10-plus years.

Okay. And finally on True Energy, I missed what you said in terms of the production and cash costs year-to-date. I think you said $74.50 a short ton but I missed the production volume.

Today, Gary, that's a run rate approximately 10,000 tons per month. We've just recently got a new permit technically approved. It isn't fully issued yet. That's usually a 10-day to two-week period for them to approve the bonds and give us full issuance. When that happens, we plan to double our production, and the CapEx that Mike has talked about that has been spent in the first quarter was for additional equipment for that project and once that is in place with the very new permit, we expect to take – that's approximately 20,000 ton per month run rate.

Okay, and that $74.50, was that the cash cost year-to-date?

It's roughly between $80 and $82.

Okay. I must have misheard what you said earlier. Okay. All right. That's all from me. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Gary

Our next question is from Russell Stanley with Jennings Capital. Go ahead.

Hi again, guys. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. I might have missed it but do you have a preliminary estimate what CapEx would be for 2013 or is this your spend enough to support your 2013 guidance?

It's coming in 2013. We're not considering any growth plans yet until we see more indication from the market on where we're going to go. The expansion plan that we had in place for the metallurgical mines, we all have idled equipment, in surface spread highwall miners, and underground to sufficiently handle those growth needs.

Great. And just a question on the hot idle [ph] length (46:06) of the mine, I just wanted to double check if there's some – if some of the trades still talk about it. But by hot idling, am I assuming that you don't run the risk of any permitting issues when you start them back up?

Right.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks for that, guys.

Our next question is from [ph] Paul Chou (46:24) with Standard General Go ahead, sir.

Yes. Thanks for taking my call. I just wanted to clarify a few things maybe. In terms of the notes payable that you're paying this year, that $17.6 million, is that addition to the $11.8 million that you've already repaid or is that inclusive of that number?

The $11.8 million that we've already paid was the acquisition cost on the [ph] CSX (46:51) property we acquired on 12/30. We closed on 12/30 and we actually funded that on January 2 and 3. So, that has nothing to do with the true notes payable on equipment.

Okay. So, throughout 2012, you'll need to make – you'll pay down another $17 million of notes payable.

That's correct.

Okay. And then I just had a question on the – a follow-up on the contract in – I think in the third quarter, you disclosed your commitments in thermal and met. Do you have a change? Do you have any met commitment in 2012 and 2013?

As soon as those contracts come available, like Bernie was stating, we're out there entertaining offers right now from different individuals as soon as we lock one down – lot of the spot business right now through testing in the plants, we'll come out with a release and give guidance on that.

Okay. So, the met doesn't really change. And then just to clarify on the 2013 thermal side, at the end of the third quarter, I think you disclosed you have like $1.6 million at $80 a ton and I was just a little confused on the mix of industrial versus JPMorgan. JPMorgan, I guess can be 350,000 at around, I guess, 79. I mean, what should I be using for 2013 I guess is the question.

Okay. Okay. Let's back it up a little bit. If you look originally in 2012, there's going to be about $1 million outside of 750 in industrial and about seven...

Okay. For 2012?

2012. I'm just trying to [ph] fast drive (48:37). Once we sold off these [ph] contract miles (48:41), those numbers greatly changed and went down. Right now, our estimation is we're – I've not modeled in any new utility business. We're just modeling and keeping our industrial business that we have right now for 2013. So, I think a conservative number we're putting out now 2013 for book sales which we anticipate keeping is probably in the 0.75 million range.

Three-quarters including JPMorgan, or three-quarters...

Without, without.

Okay. So, 750,000 plus the 350,000?

Right.

And industrial – okay. And industrial is like around 75, 80? I mean, what sort of a range?

2012 right now, you're looking at industrial in the low 70s. And I think that's somewhat in 2013 as the markets starts coming back to a better supply-demand ratio.

All right. Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Our next question is from John King with Western Asset. Go ahead, sir.

Hi there. I was just trying to clarify how much of the thermal production guidance which is down, I guess, by about two-thirds was actually from the contract termination versus just voluntarily shutting in production due to market conditions?

We had to ship the contract no matter what because it was on a take or pay pretty much. We had 720,000 that was keyed in for JPMorgan of which we'll be shipping 100,000 – about 180,000 parts of order. I think still left about 540,000 there. We have leftover from another utility customer. We cannot mention that name, about 170,000 tons. They purchased out. So, between those two alone, you've got 710,000 tons that were bought out.

Okay. And I assume production guidance is down quite more in that side, so just kind of do the subtraction there and that's kind of the user.

Usually, it's about 20% to 30% of the spot market or where the spot's at today. We don't see the right kind of ROI that we're looking for so we think the reserves are worth more on the ground than they are in spot market, only making $8 to $10 a ton.

Yes, that's fair. Okay. And then in terms of the way that the contract cancellations go, I mean, how does that – did they pay out based on the revenues or dollars out the door that they were already on the hook for, or did they come actually with kind of while you were going to make this much margin off of it, is there a negotiation? How does that work? Are they contractually obligated to pay out the revenue dollars or how does that...

It's negotiated settlement behind the door between Mike Castle, myself and the team with the group on the alternate side. Then there's about 20 different variables that come into the equation that we'll just leave it that right there. So, a lot of it were on non-disclosure before.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Yeah.

Our next question is from Stephen Loukas with FrontFour Capital. Go ahead.

Hey, guys. I actually missed the first 15 minutes of the call, so I do apologize if you addressed this. But could you please give me some more color as it relates to the 25,000-acre lease at South Fork that you executed in January?

No problem, Steve. This is Bernie Mason. Actually, it was from the same lessor. Initially, when we made the South Fork acquisition, we – I tried to get this entire property one time but the lessor actually wants to see us into production. So, once we got our permit issued and started producing, the lessor amended the lease and added an additional 21,000 acres. So, this is a 35,000-acre contiguous footprint that we're exploring now. There is a lot of available data but we do have an exploration program just to qualify and quantify the additional reserves, and we will add that to the 43-101 when the time is appropriate.

Right. So, we think about this incremental lease, is it just a function of augmenting your reserves or do you believe it will also allow you to ultimately increase production of the overall complex?

It's both actually. It will allow us to increase production in a couple of different areas which will require a total greenfield permit but I actually look at this as just reserve addition. But as our exploration program gets a little further along, I think we'll be in a better position to answer that question about additional production coming on line. But in looking at existing information, I think there are two areas that we could put into production once it is permitted.

Right. So, when you think about South Fork, and maybe it's a bit premature to address this now, I mean do you think ultimately the complex kind of tops that at roughly 1 million-ton per annum assuming that the market demand is there or is there potential to increase that?

Well, I think 1 million tons is the optimal number. That will bring on – to get to a run rate like that, we'll probably take two underground mines. So, I think we can easily be at north of 700 million on our surface without a great deal of moving parts. But I do think that's kind of where we're going to be initially or not initially; at the end of the day when this complex was fully operational. We will be at a run rate of somewhere between 700 million to 750 million tons.

Okay. So, Jon, this question is for you specifically. You obviously own a fair amount of stock in the company. We own a fairly large position ourselves. When I look at the current enterprise value, and I think about the market value of South Fork, once you kind of ramp up, so I guess as I look at it year out, it was a very strong case to be made that the market value of South Fork alone exceeds the enterprise value of the company. So, with that being said, I mean have you contemplated the country looking to partner with an equity partner and take the company private given that to some sense, it can be very much – it subscales at least to – when you compare it to other peers in the public markets?

Well, because we're always working ways to maximize shareholder value is the best way I can entertain that question.

Okay. Would you agree with the analysis then, with the statement?

I'll leave my previous answers before on the record.

Our next question is from [ph] Philip Aikon with Aikon Capital (55:46). Go ahead, sir. [ph] Mr. Aikon (55:58), are you there? Apparently, [ph] Mr. Aikon (56:07) is disconnected. This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Chris Halouma for any questions.

Hello?

Someone's online.

Oh, I apologize. [ph] Mr. Aikon (56:18), are you there?

Yes. Do you hear me?

Please ask your question

Yes. Hey, guys. Two questions on the balance sheet – on the cash on the balance sheet. Those had a figure, the [ph] $8 million distribution (56:32), does that include the other cash you received from the termination of the contract, two contracts?

The number is [ph] 12.34% (56:39) does not include that, no.

All right. So as of today, it should be higher by some [ph] $3 million (56:46) approximately.

Yes, that's right.

Yeah. I had walk-through that earlier, yes.

If you're looking at the balance sheet, which you're going to look at right now to kind of do your calculations, there is cash on hand plus the inventory is going to be sold down plus the addition on the two contracts we had bought out. So, our cash position right now is significantly higher.

That could give us kind of a hint.

I'll just say – let's just – we'll leave at that right now until they can sort it out.

Okay. Thank you.

And that does conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Halouma for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining us today. We will be in our office if we missed your questions. If you have any other questions, feel free to give us a call here in the office. Thank you for your interest at Xinergy. Talk to you next time. Bye-bye.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.