Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Robert L. Gaylor — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Xinergy Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Bobby Gaylor, Executive Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you, Jamie. Welcome to Xinergy's third quarter 2014 earnings call, and thank you for being with us today. We released our earnings on November 14, 2014, and the release and MD&A are posted on our website. Additional information relating to Xinergy has been filed electronically with SEDAR and is available online at www.sedar.com or at our company's website at www.xinergycorp.com.

With me today on the call, are Bernie Mason, our CEO and President; and Mike Castle, CFO.

Before we begin this morning, I need to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should be considered along with the risk factors that we note at the end of our press releases, as well as in our Annual Information Form and other SEDAR filings.

Now I'll turn the call over to Bernie Mason.

Yeah. Thanks, Bobby, and thank you to everyone participating in today's call. As Bobby said, this is an overview of the third quarter of 2014. And if you're expecting a report on Q4, you may want to stay tuned for a couple of more weeks.

At the time of our scheduled third quarter call last year, we were at a point where we were expecting to announce a major event in our company, which was the closing of a financing transaction. And this closing was delayed on two different occasions which really put us off on the timing for Q3 call. Of course, our Q3 results were reported on schedule, and I'm certain everyone has reviewed them. So, I'll briefly discuss our Q3 highlights, but I really choose not to discuss any market dynamics at this time. We will address the markets and our 2015 guidance on our fourth quarter call, which will be just in a few weeks.

I'll begin today with safety in our mining environment. During Q3, we experienced zero loss time accidents in our company, and we currently have approximately 170 employees and we also do not have any environmental violations.

And if you read the recent reportings by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection and the West Virginia Coal Association, you will know that we've received a major safety award for our Blue Knob surface mine, which has never had a loss time accident. And also, our clear coal preparation plant also received the most prestigious reclamation award given in the state of West Virginia for 2014. So, we continue to operate safe, environmentally compliant coal mines, still with some lowest mining cost in Central Appalachian.

And operationally, our mines continue to perform. Our Raven Crest mining complex, during the third quarter, produced 171,620 tons at a cash cost of $50.06. But we've continued to sell down our inventory position throughout 2014. And during Q3, we moved an additional 20,000 tons of inventory. And this inventory actually inflated our overall cost just slightly because of increased royalties and sales-related taxes.

So, if you remember Raven Crest, Raven Crest was idled in mid-2012 and not restarted until January of 2014. So, throughout 2014, we've continued to increase our production quarter-by-quarter and reduced our cost quarter-by-quarter.

And our South Fork Coal Company, which is our mid-vol mine in Greenbrier County, West Virginia, we've also enjoyed a production increase to 115,095 tons for the third quarter, all while reducing our cash cost to $83.61.

So, I get this one question quite often, how can we mine Raven Crest for $50 or less and South Fork in the low $80s. And I usually answer that by saying, come and visit and I'll show you and you'll understand. Of course, if you remember South Fork, it's a greenfield project. We've built it from the ground up, but our South Fork surface mine, which we refer to as Blue Knob, it is one of the most difficult projects I've ever been associated with in my 35-year career even though it's probably the highest quality of coal I've ever been associated with.

But Blue Knob, it's a 32:1 mining ratio. And this means for every ton of coal mined, we must first remove 32 cubic yards of waste overburden, while most surface mining ratios in Central Appalachia usually range between 15:1 to 20:1. And Blue Knob's also located approximately 15 miles from a paved road, and it's in an elevation of nearly 4,000 feet, and let's just say that winters are very interesting.

It is difficult mining, but our team makes it work. For the year, South Fork has increased production and cut cost quarter-by-quarter-by-quarter. But this industry has not lacked – or it's not unlike most others, it's all about people. We're very fortunate to have a dedicated group of individuals, who all work for a common goal of producing a low-cost, high-quality product while maintaining a continued focus on safety environmental stewardship.

I think if you can go back probably the last three or four earnings calls, we've been saying this for a long time that we continue to focus on what we can control. We can't control or we're too small to even have an impact on the market. However, we've continued to focus on operating two of the most efficient, cost-efficient, high-quality mines continuing to produce in Central Appalachia today.

And in West Virginia today, at the end of 2014, there were only 32 surface mines operating in the entire state of West Virginia, and a total of 96 operating coal mines, surface and underground. And 96, that's a number that is decreased from 2012 when there were a total of 247. So, we're definitely seeing major market issues all the way across Central Appalachia, but West Virginia has actually been devastated. But we will continue to focus on what we can control and that's our coal mines. And we do it on a daily basis. We live it and we breath it.

So, again, I want to thank you for participating on today's call, and I apologize for not having a question-and-answer session. So, just hold your questions for couple of weeks when we're back on our Q4 call.

Thank you very much. I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Mike Castle.

Thank you, Bernie. I'm going to briefly discuss the overall Q3 2014 results. First, revenues in the third quarter of 2014, our top-line revenues were $19 million on the sale of 279,000 tons as compared to revenues of $4.5 million on the sale of 57,000 tons in the same quarter of 2013. The overall average per ton realization for the third quarter was $68.24 as compared to $78.93 for the same quarter 2013.

The significant increase in revenues and tons sold in Q3 2014 as compared to Q3 2013 was obviously driven by Raven Crest starting back into production in January 2014. Raven Crest sold 189,000 tons and produced 172,000 tons in the third quarter, while South Fork sold 89,000 tons and produced approximately 115,000 tons.

At September 30, our inventory levels were 131,000 tons with the market value of about $7.1 million. As Bernie stated, we are continuing and did continue to reduce our inventory throughout the remainder of 2014.

Our total cost to sales were $16.9 million or $60.89 per ton in the third quarter 2014 as compared to $6.1 million or $105 in the same quarter 2013. For the quarter, South Fork cash costs were approximately $84 per ton and Raven Crest cash costs were approximately $50 per ton. These costs for both mining operations were material reductions from the previous quarters.

Our SG&A was about $1.2 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to about $2.5 million in the same quarter of 2013.

Net loss was about for the third quarter 2014 was $7.4 million or $0.11 per share as compared to the net loss of $11.4 million or $0.21 a share in the same quarter of 2013.

Capital expenditures were approximately $1.2 million in the third quarter of 2014, of which $200,000 was expansion capital related to the Raven Crest, the south well preparation plans, and approximately $1 million was maintenance CapEx.

Liquidity, at September 30, 2014, we had approximately $1.8 million in cash and cash equivalents; $7.5 million in restricted cash. At this time, we had no equipment debt, which gave us an available basket of $25 million for equipment financing.

In closing, we remain focused on our liquidity issues and are working diligently towards new sources of funding for both the short term and longer term. As we've also previously noted, we have hired Global Hunter Securities to assist in efforts to improve our balance sheet and capital structure and expect to be able to provide additional updates in the near term.

As Bernie said, I thank you for participating. And that concludes our call at this time.

And at this time today's conference call has concluded. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.