Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert L. Gaylor — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations, Xinergy Ltd.
Gregory L. Mason — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Xinergy Ltd.
Michael R. Castle — Chief Financial Officer, Xinergy Ltd.
Jeffrey P. Buller — Analyst, Spectrum Group Management LLC
Jay Spencer — Analyst, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.
Matthew Thomas Farwell — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Brian Taddeo — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Xinergy Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Bobby Gaylor, Executive Vice President. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Betty. Welcome to Xinergy's second quarter 2014 earnings call, and thank you for being with us today. We released our earnings yesterday after the markets closed and the release and the MD&A are posted on our website. Additional information relating to Xinergy has been filed electronically with SEDAR and is available at sedar.com or at the company's website at xinergycorp.com. With me on the call today are Bernie Mason, CEO and President; and Mike Castle, CFO.

Before we begin this morning, I need to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should be considered along with the risk factors that we note at the end of our press release, as well as in our Annual Information Form and other SEDAR filings.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Bernie Mason.

Thanks, Bobby, and also, I'd like to thank everyone for participating in today's call. And I always – you've heard me say this before – but I always enjoy reviewing the call roster and I always see several of you've visited our coal mines over the last several years and actually been involved with our company since day one. Well, we try to be totally transparent and we always welcome your visits and phone calls. I'm just a coal miner, but extremely proud of our mines, and I really enjoy showing them. So, if you had not visited our coal mines, please do so. I promise you, you will enjoy the visit because it's really hard for anyone to understand our business without at least getting your hands just a bit dirty and your feet on the ground.

I'm sure most of you've already reviewed our second quarter results and I doubt if anyone is very surprised. Every mines are showing quality, production and cost consistency now. But most of you are probably focused solely on our liquidity. Well, let me share you, we constantly manage our shipments, inventories, payables, receivables to help maintain and improve our liquidity. And we're also in discussions with financial institutions, considering the possibility of a potential debt or equity financing opportunity.

Our Raven Crest preparation plant has given us the opportunity to monetize our large inventory position, and we have reduced that by about 24%, but it is still a large number. Several of you've asked me why I always discuss safety, environmental stewardship, and many of you have said that you always assume or expect us to operate safe and environmentally-compliant mines. Well, I will continue to discuss safety and environmental stewardship because it doesn't come easy. We focus on safety and we focus on being responsible miners, neighbors and environmental stewards. But today, I'm embarrassed to say, we did have two lost time accidents during the second quarter. One was at our South Fork Clearco preparation plant and the other on our Raven Crest surface mine.

Both were minor and resulted only in a one-day or two-day lost time. However, we do focus on zero lost time accidents and consider any accident to be serious. The two lost time accidents has increased our incident rate from 0 to 2.46, which is still well below the national average. But as we view it, it is totally unacceptable. But today, we do not have any environmental violations anywhere in our company. And I'm extremely proud of that fact. Today, we're 100% surface. With a lot of surface activity and to have zero violation, that's a heck of an accomplishment.

Well, I'll address the market just a bit and then move on to operations. But I really hope no one reviews my first quarter statements concerning the market because I was totally wrong. In early 2004, we saw a lot of movement in several thermal market dynamics such as production cuts, utility inventories at historical lows and utility seeking proposals. And these usually leading indicators, but we saw little or no increase.

So, today, I see the metallurgical and thermal coal markets as very stagnant. And I do not see any – or foresee any immediate change. We continue to see massive layoffs and mine closures throughout Central Appalachia. But we're fortunate. We're fortunate that we do produce a premium product at both Raven Crest and South Fork. We pride ourselves at being proactive instead of reactive. And this is why we've chosen to seek a marketing partner, such as Mercuria Energy Trading, to be our sales agent.

We build many solid relationships in the market over the past several years and we want to build on those relationships. And we believe that Mercuria can help us build on those relationships and help us to the next level. Mercuria, as most of you know, is a very large global energy trader with many professionals who have domestic and international sales experience. We executed an agreement with them in early July but they actually began assisting us in June, with June being the largest sales and revenue month we've had since operating both Straight Creek, Kentucky; and Raven Crest at their peaks.

During the second quarter, we also agreed with Globe Metallurgical to extend our met sales agreement by raising the price, increasing the volume, and extending it through June of 2017. It's only 7,000 tons a month at about $145 FOB our preparation plant in Greenbrier County, West Virginia. It's extremely meaningful to us.

Operationally, both South Fork and Raven Crest continue to produce well and within our cost projections. Both projects are now seeing production and cost consistency. Raven Crest is now producing at a run rate of 50,000 tons a month, and with second quarter total production of 156,000 saleable tons and cash costs of $57.04. I projected these costs in early January to be between $55 and $58 as we started Raven Crest.

Raven Crest is a difficult operation. Highwall miners operating extremely well, but Raven Crest is the multi-seam contour mine with an overall mining ratio of 18:1. We have extremely long overburden hauls which is expensive. However, the success of highwall miner makes Raven Crest a successful, low-cost operation, producing high BTU, low-ash and low-sulfur product.

We are still working to pull down our inventory which hasn't been replaced for over two years and we're now at a level – we're about 123,000 clean tons or a clean coal equivalent, which would be coal that's yet to be processed. And this has been a slow process because the [ph] out of sync (7:30) dilution had suffered some degradation causing issues going through the plant where we have to kind of slow the feed rate but it still results in extremely high-quality product. So, the Raven Crest plant is doing extremely well now, and I'm very pleased with the performance of Raven Crest.

At South Fork in mid-May, we added the third loading unit, which has increased our production, and our June production was 34,500 tons and July was actually 38,500 tons. And I anticipate the third unit increasing our overall production to plus 40,000 clean tons per month.

Our second quarter cash costs were at $93.94 on production of 96,200 tons. But our Blue Knob surface mine standalone cash costs were at $87.57 for the entire quarter. And I expect this production and cost to remain consistent at this level, until late Q3 or early Q4 when we'll be ready to add highwall miner and Lost Flat permit.

I don't want to force coal into a depressed market, but I do want to position South Fork to take advantage of the highwall miner cost structure because it's an extremely low-cost structure, and it will have a very positive impact on our cash costs.

Both of our mines are high ratio with difficult mining. However, we're successful in managing our costs and producing a premium product. I can't do anything to improve the market, so we stay laser-focused on controlling our costs that we focus in on a daily basis. We're extremely hands-on. All of our administration is hands-on and fully understands our business. So, we will remain focused on what we can control.

So, to take something away from today's call, I think, you can say without a shadow of a doubt that these guys have two, very, very nice coal mines. But it hasn't come easy. I'm extremely proud of our mines and our team here at Xinergy. We may be a relatively small company, but we're staffed with quality and very experienced personnel. And bottom line, this business is about people. Anyone can buy a coal mine and mining equipment, but it takes quality people to be successful.

Again, I want to thank each of you for participating in today's call. I'll be happy to answer your questions during Q&A or a follow-up phone call. So, feel free to call at any time.

This time, I'll turn the call over to Mike Castle, our Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you, Bernie. I'll review a few of the high points and then turn it over to questions. First, our revenues. In the second quarter 2014, our top-line revenues were $20.1 million on the sale of roughly 291,000 tons as compared to revenues of $4.7 million on the sale of 49,000 tons in the same quarter 2013. The overall average realization for the quarter was $69.29 as compared to $96.19 for the same quarter 2013. The significant change here in the revenues and tons sold in Q2 2014 as compared to Q2 2013 was primarily due to South Fork being the only active mine in 2013 and Raven Crest starting back into production in January of 2014. Raven Crest sold 195,000 tons and produced 156,000 tons in the second quarter, while South Fork produced and sold approximately 96,000 tons.

In April and May, although improving, our coal shipments continue to be somewhat impeded by weather conditions in the first quarter and early April and May that led to rail disruptions in the early part of the quarter. These disruptions in early Q2 negatively impacted revenues by about $3.8 million, tons sold by about 38,000 tons, and continue to cause higher inventory levels than we had expected.

At June 30, we had approximately 123,000 tons of coal inventory with a market value of about $8 million as compared to 161,000 tons at March 31. We expect to continue executing our inventory reduction plans throughout the remainder of 2014 and see positive impact to that since the end of the quarter. The cost of sales and cash costs, Bernie has gone through some of this but I'll expand a little bit. Our total cost of sales were $18.9 million or $65.23 per ton in the second quarter.

For the quarter, South Fork overall cash costs were $93.94 per ton. Raven Crest cash costs were $57.04 per ton. These costs for both of these mining operations were material reductions from the first quarter and we expect these costs to continue to experience this downward trend as production efficiencies continue throughout the remainder of the year.

Our SG&A is down to $1.7 million for the quarter as compared to $1.9 million in the first quarter, it's roughly a 10% reduction and of that $1.7 million, approximately $100,000 to $150,000 were non-cash items. So, we to continue to have roughly $500,000 a month in cash SG&A.

Our capital expenditures, we spend about $1.2 million in capital expenditures in the second quarter of which approximately $700,000 was expansion capital. It was related to the Raven Crest and South Fork preparation plans. And about $500,000 was maintenance CapEx for both, for buying surface mines. The company expects to spend about $700,000 to $1.7 million during the remainder of the year for maintenance capital.

Liquidity at this time, at June 30, we have – had approximately $2.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and about $8.8 million in restricted cash.

We have no equipment there, which does give us a basket of approximately $25 million for any equipment financing that we may need.

As we have previously discussed, we continue our efforts to sell surplus and obsolete assets and equipment, as well as non-core and non-strategic assets in an effort to enhance our liquidity, to fund future capital expenditures and reduce our debt, was the overall goal to de-lever our balance sheet and improve our capital structure. We remain focused on our liquidity issues and continue to work diligently towards sources of funding in the near-term and long-term. I appreciate it.

I'll now open it up to questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer-session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jeff Buller of Spectrum. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi, guys. Congratulations on continuing to cut costs and operating in a difficult environment. You guys have obviously made a lot of progress.

Thanks, Jeff.

I wanted to ask you a couple of questions specifically about the Mercuria relationship. If you can give a little bit more detail, do that involve kind of any up-front payments by Mercuria to you guys, to enhance working capital or liquidity in any way or on the other side, does it involve commitments by you guys to sell at any kind of discount to market?

This is Bernie, Jeff. I will just add that no, they did not pay us any or advance us any moneys up front. And we have made no commitments to sell anything under market nor would we ever. It is a difficult market, as everyone on this call realizes. Honestly, I'm shocked going through Central Appalachia right now and at the amount of production cuts we've seen, the amount of layoffs that we've seen.

But it – with Mercuria, we made the decision to go that direction because they do have the ability to move coal. I mean, they are a very large trader of – in addition to being a physical trader. So, we chose to go with them because we need to move our product. We have to move our product to be paid in a timely fashion. So, that was one of the reasons behind. But, I mean, everything is – or all sales will be at a current market price.

Got it. Okay. Secondly, the cost, you may have discussed this in the past, but could you reiterate the cost to put the highwall at South Fork? And you said Q3, Q4 this year, anything a little bit more specific than that or not yet?

Sure. That's – I don't know when you visited South Fork, we were practically – we were probably been mining on lost flats, and that'll be the permit where we will take the highwall miner. Blue Knob will be a – it's an area [ph] to (17:16) mine where we've removed 100% of the coal. So, we'll have a highwall miner at lost flat. And actually we have a pit prepared today with approximately three months' worth of work, or three months' worth of highwall miner reserve that's basically ready.

And today, if we made the decision to move today, I would probably go with a contractor. We do own a highwall miner at Raven Crest, but that's our own machine, so we would look at a contract miner to mine that for us. And there's multitude of them out there. And then really the capital required to begin that would be very minimal. I mean, we're talking tens of thousands of dollars is all.

Got it. All right, last question and I'll hop back into the queue. Just going back to that Mercuria comments you made earlier. Do they insist that it was an inclusive relationship or was that something that you thought was strategically better than to diversify your – the brokerage vendor?

Well, no, they did not insist that it was exclusive. To be quite honest, I chose to do that. We've had an issue with South Fork in the past because there was a lot of speculation when we first announced production at South Fork, because it's a unique coal. It's a very unique coal quality. It is a – it's a premium Sewell. It's a single-source mid-vol, which there's very little of that left in Central Appalachian.

So, we had a lot of people that were out promoting these – our coals on their own. We've had – actually, I've had end users contact me that there's been three or four brokers approach them, basically saying that they were responsible for marketing in our coal. So we chose to go with one voice. And, of course, we have a lot of relationships in the industry. We have a lot of relationships in the utility market and in the coking coal market. So, I mean, we will build on those relationships, but that was actually our decision on going – with exclusivity.

Thanks, guys. Congratulations again.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you.

[Operator Instruction] Our next question comes from Jay Spencer of Sterne, Agee. Please go ahead, sir.

Hey, guys. Good morning. I had a question for you about Central App realizations. Just going through the MD&A, it looks like during the quarter your average sales price per ton was $55.56. Also in the MD&A, you talk about in the outer years, the curve is gravitating towards mid $60s pricing. Can you just talk about when you expect to see the Central App realizations gravitate towards the mid $60s?

Sure, Jay. This is Bernie again. One thing that's a little confusing when you look at our average sales price out of Raven Crest. And with our highwall miner and we're producing about 30,000 tons a month off of our highwall miner. And about 50% of that production we will blend and ship it direct ship, without going through the preparation plan and then, the remainder we'll wash. But we completed a deal where we're selling FOB pit for $40. And this is coal that immediately off of our highwall miner and the buyer will pick it up in our pit. So it's – at a $40 price, we have a huge margin on that coal. But it impacts our overall net realization. I actually – it makes it look much lower than it actually is.

Today, the market for 12.5 BTU 1% coal which is where we are, is in the upper $50s. So, honestly, we're not far from the mid $60s right now. And as volatile that market is, I mean, it'll bounce to $60, $61, $61.50 and back on a weekly basis. So, its – I don't think to say that we're far from a mid $60s price range is really much of a stretch.

Okay. Good. So, it's really the unwashed coal that's kind of dragging down that blended realized price.

That's exactly right. And that will probably our highest margin coal but it does make it – the blender price look much lower.

Got you. And I had a question for you about the specialty coal market, the activated carbon market. Have you guys had any more [indiscernible] (22:41) at marketplace? And do you think if the relationship with Mercuria may open up more opportunities to service that specialty market?

I think it will. Of course, the global metallurgical business isn't activated carbon. It's a special alloy. But we are pressing that market because we're washing our Sewell coal at a very low gravity to produce about a 2.5% of ash which is extremely low, and that's what we're selling to Globe Metallurgical. Well as – we'll get about 40% of our overall product that we'll make that. So, we have approximately 10,000 tons a month of a low ash product that would fit very well in activated carbon market. So, actually, we are active in discussions with a couple of end users now. Mercuria is also – so we hope to have something more secure, I'll say, by the end of the year.

Okay. That's all I had. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Matt Farwell of Imperial Capital. Please go ahead, sir.

Hey. Good morning. Just some questions on liquidity. Can you review some of the liquidity sources that you have? Do you have a capability to pursue any sale leaseback transactions under the current credit agreement and indentures?

Matt, I'll try to – this is Mike. I'll try to answer that a little bit. Any type of an asset sale would be treated very similar to how the Kentucky sale was last year. Those funds are escrowed and we have periods of time we're allowed to use those funds for additional capital expenditures and acquisitions, things like that. So, they don't necessarily go into liquidity, but they do help, obviously, if there's any capital expenditures. So, any type of a sale leaseback transaction would fall into that category. And as far as any other liquidity sources, we're obviously trying to continue to improve our liquidity through all kinds of other various means that are allowed under our indenture, obviously, and that's kind of where we are right now.

How large is the asset pool that you could potentially sale leaseback?

I think Bernie addressed that in a previous quarter and roughly, we were assuming that we could potentially dispose of assets and realize roughly $50 million I believe and that – that was a few quarters or a few months ago, we – obviously, the market is depressed. There are several companies that have a lot of assets out there available. So, we still think those assets can potentially be in that range, but that's our estimate.

And then on the South Fork, what kind of pricing are you seeing now for the mid-vol product, just for the Straight coke and coal?

Just pure coke and coal export, we're seeing mid to upper-$80s which would be FOB at mine site. And domestic, I mean, that – I believe I said [ph] that was (26:36) export. Domestic, we're seeing in the low to mid-$90s FOB mine site.

Do you think that there is much of a high-vol discount?

We're mid-vol.

I know. But do you think that the mid-vol is sort of trading more at parity with high-vol or is there a significant discount for the high-vol coal that other producers are making?

I do think that that's an issue. And like I've always said, we have a very unique product, but it all comes back to steel demand. With steel users are also coke makers, they can utilize high-vol and low-vol, and also a lesser quality coal and [ph] coke it (27:35) for an extended period of time, and still produce a pretty nice coke. So it all comes back to steel demand, but yes, I do see that there is a discount because we're not seeing the value of the product that we actually have in the market today. [indiscernible]

(27:56) a small producer on the ground in Central App. We hear from some of the other larger producers have talked about significant inventories that are continuing to sustain this oversupply situation. In addition, some of the announced closures haven't taken – actually taken place yet and may take place next year. Is that what you are seeing? Do you – can you provide any additional color on that?

Yeah. We are seeing that. I do think that, actually, even some of the mine closures that we've seen in the past few months, there're some operations that still have significant inventory on the ground, where they're continuing to shift on existing contracts. But to be quite honest, as we go forward, those inventories pull down, I think it will put us in a pretty decent position on the marketing side. And I know there're some end users that are a little nervous with all the announced cutbacks [ph] of – really (29:04) where their supply is going to come from.

So we are a small producer, but we are a quality producer. And today, we're probably at a plus or minus 40,000-ton run rate out of South Fork, came with the highwall miner addition. It'll probably push it to 60,000 tons to 65,000 tons. So 60,000 tons to 65,000 tons a month of high-quality mid volume. I think that will position us in the market, but that's – honestly, that's why we also chose to go with a company like Mercuria, because they do have a history. They have offices all over the world and a lot of history on the domestic side in addition to export. So we [indiscernible] (30:01) I think we made the right decision. I know we made the right decision in partnering with a group like that, because it does allow us to focus solely on our projects, solely on our mine plan, and continue to control our cost.

And we're – Blue Knob at South Fork, it's still relatively new coal mine. So we still have not achieved a lot of, I would say, mining efficiencies that I know will come within the next couple of quarters. So we still have some opportunity to continue to cut our cost. But with Mercuria responsible for marketing on our coal, it does allow us to focus solely on positioning us as the lowest cost producer in Central Appalachia.

Yeah. It sounds like a good step for the company. Well, congratulations on some good operations and good luck in the next quarter.

Thanks, Matt.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Brian Taddeo of Baird. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thanks for all the color.

Hi, Brian.

A question for you. Just on the market, you made some comments about, obviously, a lot of people are shutting down around you. I was just curious have – are you seeing any increased pickup in volumes or demand from their customers? I know that you mentioned some [ph] start-up (31:26) inventory on the ground. But do you start to see any pickup yet, backfilling some of those contracts tied to plants that have shut down?

Really, Brian, we have not. Honestly, there's – on the thermal side and the met side, we know that there's still some main users that have contracted position even from 2013, where they did not take all the coal, and those tons have even pushed further into 2014. But we have not seen that pickup in volume. I expect it.

I mean, to idle a coal mine, it's a difficult process. I mean, you just don't turn the lights off and turn them back on. So I know that we're fielding a lot of calls from, I'll say, some anxious buyers, after all of the announced layoffs and mine closures, and especially [indiscernible] (32:36) West Virginia. So I know there are some people that are somewhat anxious on where their products are going to come from.

In the last – probably the last two weeks, we've seen announcements that will probably impact the market plus 10 million tons. So I do think that we'll eventually see that push down downstream, but today, we've yet to do it. I know it's just inventory, inventory still on the market and a lot of these companies have built inventory as we have over the last couple of years.

Understood. [ph] I just had a (33:18) question, on your filing, you had mentioned that you start shipping or you had shipped the couple of U.S. steelmakers at premium pricing. Now, was that tied into the specialty product you're referring to before? Or is that actually something new? Is that another segment that is – you're now seeing some better pricing on?

That was something new. It wasn't specialty coal. It was our standard product. But we've been testing. We tested with several U.S. steelmakers, coke makers, as we have with several foreign users. We participated in a couple of vessel shipments, and we've probably had bulk sampling to a majority – I won't say that, maybe not the majority – but at least 20, I'll say, major steelmakers around the world. But what we mentioned was – were larger shipments, train shipments, all participating in a vessel with – for new business.

Got you. Okay. And then just one last one, obviously, given that and then the costs cuts you've been making and the cost containment, I mean, do you think we're at a point now where going forward, you can – you got pretty close. But flipping it to being EBITDA positive, do you think you're at a point where going forward that can be the case?

We do. We obviously are getting positive margins now. And we anticipate that to continue, and we're continuing to cut our overhead, obviously, our SG&A. And we do think we'll have positive EBITDA going forward. Obviously, it'll be dependent on some of the market. But, yeah, we do think that, yes.

Great. Well, congrats on a good quarter and good luck.

Thanks.

And our next question comes from Jeff Buller of Spectrum. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Sorry. One more question – actually, maybe two. I wanted to know if you guys are still working with Bristol to try and do another stock offering to raise some of that incremental liquidity in anticipation of the upcoming coupon. Are you still working with them actively? I did not see any mention of them in this latest material that you sent around.

Jeff, this is Bobby. Not actively working with Paul in Bristol right now, simply just because we just don't need them at this time.

So there are – you're saying you don't need them because there are alternatives that you guys are pursuing that will be fruitful?

I'm saying that things are going well. I don't need Bristol at this moment.

Okay. And one other question for Bernie. I understand that the mines have positive margins and things are going well in terms of reducing cost. But have you done any analysis about the more drastic impact of shutting down either of these two mines and if it's a tough decision or what have you guys concluded on that?

Jeff, I mean, we have done that. We have completed that analysis. We are positive margin right now. And we also believe that we can continue to cut our cost. Today, I see no reason to move in that direction, so we'll continue to operate, continue to focus on cutting our cost. But, yes, we work through those – that analysis quite often. We always try to manage and, I'll say, segment our production for our sales. So we manage our labor, manage our overtime on a monthly basis.

All right. Good luck. Thanks again.

Thanks.

And our next question comes from [ph] Umesh Mahajan (37:40) of Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. A quick question. You guys are working on a lot of different ways to increase your liquidity, and you've been working on it for a little while. My question is, if you had the ability, what would be the right level of liquidity that you'd want to raise through different ways? So, ballpark, is it $50 million you're looking for, $25 million? How are you thinking about your liquidity need at this point?

Hi. This is Mike. A minimum, obviously, of $25 million. That's sort of what our target has been.

Got it. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session and it also concludes today's conference. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your line.