raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Air Canada’s First Quarter 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Denis Biro,


Director Investor Relations. Please go ahead Mr. Biro.


Denis Biro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you operator and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us in our first quarter


2005 conference call. My name is Denis Biro and I’m the Director of Investor Relations. With me


today is Robert Milton, Chairman, President, and CEO of ACE; Montie Brewer, President and CEO


of Air Canada; and Rob Peterson, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We


are going to start by giving a brief review of the results and then go on to questions from the analyst


community. I’ll also invite you to consult our supplementary presentation which is posted on our


website for further detail and trends.


Because some of the discussion in this call will be forward-looking, I am going to read some


standard Safe-Harbor text which is, ceratin statements made in this call may be forward looking


and subject to important risks and uncertainties. The results predicted in these statements may


differ materially from the actual results for a number of reasons including the risk factors and


uncertainties outlined in prospectus documents. Any forward-looking statements made in this call


represent expectations of ACE Aviation Holdings as of the current date and are subject to change.


ACE Aviation Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking


statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. I am now going to


turn it over to Robert Milton for the discussion on the quarter. Robert?


Robert Peterson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Denis, good morning everyone. I’m going to give you a brief review of the quarter hitting


the highlights as the disclosure in our MD&A and notes released this morning as very extensive in


detail. Air Canada hit very close to break-even results in typically the weakest quarter of the year.


Our operating loss of $10 million was an improvement of $135 million from the loss last year. As


reduced ownership expense contributed $79 million to this improvement, EBITDAR was $56 million


better. As you are no doubt aware all this took place in a brutal fuel price environment with our fuel


bill going up $81 million due to price alone. Domestic pricing was also under considerable pressure


for virtually the entire quarter as JetsGo, a low cost Canadian competitor was struggling to generate


enough cash to stay alive. Simply put we are very encouraged with the results for the quarter. We


are the only North American carriers so far reporting that actually improved operating results


without the benefit of fuel hedges. Obviously we will see far greater EBITDAR improvements in the


second and third quarters when seasonal demand peaks and operational leverage kicks in as our


employees and fleet go flat out to meet the demand and unit costs per ASMs for on much higher


capacity


In the quarter the $56 million EBITDAR increase was due entirely to higher revenues as the jump in


fuel expense offset the $77 million in cost savings other than ownership primarily in the salary,


wage, and benefit categories. 21 million or less than half of the $56 million pick-up in revenues


came from the passenger world with most of the remainder from a $26 million jump in other


revenues reflecting higher aeroplane revenues and better results from Air Canada vacation


package tour sales. This description is different from our reported revenues which show a much


higher increase in passenger revenues while our other revenues show a decline from the same


quarter last year.
raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the ’05 quarter we recognized $57 million of aeroplane redemption revenues and passenger


revenue instead of in the other category. This concerned redemptions for travel on Air Canada


using points purchased by our non-air program partners. Prior to the fourth quarter of last year


these redemptions were recognized as revenue in the other category. Total revenue however


remains unchanged. Only the reporting categories are now different. To make valid passenger


revenue comparisons to last year, the following discussion will assume that these revenues were


reported in the other category as they were in the first quarter of ’04. The $21 million increase in


passenger revenue was comprised of a small domestic improvement. A $54 million decline in US


transborder revenue more than offset by significant growth in Atlantic, Pacific, and Latin American


markets. The key weakness in the North American markets was yield. On a consolidated basis


down 3% within Canada and up 12% on transborder routes, within Canada and the US January


was the weakest period with February and March showing progressive improvement which as since


carried on into a strong positive April. April in particular started to reflect the termination of JetGo’s


uneconomic pricing airline are shutting mid-march. Despite strong international pricing throughout


the quarter, the weak North American yield drag the system average down 4%. Yet we still


generated a 3% improvement in unit revenue our RASM by driving load factor shortly up on all


services, in fact we hit record load factors throughout the quarter while simultaneously hitting


superb on-time performance. To achieve this we maintained tight control over capacity cutting it by


2%, mainly in the North American context but especially to the US where it was down 12%. At the


same time our traffic continued to grow up 4% in Canada and up 9% on international services.


Even on the US transborder routes traffic declined only 1% although was cut 12%.


Now for some more detail by service, as I just mentioned within Canada the strong traffic more than


offset the soft yield pushing our RASM up 4% and our revenue 1%. The revenue increase reflected


stronger results in Western Canada. On the transborder services traffic was especially strong to


the Eastern seaboard in California. As discussed earlier it we a tough yield environment essentially


throughout the US market except for leisure destinations. The 7% quarter-over-quarter weakening


in the US currency in comparison to the Canadian dollar also had a negative impact on yields,


through the conversion of US sales into Canadian dollar revenue. However, I believe we are now


close to bottoming out in the decline in the US yields. On the Atlantic our UK routes saw strong


customer demand and good pricing, for the quarter our Continental routes experienced great yields


throughout and only Eastern Canada to Germany reported a small traffic decline reflecting a 7%


reduction in capacity. Both Japan and Hong Kong turned in stellar results with double-digit revenue


growth especially from the new non-stop Toronto-Hong Kong service and Toronto to Nevada, as


well as from strong premium demand. Other passenger revenue which consists of the Caribbean,


Latin American and Australia recorded a 17% increase with a 66% growth in Latin American traffic


accounting for about half with our Australian route also a significant contributor. Cargo revenues


rose $9 million or 7% mostly on capacity an MD-11 freighter service to Germany and more A3340


flying to Asia. Sydney and Lima were also strong markets. With respect to other revenue, our


income statement reports a $31 million decline. However, as I mentioned earlier in this quarter $57


million in aeroplane redemption revenue was reported under passenger revenues and not in the


other category, excluding the impact of this revised accounting treatment other revenue rose $26


million or 8% primarily on higher cancellation and change fees and a higher Air Canada vacation’s


presence in Mexico and Cuba as well as better tour package pricing. We continued to make solid


progress on costs with our unit cost down 1.8% in the quarter. Total expenses fell $79 million from


the same quarter last year, a $156 million with our fuel. Excluding fuel our unit costs improved 6%


and were down 17% versus the first quarter of 2002 we achieved the unit cost improvement


accompanied the 2% reduction capacity which made productivity gains more difficult.


On the other hand our aircraft stage link rose 6% reflecting increased long-haul international flying


and pushed our unit cost slightly downward. We achieved productions in most categories with


significant ones in salaries, wages, and benefits and ownership. Increased occurred only in fuel


and of course in the ever increasing airport and nav fee category and in our miscellaneous other.


Salaries and wages totaled $469 million, down $25 million or 5% from last year. Employee levels