raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentleman. Welcome to the Air Canada’s Third Quarter 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised that this call is being recorded. I would now


like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Denis Biro, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead Mr.


Biro.


Denis Biro, Director, Investor Relations


Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us in our third quarter 2005 conference call. With


me today is Robert Milton, Chairman, President and CEO of ACE, Montie Brewer, President and


CEO of Air Canada and Brian Dunne Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ACE.


We’re going to start by giving a brief review of the results and then go on to questions from the


analyst community. I’ll also invite you to consult our supplementary presentation, which is posted


on our website for further details and trends.


Because some of the discussion in this call will be forward-looking, I am going to read some


standard Safe Harbor text, which is, certain statements made in this call may be forward-looking


and subject to important risks and uncertainties. The results predicted in these statements may


differ materially from actual results for a number of reasons, including risk factors and uncertainties


outlined in prospectus documents. Any forward-looking statements made in this call represent


expectations of ACE Aviation Holdings as of the current date, and are subject to change. ACE


Aviation Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


I am now going to turn it over to Robert Milton for the discussion on the quarter. Robert?


Robert Milton, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Denis. First of all I am going to introduce Brian Dunne, our new CFO of ACE Aviation


Holdings. Brian joined us on September 6th from Aer Lingus the National Carrier of Ireland, where


he was CFO. Brian played a key role in transforming Aer Lingus into a profitable low fair carrier.


There he led the carrier successful cost reduction program and European fleet transformation as


well as other initiatives, which were instrumental in the carrier’s turnaround. We at ACE are most


fortunate to have Brian with us. Welcome to board.


I’m going to give you a brief review of the quarter hitting the highlights as the disclosure in our


MD&A and notes released this morning is very detailed.


We reported an operating income of $320 million in the quarter up $77 million from last year’s


quarter. This was achieved despite incurring a fuel bill $177 million higher on price alone. This


operating income and our net income of $270 million are the highest of any carrier in North America


for the quarter. So needless to say, we are pleased with this performance.


Our EBITDAR was $550 million up $36 million from the second quarter of last year. One item I will


point out here is that last year’s results were favorably affected by the $22 million refund from the


FA over flight fees.


In the quarter including our regional carrier Jazz’s, we flew 6.1% higher system capacity and


acceleration from the growth of 4% in the second quarter. Demand for our product was clearly
raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


buoyant as traffic rose 8.8% and our load factor hit 82.4% up to 2.1% each points another record.


The sixth consecutive record quarterly load factor for Air Canada.


System yields remain strong up 2.7% and unit passenger revenue grows 5.3%, performance is


similar to what we saw on the second quarter. The difference in our third quarter was stronger


North American results especially in Canada. Again at this point and for the final time, I will make a


brief mention of our Aeroplan accounting change, which is explained in detail in the MD&A.


Starting in the fourth quarter of last year we recognized certain Aeroplan redemption revenues in


the passenger revenue category, which prior to that quarter were recorded in the other revenue


category.


Total revenue remained unchanged and our discussion – describes yields and RASM’s treating


third quarter ’05 and ’04 numbers on a comparable basis. Our cost performance continue to


remain strong with fuel driving the unit cost increase of 5.1% excluding fuel our unit cost improved


3.3% for the quarter. Pulling out expense increases due to fuel and user charges these are total


expense bill unchanged on a capacity increase of 6.1%.


Now, I’ll provide a bit more detail on our revenue performance by service. As I mentioned before


our Canadian airport routes turn in a solid performance in the quarter with passenger revenues up


17.4%. This was supported by a capacity increase of 6% with our Toronto to Calgary and Bankova


flights driving most of that. Strong demand through our – all our domestic routes push the load


factor to 82.3% up 3.6 points from last year. In September our domestic main line load factor was


more than 10 points above that of our main competitor a key underlying factor in our ongoing


RASM’s premium. While the domestic yield grow 6% in the quarter it progressively strengthen


during the three months, hitting an increase of over 9% in September. Early October results


indicate continued yield strength. This increase reflected tourist of domestic fuel related general


fare increases. As demand for our product continues to strengthen, we intend to maintain a 6%


growth in fourth quarter domestic capacity. US transmuter revenues rose 5.9% and a 5.3% traffic


growth and a small yield improvement, the first in almost three years. On top of that now we did put


in few related fare increases, the strength of the Canadian dollar against the US dollar up 8%


versus last year quarter worked against us when translating US dollar sales into Canadian dollar


revenue. As the yield environment while improving was not strong, we pushed resume of 7.8% by


reducing capacity 1.8% and lifting low backdrop by 5.3 percentage points. However after reducing


our transmuter capacity by a very significant amount over the last four quarters, it will rise by about


8% in the fourth quarter.


Atlantic revenues rose 9.1% all on traffic as yields were flat after six consecutive quarters of strong


yield growth. On a reinstate service to loan provided considerable growth in revenue while demand


remained high for both UK and France. While, we increase fuel surcharges both in early July and


August and continue to do so in September, offsetting this was increased pricing pressure due to a


growth in charter capacity and again a strengthening of the Canadian dollar. This time against euro


and the UK pound. Atlantic horizon still rose 2.3% in the quarter but all on higher yield factor.


Specific revenues increased 5.1% virtually all on traffic as yields rose only slightly, a 9% increase in


capacity reflected the addition of non-stop service from throughout the division and to sold, partially


offset by reduced service to India. Our overall traffic growth across the Pacific was 4.5%.


Competitive pricing activity, a stronger Canadian dollar and the longer straitening link of the non-


stop services combined to almost offset the impact of additional fuel surcharges on the Pacific


groups. We continue to see strong growth on our Latin American, Caribbean, Mexico and South


Pacific routes with revenues up 18.5%. A reflection predominantly of our expanded service to


South America and that our two other subsidiary Air Canada Vacations. Yields continue to move


upward increasing 1.2% and load factors rose 2.3 points. Demand for our South American services


was especially strong with the load factor they are heading 83.5% in the quarter. Our cargo


revenues rose $20 million or 14% reflecting the addition of our new Toronto to Shanghai freighter


service. Cargo yields were essentially unchanged, as the favorable impact of higher fuel