raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Air Canada’s Fourth Quarter and Year-


End Financial Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Denis Biro,


Director Investor Relations. Please go ahead Mr. Biro.


Denis Biro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning every one. We are pleased to be holding our Second Quarterly


Conference Call at ACE Aviation Holdings or ACE. With me today is Robert Milton, Chairman and


President and CEO of ACE Aviation Holdings; Rob Peterson, our Executive Vice President and


CFO; Montie Brewer, President and CEO of Air Canada; Paul Brotto, our Executive Vice President


– Planning and Cost Management. We are going to start by giving a brief review of the results and


then go on to questions from the analyst community. I am also going to invite you to consult our


supplementary presentation which is posted on our website for further detail and trends.


Because some of the discussion in this call will be forward-looking, I am going to read some


standard Safe-Harbor text which is, ceratin statements made in this call may be forward looking


and subject to important risks and uncertainties. The results predicted in these statements may


differ materially from actual results for a number of reasons including the risk factors and


uncertainties outlined in prospectus documents. Any forward-looking statements made during this


call represent expectations of ACE Aviation Holdings as of the current date and are subject to


change. ACE Aviation Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-


looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Now I am


going to turn it over to Robert.


Robert Peterson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Denis, good morning everyone, welcome to the call. As most of you are aware, on


September 30 of last year ACE became the successor and parent holding company of the


reorganized Air Canada and its subsidiaries. The last quarter we presented only the balance sheet


under fresh start accounting. This quarter all our statements have been prepared under fresh start


accounting. The biggest structural change you will be seeing when we file our full statements and


notes, is the new segmented report where we break down the consolidated income results into


transportation, which is essentially our main line air carrier including cargo and the ground handling


business as its two biggest pieces. Aeroplan, our frequent flier or loyalty, Jazz, our regional airline,


and lastly ACTS, our maintenance business. This is one of the most extensive disclosures of any


kind amongst carriers worldwide. It will profile the contribution of each major unit and provide our


shareholders and the financial community with the means to more fully understand and value our


business segments.


Before I go on, I’m going to make a comment on one important accounting change we made with


respect to the category in which we record certain Aeroplan redemption revenues. We made a


change in the fourth quarter in the way we treat Aeroplan redemptions for points purchased by our


non air partners such as CIBC. Previously, the revenue for these redemptions was recorded in


other revenue. Now, it is recorded in passenger revenue to match the associated traffic, which is


always, which was always in our traffic numbers. So any direct and meaningful comparisons of our


published revenue, yield and resin numbers can be made only by adjusting for this change, which


amounted to $41 million in the quarter. I’m going to make that adjustment in my comments, so


quarter-over-quarter comparisons will be accurate.
raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our huge accomplishments in the quarter can be recognized in our near breakeven operating


results, vesting all our major North American competitors, and beaten only by a few US low-cost


carriers such as Southwest amongst large North American carriers and they have the benefit of a


major fuel hedge gain.


We also clearly outperformed our key low cost domestic competitor as they recorded a large


operating loss. At the same time, we also surpassed by $46 million our EBITDAR target of $1.1


billion as set out in our circular and proxy statement of last June. We did this in spite of an


unprecedented and unanticipated increase in crude price which caused us an additional $79 million


in the quarter versus our estimates in the circular and $142 million from the 2003 fourth quarter


levels. We achieved this by operating our North American capacity much more efficiently than we


did in ’03, by continuing to grow in high margin international markets, and by relentless cost cutting,


which pushed our non-fuel unit cost down by 5% and down 19% from the same quarter two years


ago. You can see our revenue success in our resin numbers, up an identical 9% in Canada, the


Transatlantic and Pacific markets and up by 4% overall. Only the Trans-border market was soft,


down 1% reflecting a truly weak pricing environment.


Our approaches to domestic and international markets were different. Within Canada, we’re


operating in a somewhat weaker pricing environment that developed from a very rapid expansion of


low-cost carriers. However, our domestic yield was down in modest 2%, because in contrast to our


LCC competitors, our product lines offer additional features that are customer’s value, and are


willing to pay a bit extra for.


In addition about 30% of our domestic traffic is not local traffic but fee from international markets.


This segment is far less affected by domestic pricing activity. We cut domestic capacity by 8% on a


consolidated basis which includes Jazz, our regional carrier. Despite this extensive rationalization


of domestic capacity, our traffic still rose 2% leading to a record domestic quarterly load factor of


77.4%, up 8.1 percentage points over last year. This drove our unit revenue shortly upward. In fact


we also had a close to 12 point domestic load factor premium over our main competitor.


On the transborder, our yields declined 12% in a brutally competitive market with a lot of over


capacity, brought on by US carriers shifting aircraft north bound from an even worst domestic US


market. In anticipation we cut transborder capacity by 16%, more on short haul northeast routes


than long haul but realized only a 5 % drop in traffic volumes. Consequently our load factor on the


US rose by over 8 percentage points keeping our RASM decline to within 1% of last year. In


contrast, on the international routes, we faced rational overall market capacity and a strong pricing


environment with yield on the Atlantic routes up 8%, on the Pacific up 10%, and up 3% on our


Caribbean and Latin American routes. In addition as our unit costs are now significantly below that,


virtually all competing legacy carriers operating in our international markets, our margins there grew


substantially over the last year. To take advantage of this and very strong demand, we pushed


capacity on the pacific up 24% in the quarter with additional service to Japan and Hong Kong, and


doubled our capacity to Latin America with new services to Caracas, Bogota, Santiago, and Lima.


Only on the Atlantic routes did we trim capacity by 4%, a small amount to London, and some from


Western Canada to Germany. Even with all this expansion, international traffic overall matched the


increasing capacity with load factors actually increasing a bit. Total international RASM rose 6.5%


in the quarter. Cargo revenue rose $20 million with higher freight volumes accounting for about


2/3rd, and the remainder coming from yield improvement especially on the Atlantic, reflecting fuels


surcharges. Most of the increased cargo traffic was generated on the Pacific routes, where we


have pushed up our frequencies substantially. With respect to other revenue, our income


statement reports this as essentially flat. However, as I mentioned earlier in the fourth quarter, $41


million in Aeroplan redemption revenue was reported under passenger revenues and not in the


other category. Excluding the impact of this revised accounting treatment, other revenues rose


sharply on the growth in third party maintenance activity and higher Aeroplan non-air redemptions.


Increased engine work in particular for the Canadian Department of National Defense and new


heavy maintenance contracts with ILFC as well as more heavy maintenance for customers such as