raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
212. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Air Canada's Second Quarter 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised this call is being recorded. I would now like


to turn the meeting over to Mr. Denis Biro, Director Investor Relations. Please go ahead Mr. Biro.


Denis Biro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you operator. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us in our first quarter 2005


conference call. My name is Denis Biro and I'm the Director of Investor Relations. With me today


is Robert Milton, Chairman, President, and CEO of ACE; Montie Brewer, President and CEO of Air


Canada who is joining us from Toronto today; and Rob Peterson, the Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer. We are going to start by giving a brief review of the results and then go on


to questions from the analyst community. I'll also invite you to consult our supplementary


presentation which is posted on our website for further detail and trends.


Because some of the discussion in this call will be forward-looking, I am going to read some


standard Safe-Harbor text which is, ceratin statements made in this call may be forward-looking


and subject to important risks and uncertainties. The results predicted in these statements may


differ materially from actual results for a number of reasons including the risk factors and


uncertainties outlined in prospectus documents. Any forward-looking statements made in this call


represent expectations of ACE Aviation Holdings as of the current date and are subject to change.


ACE Aviation Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking


statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. I am now going to


turn it over to Robert Milton for the discussion on the quarter. Robert?


Robert Peterson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Denis, good morning everyone. I'm going to give you a brief review of the quarter hitting


the highlights of the disclosure in our MD&A and notes released this morning are extensive. We


are pleased to report an operating profit of $177 million for the second quarter of 2005, an


improvement of $155 million from the same period in 2004. EBITDAR for the quarter reached $394


million up $99 million over last year. ACE reported an operating margin of 7.2% and an EBITDAR


margin of 16%, both close to the top of the North American industry, even amongst the leading


LCCs when excluding non-recurring items and gains from fuel hedges.


These results were achieve despite record high fuel prices which added $141 million to our fuel bill


in the second quarter, in comparison to $81 million in the first quarter, a huge increase in our


quarterly fuel expense. How did we do it? Through the execution of a strategic plan, we articulated


a year ago; mostly through much revenue, but with an unrelenting focus on costs. We covered the


increased fuel bill and hit much higher operating and EBITDAR margins through revenue growth of


$237 million or 11% on a capacity increase of just 4%. The underlying factors were record high


load factors, up 2.4 percentage points for the quarter on a systemwide basis combined with a yield


2.6% higher than last year’s comparable number.


Again at his point, I will make a brief mentioned about Aeroplan accounting change which is


explained in detail in the MD&A. This quarter as in the last two quarters, we recognized certain


Aeroplan redemption revenue in the passenger revenue category, which prior to the fourth quarter


of last year, we recorded in the other revenue category. Total revenue remains unchanged and our


following discussion will describe yields and resins treating second quarter 2005 and 2004 numbers


on a comparable basis. While expanding revenue was clearly the key story in the quarter,
raw transcript


ACE Aviation Holdings, Inc.
 
ACE.RV.CA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


expenses also continued to improve. Excluding fuel, expenses declined $74 million from last year


with ownership down $56 million and salaries, wages and benefits lowered by $49 million. The only


significant increase was in the uncontrollable category of airport and Nav fees, where higher rates


have pushed the total up by $23 million or 11%.


Our consolidated unit cost was unchanged for the quarter, but excluding fuel, was down 8%. While


all the surfaces but the transborder US reported large revenue growth, we are specially pleased


with both Air Canada and Jazz’s Domestic groups, which by nature of their size and best in-system


resin performance, accounted for more than half of the revenue growth. We recorded a 4%


increase in domestic capacity centered in the Transcon and Rapidair markets. Yields within


Canada rose a solid 4% in the quarter in contrast to declines in the 2 figures quarters as pricing


stabilized following the termination of operations in March by Jetsgo with its uneconomic pricing.


The improved yields in addition to a record consolidated load factor of 80.7% up 3.6 percentage


points over last year, pushed Canada RASM up 9% over last year. Our quarterly domestic load


factor was more than 10 percentage points above that of our major competitor, continuing long


running pattern that goes back to the fall of ’03 after we had launched our new revenue model with


simplified and transparent web pricing.


On June 20th we instituted a fuel related domestic fare increase of $8, $10, and $15 per segment


depending on the length of the journey. This should help mitigate some of the recent rise in fuel,


especially in the fall as much of July and August had been presold. The US transporter improved


radically as yields firmed and traffic grew by 5% in the quarter. Even though we cut capacity by 5%


this pushed the load factor to 73.1% almost 7 percentage points over last year and consequently


RASM up by 5%.


The Atlantic service performed well with traffic growth inline with an 8% increase in capacity which


primarily reflected our reinstated Toronto Rome service but also some earlier additional capacity on


a seasonal basis from Western Canada to the United Kingdom. Yields in RASM rose an equal 3%


reflecting higher fuel surcharges and a stable load factor respectively.


RASM on the Pacific routes rose 7% purely on stronger yields as traffic growth matched the 4%


increase in capacity. The introduction of non-stop Toronto Hong Kong and Toronto Beijing services


were the key factors in the higher capacity. Stronger demand from higher yield in business class


passengers and additional fuel surcharges accounted for the yield improvement.


RASM on Latin American, Caribbean, Mexico and South Pacific routes improved 3% on a 4%


increasing yield moderated by a small load factor decline. Capacity arose 14% reflecting the


introduction of service in 2004 to Bogota, Caracas, and [indiscernible], as well as an additional Sao


Paulo frequency.


In summary we are pleased with our performance for the quarter in all markets that we serve


worldwide. Cargo revenues rose $10 million or 7% primarily due to the new Toronto Beijing


freighter services. Excluding certain airplane revenues recorded last year within the other revenue


categories, which are now recorded under passenger revenues, other revenue rose $24 million or


13%. The biggest item was $16 million in additional maintenance revenue from outside contracts


with the new Delta agreement accounting for close to half of that amount. Other new heavy


maintenance contracts and a recent major one for engines were responsible for most of the


remainder. Other key factors in the other revenue increased or higher cancellation and change


fees and a growing Air Canada Vacations presence in the Caribbean market.


As I mentioned earlier, our costs in the quarter other than for fuel continued to decline. Excluding


fuel our expenses were cut by $74 million even though we added 4% in capacity. Salaries and


wages are $487 million, excluding benefits was reduced by $2 million. Personnel levels continued


to decline, down 468 employees or 1.4% from last year. Consequently, employee productivity rose


5.5% in the quarter and revenue per employee by 12.3%. Average salaries were also lowered by