corrected transcript


A123 Systems, Inc.
 
AONE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the


A123 Systems’ Fourth Quarter 2009 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-


only mode. Later, we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that


time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recoded.


I would now like to turn the program over to our speaker, Garo Toomajanian. Please go ahead, sir.


Garo Toomajanian, Senior Vice President, ICR, Inc.


Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to A123 Systems’ earnings call for the fourth quarter of


2009. With me on the call today are Dave Vieau, A123’s President and CEO, and Mike Rubino,


Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin the call, please allow me to read the following statement to inform you of certain


Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


During the course of this conference call, we will discuss our business outlook and make other


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are only predictions based on


management’s current expectations.


Actual events or results could differ materially from those predictions due to a number of risks and


uncertainties, including those discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of our quarterly report on


Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. In addition, any forward-looking statements


represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of


any subsequent date.


While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we


specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our views change. Therefore, you should not


rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to


today.


We will also be referring to non-GAAP measures on this call. These non-GAAP measures are not


prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The reconciliation of GAAP


to non-GAAP measures is available in our press release, issued today, which is available on our


website, at www.a123systems.com.


Now, I’ll turn the call over to Dave for his remarks.


David Vieau, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Garo, and thanks to everyone for joining us today to review our fourth quarter and full year


2009 results, which were better than our expectation.


The fourth quarter capped off a record year for A123, and our strong momentum is being fueled by


the strength of our technology and the importance the industry places on our experience of having


manufactured advanced lithium ion batteries at scale and at high quality levels for over four years.


We have recently signed more meaningful customer programs and have more project activity


compared to any point in A123’s history, and we’re very pleased with the size and quality of our


sales pipeline as we enter 2010.
corrected transcript


A123 Systems, Inc.
 
AONE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I’ll begin by reviewing some of the recent developments that demonstrate A123’s traction in our key


growth markets, particularly transportation and electric grid. I’ll then review our updated


manufacturing capacity expansion plans to support the rapid growth in production volumes that we


expect across our portfolio of customers in 2011 and 2012.


Starting with the transportation market, the majority of our transportation revenue currently comes


from heavy-duty vehicle production programs. However, over the next several years, we expect


passenger vehicle programs to become the largest contributor to our overall revenue.


As an example, in early 2010, we were selected as the battery system supplier to Fisker


Automotive for their Karma Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle. Fisker expect the Karma to be one of


the cleanest and most fuel-efficient cars in the world, while still offering industry-leading style and


performance.


Fisker stated that we were selected for this program because of our ability to meet their stringent


performance needs and our proven ability to scale production rapidly. This agreement further


validates our superior technology in the areas of power, safety, life and usable energy, which are


critical in plug-in hybrid vehicle and EV applications that have extended life requirements.


The supply agreement also provides that A123 will collaborate with Fisker on their Project NINA,


Fisker’s second production platform, with the intent that we would supply batteries for that platform


based on meeting Fisker’s performance and delivery requirements. The Fisker Karma is scheduled


to move into production later in 2010, while Project NINA is expected to launch in 2012.


Fisker has publicly stated that they anticipate ramping production of the Karma sports car to the


15,000 per year level over time. They’ve also announced plans to put in capacity in place to


manufacture even greater volumes related to Project NINA after it moves into production and


ramps over time.


We view our relationship with Fisker as strategic, which is evidenced by A123’s $23 million


investment in Fisker as part of $115 million capital raise that Fisker completed in January. This


investment will allow Fisker Automotive and A123 to work closely together to optimize the


performance of future vehicles, and it closely aligns the interest of both companies in delivering


innovative technology for the PHEV market.


The strength of our technology and proven ability to deliver were also factors behind our original


selection as a development partner with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, or SAIC Motor.


And they were key reasons that SAIC recently selected us as their strategic joint venture partner.


The focus of the joint venture is to develop, manufacture and sell complete battery systems for use


in hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid and pure electric passenger vehicles, and heavy-duty truck and bus


applications in China, which is arguably the largest and fastest growing automotive market in the


world.


The new venture, called Shanghai Advanced Traction Battery Systems, or ATBS, will be the


preferred supplier of complete energy storage systems for all hybrid electric and pure electric


vehicles manufactured by SAIC Motor and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.


Under the agreement with SAIC Motor, A123 will supply the advanced battery cells, and ATBS will


design and develop the integrated battery systems. As we previously announced, ATBS has been


awarded a contract to supply battery systems for SAIC Motor’s plug-in hybrid vehicle program.


SAIC Motor previously disclosed overall plans for building a portfolio of “new energy” vehicles,


including the hybrid Roewe 750 sedan and a plug-in hybrid version of the Roewe 550, which could