corrected transcript


A123 Systems, Inc.
 
AONE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to today’s A123 Systems Third Quarter Conference Call. This


call is being recoded. Now for opening remarks and introductions, I’d like to turn the call over to Tim


Dolvin. Please go ahead.


Company Representative


Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to A123 Systems earnings call for third quarter of 2009.


With me on the call today is Mike Rubino, Chief Financial Officer of A123, and Dave Vieau, A123’s,


President and CEO.


Before we begin the call, please allow me to read the following statement to inform you of certain


Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


During the course of this conference call, we will discuss our business outlook and make other


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are only predictions based on


management’s current expectations. Actual events or results could differ materially from those


predictions due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in the Risk Factor


section of A123 perspective dated September 23, 2009.


In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be


relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent day. While we may elect to update


these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation


to do so even if our views change. Therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking


statements, as presenting our views as of any date subsequent to today.


We will also be referring to non-GAAP measures on this call. These non-GAAP measures are not


prepared in accordance with generally expected accounting principles. The reconciliation of GAAP


to non-GAAP measures is available on our press release, which is available on our website at


www.a123systems.com.


With this, I’ll turn the call over to Dave.


David Vieau, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Tim, and thanks to everyone for joining us for our first conference call as a public


company. The third quarter represented a milestone quarter for A123 Systems, not only because


we completed our IPO, but because we were selected for one of the largest grants awarded by the


U.S. Department of Energy in the advanced battery system sector.


A123 Systems has the capital to expand our capacity rapidly to meet expected acceleration and


demand from our customers and prospects. This is important because we believe that the rising


energy costs, increased focus on climate change, demand for cleaner technologies, and a


reduction in cost for these technologies are all converging and creating a larger opportunity for


A123 in multiple markets.


As this is our first call as a public company, I want to begin with a brief overview of A123 followed


by additional perspective on A123’s significantly strengthened capital structure and important


recent development of our business.
corrected transcript


A123 Systems, Inc.
 
AONE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Starting with background A123 designs, manufacturers and sells advanced lithium-ion batteries and


battery systems to three primary target markets; transportation, electric grid services, and the


consumer market. Our largest target market is the transportation industry where our batteries and


systems are designed for hybrid electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and electric vehicles.


Our second largest target market is electric grid where our batteries provide ancillary services such


as frequency regulation services. Finally, A123 got started in the consumer market and we continue


to pursue applications where our products provide differentiating capabilities to our end-customer


products.


Our batteries and batteries system provide a combination of power, safety and life that we believe


no other commercially available battery provides. This is a core driver to our strong market position


in our Tier-1 customer base. And in addition to strong technology, a significant differentiator


between A123 Systems and many other vendors is that we’ve been in commercial production for


four years with advanced batteries including validation by production customers in each of our three


target markets.


As a result, we’ve demonstrated the performance of our technology at large scale and we have


multiple years of proven performance in the field.


We currently have over 450,000 square feet of manufacturing and development facilities in the U.S.


and Asia, including China and Korea. And we are vertically integrated form chemistry to cells to


system integration. For example, we produce our own cathode power, the number one cost driver


in battery sales, providing a lower cost basis in controlling its unique properties. We believe this


delivers an important long-term competitive advantage for the company.


This is a good place to transition to the important funding related events that occurred during the


third quarter, beginning with our DoE grant. While, initial guidance from the Department of Energy


was such that company should not have expected more than 100 to $150 million grant, we were


extremely pleased that A132 was awarded a $249 million grant.


To put this in further perspective, over 100 companies applied for a DoE grant and A123 was


among the largest award recipients. We received a larger DoE grant than other well-known industry


leaders such as GE, Ford, GM, Chrysler, Dow, LG and Delphi among many others.


We believe the size of A123’s grant is the strong endorsement of the company’s market leadership


position and the DoE’s confidence in our company. This confidence was built over the past seven


years during which we delivered on previous DoE programs and demonstrated our commercial


capability to develop, manufacture and deliver high quality products to our customers.


Secondly, we continue to make progress relative to securing up to $233 million in a loan with the


DoE. We feel good about our ability to finalize terms on this agreement, and we believe the size of


the loan grant -- DoE grant award puts in a strong position to do so.


The combination of our cash on hand, our $391 million net IPO proceeds, DoE grant loan, if it


closes, we provide A123 with nearly one billion in capital to expand our capacity. This is important


because the winners in the battery and battery systems market will not only need to have proven


best-in-class technology and manufacturing capabilities, they will also need to have the funding to


scale.


We have recently initiated the built out of our next manufacturing site, a 300,000 square foot cell


assembly plant located in Lavonia, Michigan. This site will be focused on manufacturing prismatic


batteries and systems, and we currently expect to be fully operational during the second half of


2010. We anticipate that this plant will support approximately 80 million watt hours per year.