raw transcript


BackWeb Technologies Ltd.
 
BWEB
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 09, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the BackWeb Corporate Overview Conference Call.


Your host for today is Bill Heye, Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Heye, you may now begin.


Bill Heye, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. Thank you and good afternoon and good morning to you. Welcome to our


business overview conference call. I am Bill Heye, CEO of BackWeb Technologies and joining me


today is Ken Holmes, our VP of Finance and David Collins, our Investor Relations lead.


Before we begin, we must read our Safe Harbor disclaimer, so David would you please take care of


that?


David Collins, Investor Relations


During the course of today's call, management may make forward-looking statements about


BackWeb's growth strategies, capital position, the impact of competition and general industry or


business trends and events. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statement are


not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results


may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statement as a result of various


factors including but not limited to risk factors detailed from time to time in the company's SEC


report including the reports on Form 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q. BackWeb undertakes no obligation to


publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Bill?


Bill Heye, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, David. As in previous calls, we are going to follow a format where we will read from a


prepared script and then open it up for questions at the end of the script and I will begin that script


now.


I thank you all for joining today's call. Given the sales results of the company this last quarter and


the long time since our last conference call, we felt it was important to host the call for our investors


so that we could speak with you in person and share not only the story behind this call but also


what we see ahead for BackWeb.


In this call, we would like to review our goals and strategy for the company and explain why we feel


that BackWeb's unique technology and product offering continue to offer promise to the company


and its shareholders despite the disappointing results we just announced in Q3. We also wanted to


provide our investors with the opportunity to ask questions about the company and our plans so we


will open the call for questions at the end of our prepared remarks.


Before we begin, I would like to comment that we have and will continue to have shareholder


communication on a regular basis, primarily around our customer and partner with related activity in


press releases that we deem significant and around our quarterly results. I have received calls from


investors asking for more press releases and communications from the company. Our approach


has been that we believe if we perform on both a revenue and expense basis in the coming


quarters, the news will flow naturally. However, we can do more to publish news of our active


partnerships and company activities and we will put more effort into making that happen. Part of


that involves incorporating release approvals at the outset of our contract discussions with


customers and partners as often they are partners and need to participate in the release process.
raw transcript


BackWeb Technologies Ltd.
 
BWEB
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 09, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


We appreciate your investment in and continued support of BackWeb and want to communicate


today so that you can understand how management of the company is working to realize some


measure of success for the customers, investors and employees of the company, and I believe all


of our interest are aligned.


Our agenda for today includes the following topics: review our third quarter financial performance,


discuss our industry position and corporate strategy, discuss our current sales, marketing and


partner strategy, discuss the NASDAQ listing issue and finally to open the call to questions from our


shareholders and other interested investors.


Now let's start off with our review of the third quarter. Ken?


Ken Holmes, Vice President, Finance


Thank you, Bill. Certainly from a top level financial perspective in Q3 2006, BackWeb experienced


a disappointing quarter. We believe that after looking deeper into the activity, you can see the


progress – that progress was made within the business during the quarter and we will touch on


some of that and what that means later.


Total revenue in the quarter was approximately $720,000, down over $1 million from the year ago


third quarter period and down approximately 37% from Q2 2006. Q3 license revenue was only


$61,000, well below the Q2 2006 license revenue of $462,000 and the year ago level of $942,000.


That last year ago period did include the recognition of 375,000 in license revenue recognition from


our F-Secure deal. Bill is going to review some of the circumstances around the revenue


performance on the license side in a little bit.


The third quarter also reflected a decline in service revenues from 663,000 this quarter, down from


approximately $840,000 in Q3 2005. The Q3 2006 result of 663 is roughly in line with the 680,000


we did in Q2 2006. As we've articulated before, the decline in service revenues is the result of our


increasing focus of working with our services partners. Working with these services partners is


often required by our customers who have well established relationships with these companies. It's


also advantageous to our sales and marketing efforts to get the wider customer exposure these


partners bring as they propose our products in other customer projects. We believe we get a large


potential for increased license sales by working with these partners and sharing our services work


with them.


Maintenance, which combines with professional services revenue form the services line item in our


income statement, was $516,000 in Q3 2006 versus 493 in Q2 2006 and 504,000 in Q3 2005. We


have experienced excellent maintenance renewal rates between 85% and 95% over the past few


years. That's what leads to these consistent maintenance revenue results. We believe that the


consistency in which our customers renew their maintenance is an indication of their loyalties with


products and our products value once its implemented within our customers site.


Net total expenses this quarter were approximately $2.3 million. This includes approximately


$200,000 related to severance and other cost reduction measures I announced at the time of our


Q2 2006 results. As we stated in the Q3 press release, we finished the quarter with an approximate


ongoing quarterly expense level down to $1.8 million.


Moving to the bottom line, Q3 2006 net loss was approximately $1.5 million or $0.04 per share.


This compares to a net loss last quarter of $1.1 million or $0.03 a share and a net loss of $208,000


or $0.01 a share in the year ago period.