raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby, we are about to begin. Good day everyone and welcome to today’s


BankUnited Fiscal 2005, Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded.


This conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements, which are based on


Management’s expectations regarding factors that may impact the Company’s earnings and


performance in future periods. Words and phrases such as: “will likely result,” “expect,” “will


continue,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “intend,” “should,” “may,” “can,” “could,”


“plan,” “target” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual


results or performance could differ from those implied or contemplated by such statements.


Factors that could cause future results and performance to vary materially from current


management expectations include, but are not limited to, general business and economic


conditions, fiscal and monetary policies, war and terrorism, changes in interest rates, deposit flows,


loan demand and real estate values; competition with other providers of financial products and


services; the issuance or redemption of additional company equity or debt; volatility in the market


price of our common stock; changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, changes in


laws or regulation; reliance on other companies for products and services; and other economic,


competitive servicing capacity, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting the


Company’s operations, pricing, products and delivery of services. At this time, for opening remarks


and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Alfred Camner. Please go ahead


Mr. Camner.


Alfred R. Camner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today on our conference call for the third


quarter of fiscal 2005. With me are Ramiro Ortiz, BankUnited’s President and Chief Operation


Officer, and Bert Lopez, our Chief Financial Officer. First let me thank everyone for the flexibility,


we typically do not release earnings this early in the month or this late in the week, vacation


scheduling necessitated the change and thanks to our finance and accounting departments for


getting our books closed quickly. Their efforts are appreciated.


During today’s call, we will review our company’s performance during the past quarter and the


steps we have taken to prepare for the future. In a way this quarter had a lot of noise. Disclosure


and timing constraints prohibit us from going into deep detail but we will discuss the major points


today.


In the third quarter BankUnited incurred a net loss of 14.8 million as compared to 13 million in net


income during the same quarter last year. This loss was primarily attributed to an after tax charge


of 24.6 million [ph] related to the prepayment of high rate long-term Federal Home Loan Bank


advances and the settlement of certain related swaps. This debt has been a burden on our


balance sheet that negatively impacted net interest margin and earnings for sometime.


However the recent position of the yield curve made this a good time to prepay these advances and


some related swaps at a substantial lower amounts that which would have applied in the past. By


prepaying 405 million in advances, we expect to reduce future cost of borrowing and funding by


250 basis points or more. This action [ph] was taken very late in the quarter so very little of the


positive effects have been felt.


We also elected to retain a greater amount of our loan reduction so that we in turn had been [ph] a


lower gain on sale numbers. Bert will discuss this shortly. We also made adjustments to our MTA


loan profs.[ph] . These loans tied to the Monthly Treasury index. We expect that all these actions


would have positive impacts on future net earnings. Overall, in spite of our rapid growth, we are
raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


disciplined enough to consistently review and refine our strategic goals. The plans we make today


will have a positive impact on earnings growth and stability in the future.


Excluding losses relating to the Federal Home Loan Bank prepayments, net income for the quarter


was 9.8 million down 24.6% from the same quarter last year. Basic and diluted earnings were both


minus $0.50 a share compared to $0.43 and $0.41 per share for the same quarter last year.


Excluding the effect of Home Loan Bank fees, basic and diluted earnings were $0.32 and $0.30 per


share for the quarter. For the nine-month period ended June 30, 05, net income was 31.3 million,


compared to 36.6 million for the same time last year.


Excluding the effect of the Home Loan Bank prepayments, net income for the nine-months ending


June was $37.9 million, a 3.5% increase from the nine months ended June 30, 2004. Basic and


diluted earnings per share for the nine-month period were $0.43 and $0.41 respectively. Without


the effect of the Home Loan Bank prepayments, basis and diluted earnings per share would have


been $1.25 and $1.17.


Turning to third quarter, we opened 2 new branches, bolstered our corporating promotional


pipelines, and continued to experience strong results in total deposits and loan production. Total


assets during the quarter increased to 9.9 billion, up 20.4% from the same quarter of last year. The


Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on Class A Common Stock of one-half cent ($0.005)


per share paid on June 30, 05. The Board anticipates that it will continue to declare and pay


dividends on a quarterly basis subject to its discretion.


Overall, we are optimistic. Subject to the usual stated caveats, we are confident that the moves we


have made will have a positive effect and that we’ll be back on track next quarter in terms of our


earnings. I will now turn the call over to BankUnited’s President and Chief Operating Officer,


Ramiro Ortiz, who will share more details about our specific operating results.


Ramiro A. Ortiz, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you Fred. We have made adjustments this quarter that will improve our company’s


prospects for a successful and profitable future. We continue to be pleased with our neighborhood


micro-market strategy as evidenced by our results in DDA, commercial, commercial real estate,


and consumer loan balances.


We continue to gain traction. Since we launched our strategy in 2003 we have seen steady results


of its progress every quarter. Total deposits were $4.2 billion and that’s 22.6% from the same


quarter last year. Non-interest bearing DDA deposits increased to $326 million and that’s up 37.3%


from the period ending June 30th, 2004.


BankUnited opened 2 branches during the third quarter bringing our total net worth to 55 locations


now in 5 counties. We continue to expand into new markets on the East and West Coast to


Florida. We are on track to open 5 more locations by the end of this fiscal year and another 8 to 10


branches in fiscal 2006. We have made investments in infrastructure and staffing to meet the


demands of this growth.


We see these investments paying off as we experience strong deposit growth and robust loan


production. We expect these trends will continue as we expand our branch network into new


markets and increase our corporate and commercial relationships. We continue to track our


commercial progress at a new relationship per week since we initiated the strategy in April ’03.


Total loans grew by $738 million, at June 30, 2005 or 10.8% to $7.6 billion. This included a $652


million increase in residential mortgage loan balances and a $38 million increase in commercial and