raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp
 
BKUNA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to today’s BankUnited Fiscal 2005 Second Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. This conference call may contain certain forward-


looking statements, which are based on management’s expectations regarding factors that may


impact the company’s earnings and performance in future periods. Words and phrases such as:


“will likely result,” “expect,” “will continue,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “intend,”


“should,” “may,” “can,” “plan,” “target” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-


looking statements. Actual results or performance could differ from those implied or contemplated


by such statements. Factors that could cause future results and performance to vary materially


from current management expectations include, but are not limited to, general business and


economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies, war and terrorism, change in interest rates,


deposit flows, loan demand and real estate values; competition with other providers of financial


products and services; the issuance or redemption of additional company equity or debt; volatility in


the market price of our common stock; changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines,


changes in legislation or regulation; reliance on other companies for products and services;


attracting and retaining key personnel; and other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory


and technological factors affecting the company’s operations, pricing, products and services. At


this time for opening remarks and introductions, I’d like to turn the call over to Mr. Alfred Camner.


Please go ahead Mr. Camner.


Alfred Camner, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and good afternoon, thank you for joining us today on our conference call for the second


quarter of fiscal year 2005. With me are Ramiro Ortiz, BankUnited’s President and Chief Operating


Officer, and Bert Lopez, our Chief Financial Officer. We are happy to report today another quarter


of positive earnings and solid performance in our core business areas of deposits and loan


production. Net income for the quarter increased 13% from the same period one year ago to 13.6


million. Basic and diluted earnings rose to $0.45 and $0.42 per share respectively up from $0.40


and $0.37 per share the same quarter last year. Total assets increased to 9.3 billion a 21%


increase for the same quarter last year. We are especially pleased with our results in deposits


including under [indiscernible] deposits and loan production. Our mortgage production was so


strong this quarter that we generated loans beyond our internal benchmarks. This create an


opportunity for us to meet the demand of the market for assets and so our surplus. While this may


not be a substantial line of business going forward we intend to revisit the strategy when


opportunities arise.


As for many financial institutions BankUnited was impacted by the flattening yield curve and


increased costs of deposits and borrowing. We are monitoring the margin closely. During the


second quarter we were adversely affected by the rising cost of deposits and borrowings and the


lagging effect of increases in short term interest rates. Specifically those relating to the effects on


adjustable rate mortgages. In addition we experienced unusually high levels of pre-payments on


mortgages, particularly toward the end of the quarter. However, we expect that strong mortgage


loan production, our market strategy in the robust corporate and commercial pipelines position us


well for the future. Ramiro will address some of those areas in a few moments.


In March our Board of Directors, elected to declare a dividend that rewards current shareholders


and positions our company favorably with institutional investors that can invest only in stocks that


offer such dividend payments. As we travel around the country we have heard from many


institutional investors that wish to purchase our stock are limited to dividend pay stocks. However,


the combination of Florida’s strong housing market, our branch expansion, and the on going


strengthening of corporate and commercial relationships should position us well for the future. I’ll
raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp
 
BKUNA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


now turn this call over to BankUnited’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Ramiro Ortiz, who


will share more details about our specific operating results.


Ramiro Ortiz, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred. This was a strong quarter with many indicators of continued consistent growth.


We’re especially pleased with deposits. We reached a benchmark of $4 billion in deposits and


grew non-interest bearing deposits by 32%. This growth can be traced to our micro market


strategies and our corporate and commercial teams continuing success and developing and


strengthening customer relationships. Now conference call I give a scorecard of the number of new


commercial relationships that were added in the previous quarter. Now we are at a 109 new


commercial relationships since we started our commercial strategy in April ’03. We continue to do


better than 1 per week but I continue to tell you that that kind of growth is non-sustainable. Our


retail network expanded by 3 to reach 53 branches. We will have opened between another 9 and


11 more by the end of the calendar year. Strategically located can add lift to our bottom line while


adding greater convenience for existing customers. We continue to be committed to growing our


retail locations. With this branch expansion and quarter over quarter asset growth, we are fulfilling


our promise to be the neighborhood bank of choice in Florida, offering the higher level of


personalized service, local decision making and the financial muscle of the $9.3 billion institution.


In other words, we are positioned in the best of both worlds. Florida’s strong real estate contributed


to an increase in residential mortgage loan originations. For the quarter, residential loan


originations were 884 million, a 59% increase over the same quarter last year. Total deposits for


the quarter were $4 billion, up from 3.4 billion at March 31, 2004; that’s an increase of 18%. Core


deposits which include checking, savings and money market accounts, rose 2% at 1.6 billion even


in the phase of highly competitive CD rates. The lead story however is not interest-bearing DDA


which again grew at 32% year over year. Anticipating continued increases in rates, BankUnited


effectively converted some savings dollars and brought in substantial new dollars in longer term


time deposits. We incurred some costs in the short run, but will be well positioned as rates


continue to rise. Continued growth in our core business area and an emphasis on relationship


based pricing and time deposits will have a positive effect on our overall profitability into the future.


Commercial and commercial real estate balances increased by 149 million or 22% year-over-year.


We also generated a $414 million increase in residential mortgage loan balances. We expect this


increase in lending to continue as Florida’s economy remains robust. Total loan production for the


second quarter increased 38% from the same quarter last year to $1.1 billion.


I will now turn the call over our CFO, Bert Lopez who will discuss our financial indicators for the


quarter.


Bert Lopez, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Ramiro. During the second quarter, our net interest margin was once again a challenge


for us. As short-term interest rates increased, we experienced the lagging effect on the repricing of


our monthly adjustable mortgage loans which contributed in part to a decrease in our margin from a


181 basis points during the first quarter to 172 basis points this quarter. Naturally, the trend of


home buyers seeking lower rates have contributed to more applications for adjustment rate


mortgages and Florida buyers are no different. Approximately 83% of BankUnited’s loan portfolio


during the second quarter consisted of adjustable-rate mortgages. Nearly half of our residential


loan portfolios monthly adjustable ARMs tied to the MTA index. While we were impacted by the


lagging effect of rising interest rates on these types of loans, this lag is beginning to diminish


slightly. For example, the index increased by 9, 11 and 13 basis points for each of the 3 months


during the March quarter. This index will move by 15 and 18 basis points for the first 2 months of


the June quarter. Therefore, we anticipate our assets to reprice higher than they have in the past


few quarters which replaces in better a position to combat anticipated increases in short-term