raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Cynthia and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the BankUnited’s Fourth Quarter and 2005 Fiscal Year


End Earnings Conference Call. This conference call may contain certain forward-looking


statements, which are based on management’s expectations regarding factors that may impact the


company’s earnings and performance in future periods. Words and phrases such as will likely


result, expect, will continue, anticipate, estimate, project, believe, intend, should, may, can, could,


plan, target, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual


results or performance could differ from those implied or contemplated by such statements.


Factors that could cause future results and performance to vary materially from current


management’s expectations include, but are not limited to, general business and economic


conditions, fiscal and monetary policies, significant weather events such as hurricanes, foreign


terrorism, change in interest, deposit flow, loan demand, and real estate values, competition with


other providers of financial products and services, the issuance or redemption of additional


company equity or debt, volatility and market price of our common stock, changes in the accounting


principles, policies or guidelines, changes in laws or regulation, reliance on other companies for


products and services, and other economic, competitive servicing capacity, governmental,


regulatory or technological factors affecting the company’s operations, pricing, products and


delivery of services. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After


the speaker’s remarks there will be a question and session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you.


Mr Camner you may begin your conference.


Alfred Camner, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today as we report on BankUnited’s financial results


for the fourth quarter and year end of fiscal 2005. Joining me on today’s call are Ramiro Ortiz,


BankUnited’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Bert Lopez our CFO, and for the first time our


newly appointed Executive Vice President of Corporate Finance, James Foster. We are glad to be


here together following a rough day with hurricane Wilma battering South Florida. Last night not


one of our 61 branches or operations center or headquarters had power. I'm happy to say that


close to 1/3rd of our offices and our principal operations center are already up and running due to a


lot of hard work. Ramiro will talk a little bit more about this. Before we get started, I'd like to


introduce everyone to James Foster who joins us as a key member of senior management team.


His experience with large diversified financial institutions including chase Manhattan Bank and


Futura Industries and our Fortune 500 conglomerate and owner of the largest thrift in Georgia


would be a valuable asset as we’ve developed strategic plans for our future.


Fiscal 2005 was marked by substantial growth in many of BankUnited's key performance areas.


Our year end total assets reached 10.7 billion and 22.4% increase from the prior year, while our


loan production grew 44.8% to 5.4 billion. Moreover, we expanded our retail network with the


addition of 11 branches including entry into the 3 new counties in Florida, Martin, Port St. Lucie


counties and a part of East Coast and Lee County on the West Coast. These areas hold great


promise for us. I'm optimistic that we will be able to meet the competition, expand our customer


base and deliver products and services to more consumers and businesses in the state.


Net income during the fourth quarter reached a record 14.3 million while total deposits rose 34.2%


from the same period last year to 4.7 billion. In addition, we expanded our funding sources in the


4th quarter and facilitated future growth through the sale and securitization of 509 million of our


portfolio of MTA index mortgage loans. The success of this transaction proved that financial


markets recognize the value of our products. We will evaluate future opportunities for transactions


that create liquidity and enable us to manage our balance sheet more profitably.
raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the fiscal year, net income was 27.5 million compared to 50.7 million for the fiscal 2004.


Reduction in income was due to the primarily to the repayment of FHLB advances that we reported


previous quarter. And those related swaps also in that quarter. Excluding those prepayments, net


income for the fiscal year of September 30, 2005 was 51.7 million, approximately 2% increase from


fiscal 2004. During the fourth quarter, basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.47 and $0.44


respectively which is unchanged from the same period in the prior year. For fiscal 2005, basic and


diluted earnings per share were $0.90 and $0.85 respectively as compared to $1.68 and $1.58 for


the same period the prior year. Excluding the net loss relating to the FHLB prepayments diluted


earnings were $1.70 and $1.60 per share respectively for the fiscal year-ended September 30th


‘05. In 2002, the Board of Directors approved this stock buyback plan of up to 1 million shares.


During the fourth quarter we purchased 78,200 shares of class A common stock on the open


market. In the fiscal year we purchased 89,700 shares. We may make additional purchases in the


future subject to applicable restrictions on the timing of trading of our stock.


Overall we are pleased with our performance for 2005. These positive results have been fueled in


part by a pro active plan for repositioning the balance sheet and the commitments of our team to


enhancing relationships and expanding product lines and services to meet the needs of our


customers. We have built BankUnited to a unique model, a hybrid can offer neighborhood banking


services to our communities while running outstanding mortgage lending and asset building


machine. At the same time our size enables us to offer comprehensive, commercial, and corporate


banking services. This makes us different from other banks operating in similar markets. I will now


turn this call over to Ramiro Ortiz who will provide more detail on specific operating results.


Ramiro?


Ramiro Ortiz, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred. The results of fiscal 2005 demonstrate the success of our micromarket


neighborhood banking strategies that we talked about for a longtime now. During the year we


opened 11 branches. Our new markets have unique characteristics and we’re now developing


micromarket strategies to fit these markets and be consistent with our overall strategies. We now


have 61 branches in our system and plan to open 8 more in the next few months. To help manage


this growth and support future expansion we’ve promoted and we’ve hired veteran banking


professionals in those markets to lead us in the expansion that we plan. We are now ready to


serve those as a local neighborhood financial expert to those area residents.


The successes of our strategies are particularly evident in the areas of deposits and loan


production. Total deposits during the fourth quarter increased 34.2% from the same period last


year to $4.7 billion loans. Core deposits which include checking, savings, and money market


accounts increased to 1.9 billion up 17% from September 30, 2004 and up 17% from the previous


quarter in 2005. The real highlight of the story is not interest bearing deposits. Non-interest


bearing deposits rose during the quarter to 372 million and that’s up 50.3% from September 30,


2004.


Now, as far as I am concerned and we discuss this before, this is the real report card on a retail


strategy and those are balances and non-interest bearing deposits and you can see this kind of


increase of 50.3%. I don’t know about all of you on the call and the different banks that you track


but I never even heard of 50.3% increase year-over-year. This really gives me a tremendous


amount of confidence in our micromarket strategies that we’ve implemented.


Loan balances during the fourth quarter grew to $8 billion. That’s a 6.2% increase from the same


period last year. But this growth included $315 million increase in residential mortgage loan


balances as well as $113 million increase in commercial and commercial real estate loan balances.


Our commercial strategies continue to work in our local markets. We continue to distinguish


ourselves as a consequence of our local decision making.