corrected transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, and welcome, ladies and gentlemen to the BankUnited First Quarter


Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that all participants are in a listen-only


mode. At the request of the company, we will open up the conference for questions and answers


after the presentation.


As a reminder, the company has posted a slide presentation to its website that we will be using in


this afternoon’s call. This conference call and the presentation may contain certain forward-looking


statements, which are based on management’s expectations regarding factors that may impact the


company’s earnings and performance in future periods.


Words and phrases such as will likely result, expect, will continue, anticipate, estimate, project,


believe, intend, should, would, may, can, could, plan, target and similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements.


Actual results or performance could differ from those implied or contemplated by such statements.


Factors that could cause future results and performance to materially from current management


expectations included, but are not limited to, general business and economic conditions, either


nationally or regionally; fiscal or monetary policies; significant weather events such as hurricanes;


changes or fluctuations in the interest rate environment; a deterioration in credit quality and/or a


reduced demand for credit; reduced deposit flows and loan demand; real estate values; competition


from other financial service companies in our markets; legislative or regulatory changes including,


among others, changes in accounting standards, guidelines and policies; the issuance or


redemption of additional company debt or equity; the concentration of operations in Florida; if


Florida business or economic conditions decline; reliance on other companies for products and


services; the impact of war and the threat and impact of terrorism; volatility in the market price of


the company’s common stock; and other economic competitive, servicing capacity; governmental,


regulatory, and technological factors affecting the company’s operations, price, products and


delivery of services.


Please refer to the documents that BankUnited Financial Corporation files periodically with the SEC


such as the Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which contain additional important factors that


could cause its actual results to differ from its current expectations and from the forward-looking


statements.


I will now turn the call over to Alfred Camner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BankUnited.


Alfred R. Camner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks for joining us. We apologize. There appeared to be some technical difficulties with respect


to the telecasting conference call company and the webcasting.


So, we’re going to get started. We have also included a slide presentation, which some of you


should be able to refer to during the call.


Joining me on to the call today are Ramiro Ortiz, BankUnited’s President and Chief Operating


Officer; Bert Lopez, Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Foster, Senior Executive Vice President of


Corporate Finance.


Like everyone in our industry, we have been impacted by the downturn in the housing markets and


overall instability in the economy. This turn of events ultimately led to us to report a large provision


for loan losses, which resulted in a loss for the quarter. It’s disappointing but it’s the prudent thing


to do.
corrected transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Concerns about continued deterioration in national housing markets and rising delinquencies led us


to a provision of 65 million in loan loss reserves. The total reserve for loan losses is 118 million, a


101% increase over September 30th, 2007, quarter. Excluding that provision our operating income


would have been 17.3 million.


Let’s look ahead. We are taking actions that will position and strengthen the company for the


future.


For those of you who have the availability of the web, please turn to Page 6 of the slides. If you


don’t have the slides, you will be able to find them on our website or in our 8-K filings.


When we take a hard look at our company, we start with the end goal aligning ourselves for


improving shareholder return and maintaining a well-capitalized model that we’ll benefit and protect


long-term shareholders. Our plan of attack begins with a new strategic plan that will outline the


transition for the company to a more traditional retail and commercial bank.


We were on a path to this model and diverted resources to be opportunistic when the mortgage


area was lucrative. We’re going back to these roots. We already have the brand structure in place


and have complementary business areas that are gaining traction. The plan will be outlined in the


very near future and we will discuss in on detail on our earnings call next quarter.


We expect lost revenues in the wholesale division to be more than made up by gains in other


business areas, improved efficiencies, cost cutting and belt tightening. We have already taken


some steps to begin this evolution. We are reducing the size of the balance sheet, thereby


bolstering capital ratios.


We have significantly downsized our wholesale residential business. We continued to strengthen


our risk management programs and we have launched a major expense-cutting program, which


Bert will discuss in more detail later in this call.


The plan will involve three major themes: protection of our capital structure, evaluation of the


wholesale area and credit quality. I’ll go into each of these individually.


The first area of focus is our capital structure and again, you can see that at Slide 6. It is our


intention to remain at capital levels well above the fiducious well-capitalized range as we are today.


As we strength the balance sheet and evolve wholesale production to lower levels in more saleable


products, our needs for capital will drop commensurately.


Our current levels of capital are more than sufficient to carry us through the cycle. However, if the


opportunity presents itself, we may raise additional capital.


There seems to be a misperception out there about the shelf offering that we recently filed. Many


companies have shelves and we needed to bring ours current. The amount stated is not indicative


of any near-term transaction.


Additional tangible support for our company is provided by the mandatory conversion of 3.68 million


shares of 675 HiMEDS equity. These were offered in April 2007, and will convert in 2010 at a


minimum price per share of 23.40. Whatever opportunistic steps we take will be executed in any


event with long-term shareholder value in the forefront.


The second area of focus is the evolution of the wholesale area. If you look on Slide 7 for those of


you who have it available, this is area of the business has been very good to us but the world has


changed. The mortgage market is stagnant and consumer behaviors are shifting, from where they