raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 18, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Marvin, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the BankUnited second quarter 2006 earnings


conference call. This conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements, which are


based on management's expectations regarding factors that may impact the company's earnings


and performance in future periods. Words and phrases, such as will likely result, expect, will


continue, anticipate, estimate, project, believe, intend, should, may, can, could, plan, target, and


similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results or


performance could differ from those implied or contemplated by such statements. Factors that


could cause future results and performance to vary materially from current management


expectations include but are not limited to general business and economic conditions; fiscal and


monetary policy; events beyond our control, including natural disasters and significant weather


events such as hurricanes; foreign terrorism; changes in interest rates, deposit flow, loan demand


and real estate values; competition with other providers of financial products and services; the


issuance or redemption of additional company equity or debt; volatility in the market price of our


common stock; changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines; changes in laws or


regulation; reliance on other companies for products and services and other economic, competitive,


servicing, capacity, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting the company's


operations, pricing, products and delivery of services. All lines have been placed on mute to


prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer


session. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star then the number one


on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press star then the number


two on your telephone keypad. Thank you. Mr. Camner, you may begin.


Alfred Camner, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for BankUnited's second-quarter conference call


for fiscal year 2006. Joining me on today's call are Ramiro Ortiz, BankUnited's President and Chief


Operating Officer; Bert Lopez, our CFO; and Jim Foster, Executive Vice President of Corporate


Finance.


The past quarter has been one of excitement and positive growth for our company. We had double-


digit percentage increases on almost all of our key benchmarks. Business has been good. The


economy has presented us with wonderful opportunities, and our team has worked hard to turn


them into impressive results. Our strong growth in deposits and loan categories tells us that


customers appreciate our brand of banking, and our branch bankers are able to increase deposits


significantly. One of the many bright spots have been our continued improvement in margin. Our


management team has put a lot of effort into this area. The numbers reflect our tactical decisions


and execution coupled with growth in non-interest bearing and core deposits and development of


new residential mortgage products, all of which taken place in a rising rate environment.


Attributing to our financial results for the quarter was a gain of 1.9 million from the sale of a portfolio


of residential loans. We have completed a number of these transactions in the last several quarters,


and we will continue to do so as the secondary market continues to demonstrate its acceptance


from our assets and our underwriting standards. We read a lot these days about concerns over


adjustable-rate mortgages. As those who have followed BankUnited through the years know, we


understand this business on a level that far exceeds most of our competitors. We have excelled in


the basis of mortgage lending for some time with conservative underwriting and top-notch credit.


Our percentage of non-performing assets is just 0.09%, down from 0.21% at this time last year.


Clearly, we have a formula that works. Part of that is certainly the great hard work across the board


of our team.
raw transcript


BankUnited Financial Corp.
 
BKUNA
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 18, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the second quarter, we successfully completed an offering of 5.75 million shares of our Class A


common stock, which reflects the confidence and value the investors place in our company. 150.9


million net proceeds of the offering will support our continued growth and create further


opportunities – earnings opportunities. Our Board of Directors declared the fourth consecutive cash


dividend of $0.005 per share of Class A common stock to shareholders of record as of March 15,


2006. During the quarter, total assets reached 12.2 billion, an 8% increase from the prior quarter.


Net income was a record 19.7 million, a 45% increase from the same quarter last year. For the six


months ended March 31, 2006, net income was 35.9 million, a 28% increase from the 28.1 million


for the same period the prior year. Basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.57 and $0.54


respectively as compared to $0.45 and $0.42 for the same quarter last year. Earnings per share for


this quarter includes the dilutive effect of the shares issued in the January public offering.


I am now going to turn this call over to our President and Chief Operating Officer, Ramiro Ortiz,


who will provide more detail on our operations.


Ramiro Ortiz, President & Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred. A lot of hard work went into achieving the second-quarter results, and we're


pleased to see the efforts pay off. We opened six branches during the past three months, including


our first locations in Manatee and Hillsborough Counties on the West Coast of the state. By the end


of the quarter, we had 71 branches in 10 counties, all of which are contributing to our continued


growth in deposits and loans. Almost all of these new branches are contributing ahead of forecast.


Total deposits for the quarter were $5.5 billion; that's a 35% increase from the same period last


year. Core deposits, which we have redefined this quarter to reflect current banking industry


standards include checking, savings, money market accounts, and now certificate of deposits less


than $100,000; they reached $4 billion. That's a 32% increase from the same quarter last year.


Non-interest bearing DDA balances rose to $395 million, and that's up 28% from the same quarter


in the prior year. Total loan originations reached $1.8 billion or 61% over the same quarter last


year. Total loans grew by $1 billion or 11% to $9.8 billion at March 31, 2006.


The balances on residential mortgage loans increased 831 million during the quarter. P&I loan


balances now total more than $1 billion. Commercial real estate balances grew by $341 million to


reach 985 million at March 31, 2006; that's a 53% increase from the previous quarter. Commercial


loan balances grew by $19 million to $203 million at March 31, 2006, and that's an increase of 10%


from the same quarter last year. Consumer loan production, which excludes specialty consumer


mortgage loans originated through branch offices, was $84 million during the second quarter of


fiscal 2006, a 32% increase from the same period last year. Consumer loan balances grew by $23


million or 8% to reach $328 million for the quarter.


Our results for the second quarter highlight the success of our micromarket strategy and the


contributions of our branch network to our bottom line. Launched in 2003, the neighborhood


micromarket strategy sets us apart from our competitors. It enables us to truly meet the needs of


each and every local community we serve. The proof that the strategy is working can be found in


the growth in the key deposit and loan areas I just mentioned as well as our positive trends in cross


sell. Our commercial and business banking areas have also contributed to our growth in deposits


and loans. We continue to deepen relationships with existing business clients and attract new ones


as a consequence of our local decision-making and the extensive knowledge of the markets we


serve.


I speak on behalf of our 1,000 employees and our Board of Directors when I say that BankUnited is


proud to be the largest bank headquartered in Florida, no matter how you measure it. I will now turn


the call over to our CFO, Bert Lopez, who will discuss additional financial indicators for the quarter.