raw transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc.
 
CHB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Champion Enterprises Third Quarter Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Lisa Lettieri, Vice President of


Investor Relations. Ms Lettieri, you may proceed.


Lisa Lettieri, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Gail [ph], and welcome everyone to Champion's third quarter earnings call. Yesterday


the company issues its quarterly earnings release for the quarter ended October 1st, 2005, and a


copy of the release is available at championhomes.net as well as on many financial websites. As


usual the replay of the conference call will be available about an hour after its conclusion, and can


be accessed through our website or on the telephone. Please see the third quarter release for


details.


This morning we are joined by Bill Griffiths; Champion's President and CEO and Phyllis Knight;


Executive Vice President and CFO. They will make some initial remarks regarding the quarter and


current business trends, and then we'll open the call to questions. Please remember that


comments made by the company during this conference call may contain forward-looking


statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are


only predictions, and may differ materially from actual future events or results. Please refer to the


documents filed by Champion with the SEC, including without limitation its reports on Form 10-K


and 10-Q, which identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from those


contained in the forward-looking statements. Including, among other things, those concerning


revenues and earnings estimates; forecast of sales results, margins and capacity; debt levels;


backlogs; the short and long-term outlook and strategy; financing availability; liquidity and capital


structure. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to Champion today


and the company assumes no obligation to update such statements.


That said, let's turn the call over to Bill Griffiths, President and CEO of Champion Enterprises. Bill?


William Griffiths, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lisa. Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call. As is


customary, I will go over some of the quarter's highlights and then Phyllis and I will discuss our


financial results in more detail. After that, we'd be happy to take your questions.


During the third quarter, we once again continued to make progress in improving our core


manufacturing operations and developing growth in our modular business. For the quarter,


revenues improved 21% to 335.7 million and net income from continuing operations improved 43%


to 15.2 million. Manufacturing margins improved to 8.7% for the quarter, which moved our last 12


months manufacturing margin to 7.2%, well on our way to our 8.3% target for fiscal 2006.


While the addition of New Era for the final 8 weeks of the quarter helped these comparisons, all of


the metrics showed improvement even with New Era excluded. Revenues improved as a result of


the favorable mix shift to modular homes and our continued pricing power in most markets, which


enabled us to successfully pass through increased costs for raw materials and transportation.


Excluding New Era, unit volumes were once again essentially flat. Capacity utilization, company-


wide, was approximately 67%, which is consistent with both last year and last quarter.
raw transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc.
 
CHB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Total backlog at the end of the quarter was 228 million, the highest ever recorded in Champion's


history. It was 170 million without the FEMA temporary housing quota and if you exclude the


addition of New Era and the FEMA business, backlogs improved by 65 million over the last quarter


and by 40 million over last year. While we do not split out specific backlog information, we saw


improvement on every front.


Business continued to be strong in California, Arizona and Florida and it continued to improve in the


Northeast. Backlogs also showed a marked improvement in the sell, primarily as a result of the


early orders in the aftermath of the Gulf region hurricanes. While still down year-over-year,


backlogs in the Midwest were up compared to the second quarter.


In addition to these improvements in our core business, backlogs were further enhanced by some


first steps in our modular organic growth strategy. We announced earlier this week our


participation in building modular multi-family housing at Fort Louis, Washington as part of the


military housing privatization program. We also recently received our first order for commercial


modular buildings, which will be supplying to the military at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Success in


securing these two projects has been aided by Champion's scale and national footprint. These are


two segments of our modular strategy that we will continue to develop.


There has been a great deal of discussion recently as to the effect of the Gulf region hurricanes on


the whole manufactured housing industry. There are three separate aspects of this that will


certainly impact Champion's business going forward. Firstly, as you know, we accepted and are


currently executing the contract for 2,000 temporary homes for FEMA. This contract has to be


completed by December 1. In order to reserve capacity for our traditional customers, we are


producing these homes in 13 different factories around the country. And while production got off to


a very fast start, deliveries are now at least two weeks behind because FEMA has been


constrained by the lack of staging areas and the difficulty they've had in moving homes out of


staging areas into permanent locations. We're in constant contact with FEMA personnel and


expect to successfully complete this contract and do so on time. But we are skeptical about any


follow-on orders at this point.


Secondly, as in Florida last year, much of the damaged or destroyed HUD Code housing stock will


be replaced as a matter of course. This rebuilding is centered in the rural areas of Louisiana and


Mississippi and has already begun. This is the main reason the backlogs have improved in the


South. This rebuilding should improve Champion's business in this region throughout 2006.


Thirdly, we believe that modular housing could play a significant role in the permanent rebuilding of


urban New Orleans. We believe that Champion is particularly well positioned to do this and we are


actively developing this opportunity.


In summary, we posted another solid quarter operationally. We saw improvements in orders for our


core HUD Code business. We had no issues in the early integration of New Era and we made


some major steps forward in our modular organic growth strategy. The refinancing of our debt


structure, which Phyllis will discuss in a moment will give us much more flexibility in managing our


business in the future as well as saving interest costs. It will also allow us to continue our modular


acquisition strategy and give us the latitude and flexibility to look more broadly at opportunities


outside of the domestic residential markets. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Phyllis


Knight who will review our financial results in more detail. Phyllis?


Phyllis Knight, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Bill and good morning. During the third quarter our continuing operations both core


manufacturing and continuing resale performed well posting strong year-over-year sales in net


sales, segment income and margins. Net income from continuing operations for the third quarter