corrected transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc
 
CHB
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Champion Enterprises First


Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Anthony, and I will be your coordinator


today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's


call, Ms. Colleen Bauman, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed ma'am.


Colleen T. Bauman, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Champion Enterprises’ First Quarter Conference Call.


Yesterday, we issued our press release reporting results for our first quarter ended April 2, 2005. A


copy of this release is available on our web site at www.championhomes.net. Today’s conference


call is being webcast from our site, and on ccbn.com using [Thomson] StreetEvents in Company


Boardroom links. About an hour after the call is completed, a replay will be available by phone and


on our website. To access the replay by phone, please call 888-286-8010, and use passcode


number 61880346. The telephone tape replay will be available through midnight on April 27th,


2005. To access the call via our website, go to the Investor Relations section and then to the Audio


Archive. Bill Griffiths, President and CEO, will make some initial remarks this morning. Then


Phyllis Knight, Executive Vice President and CFO, will discuss the company's results. The call will


then be open to questions. Since the call will be limited to one hour, we ask that you ask only one


question at a time so that we can allow as many participants as possible.


As always, before we begin, I wish to remind you that during our conference call today we will be


making certain forward-looking statements, including those concerning consumer financing


availability and industry estimates; forecasts of sales, results and margins; the short- and long-term


outlook and strategy; finance and availability; liquidity; and capital structure. These statements are


subject to certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in


the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning such factors is contained in the


risk factors and other cautionary disclosures in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and


other FCC filings. We do not undertake any obligation to update the information discussed in this


conference call, which is current as of today only. Bill?


William Griffiths, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Colleen. Good morning, and welcome to the Champion Enterprises First Quarter


Conference Call. Thank you for taking the time to join us today. With me on the call is Phyllis


Knight, our Executive Vice President and CFO. She will discuss our results in more detail after I


make some initial remarks. We will then open the call to questions.


For the quarter, we reported net sales of $244 million, and income from continuing operations of


$5.3 million, or 6 cents per share. This includes $3.8 million of income due to the change in value


of our common stock warrant. This warrant has subsequently been repurchased and canceled,


and other than a $500,000 gain, which we will report in the second quarter, this will no longer affect


our results in future periods. Manufacturing segment income increased by $6.5 million year-over-


year, and manufacturing margins rose to 4.7% of sales in this seasonally slow quarter. This is our


highest first-quarter manufacturing margin since 1999, and is another step towards our goal of


achieving peak margins of 8.3% by 2006. As anticipated, this margin improvement occurred on


essentially flat unit volumes.


During the first two months of this year, the industry posted wholesale shipment improvements of


13%, a very positive sign for the industry. With the exception of Texas and the Midwest, most parts
corrected transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc
 
CHB
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


of the country posted shipment gains. However, not surprisingly, 80% of the improvement was


limited to California, Arizona, and Florida. Champion shipments to these three states were up 22%,


despite capacity constraints at several of our plants in these locations. This improvement in


throughput is, for the most part, a result of our productivity initiatives starting to gain traction.


However, we still cannot keep pace with the market improvements in these states without adding


more physical capacity. As a result, we have just initiated an expansion of our Arizona facility, and


we are midway through a major upgrade at one of our North Florida plants. This plant is already


seeing a 25% throughput improvement, and similar results are expected out of Arizona by the end


of this year.


Unfortunately, the gains in California, Arizona, and Florida were offset by slow sales in the Midwest,


where industry shipments declined by over 16%. Sales of modular homes continued to improve,


and improved by 12% this quarter, and now represent 16% of our homes sold and 20% of our


manufacturing revenues. As we are close to finalizing our orderly exit of traditional retail, this


segment of our business was reclassified as discontinued operations. As stated previously, this


does not include Advantage Homes, which will be our only ongoing retail operation. During the


quarter, we previously announced the divestiture of 22 lots, and last week we were able to sell a


further 8 locations in Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas. Within the next few months we expect to be


able to announce the divestiture of our remaining 10 sales centers. We still expect to generate $20


to $25 million of cash from the 2005 divestitures with no material effect on earnings. We will


continue to build on our strategy of improving our manufacturing operations, with particular focus on


capacity expansion in stronger markets.


I will now turn the call over to Phyllis Knight, who will review our financial results in more detail.


Phyllis Knight, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Bill. During the first quarter, our continuing operations, both core manufacturing and


ongoing retail, achieved significant improvements in each of net sales, segment income, and


margins. In addition, we are pleased to have achieved profitability for the quarter, ending a string of


four consecutive years of first-quarter losses.


The company earned 6 cents per diluted share from continuing ops in this year's first quarter,


compared to a loss of 21 a share a year ago. The current quarter included $3.8 million of income


from valuation of our common stock warrant, while the prior year included charges totaling $8.3


million, both for this warrant and the loss on debt retirement. However, significant operational


improvement also contributed to our profitability. Combined, our manufacturing and ongoing retail


ops reported first-quarter segment income of $12.5 million. This represents a $7 million year-over-


year improvement over 2004, or a 129% increase.


Manufacturing operations had segment income of $11.2 million, up 140% year-over-year, while our


ongoing retail business reported segment income of $1.3 million, up $800,000 reported a year ago


– or from $800,000 reported a year ago. Manufacturing results included $1.5 million of gains from


the sale of 3 idle plants.


Our manufacturing net sales increased 14% year-over-year, due primarily to an increase in the


average selling price per home, driven by product mix and higher material costs. Modular home


sales, which this quarter had a 36% higher average selling price than our average HUD Code home


grew to 16% of homes sold, and now represents 20% of our manufacturing revenues. Year-over-


year the number of manufacturing homes sold was flat. However, on a same-store basis, unit sales


increased 3%.


We operated 29 plants in this year's first quarter compared to 30 locations a year ago. Net sales at


our ongoing retail operations rose 29% to $25 million for the quarter, up from $19 million in the