raw transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc.
 
CHB
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to Champion Enterprises second quarter conference call.


[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Tim Hanson. Mr. Hanson, you may


proceed.


Tim Hanson, Identity Investor Relations


Thank you, Liz [ph], and welcome to Champion's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.


Yesterday the company issued its quarterly earnings release for the quarter ended July 2, 2005. A


copy of the release is available at www.championhomes.net, and at many financial web sites. A


replay of the call will be available approximately one hour after the conclusion of this call, and


through midnight July 27. Replay information is available on our website.


This morning we are joined by Bill Griffiths, President and CEO and Phyllis Knight, Executive Vice


President and CFO, both from Champion Enterprises. They will make some initial remarks


regarding the quarter and current business trends, and then open the call to questions. Please


remember to ask only one question at a time to allow as many participants as possible to be heard.


Also, as a reminder, comments made by the company in this conference call may contain forward-


looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Listeners are cautioned that these


statements are only predictions and differ materially from actual future events or results. Please


refer to the documents filed by Champion with the SEC, including, without limitation, its report on


forms 10K and 10Q, which identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ


from those contained in the forward-looking statements, including, among other things, those


concerning revenues and earnings estimates.


Forecast of sales results, margins and capacities, the short and long term outlook and strategy,


financing availability, liquidity and capital structure. All forward-looking statements are based on


information available to Champion today, and the company assumes no obligation to update such


statements.


With that said, I would like to turn the call over to Bill Griffiths, President and CEO of Champion


Enterprises. Bill?


William Griffiths, President and CEO


Thank you, Tim. Good morning, and welcome to our second quarter earnings call. As always, on


the call with me today is Phyllis Knight, our Executive Vice President and CFO, and Phyllis will


discuss in more detail financial results a little later in the call, an then we'll open it up for questions.


We're very pleased to report results this quarter which reflect the significant progress we are


making at Champion. For the quarter, we recorded net income of $13.5 million or 17 cents per


diluted share on revenues of $317.1 million. At the operating level, manufacturing segment income


improved 40% to $24.7 million, and manufacturing margins were 8.5%, which is the highest


quarterly margin since 1998. While manufacturing revenues were up year-over-year by 8%, unit


volumes dropped by 6%. The revenue improvement was driven by a combination of higher


average selling prices and the continuing mix shift to modular product, which was up 18% over last


year's second quarter. Capacity utilization was consistent with last year at 69%.
raw transcript


Champion Enterprises, Inc.
 
CHB
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Regionally, Champion continued to show strong performance in the three boom states of Florida,


California, and Arizona. We also saw positive year-over-year improvements in both revenue and


profitability in the Midwest and Texas despite hard shipment trends to the contrary. We are also


seeing substantially improved results out of the northeast, where industry HUD shipments are up


3%, but more importantly this is the strongest region for modular sales growth.


To this end we were particularly excited to announce yesterday the acquisition of the New Era


group of companies. This is expected to add over $100 million in modular revenues from three


plants, two in Pennsylvania and one in North Carolina. This acquisition will be immediately


earnings accretive and will increase our manufacturing revenues for modular homes to


approximately 25%. This acquisition will make us the largest producer of modular homes in the


United States with an estimated market share of 12%.


Most importantly, we welcome to the Champion team Elliot Fabri, the founder of New Era. Elliot is


a recognized industry leader in modular homes with over 30 years experience in this field. And as


well as continuing to operate these three manufacturing plants, Elliot will play a major role in


further developing our modular growth strategy and will assist in identifying further suitable


acquisition candidates.


Also earlier this week, we completed the sale of our remaining, traditional retail operations. Since


we embarked upon this strategy in the fourth quarter of last year, we generated approximately $26


million of net cash from the sale of 49 retail lots. These divestitures will also add $80 million to our


tax loss carry forward, which now stands at an estimated $185 million. In addition, the majority of


these 49 retail lots signed multi-year Champion home center distribution agreements. This exit


from traditional retail will allow us to focus on continuing to improve our manufacturing operations


and to concentrate on our modular growth strategy.


In summary, this was a particularly satisfying quarter for Champion, with stronger earnings


performance, completion of the exit of traditional retail, and the announcement of our first


acquisition in our modular growth strategy.
 
We will continue to work diligently on improving our


core manufacturing operations and our revenue growth particularly in the modular market segment.


With that I will turn the call over to Phyllis Knight, who will review our financial results in more detail.


Phyllis?


Phyllis Knight, CFO


Thank you, Bill, and good morning. During the second quarter our continuing operations, both core


manufacturing and continuing retail, performed well both in year-over-year improvements in net


sales, segment income, and margins. Net income for the second quarter was $13.5 million or 17


cents per diluted share versus $23.4 million or 30 cents a share last year's second quarter.


Last year in the second quarter we posted several significant non-operating gains and adjustments


which are highlighted in our release from last night and included a $12 million tax benefit and $4.4


million of debt retirement in warrant valuation adjustments. Before giving effect to these non-


operating items, our results as shown in the release improved 110% from $7.3 million last year to


$15.3 million in this year's second quarter. Significant operational improvements drove this


increased profitability. Combined, our manufacturing and retail segments reported second-quarter


income of $27.3 million, 44% increase over the $19 million we reported for the same period last


year. Manufacturing segment income rose 40% to $24.7 million while retail segment income


climbed 80% to $2.6 million compared to the same period last year.


Turning next to revenues, our manufacturing net sales increased 8% to $291.6 million compared to


the second quarter of 2004. This increase was the result of a 10.8% rise in the average selling


price of our homes fueled both by product mix and price increases due to higher raw material costs