raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby. Good day everyone, and welcome to this Chesapeake Corporation


Fourth Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, I


would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joel


Mostrom. Please go ahead, sir.


Joel Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and welcome to Chesapeake Corporation’s fourth quarter conference call. Joining


me today is Andy Kohut, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Andy will begin with some


overall comments on our business and update you on our recently announced cost savings


program. I will then provide a financial review of the quarter, and year. After that we will be


available for questions.


Before we get started, I want to advise all participants that this call is being recorded by


Chesapeake Corporation, and is copyrighted material. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast


without Chesapeake’s express permission.


Furthermore, the comments on this call may include forward-looking statements as defined by the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The accuracy of such forward-looking statements is


subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that may cause Chesapeake’s actual


results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Certain of those


risks, uncertainties, and assumptions are set forth in the summary of this conference call which will


be posted in the Company’s website at the conclusion of this call.


Additionally, during this call there maybe references to certain non-GAAP financial information.


This information has been reconciled to GAAP in the company’s earnings release which will also be


posted on the company’s website at the conclusion of this call. Now at this time I will turn the call


over Andy.


Andy Kohut, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Joel and good morning everyone. Our fourth quarter and annual financial performance


reflects the challenging market conditions in which many of our businesses compete. Over


capacity and margin pressure in certain of our markets coupled with an environment of sharply


increasing pension cost resulted in the announcement last quarter of our $25 million global cost


savings program. While we are not foregoing longer terms strategic initiatives, the primary


objective of our management team this year will be the successful and rapid implementation of the


cost savings program.


We believe that through the cost savings program we are building a stronger more cost effective


company ultimately in a better position to serve our customers in today’s global marketplace while


improving shareholder returns. Although we are only a few months into the program we are


nearing completion on a number of initiatives. Specifically we are in the final stages of closing our


food and household packaging plant in Birmingham, England, 2 we’ve recently announced that we


have initiate a proposed reorganization plan to close our pharmaceutical and healthcare packaging


plant in Bedford, England, and 3 we’ve concluded negotiations with French works councils to close


their luxury packaging plant Ezy, France. Each initiative contemplates transferring existing


business from these plants to other factories within our manufacturing network. These 3 initiatives


when compete are expected to generate $7 million of annualized pre-tax cost savings. Additional
raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


workforce reduction and cost saving actions that have also been initiated during the fourth quarter


are expected to result in approximately $3 million of annualized pre-tax savings. These initiatives


will put us well on our way to reaching our goal of $25 million of annualized savings. A great deal


of energy and focus is being spent on the cost savings program as we believe speed has value.


We will continue to update you as more negotiations and actions are initiated and completed.


Additionally rising post retirement benefits costs are a real concern for many companies including


Chesapeake. To put this in perspective since 2003 our annual pension expense has increased by


approximately $11 million and the annual cash funding of these plans has increased almost 50% to


approximately $25 million. We expect this expense to continue to increase in 2006 and as a result


have done the following. #1, frozen our primarily US defined benefit retirement plans, 2 closed our


define benefit retirement plans primarily in the UK for new hires, 3 introduce lower benefit levels for


participants in the increased employee contribution rates in the United Kingdom. Although we see


no short-term fix to this situation we expect these actions will ultimately result in lower and more


predictable charges and cash requirements for the corporation.


Turning to operations, the integration of Arlington Press has gone well and as result of this


acquisition and other organic growth initiatives Chesapeake now has trading positions with nearly


all of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies in the world. Our goal is to further capitalize on this


position as the leading paper based packaging supplier to this group. We will continue to provide


superior service through innovative designs, ease of doing business, industry knowledge, and


geographic coverage. We’ve recently hired a new business leader for this division to compliment


our team and drive home our vision for this global business. The plastic packaging segment


performed well in 2005 with 9% annual sales growth, a job well done by our people. The strategic


positioning of this business which is focused on either, a unique process, emerging markets, or a


significant market presence has paid off. We’ve have dedicated additional resources to support


this business as it grows to the next level. In our Paperboard Packaging segment branded


products packaging had mixed results in 2005 with fourth quarter holiday shipments that were not


as robust as originally projected while tobacco packaging turned in a solid performance. Price is


becoming more of an issue in these end used markets and demand shift ease. We planned to


adjust accordingly.


To reiterate my opening comments, our focus is on the successful implementation of our cost


savings program. In the past, we’ve commented on a group of plans not meeting expectation.


Diligent accounts to fix some of these problems have proved unsuccessful. They are now going to


be rationalized in order for us to fully demonstrate their earnings power of our portfolio of


businesses. This management team is committed to getting this done as rapidly as possible. Joel


will now review fourth quarter and full year operating results.


Joel Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Andy. Before I review the preliminary fourth quarter and full year results, I want to point out


that our preliminary results include a valuation allowance for US deferred income tax assets of


approximately $15 million as of the end of fiscal 2005. We are currently evaluating the


recoverability of our US deferred income tax assets. In the preliminary results do not reflect any


non-cash income tax benefits, in the current year or prior periods that could result from the partial


release of the valuation allowance for such assets.


This morning we reported a preliminary fourth quarter loss from continuing operations of $254.7


million or $13.13 per share. This compares to net income from continuing operations of $5.3 million


or $0.27 per share for the fourth quarter of 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2005, and in the


accordance with financial accounting standards number 142 good will and other intangible assets,


the company conducted its annual impairment test for goodwill. As a result of our preliminary


analysis, the company has recorded a non-cash after-tax charge of $247.1 million or $12.74 per