raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Chesapeake Corporation's Second Quarter


2006 Earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would now like to turn the call


over to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joel Mostrom. Please go ahead


sir.


Joel K. Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and welcome to Chesapeake Corporation's Second Quarter conference call. I'm


Joel Mostrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and joining me today is Andy Kohut,


our President and Chief Executive Officer. Andy will begin with some overall comments on our


business and update you on the progress of our cost savings program. I will then provide a


financial review of the quarter. After that, we'll be available for questions.


Before we get started, I want advice all participants this call is being recorded by Chesapeake


Corporation and is copyrighted material. It cannot be recorded or re-broadcast without


Chesapeake's express permission. Furthermore, the comments on this call may include forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The accuracy of such


forward-looking statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may


cause Chesapeake's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking


statements.


Certain of those risks, uncertainties and assumptions are set forth in the summary of this


conference call, which will be posted on the company's website at the conclusion of this call.


Additionally, during the call, there may be references to certain non-GAAP financial information.


This information has been reconciled to GAAP in the company's earnings release, which will also


be posted on the company's website at the conclusion of this call. Now I'll turn the call over to


Andy.


Andrew J. Kohut, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Joel. As discussed during our recent calls, 2006 is a transition year, as we take actions to


improve the financial position of Chesapeake. I am very encouraged by the progress in our cost


savings program. We have sold two businesses, closed two facilities, and are in the process of


closing a third facility, while seeing an overall reduction in overhead spending. We sold our French


luxury packaging business earlier this week. This business has generated losses in each of the


past three years, and plus, this transaction will be immediately accretive to earnings.


Restructuring expenses, cash spending, and the related savings under the $25 million cost savings


program are in line with expectations. We expect to see increasing benefits from this program in


the second half of 2006, and into 2007. Business conditions remain competitive, and we are fully


aware that some of the benefits attributable to our cost savings program will be offset by such


conditions. So we are increasing our efforts to achieve more than the $25 million in cost savings. I


also want to emphasize that we are viewing the cost savings program as more than a one-time


event, and believe it represents the right long-term approach to running a successful business in a


competitive industry.


We are seeing increased business activity in our German operations, including tobacco, branded


products, and pharmaceutical packaging. In June, we moved to a new factory, and increased our


label manufacturing capabilities in Scotland, to further enhance our ability to serve the alcoholic
raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
2


drinks market. Although still in startup mode, we expect second half results will start to benefit from


this relocation.


In the Pharmaceutical and Healthcare division, we continue to see the benefits in the market


attributable to our 2005 acquisition of Arlington Press, which is now a part of our North American


pharmaceutical and healthcare platform. As an industry leader on both sides of the Atlantic, we


have now enhanced our capability to support customers on product launches.


As we approach the seasonal peak of our year, we feel we are well positioned to serve our


customers. The one area of caution at this time, relates to the hot weather in Europe that could


result in a temporary slowdown in certain parts of our customers' businesses, notably confectionary


products. However, at this point, we feel we are on track for improved financial performance over


that achieved in the second half of 2005. In summary, we are committed to improving our financial


position and generating earnings more reflective of the attractive end use markets that we serve.


The cost savings program is going quite well, and I am confident that we will exceed our targets. In


addition, we have made changes to our retirement programs that we expect will lower our


expenses and cash requirements, beginning in 2007. Yes, we are in a competitive industry, and


maintaining margins is a daily battle, but we are making progress. We have attractive growth


opportunities and the people in place to make it happen. We are making steady progress and are


convinced that these actions will benefit our shareholders. Joel will now provide more details on


the second quarter results.


Joel K. Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Andy. This morning, we reported a second quarter net loss from continuing operations, of


$4.5 million, or $0.23 per share, which compares to a loss of $700,000, or $0.04 per share, for the


second quarter of 2005. Including discontinued operations, we reported a net loss for the second


quarter of 2006 of $4.8 million, or $0.25 per share, compared to a net loss of $700,000, or $0.04


per share, for the second quarter of 2005. The comparability of earnings from continuing


operations in the 2 quarters is impacted by divestitures and other activities undertaken as part of


our $25 million global cost savings program. To elaborate, the second quarter of 2006 included net


after tax losses of $5.4 million, or $0.28 per share for restructuring expenses, asset impairments


and other exit costs. And the second quarter of 2005 included net after tax losses of $6.4 million,


or $0.33 per share related to divestitures. Excluding those items, income from continuing


operations for the second quarter of 2006 was $900,000 or $0.05 per share, compared to $5.7


million or $0.29 per share for the second quarter 2005. As we've mentioned before, our results for


2006 have been negatively impacted by increased pension and energy costs when compared to


2005. These increases amounted to $2.6 million for the second quarter. You may recall that the


increase in pension and energy costs in the first quarter amounted to $4 million over the 2005


levels. The decrease comparison from the first quarter of 2006 was primarily due to the escalation


of energy prices that occurred in the second quarter of 2005. Energy prices for the second quarter


of 2006 were higher than the prices in the second quarter of 2005, but we have benefited from the


focused efforts at our factories to conserve energy as part of our $25 million cost savings program.


I'll now review our operating results in greater detail, starting with the paper-board packaging


segment. Please note that the discussion of segment results excludes restructuring expenses,


asset impairments and gains and losses related to divestitures. Also because changes in foreign


currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on our segment results quarter-over-


quarter, I will omit any discussion of the foreign currency impact. Second quarter net sales of


$209.9 million for the paper-board packaging segment were down 2% compared to net sales for the


second quarter of 2005. Excluding the impact of business acquisitions and divestitures, net sales


decreased 7% for the quarter. The decrease in net sales was primarily due to lower sales volumes


in tobacco packaging and branded products packaging. Although the tobacco sales are down year-