raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Chesapeake Corporation Third Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call


over to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joel Mostrom. Please go ahead,


sir.


Joel K. Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you and good morning and welcome to Chesapeake Corporation's third quarter conference


call. I'm Joel Mostrom, and joining me today is Andy Kohut, our President and Chief Executive


Officer. Andy will begin with overall comments on the quarter and discuss the costs savings


program announced earlier today. I will then provide a financial review of the quarter and Andy will


conclude with some comments on our outlook for the remainder of 2005. After that, we'll be


available for questions.


Before we get started, I want to advise all participants that this call is being recorded by


Chesapeake Corporation and is copyrighted material. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without


Chesapeake's express permission. Furthermore, the comments on this call may include forward-


looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The accuracy of such


forward-looking statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that may


cause Chesapeake's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking


statements. Certain of those risks, uncertainties, and assumptions are set forth in the summary of


this conference call, which will be posted on the Company's website at the conclusion of this call.


Now, I'll turn the call over to Andy.


Andrew J. Kohut, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Joe. Before I talk about our third quarter, I joined our Board of Directors and recognizing


Tom Johnson, who retire today as Chairman and CEO, Chesapeake. Tom’s broad experience in


the packaging industry and his expertise in international business made substantial contributions to


our transformation into an international specialty packaging company. We thank him and wish him


well.


With respect to our third quarter earnings announcements our Plastic Packaging segment and


pharmaceutical packaging business continue to perform well. However, our third quarter results did


not meet our expectations and reflect the challenging conditions in certain markets within our


paperboard packaging segment. As you can see from the press release issued earlier today


announcing our global cost savings program, we have taken significant steps to enhance our


competitive position and drive further efficiencies within our business. While we continuously


evaluate our operations for improvement in rationalization opportunities, more recently this


evaluation has developed into a significant and comprehensive program that we believe will


significantly improve our competitive position and enhance value for our shareholders by focusing


on three goals. Number one, increasing our focus on business operations that are aligned with our


global strategic vision and that possessed what we believe are the driving forces that will enable us


to achieve outstanding performance in the market. Number two, improving our operational process.


And three, reducing our overall company wide cost structure.


While we are still in the early stages of the program, we are targeting an annual pre-tax cost


savings of $25 million with full implementation over the next two years. We have already begun to
raw transcript


Chesapeake Corp.
 
CSK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


implement elements of the cost savings program as evidence by our recent announcement of the


proposed closure of our food and household paperboard packaging operation in Birmingham,


England. The scope of our restructuring program is extensive and could ultimately involve a


number of locations being either sold, closed or downsized.


We also expect broad based reductions and a general reduction in SG&A throughout the Company.


Additionally, we’re targeting specific improvements in operating processes. We expect to incur pre-


tax charges in the range of $30 million to $40 million to implement these initiatives, but the cash


flow impact will be less as the sale of real-estate and related facility closures, will reduce the cash


impact of the restructuring charges. The restructuring charges will be incurred over the next two


years, and will include termination benefits, asset impairments and various other exit or asset


redeployment costs. Consistent with reporting requirements the Company will disclose restructuring


initiatives and the associated charges and expected savings in future quarters as specific projects


are proposed, consulted upon, approved and implemented. We believe that this is a critical step for


the future growth and success of Chesapeake. We believe that through these actions, we’re


building a stronger, more costs effective company, ultimately in a better position to serve our


customers in today’s global marketplace, while improving shareholder returns.


With that overview of our cost savings initiatives, I'll turn the call over to Joe, to take you through a


detailed look at our financials for the quarter.


Joel K. Mostrom, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Andy. This morning we reported breakeven results from continuing operations which


compared to net income of $5.4 million or $0.28 per share for the third quarter 2004. The third


quarter of 2005 included a loss of $2.3 million after taxes or cost related to the proposed closure of


one of our food and household packaging operations in Birmingham, England, and a loss on


extinguishment of debt of $500,000 after taxes. I'll go into more detail on the restructuring charge in


a few minutes. But if these two items are excluded from our results, net income from continuing


operations for the third quarter of 2005 was $0.14 per share compared to $0.28 per share for the


third quarter of 2004. Furthermore the comparability of 2005 and 2004 quarterly earnings on this


measure is also affected by the company's inability to currently recognize income tax benefits


associated with losses in the U.S. a negative impact of $0.05 per share in 2005.


Overall we have experienced weaker demand in many of our markets during the quarter. As


general economic conditions appear to be affecting consumer spending as we head into the holiday


season. These market conditions combined with significant price pressure, increased pension cost


and a less favorable tax position have resulted in lower than expected earnings for the third quarter.


I'll now go over these results in more details starting with our paperboard packaging segment.


Third quarter net sales of $212.1 million for the paperboard packaging segment was down 4%


compared to net sales for the third quarter of 2004. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign


currency exchange rates, net sales were down 3% for the quarter. Sales for the third quarter of


2005 were generally down across most of our markets. Sales in the pharmaceutical and healthcare


market were up over the third quarter of 2004 due to the acquisition of Arlington Press in


September. Excluding Arlington, sales in the pharmaceutical and healthcare market were down


slightly for the third quarter of 2005 due primarily to reduce volume in the UK and some pricing


pressure.


Sales were down in the international and branded packaging market due largely to weaker demand


for confectionary packaging. Sales of alcoholic drinks packaging slowed slightly during the third


quarter of 2005 as well but remained strong while French luxury goods packaging had increased


sales volume for the quarter. Tobacco packaging sales we're down from the strong volume


experienced during the third quarter of 2004 which benefited from strong export volume to Africa