raw transcript


Chesapeake Corporation
 
CSK
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Chesapeake Corporation First Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call


over to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joel Mostrom. Please go ahead,


sir.


Joel Mostrom, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President


Good morning and welcome to Chesapeake first-quarter conference call. I am Joel Mostrom and


joining me today are Tom Johnson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Andy Kohut our


President. Tom, will begin with comments regarding overall trends and direction for our business. I


will then provide a financial review of the quarter. And Tom will conclude with some comments on


our outlook for 2005. After that, we'll be available for questions.


Before we get started, I wanted to advise all participants that this call is being recorded by


Chesapeake Corporation and is copyrighted material. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without


Chesapeake's express permission. Furthermore, the comments on this call may include forward-


looking-statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The accuracy of such


forward-looking-statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that may


cause Chesapeake's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking-


statements. Certain of those risks, uncertainties, and assumptions are set forth in the summary of


this conference call, which will be posted on the Company's web site at the conclusion of this call.


Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.


Thomas Johnson, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Joel and good morning, everyone. This morning we reported first quarter results that were


in line with our expectations as income from continuing operations of $0.08 per share was up from


$0.04 per share in the first quarter of 2004. Most of the operational issues that plagued us last year


have been addressed and are now largely behind us. After negatively impacting our paperboard


packaging results in 2004, our two new plants in Germany are now producing more favorable


returns. The issues that we were having with new presses at several locations have all been


resolved except for our Bradford England, operation. And we expect the present reinstallation at


Bradford to be completed in the second quarter, and that should favorably impact results in


international and branded packaging as we head into its peak season.


We also realize a significant decrease in our debt service cost in the first quarter of 2005, primarily


due to our refinancing activities in 2004. There has been a noticeable pickup in M&A activity over


the last few months both in our industry and in the world markets in general. Consolidation among


our customers continues, with Boots Group in the U.K. recently announcing plans to sell its


international healthcare business. Customer consolidation in the pharmaceutical and healthcare


industry has been significant over the past several years. And we have often been the beneficiary


of supplier rationalization, as our customers look to larger suppliers to satisfy their packaging


requirements.


While there is, of course, no way to foresee how these rationalization efforts may affect us, we


believe that our extensive pan-European manufacturing network and customer service capability


will continue to position us favorably against our competition. You may have noticed last week that


we announced the sale of the assets of our French wine and spirits label operation. The
raw transcript


Chesapeake Corporation
 
CSK
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


challenging trends in the French wine industry over recent years have had a negative impact on our


profitability and this business has consistently been in a loss position.


After considering available options, we determined that a sale of the assets was the appropriate


solution. We'll recognize a non cash loss will also on the sale of $3.5 million in the second quarter,


and we expect that the sale will be accretive to our earnings beginning the second half of 2005. We


are continuing to evaluate improvement opportunities in other underperforming operations and we'll


keep you informed when any further decisions are made along those line. With that brief overview,


I'll turn the call over to Joel to provide additional detail on our first quarter results and current market


conditions. And I'll return later to give you a more outlook on 2005 and take your questions.


Joel Mostrom, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President


Thanks, Tom. As we reported earlier today, net income from continuing operations for the first


quarter of 2005 was $1.6 million or $0.08 per share, compared to net income from continuing


operations for the first quarter of 2004 of $700,000 or $0.04 per share. The first quarter of 2005


also included a gain on the disposal of discontinued operations of $700,000 or $0.04 per share,


resulting from the reduction of the liability for contractual obligations related to the sale of the former


business segment. Including discontinued operations, net income for the quarter was $2.3 million or


$0.12 per share. Overall, in the first quarter of 2005, we continued to benefit from reduced interest


expense in favorable currency exchange rates but we were also negatively impacted by increased


pension costs. I'll go over these items in more detail, as well as our segment results for the quarter,


starting with our paperboard packaging segment.


First quarter net sales of $221.7 million for the paperboard packaging segment were up $2.6 million


or 1% when compared net sales for the first quarter of 2004. However, excluding the impact of


changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net sales were down 3% for the quarter. Volume


declines in pharmaceutical and healthcare packaging as well as food and household packaging


were partially offset by increased volume in international and branded packaging. Pharmaceutical


and healthcare packaging sales lagged a strong first quarter in 2004. However, the results were in


line with our expectations. Price competition in the food and household packaging market remains


intense, and we are continuing to forego some new business opportunities as the profit margins on


these sales do not justify the business opportunity. On a positive note, we experienced increased


volume in international and branded packaging in the first quarter of 2005, and we are encouraged


by pickup a new design activity in confectionery packaging.


The demand for alcoholic drinks packaging remains strong following the market weakness


experienced in the first quarter of 2004, and confectionery volumes were also up on a year-over-


year basis. Also tobacco packaging turned in a solid performance, even though there has been no


improvement in our customers' exports to Asia markets. The paperboard packaging segments EBIT


for the first quarter of 2005 was $10.6 million, a decrease of $500,000 or 5% compared to the first


quarter of 2004. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, EBIT was


down 8% for the quarter. As we mentioned last quarter, pension expense for 2005 is estimated to


be significantly higher than in 2004.


A large part of that pension expense is in the paperboard packaging segment, were the expense for


the first quarter of 2005 has increased over $1 million from the first quarter of 2004. EBIT for the


pharmaceutical packaging market also declined for the first quarter of 2005, primarily as a result of


reduced sales volume when compared to a very strong first quarter 2004. With the exception of


food and household, EBIT across our other markets in the paperboard packaging segment we've


generally improved year over year. The improvement for tobacco and international branded


packaging is primarily result of increased sales volumes and improved operating results in our two


new German facilities.