raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Oregon)
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon my name is Janice and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome you to the Columbia Bancorp First Quarter 2007 Results Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker’s


remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Ms.


Martin you may begin your conference.


Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to Columbia Bancorp’s First Quarter 2007


Teleconference and Webcast. My name is Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for


Columbia Bancorp. Speaking today will be Roger Christensen, Columbia Bancorp President and


Chief Executive Officer along with Greg Spear, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,


and Chief Administrative Officer, and Britt Thomas, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit


Officer. Today discussion will focus on our first quarter results.


A copy of our press release is available on our website at www.columbiabancorp.com in the


Investor Relations section. We will also hold a question and answer session following these


remarks at which time Columbia River Bank President Craig Ortega along with Executive Vice


President Shane Correa, Chief Banking Officer and Bob Card, Director of Risk Management will


join us. Before Roger begins we need to advice you, this teleconference and webcast contains


certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and


business. In essence, the forward-looking statement acknowledges that management has included


for the purposes of this webcast forward-looking information about our financial condition, results of


operations, plans and business strategies.


These forward-looking statements should not be construed as assurances of financial performance


or promises by management of expected results or courses of action. Our forward-looking


statement can be found on our website and is included in the press release. And now, here is


Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer of Columbia Bancorp.


Roger L. Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Ginny. Thanks to all those who have joined us either by phone or via our internet link.


You have most likely read the pre-release we published a few weeks ago on our earnings for the


first quarter of 2007. As stated in that release, the short fall on earnings expectations was due


primarily to the compression of the net interest margin and an additional write-down under the


potato production loan that we had discussed in previous webcast and new releases.


As we expected, these events resulted in a downward effect on our stock price right after the


release. I realized there are many in the market that are focused on short-term earnings and the


effect on their stock price. However; long-term investors will also look at the historic value and


performance of this organization not just the short-term results of one quarter. We believe the


employees of Columbia Bancorp and Columbia River Bank have built and continue to nurture a


quality company that provides long-term benefits for our customers, shareholders and employees.


A review of the past financial results demonstrate a long history of superior earnings. Even at


reduced level of first quarter earnings, we still outperformed a vast majority of our peer group, in


other words the earnings results are still good, but as managers we did not settle for good results,


we want great results.
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Oregon)
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For our shareholders we have increased earnings per share from $0.58 per share in 2000 to $1.55


per share in 2006, which represents an 18% compounded annual growth rate. 2006, our 20th


straight year of increased annual earnings. This feat was accomplished in the last six years to


organic growth and de novo branching. The Bank has established new branches in growing


communities and has hired the right people to take advantage of the opportunities in these markets.


Some of the investments made in 2006 such as expansion into Yakima, Sunnyside, and Pasco,


Washington and Lake Oswego, Oregon markets are not likely to contribute to earnings in the near


term, but will enhance earnings in the long run as these branches mature.


We are dedicated to continuing to improve the Bank’s loan quality. As Britt will discuss later,


internal loan quality indicators have steadily improved since 2004 and currently many of these


indicators are at the best relative levels since 2001. By year-end, we anticipate we will be well


within peer group averages for loan losses.


With the hiring of Christine Herb, our Chief Information Officer, we will improve the technologies of


the Bank, which will lead to more efficient use of information for our customers and employees. In


the first 100 days, she has been on our team, we have already benefited from her expertise,


knowledge and leadership through improvements in our existing technologies. Over time, these


efforts will reduce the overall cost of operating the Bank while allowing us to offer state-of-the-art


technology to our customers.


For our customers, we will continue to build an organization that can serve the most sophisticated


customer needs as well as those seeking only the more traditional banking services; our advantage


is in our employee’s knowledge of the markets they serve and their ability to use this information to


increase the net worth of our clients. We will continue to build convenient touch points for all of our


clients by adding new locations for their ease of banking as well as enhancing our internet [ph]


tools. For our employees, we provide an energized work environment that rewards innovations and


meeting the objectives and goals of the company. The goals and employees are aligned with the


expectations of the customers and shareholders. As a result, the employees have once again voted


this organization one of Oregon’s 50 best companies to work for as noted in the Oregon business


magazine annual survey. Now Greg Spear will address you on the financial results. Greg.


Greg B. Spear, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Roger. During the first quarter of this year Columbia experienced net interest margin


compression, which resulted in lower than expected financial performance. Net income for the first


quarter of 2007 was 3.5 million or $0.34 per diluted share, a decrease of 8% as compared to the


same period last year net income of 3.7 million or $0.37 per share. Net income was down 17% as


compared to the fourth quarter 2006, when Columbia earned 4.2 million or $0.41 per diluted share.


During the first quarter, loans were once again unseasonably strong growing by $34 million. Most of


our loan growth was centered in real estate and originated in our Columbia basin and Willamette


Valley regions. At the same time, deposits grew during this quarter by 35 million, which is primarily


attributable to the time certificate of deposits and brokerage CD’s, many of our deposit categories


shifted between the various regions during the quarter both non-interest bearing deposits and


interest bearing demand savings accounts seasonally declined by $41 million.


Columbia’s capital was 93.7 million at quarter-end representing 9.3% of total assets, we will


continue to manage our capital to maintain a regulatory define well capitalized classification,


continue our payment of cash dividends and consideration for buying back company stock and or


retiring trust preferred securities. During the first quarter, the earning asset yield trended downward


by 8.52% as compared to 8.85% in the prior quarter, a decrease of 33 basis points. The decline in


earning asset yield resulted in a decline in interest income of $640,000 over the previous quarter,


ending the current quarter at 19 million.