raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Columbia Bancorp Third Quarter


2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Steven and I’ll be your coordinator for today. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like


to turn the call over to Ms. Jene Martin [ph] Investor Relations Coordinator for Columbia Bancorp.


Please proceed.


Jene Martin, Investor Relations, Columbia Bancorp


Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Columbia Bancorp’s third quarter 2005 teleconference


and webcast. My name is Jene Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for Columbia Bancorp.


Speaking today will be Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer along with


executives Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer, and Britt Thomas, Chief Credit Officer.


Today’s discussions will focus on our third quarter results. A copy of this morning’s press release is


available on our website at columbiabancorp.com in the Investor Relations section. We will also


hold a question and answer session following these remarks at which time Craig Ortega, Chief


Operating Officer; Jim McCall, Chief Administrative Officer; and Shane Correa, Chief Banking


Officer will join us.


Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that this teleconference and webcast contains certain


forward-looking statements, with respect to our financial conditions, results of operations and


business. In essence the forward-looking statements acknowledges that management has included


for the purposes of this webcast, forward-looking information about our financial condition, results


of operations, plans and business strategies. These forward-looking statements should not be


construed as assurances of financial performance or promises by management of expected results


or courses of action. Our forward-looking statement can be found on our website and is included in


the press release. And now here is Roger Christensen.


Roger L. Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jenny. Today I’d like to recap the actual results year-to-date of Columbia Bancorp and


how they compared to the plan that was communicated to the market in 2005. Our first goal was to


have an ROE in excess of 17%. This has been accomplished and in fact, the goal has been


exceeded. This performance however, must be viewed with the knowledge that today we’ve had a


few one-time gains that expanded the current earnings figure. Our earnings plus one-time events is


closer to 17.75%.


Second, we stated that we would attain double-digit growth of approximately 10% to 15% per year.


Today this target has been met. This growth rate is result of the bank booking quality loans in our


diversified markets as well as funding these loans through low cost core deposits. Further, we


stated that loan quality was essential for a high performing bank, and as compared with the prior


years loan quality has improved thanks to two efforts. A disciplined loan approval process and


specific identification of the types of loans the bank wants in its portfolio. We continue to add quality


personnel through our loan administration and loan origination staffs.


In addition to these financial goals the bank is continually improving its ability to deliver quality


products and services in the markets we serve. I will give some examples; we are opening our


permanent office in December in Richmond, Washington. A short distance from our temporary
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


branch located in Kennewick, Washington. The office will be with staffed personnel who have lived


in the area for years and know the community. Our second office in the Tri-Cities Washington


market will be open in the first quarter of 2006 and is located in Pasco.


We are also building our third branch in The Dalles, which is scheduled to open in the first quarter


of 2006. Further, we have improved our Internet banking site by making it easier to use and adding


new items of interest that should keep our customers returning to the site. We are improving our


Internet cash management system to make the system real-time and are adding new features at


this positive pay, something that will benefit our business customers. We have steadily worked to


add and refine new and existing services.


Our mortgage team has completely retooled its process and has added quality lenders to the staff.


Result of this, have been gratifying. Never [ph] mortgage loans funded has increased by more than


60% over last year’s production. We believe that we can continue to increase production and


profitability in 2006. However the results will be on a more gradual pace. We’ll continue to invest in


CRB Financial Services Team, our group offering brokerage and other financial services and have


recently hired Clair Ingram [ph] as a certified financial planner in the Tri-Cities, Washington. This


group revenues continued to steadily rise and still provide even greater contributions in 2007.


As a result of our investment in adding new team members in addition to what I have just


mentioned, we continue to improve our internal policies and procedures for organizational


efficiency. We have strengthened our corporate finance team by adding an individual with


budgeting experience, Karen Carlen [ph] and John Mural [ph] an accountant. This improvement


process is happening throughout the bank, thus making Columbia River Bank a more inviting


institution for our customers, shareholders and employees. Now, Greg will discuss the financial


results for the third quarter.


Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Company and CRB


Thank you Roger. During the third quarter Columbia’s financial performance included net income of


3.5 million or $0.38 per diluted share representing an increase of 22% over the same period last


year when Columbia earned 2.9 million or $0.32 per diluted share. This is up slightly from the


previous quarter's net income of 3.4 million. Some of the key year-to-date analytics include total


assets of 821 million, a growth rate of 15%, gross loans of 659 million a growth rate of 13%,


deposits of 715 million a growth rate of 18%, return on average equity of 19.51%.


Return on average assets of 1.82%, net interest margin of 5.91% and an efficiency ratio of 53.57%.


In addition, Columbia remains well capitalized by regulatory definition. Strong loan growth in the


third quarter totaled 33 million or 5%. On a year-over-year basis, loans grew by 81 million or 14%.


Loan growth in the third quarter was strongest in the categories of real estate and commercial loans


with some seasonal declines occurring in agriculture.


Also during the third quarter loan sale per sale remained flat compared to last quarter. There were


231 mortgage loans produced in the third quarter as compared to 230 in the second quarter and


122 in the third quarter of last year. This trend is likely to remain at this level due to our strategy to


increase the number of mortgage-lending offices in the fourth quarter. Anytime the mortgage rates


are expected to slowly rise and home sales slow down. Deposits continue to grow at a steady rate


through the third quarter increasing by 46 million or 7% with a year-over-year deposit levels


increasing by 99 million or 16%.


Every category of deposits increase with the exception of time deposits, decline in time deposits is


attributed primarily to the maturity of 13.4 million in broker certificates of deposits and public


certificates of deposits, which were not renewed demand deposit accounts continue to be our