raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2005 and Year-


End Columbia Bancorp Earnings Conference Call. My name is Minutiae, and I'll be your


coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s Call, Miss Ginny Martin.


Ma’am you may proceed.


Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator


Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Columbia Bancorp's Fourth Quarter and


Year-End 2005 teleconference and webcast. My name is Ginny Martin, Investor Relations


Coordinator for Columbia Bancorp. Speaking today will be Roger Christensen, President and Chief


Executive Officer, along with Executives Vice President Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer, Britt


Thomas, Chief Credit Officer and Shane Correa, Chief Banking Officer.


Today's discussion will focus on our fourth quarter and year-end results. A copy of this morning's


press release is available on our website at columbiabancorp.com in the Investor Relations section.


We will also hold a question-and-answer session following these remarks at which time Craig


Ortega, Chief Operating Officer and Jim McCall, Chief Administrative Officer will join us.


Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that this teleconference and webcast contains certain


forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and


business.


In essence, the forward-looking statement acknowledges that management has included, for the


purposes of this webcast, forward-looking information about our financial condition, results of


operations, plans, and business strategies. These forward-looking statements should not be


construed as assurances of financial performance or promises by management of expected results


or courses of action. Our forward-looking statement can be found on our website and is included in


the press release.


And, now, here's Roger Christensen.


Roger Christensen, Chief Executive Officer, President, Director and Member of Executive


Committee


Thank you, Ginny. Today, I would like to review some of the key results for 2005 as compared to


what we told you at the beginning of the year. Then at the conclusion of broadcast, I will review


expectations for 2006 and the opportunities we have identified for the Bank.


At the beginning of 2005, our financial expectations were as follows. Return on equity in excess of


17%, double-digit growth in assets, net income that exceeded the previous year and loan quality


equal to or better than the National Bank Holding Company peer group. We see the most of this


goals, our return equity for 2005 was 19.01%, 200 basis points higher than our guidance. During


the year we benefited from one-time occurrences, which comprised most of this increase. When


those one-time occurrences were excluded, we reached at ROE at 17.75% on a pro forma basis.
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We believe this level performance reflects our quarter earnings for the year. This goal is attained


by building a balance sheet over the past five years that was largely assets sensitive. Over 50% of


our loans we priced with the prime rate and over 89% of our loans we prices within three year. This


disciplines allowed us to successful maintain a high net interest margin in an environment of rising


short-term rate and a flattening treasury yield curve.


We also build non-interest bearing deposit by 48 million an increase of 28% for the year. This


benefited the net interest margin and has allowed us remain in top of our peer group according to


SNL Datasource for publicly traded bank between 500 million and 1 billion in assets side. In the


end our return equity showed strong performance from the collective effort and contributions from


everyone on the CRB team.


The balance sheet performed above expectations, with assets growing 17%, loans growing 18%


and deposits growing by 17%. Loan and deposit growth was nearly parallel and is reflective of our


efforts to the line all of our departments, our incentive compensation and our approval processes in


order to achieve greater balance. Reflecting on some of the changes we have made in 2005, there


is much to be pleased about, for the most part of improvement we instituted for our deposit product


and services.


The new cash management system for our business customer enhances our access and


transaction processing efficiency. These customers now enjoy more sophisticated service and


greater usability. One of our newest employees Mike Mesie [ph] joined our team as a cash


management officer. He brings years of experience professional expertise to CRB team, which has


improved our ability to communicate and service even larger deposit customers who often demand


more complex state in systems. Michael’s approach to banking and service allows to better


compete in this area. He has hand on deposit gathering by strategically pricing deposits specialist


in our larger markets. In addition, we continue to tail our products and services to meet the needs


of our unique and ever changing customers. These improvements have allowed us to reach a new


level of success as evidence by our strong growth in deposit relationships, specifically non-interest


growing deposits. Our lenders are some of the best in the business. They continue reach


extensively into our markets and establish good relationships with quality customers. This overall


approach and efforts has created a real value for both our clients and shareholders. Loan quality


has steadily improved over the past two years. We are proud of the achievement aiding in our


classified asset rate. So that continues to improve as a result of our ongoing refinement of credit


administration, training and underwriting standards. You will hear more about loan quality by


Beardsley’s update. We are dedicated to remain a high performing bank. Our goal is to continue


building our consistent strong financial performance and exceed the strategic initiatives set by the


executive team and Board of Directors. In a few minutes, I will talk specifically about the year’s


goal and conclude on our direction and banking philosophy. Now Greg will give the financial results


for the quarter and year. Greg…


Greg B. Spear, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Company


Thank you, Roger. During the fourth quarter and for the full year 2005, Columbia’s performance


was consistent with its stated financial goals and achieved some excellent performance results.


This included net income for the year 2005 which was 13.7 million or a $1.36 per diluted share, an


increase of 27% over the prior year’s net income of 10.7 million or a $1.08 per diluted share.


Though the fourth quarter net income was 3.4 million or 34 cents per diluted share representing a


decline of 3% over the same period last year when Columbia earned 3.5 million or 35 cents per


diluted share. Although still very good, these figures reflect a different story when adjusted for one-


time occurrences. In the fourth quarter of 2004, there was a one-time gain of $671,000 from the


sale of properties before tax, and in the fourth quarter of 2005 there was a benefit of 98,000 from


the Oregon Corporate tax checker credit. On a pro forma basis adjusting for these one-time