raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Oregon)
 
CBBO
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com • 6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
C o p yr i gh t © 2 00 1- 2 00 6 C a ll Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the third quarter 2006 Columbia


Bancorp earnings conference call. My name is Chanelle [ph] and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of this conference. If at time during the call you require audio


assistance, please key star followed by zero and a coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I will now like to turn the


presentation over to your host for today's call Ms. Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for


Columbia Bancorp. Please proceed, ma'am.


Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Columbia Bancorp's third quarter


teleconference and webcast. [indiscernible] Speaking today will be Roger Christensen, Columbia


Bancorp President and Chief Executive Officer; along with Greg Spear, Executive Vice President


and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig Ortega, Columbia River Bank President and Chief Operating


Officer. Today's discussion will be focused on our third quarter results. A copy of this morning's


press release is available on our website at www.columbiabancorp.com in the Investor Relations


section. We will also hold a question-and-answer session following these remarks at which time


Executive Vice President Britt Thomas, Chief Credit Officer and Shane Correa, Chief Banking


Officer will join us.


Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that this teleconference and webcast contains certain


forward-looking statements with respect to our financial conditions, results of operations, and


distance. In essence, the forward-looking statements acknowledges that management has included


for the purposes of this webcast forward-looking information about our financial conditions, results


of operations, plans and business strategies. These forward-looking statements should not be


considered as assurances of financial performance or promises by management as expected


results or courses of action. Our forward-looking statement can be found on our website, and is


included in the press release.


And now, here is Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer of Columbia Bancorp.


Roger L. Christensen, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jenny. Thanks to all of you for joining our webcast today. Once again, in the third


quarter, we have met our expectations in regard to loan growth, return on equity, and loan quality.


We are continuing to invest into the markets in which we expect sustained growth. While loan


growth has been excellent, deposit growth has lagged behind our expectations for the past year.


We realized that deposit growth issue is not unique to our institution. Therefore, we have


implemented a specific plan to improve our position. Our goal is to build a sales team of deposit


gathering professionals that rival our lending team and expertise. To that end, in the past year, we


have added a cash management specialist, with several years of banking deposit gathering


experience, two private banking officers, and more recently a relationship development manager.


These individuals will train new accounts personnel to proactively gather deposits by calling on


existing and potential clients.


These people are dedicated to developing the necessary deposit gathering tools that will keep us


competitive. We have updated our cash management capabilities as well as our Internet banking


site this past quarter. We are developing the ability to open accounts online and build sales


programs for our customer support center. We have refocused our incentive compensation
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Oregon)
 
CBBO
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 64 6. 4 4 2. 02 7 0 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 1- 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)


2


program to give deposit gathering a premium. In addition, we are designing and implementing


systems throughout the bank that will draw customers to our company.


The growth of our branch network has a strong relationship to deposit growth. Vancouver and


Eastern Washington markets both provide the opportunity for balanced loan and deposit growth.


We have secured our inaugural site in Vancouver, and we are in the process of purchasing land for


additional sites in Eastern Washington markets. As for our branch growth in 2006, we are operating


in temporary sites, in Sunnyside, and the Yakima, Washington. And we will be building permanent


locations in 2007. These new branches and the interest into the Vancouver market will impact


short-term earnings, but we believe the long-term value is well worth the investment. Howard


County, in which Vancouver is located, has been one of the fastest-growing counties in the state of


Washington in the past few years.


During the third quarter, Craig Ortega was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer of


Columbia River Bank. His responsibilities will include overseeing the day-to-day operations of the


bank and he will lead the sales charge in Vancouver. Craig's unique people skills and his attention


to detail have been, and will continue to be valuable to the bank's success. In addition, we have


hired Kevin Cooper as a Senior Vice President who will lead the business banking team in


Willamette Valley region. He has many years of experience in all venues of commercial lending and


as an SBA lender. The bank will staff into his experience to increase our non-interest income


revenue. In our opinion, the economic outlook for Oregon and Southern Washington will remain


strong in relation to the US economy. According to the FAIC [ph] job growth in the Northwest was in


the top 10 nationally with all sectors of economy reporting growth. The housing market has slowed


in relationship with 2004, and 2005, but is still healthy.


In conclusion, the bank is committed to enhancing our deposit gathering system so that its rivals


our quality lending structure. This is being accomplished with the right people who has the right


tools and are in the right locations. The infrastructure that is being built today may add cost next


year, but will pay dividends in the future. We will continue to grow the bank in rapidly growing


markets that can be built and support multiple branch locations in the same area. We remain


optimistic about the future of the Pacific Northwest economy and our ability to build a quality


institution that is truly built to last. I will now turn the time over to Greg Spear, Chief Financial


Officer.


Greg B. Spear, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Roger. During the third quarter of this year, Columbia achieved a new record in


quarterly earnings. The net income for the third quarter, 2006 was for 4.2 million or $0.42 per


diluted share. This is an increase of 20% over the same period last year, when Columbia earned


3.5 million or $0.35 per diluted share. Net income was also up 18% in the third quarter as


compared to the second quarter when Columbia earned 3.6 million or $0.36 per diluted share.


During the third quarter, loans grew by 18 million. Most of our loan growth in this quarter was


centered in real estate loans coming from our high desert region, which includes our Bend,


Redmond and Madras branches.


Deposits grew during this quarter by 36 million, primarily in the category of time specifics [ph]


Competition for deposit has escalated during the third quarter as promotional bank deposit rate for


advertising our market be well above 3%. Combination of market competition and large customer


volatility led to a decline in non-interest bearing, interest-bearing demand and savings deposits


counts. In addition to the deposits changes in our retail branches, we continue to supplement our