raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
212. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Columbia Bancorp First Quarter


2006 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shamita [ph] and I will be your coordinator for today.


At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instruction] I would now like to turn the call


over to Ms. Jeanie Martin [ph], Investor Relations Coordinator. Please proceed ma’am.


Jeanie Martin [ph], Investor Relation Coordinator


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Columbia Bancorp’s first quarter


teleconference and webcast. My name is Jeanie Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for


Colombia Bancorp. With me today will be Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive


Officer along with Executive Vice President, Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer and Shane Correa,


Chief Banking Officer.


Today’s discussion will focus on our first quarter results. A copy of this morning’s press release is


available on our website at www.colombiabancorp.com in the investor relation section. We will also


hold a question and answer session following these remarks at which time Executive Vice


President, Craig Ortega, Chief Operating Officer and Britt Thomas, Chief Credit Officer will join us.


Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that these teleconference and webcast contains


certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial conditions, results of operations and


business. In essence, the forward-looking statement acknowledges that management has included


for the purposes of this webcast forward-looking information about our financial condition, results of


operations, plans and business strategies. These forward-looking statements should not be


construed as assurances of financial performance or promises by management of expected results


or courses of action. Our forward-looking statement can be found on our website and is included in


the press release. And now here is Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer of


Colombia Bancorp.


Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jeanie. Welcome to all those who have taken the time to listen to our quarterly


webcast. As you have seen in our announcement in the past 2 months, this has been a very busy


quarter for the bank. Since December we have opened our new 10,000 square branch in Richland,


Washington. We have announced the opening of 2 additional branches in Sunnyside and Yakima,


Washington. These branches will complement the Tricities Washington market. Our [indiscernible]


branch in the Dalles, Oregon opened in March and our Pasco, Washington branch will open shortly.


In the area of financial performance, asset quality improved markedly. Over yearend, with non-


performing assets falling to 0.33% of gross loans by the end of March. This was result of a


successful refinance of loans to a potato producer of approximately $2.4 million. As we’ve


indicated previously, this segment of agriculture is just not coming out of the protracted period of


excess production and the best prices. Indications for 2006 crops are favorable, but the bank will


need to continue to work through this year’s credit by long term economic factors. As of March


31st, 2006, the bank had exposure of $11 million in potato production but approximately 6 million


classified as substandard.


Net loan losses of 520,000 for the first quarter was centered in one ag related credit. Previously,


we have stated our target for 2006 net loan losses to be between 22 and 25 basis points. Although
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the annualized loss rate for the first quarter of 30 basis points exceeded this level, we continue to


expect the loss rate to diminish throughout the rest of the year and to fall within the previously


predicted range for 2006 in total. Because of the seasonal nature of the construction and


agricultural portions of the loan portfolio, growth is often flatter in the first quarter. This year is no


exception. As a result, the loan loss reserve only needed to be supplied to cover losses during the


period. You will note that the loan loss reserve fell from 1.39% of gross loans at the end of 2005 to


1.3% by the end of the first quarter. Greg Spear will explain this reduction in a few moments. As


with all aspects of the bank, we continue to improve and refine the credit process.


Over the last year, we have enhanced our lending staff through new hiring practices and in house


training programs. An example of these practices is our real estate risk management team.


Because real estate lending is a big part of what we do, we developed a top quality real estate risk


management team. These real estate professionals still want to MAI certifications work with


lenders and customers to ensure that their real estate projects we lend into are successful. They


carefully monitor the economic conditions in each of our markets to ensure the risks in the real


estate sector of the loan portfolio is understood and managed. We have qualified commercial


lenders as a part of the credit administration team. This group overseas credit for the bank,


managers credit approval and directly manages a large portion of the probable loan portfolio. Over


the last year, we have reduced the number [indiscernible] to the Chief Credit Officer to allow him to


focus on our credit risk management.


Our loan review process is being enhanced. For the past two years, most of the function has been


outsourced. It became clear in 2005 that outsourcing cannot provide the real time monitoring of the


loan portfolio that we believe necessary and optimal. As a result, we are moving the function back


in house by hiring full time credit review officer and by shifting the responsibilities of our agricultural


consultants to include more risk management and loan review duties.
 
We are in the process of


creating business banking teams in each of our market areas.
 
The bank’s most successful


business banking team is located [indiscernible] and serves the central Oregon market. This


model has worked extremely well producing excellent quality loan and high rates of growth. We’ve


duplicated this in the Tricities market and expect the same results. Over the next three years, this


model will be implemented in all of our markets improving consistency and quality throughout the


bank. There are a few other changes underway. We are always moving forward challenging the


status quo and making improvements in our lending process. We believe that we have developed


an organization that has ability to attract top talent. Last year, we were again voted by our


employees as one of the Oregon’s best 100 companies to work for, an annual survey sponsored by


Oregon business magazine. The proof of our ability to attract top talent is reflected in our financial


numbers over the past five years. We will not let our guard down in terms of creating an excellent


environment to help our employees to stay focused. Our goal and mission is simple, to add value


for our customers, shareholders and employees by making Columbia River the bank of choice.


The progress we have made this past quarter will help to reach this goal. Greg Spear, our Chief


Financial Officer will discuss the financial results. Greg?


Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President


Thank you, Roger. During the first quart of this year, Columbia achieved record earnings. The net


income for the first quarter of 2006 was 3.7 million or 37 cents per diluted share, an increase of


12% over the same period last year when Columbia earned 3.3 million or 33 cents per diluted


share. Furthermore, net income was up 10% in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter


of last year when Columbia earned 3.4 million or 34 cents per diluted share.


Some of the key year-to-date analytics include total assets of 857 million, a year-to-date growth


rate of 2 percent. Gross loans of 684 million, a slight year-to-date decline of less than 1 percent,


deposits of 723 million a year-to-date growth rate of 2 percent, return on average equity of 19.01