raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Columbia’s Bancorp Second


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Gregory [ph] and I will be your coordinator for


today. [Operator Instruction]. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s


call, Ms. Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for Columbia Bancorp. Please proceed


ma’am.


Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator


Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Columbia Bancorp second quarter 2005 Teleconference


and webcast. My name is Ginny Martin, Investor Relation’s Coordinator for Columbia Bancorp.


Speaking today, will be Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer along with the


Executives Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer and James McCall, Chief Administrative Officer.


Today’s discussion, we will focus on our second quarter results. A copy of this morning’s press


release is available on our website at www.columbiabancorp.com in the Investor Relations section.


We will also hold a question and answer session following these remarks, at which time executive


Craig Ortega, Chief Operating Officer, Britt Thomas, Chief Credit Officer and Shane Correa, Chief


Banking Officer will join us. Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that this teleconference


and webcast contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial conditions


results of operations and business. Our forward-looking statements can be found on our website,


and is included in our press release. In that sense, the forward looking statements acknowledges


that management has included for the purposes of this webcast, forward looking informations about


our financial condition, results of operation, plans and business strategies. These forward-looking


statements cannot be considered as assurance’s of financial performance or promises by


management of expected results or courses of actions. And, now here is Roger Christensen.


Roger Christensen, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you for joining our second quarter 2005 earnings webcast. Once again, the bank has met


the goals for income and growth that we’ve established in our strategic plans. Part of the income


was from the sale of our mortgage servicing assets. This sale delivered a one time gains to the


quarters. However, more important than the gain was the divestiture of a lawful assets that has not


in profitable over the past 2 years. In addition, this sale will allow the Bank to focus on more


profitable ventures in our mortgaged operations. Production inside the mortgage business has


continued to expand. This November of 2004, we have hired 8 experienced mortgage loan offices


in Benton [ph], Oregon, Tri-Cities, Washington have increased production. Our mortgage loan


production has steadily increased for the past 6 months. We will continue to add qualitative people


in our existing markets.


This time, we have hired a new business banking team leader Willy Killinghan [ph] in the Tri-Cities


markets. Willy [ph] has been a banker in a company based in areas for over 28 years. He is an


experienced manager, funder and leader and in the 10 years of bankers, she has received a


numerous community service awards, including The Women of The Year award by the Eumitoi [ph]


Chamber of Commerce, outstanding chamber member of the year, Greater Pasco Area Chamber


and has served on several advisory boards. She’s a top performer, who knows how to build


profitable themes and is currently in a process of hiring her to the lenders.
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp (Columbia


River Bank)
 
CBBO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We will continue to look for new opportunities within our markets to expand our lending and deposit


gathering opportunities. Tri-Cities market consists of 3 cities at Kennewick Pasco and Richland.


The population of the area in the year 2000 was 247,000 and is projected to grow to a 328 170,000


by the year 2009 according to the US Census Bureau. The Tri-Cities is the economic hub of our


Southeastern Washington. Our efforts to be a high-performing community bank originally


recognized by the US Banker magazine in its July 2005 issue. In an article titled the ‘Top Two


Hundred Publically Traded Community Banks’, Colombia Bancor was ranked at 12+ profitable


institution of all the publically traded banks and trades with an assets up to $1 billion. The rankling


was based on a 3-year average ROE which was 18.8 [indiscernible] for 3 years. We also ranked


12th in the same article published last year and we are proud of the consistent past results over the


past 4 years.


Once again, I believe the second quarter results are a reflection of the Bank’s dedication which


dismisses the [indiscernible] great experience that makes Columbia River the Bank of choice [ph].


Thank you for listening as Greg Spear will speak regarding the financial results for the second


quarter.


Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Company & CRB


Thank you Roger. During the second quarter, Columbia’s financial performance included net


income of 3.4 million or $0.38 per diluted share, representing an increase of 49% over the same


period last year when Columbia earned 2.3 million or $0.26 per diluted share. This is up 4% from


the prior quarter’s net income of 3.3 million or $0.36 per diluted share.


Some of the key year-to-date analytics include total assets of $779 million, growth rate of 9%, gross


loans of 626 million, a growth rate of 7% deposits of 669 million, a growth rate of 10%. Return on


average equity of 19.69%, Return on average assets of 1.85% net interest margin of 5.86% and


inefficiency ratio of 54.15% in addition Colombia remains will capitalized by regulatory definition.


Strong loan growth in the second quarter totaled 43.5 million or 7%. On a year-over-year basis


loans grew by 57.5 million or 10%, loan growth in the second quarter was strongest and the


categories of agriculture and commercial and industrial loans with some declines occurring in the


categories of commercial, realistic, construction, timber [ph] loans. Also during the second quarter,


loan sale per sale increased 3.3 million due to increased mortgage loan funding. The number of


mortgage loans produced rose 51% in the second quarter to 230 from a 152 in the first quarter.


Deposits continue to grow at a steady rate through the second quarter increasing by 33.1 million or


5%, with year-over-year deposit levels increasing by a 120.6 million or 22%. Every category of


deposits increase with the exception of time deposit.


Non interest bearing demand deposits increased as a result of it’s steady sales effort to attract new,


ultimate [ph] existing commercial business relationships. Interest bearing demand and savings


account have steadily grown as a result of customize deposit pricing strategy implemented ensure


the attraction and retention targeted customers. The increases in these deposit categories have


resulted in a decrease and overall reliance on higher cost of HLB borrowings and other wholesale


liabilities.


Interest income improved during the second quarter, do, not only to the loan growth, but also to


increased revenue generated by the banks variably priced earnings assets. But just variable rate


loans and stead fund sold moreover the earning asset yield was up slightly in the second quarter to


7.44% as compared to 7.31% in the first quarter of 2005. In total, interest income increased


$543,000 over the first quarter $12.7 million. Interest expense rate increased to 0.21% in the


second quarter to 0.09% in the first quarter as a result of a rise toward the end of the yield cure


increases in overnight borrowing rate, pressure in the form of market competition.