raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp \OR\
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Columbia Bancorp, First Quarter


2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Carlo and I'll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


during today's conference. If at anytime during the call you require assistance, feel free to press "*"


followed by "0", and the conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. I'd now like to turn the


presentation over to your host for today's call, Ginny Martin with Investor Relations. Please


proceed.


Ginny Martin, Investor Relations


Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Columbia Bancorp’s First Quarter 2005 Teleconference


and webcast. Again, my name is Ginny Martin, Investor Relations Coordinator for Columbia


Bancorp. Speaking today will be Roger Christensen, President and Chief Executive Officer, along


with Executive Greg Spear, Chief Financial Officer; Shane Correa, Chief Banking Officer, and Britt


Thomas, Chief Credit Officer.


Today's discussion, we'll focus on our first quarter results. A copy of this morning's press release is


available on our website at www.columbiabancorp.com under financial news releases in the


investor relations section. We will also hold a question-and-answer session following these


remarks, at which time Jim McCall, Chief Administrative Officer and Craig Ortega, Chief Operating


Officer will join us.


Before Roger begins, we need to advise you that this teleconference and webcast contains certain


forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and the


business. Our forward-looking statements can be found on our website under investor relations and


is included in our press release. In essence, the forward-looking statement acknowledges that


management has included for the purposes of this webcast, forward-looking information about our


financial conditions, results of operations, plans, and business strategies. These forward-looking


statements should not be considered as assurances of financial performance or promises by


management of expected results or courses of actions. And, now here is Roger Christensen.


Roger L. Christensen, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thank you, Ginny. As the earnings release detailed, we produced strong financial results for the


first quarter and improved long quality, reflecting past initiatives that we put into place over the last


few years. We‘ve continued to improve our market delivery systems as well as our efficiencies in


distributing new and improved products and services. We have created a solid business base that


we will continue to improve upon, which will keep Columbia a high performing institution for our


employees, customers and shareholders. Our goal is the simple one, the one that keeps our focus


to a great experience, which makes Columbia River Bank, the bank of choice. In 2005, our goals


for growth and earnings remained consistent with the previous years, that is, double-digit growth


and quality assets and low cost deposits, and than ROE in excess of 17%. To accomplish these


financial objectives, we have initiated the following strategies. We will open two new branches that


will fill in our current footprint and allow us to continue to expand our existing market coverage in


the four high growth areas. We are improving our information technology systems that will allow our


management and staff to identify market opportunities and trends. With this information, we can


keep our competitive advantage with existing customers and identify new clients that will add to the


value of our franchise. Perhaps more importantly, we can identify negative trends and move swiftly


to address the issues.
raw transcript


Columbia Bancorp \OR\
 
CBBO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In conclusion, the banking environment will continue to change and become more competitive. Our


goal is to identify market initiatives that we can capitalize on and add a value to our customers,


employees and shareholders. Therefore, as you observe the dynamics of the organization, you’ll


see a commitment to excellence, forward thinking as well as changes and improvements on how


we provide valuable, products and services to our customers. I’ll now turn the time over to Greg


Spear, our Chief Financial Officer.


Greg B. Spear, Executive Vice President of CRB and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Roger. During the first quarter, Columbia’s financial performance included net income


of 3.3 million or $0.36 per diluted share. This represents an increase of 64% over the same period


last year when Columbia earned $2 million or $0.22 per diluted share. However, this is down 5%


from the prior quarter’s net income of 3.5 million or $0.39 per diluted share. Some of the key year-


to-date analytics include assets, which grew to 744 million, a growth rate of 4%, gross loans were


flat and 583 million deposits grew to 636 million, a growth rate of 5%. Return on average equity was


19.89%, return on average assets was 1.84%. Net interest margin was 5.82% and the efficiency


ratio was 54.92%. In addition, Columbia remains well capitalized by regulatory definition. Net


interest income was very strong at 9.7 million for the first quarter of 2005 as compared to 9.3 million


in the previous quarter last year. The net interest margin for the first quarter was 5.82% as


compared to 5.6% in the previous quarter. However, careful analysis reveals that the net interest


margin benefited from the collection of interest from the prior year as a result of a large non-accrual


loan being paid current in the first quarter. During the first quarter, approximately $336,000 in


interest income was collected. It is attributable to the prior year. After consideration for the prior


year interest income, the adjusted net interest margin for the first quarter 2005 would have been


5.62% or 20 basis points lower. As we look forward to the remainder of 2005 with a flat yield curve,


and the funds rate expected to increase to 3.5%, our asset-sensitive position was 55% of our loans


reprising with time is expected to maintain our net interest margins within a range of 5.5% to 5.6%,


without consideration for changes in future loan volume, loan fees and market competition.


The loan loss provision for the first quarter was $200,000 as compared to the prior quarter at a


$120,000. Flat loan growth and improved loan quality along with minimal charge offs contributed to


another quarter with a low loan loss provision expense. This resulted in an allowance for loan loss


ratio of 1.42% at the end of the first quarter. Non-interest income in the current quarter was $2.3


million as compared to $2.8 million in the prior quarter last year after adjusting the fourth quarter of


2004 for the one-time gains from the sale of two assets totaling $671,000, the non-interest income


in the first quarter of 2005 was actually higher by nearly $100,000.


The two components of non-interest income that contributed to this increase were primarily


concentrated in mortgage servicing and mortgage production revenues. Non-interest expense grew


in the first quarter to $6.6 million as compared to $6.4 million in the prior quarter last year, a rate of


increase of 2% a non-interest expense increase stands from higher incentive compensation


accruals, increased occupancy expense from branch expansion, higher sundry losses, audit fees


relating to SOX 404 and printing cost of the annual report. At the same time, there were offsetting


cost savings from a reduction in office supplies, lower telephone and lower data processing costs


as a result of the management’s ability to renegotiate new contract terms. Lastly, we recently


announced that the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend to the shareholders on record as of


April 15th, 2005 in the amount of $0.09 per share. The dividend will be paid on April 29th, 2005. I


thank you for listening and at this point I'll turn the time over to Shane Correa, Chief Banking


Officer.