corrected transcript


Convera Corp
 
CNVR
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Convera Corporation Conference Call; reporting Financial Results for the


three month period ended April 30, 2005. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.


Later we will conduct our question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded today; May 26, 2005.


Participants in today’s call are Patrick Condo, Convera’s President and Chief Executive Officer; and


John Polchin, Convera’s Chief Financial Officer. Gentlemen, please proceed.


Patrick C. Condo, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone and welcome. I am Pat Condo, Convera’s President and Chief Executive


Officer. Yesterday, we issued a press release containing the financial results for Convera’s first


quarter ended April 30, 2005.


During our call today, our Chief Financial Officer, John Polchin, will review those results with you. I


will then provide an update on our emerging Web initiatives. Following our presentation, John and I


will respond to your questions. If your question is not addressed on today’s call, please contact our


Investor Relations department at (703) 761-3700.


And with that, I will now turn the call over to our CFO to review our financial results. John?


John R. Polchin, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Treasurer


Thank you, Pat. Before I begin the call today on the numbers, I would like to cover the Company’s


Safe Harbor statement under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company’s


remarks in today’s conference call may contain forward-looking statements that are subjected to


risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, our ability to continue to fund operating losses;


our ability to manage our expenses in line with anticipated business levels; our ability to develop,


sell, deliver and implement our software products; the impact of delays associated with the


development of highly complex products; our competitive strategy and the impact of competition;


the impacts of reduced IT spending and lengthier sales cycles; our dependence on sales to


government agencies; our dependence on technology licenses from third parties; the uncertainty of


newly emerging technologies, including the Web initiative, general economic conditions affecting


our industry, and markets and other risk factors as set forth in the Company’s Form 10-K, Annual


Report and our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks could


cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement


made by on behalf of Convera. Our forward-looking statements are based on information available


to Convera as of the date of this presentation and Convera assumes no liability or obligation to


update or alter such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.


Now, to our first quarter results. As noted in yesterday’s press release, revenue for the first quarter


of fiscal 2006 totaled 5.1 million, representing a 38% decrease when compared to the year-ago


period. This decline was primarily due to budgetary delays within the federal sector and a $1.5


million compliance transaction that was realized in the prior year quarter.


Based on the current pipeline, sufficient opportunities exist to correct this quarter’s revenue


shortfall. And as such, we remain focused on achieving net income neutrality for the core software


products group this fiscal year. To that point, two planned first quarter opportunities that slipped


have since been realized during the month of May. That said, I must also caution that our pipeline
corrected transcript


Convera Corp
 
CNVR
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


is more reliant today on fewer total deals, yet deals offering higher contract values. This is primarily


the result of federal procurement practices that now seek more cost effective enterprise wide


purchases. This practice also impacts sales cycles across our federal prospect base.


All reported revenue for the quarter was derived from our software products group, as our Web


indexing initiative, which Pat will address shortly, continues to progress in a development mode.


Revenues from the federal sector accounted for 33% of reported first quarter results, commercial


represented 29 percent, and international contributed 38 percent. This compares to 47 percent, 21


percent, and 32%, respectively, for the prior year period.


For the first quarter, license revenues represented 43% of reported revenue, while combined


services and maintenance revenues were 57 percent. This compares to 72% and 28% for the


year-ago period. During the quarter, one transaction represented more than 10% of the reported


revenue for the period.


Turning to expenses, total reported expenses for the first fiscal quarter were 7.6 million, of which


7.1 million were related to the software products group and 500,000 was associated with our Web


indexing initiative. This compares to total reported expenses of 13 million for the prior year first


quarter of which 12.4 million were related to software products and 600,000 was incurred for the


Web indexing project.


During the first fiscal quarter, the Company adopted FAS 86 which requires the capitalization of


software development cost, once technological feasibility has been achieved, related to the


Company’s Web indexing initiative. As such, for the first fiscal quarter, gross expenses associated


with the Web indexing initiative totaled 2.8 million; however, approximately 2.3 million of research


and development costs were capitalized during the period.


The combination of fiscal year 2005 realignments of the Company’s operating infrastructure and the


adoption of FAS 86 were the primary causes for the measurable reduction in the Company’s


expense base versus the year-ago quarter.


Cost of revenues totaled 1.5 million for the period, representing a 22% decrease from the year-ago


quarter. The resulting gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 71 percent. This


compares to a gross margin of 77% for the same period of fiscal 2005.


Operating expenses for the period were 6.1 million, which compare to 11.1 million as reported for


the year ago quarter. Sales and marketing costs, when measured against the year-ago quarter,


decreased by 56 percent. Research and development expenses as reported declined by 55


percent, again reflecting the adoption of FAS 86, as I referenced earlier. On a gross basis,


research and development expenses increased 8% when compared to the same period last year,


as we continued to prudently invest in technology resources.


The general and administrative expenses decreased 5% from the year-ago period. The net loss for


the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 2.5 million or 6 cents per share, which compares to a net loss of


4.8 million or 14 cents per share for the year-ago quarter.


Turning to the balance sheet, as of April 30, 2005, cash and short-term investments totaled $21.8


million. This figure is inclusive of $5 million in proceeds received from the March 2005 debt


financing. All other components of the balance sheet are properly aligned with the prior period, with


the one exception being the addition of capitalized research and development costs. We will


continue to manage our cash in a manner consisting with our operating objectives. We are also


assessing the capital markets relative to our future capital requirements through the Web indexing


offering.