raw transcript


Convera Corp.
 
CNVR
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome, ladies and gentlemen to the Convera Corporation conference


call reporting Financial Results for the three months period and Full Year ended January 31, 2006.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session.


[Operator instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, March 2nd, 2006. Participants on today's


call are Mr. Patrick Condo, Convera's President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. John Polchin,


Chief Financial Officer; and Kurt Gastrock, Chief Operating Officer. Gentlemen, you may proceed.


Patrick C. Condo, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone, and welcome. I'm Pat Condo, Convera's president and chief executive


officer. Yesterday, we issued a press release containing the financial results for Convera's fourth


quarter and full year ended January 31st, 2006. During our call today, our chief financial officer,


John Polchin, will review those results with you. Kurt and I will then provide an update on our


business activities and strategy with an emphasis on Excalibur, our web indexing service.


Following our presentation, we will respond to your questions. If your question is not addressed on


today's call, please feel free to contact our Investor Relations department at 703-761-3700.


And with that, I will turn it over to our CFO to review our financial results. John?


John R. Polchin, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Pat. Before addressing the financial result for the quarter and the fiscal year, I would like


to cover the company's Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. The company's remarks in today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements


that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, our ability to continue to fund


operating losses, our ability to manage our expenses in line with anticipated business levels, our


ability to develop, sell, deliver and implement our software products, the impact of delays


associated with the development of highly complex products, our competitive strategy and the


impact of competition, the impacts of reduced IT spending and lengthier sales cycles, our


dependence on sales to government agencies, our dependence on technology license from third


parties, the uncertainty of newly emerging technologies, excluding the Excalibur web solution,


general economics conditions effecting our industry and market and other risk factors set forth in


the company's Form 10-K, annual report and other periodic filings with the SEC. These risks could


cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement


made by or on behalf of Convera. All forward-looking statements are based on information


available to Convera as of the day of this presentation. Convera assumes no liability or obligation


to update or alter such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.


Now, to our fourth quarter and fiscal year results. Revenue for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006


totaled 3.6 million, which represent as 43% decline from the comparable period of 2005. As stated


in our press release, following the launch of Excalibur web search offering in November, the


company's primary focus during the quarter and more specifically the efforts of our marketing and


sales resources were directed towards expanding Excalibur sales and distribution channels. While


this effort did yield three commercial customers for Excalibur, it also negatively impacted the top
raw transcript


Convera Corp.
 
CNVR
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


line performance of our RetrievalWare business. As we move forward, we look to minimize this


impact, while realizing the beginning of Excalibur revenue stream over the coming periods.


For the three months ended January 31, 2006, the federal sector represented 57% of our reported


revenues and 18% increase from the year-ago quarter. Commercial activities contributed 26% of


the fourth quarter revenue, compared to 37% for the prior year period, while international


operations provided 17% of the quarter's revenue, down from 24% for the same period last year.


We continue to witness growth opportunities from within the federal sector and more specifically the


intelligence community. As Excalibur offer was made commercially available during the fourth


quarter, all revenues for the period were essentially derived from our software products group, at


being in RetrievalWare product set. During the period, one transaction, special operations


command, represented more than 10 % of reported revenue for the quarter.


Turning to expenses for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, 13.1 million was recorded. This is


inclusive of approximately $1 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs


attributed to the Excalibur offering and in accordance with FAS 86. Expenses for the prior year


quarter totaled 9.9 million. With commercial availability of the Excalibur offering achieved on


November 4th, 2005, the company began amortizing the deferred software development costs and


will continue to do so over a 24-month period. As such, each of the next seven quarters, is


expected to incur a similar $1 million charge.


Cost of revenues totaled $3 million for the period, representing a 177% increase from the year-ago


quarter. Increased costs associated with the establishment and management of two hosting


facilities for the Excalibur offering primarily contributed to this year-over-year increase. Operating


expenses for the period were 10.1 million, representing a 15% increase when compared to the 8.8


million as reported for the prior year period. Sales and marketing costs decreased by 20% when


measured against the year-ago quarter, while research and development expenses increased by


44% over the fourth quarter of last year, due to an increase in personnel-related costs associated


with Excalibur and the aforementioned amortization of capitalized software development costs.


G&A expenses increased by 25% compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, primarily due to


increased accountancy fees associated with the company's required section 404 compliance under


the Sarbanes-Oxley act. The net loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 was 9.3 million, or 20


cents per share. This compares to a net loss of 3.5 million, or 9 cents per share for the comparable


year ago quarter.


Turning now towards fiscal year 2006 results, revenues for the 12-month period ended January 31,


2006 totaled $21 million, representing a decrease of 18% when compared to fiscal 2005 results.


Decreases in the commercial enterprise segment as a result of the company's previous decision to


temper its selling efforts towards this market, coupled with decrease across the international


segment account for this year-over-year decline. For fiscal year 2006, the federal segment


accounted for 54% of total revenue, while commercial contributed 21%, international 25%. This


compares to 45%, 26%, and 29% respectively for fiscal 2005. Expenses for fiscal year 2006


totaled 35.9 million, representing a 21% improvement from the 45.7 million as reported for fiscal


year 2005. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2006 totaled 7.3 million, or 8% higher than fiscal year 2005.


This is, again, related to increased costs associated with the hosting environments for the Excalibur


web offering.


Operating expenses for the 12-month period ended January 31, 2006 were 28.6 million. This


compares to 39 million for the comparable 12-month period of the prior year. For fiscal 2006, sales


and marketing costs decreased by 43% when compared to fiscal 2005. Research and


development expenses increased by 32%, due to the capitalization of 7.1 million of software


development cost, offset by increased headcount for the Excalibur offering, while G&A costs


increased by 14% on a year-over-year basis, again, due to outlays associated with the Sarbanes-


Oxley mandate. The 12 months ended January 31, 2006; the company recorded a net loss of 1.3