corrected transcript


Convera Corp.
 
CNVR
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Convera Corporation Conference Call reporting


financial results for the three-month period ended October 31st, 2005. At this time, all participants


are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, December 1st, 2005. Participants in


today's call are Patrick Condo, Convera’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and John Polchin,


Convera's Chief Financial Officer. Gentlemen, please proceed.


Patrick C. Condo, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone and welcome. I am Pat Condo, Convera’s President and Chief Executive


Officer. Yesterday, we issued a press release containing the financial results for Convera's third


quarter ended October 31st, 2005. During our call today, our Chief Financial Officer, John Polchin


will review those results with you. I will then provide an update on our business activities with an


emphasis on our emerging Web technology Excalibur. Following our presentation, John and I will


respond to your questions. If your question is not addressed on today's call, please contact our


investor relations department at 703-761-3700.


And with that, I will now turn the call over to our CFO to review our financial results. John?


John R. Polchin, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks, Pat. Before addressing the quarters result, I'd like to cover the Company Safe Harbor


statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company’s remarks in


today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties, including but not limited to our ability to continue to funds operating losses; our ability


to manage our expenses in line with anticipated business levels; our ability to develop, sell, deliver


and implement our software products; the impact of delays associated with the development of


highly complex products; our competitive strategy and the impact of competition; the impact of


reduced IT spending and lengthier sales cycles; our dependence on sales to governmental


agencies; our dependence on technology licensed from third parties; the uncertainty of newly


emerging technologies, including the Excalibur Web initiative; general economic conditions


affecting our industry and markets; and other risk factors as set forth in the Company’s Form 10-K


Annual Report, and our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


These risks could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-


looking statement made by or on behalf of Convera. All forward-looking statements are based on


information available to Convera as of the date of this presentation and Convera assumes no


liability or obligation to update or alter such statements, whether as a result of new information or


otherwise.


Now to the results. As noted in yesterday's press release, revenue for the third quarter of fiscal


2006 totaled 4.5 million representing a 26% decrease, when compared to the year-ago quarter.


This decrease is attributable to the timing of expected sales to government agencies both


domestically and abroad. We are of the belief that these opportunities remain in our pipeline for


future periods. During the quarter, one transaction, the Department of Homeland Security,


represented more than 10% total reported revenue for the period. Government market continues to
corrected transcript


Convera Corp.
 
CNVR
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


comprise the majority of our revenue results. All reported revenue for the third quarter was derived


from our Software Products group, that being our RetrievalWare Enterprise Search offering.


Turning to the expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, total expenses for the period were 7.2


million of which 5 – excuse me – of which 6.5 million were related to the RetrievalWare Software


Products group and approximately 700,000 was associated with Excalibur. This compares to 10.7


million for the prior year third quarter of which 9.6 million were related to software products, and


approximately 1.1 million was incurred for Excalibur. As previously disclosed during the first


quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted FAS 86, which requires the capitalization of software


development costs associated with Convera’s emerging web indexing technology. As such for the


third fiscal quarter, gross expenses associated with Excalibur totaled 4.1 million, of which 3.4


million were capitalized.


As of November 1st, 2005, the Company determined that commercial availability for Excalibur was


achieved and therefore capitalized Excalibur software development costs will begin to be amortized


during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 over a yet-to-be-determined period. Cost of revenues


totaled 1.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, representing a 25% decrease from the year


ago quarter, primarily as a result of reduced third-party royalty obligations and lower personnel-


related costs. The resulting gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was 67%, which


mirrors the reported gross margin for the same period of fiscal 2005.


Operating expenses for the third fiscal quarter were 5.7 million, which compares to 8.7 million, as


reported for the year-ago quarter. Sales and marketing costs, when measured against the year


ago quarter decreased by 37%, Research & Development expenses as reported declined by 59%,


again reflecting the adoption of FAS 86 as mentioned earlier. On a gross basis Research &


Development expenses increased by 53%, when compared to the same period last year, due


primarily to increased staffing within our engineering group to support our Excalibur initiative.


G&A expenses increased by 21% when compared to the year ago quarter due in large part to


increased accounting expenses associated with the company’s Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.


The net loss for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was 2.5 million or 5 cents per share, this compares


to a net loss of 4.5 million or 13 cents per share for the comparable year-ago quarter. On a year-to-


date basis, revenue for the nine-month period ended October 31st, 2005 totaled 17.4 million


representing a 10% decrease, when compared to 19.4 million, as reported for the nine-month


period ended October 31, 2004. This decrease is primarily related to the year ago decision to


temper RetrievalWare selling efforts within the commercial sector thereby allowing for an increased


focus on the government sector and our Excalibur Web offering.


As such worldwide government license revenues through the nine-month period ended October 31,


2005 increased by 5%, when compared to the same nine-month period of last year. Gross profit


and corresponding gross margin percentage for the nine month period ended October 31, 2005


were 13.1 million and 76% respectively, this compares to 13.7 million and 71% respectively for the


year ago nine-month period. For the nine months ended October 31, 2005 the company reported a


net loss of $5 million or 12 cents per share, this compares to a net loss of 16.3 million or 47 cents


per share for the same nine-month period last year. As of October 31, 2005, cash and short-term


investments totaled 42.6 million, which represents a $2.4 million decline from the July 31st position.


All of the components of our balance sheet are properly aligned with prior period with the exception


of Other Assets, which as of October 31st reflects an increase of approximately 5.6 million related


to capital equipment purchases for our second hosting center. Looking ahead, and Pat will touch


upon this shortly, our efforts will remain focused on attaining a net income neutral RetrievalWare


segment based on the sound federal pipeline. We will also look to continue to leverage our existing


government relationships, as they relate to perspective Excalibur opportunities, while also exploring


commercial distribution channels for Excalibur.