raw transcript


DPAC Technologies Corp.
 
DPAC
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your year-end fourth quarter financial


results. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to introduce your host for conference Mr. Kim


Early, CEO. Mr. Early, you may begin.


Creighton Early, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you for joining us. I am Kim Early, the CEO of DPAC. I am joined by Vukadinovich our


CFO, who will present our financial results. After Steve’s presentation, I will discuss the current


status and future direction of DPAC. After this, we will open the conference call to questions. Now


I would like to turn the meeting over to Steve for financial results.


Stephen Vukadinovich, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Kim, I am Steve Vukadonovich, Chief Financial Officer DPAC Technologies. Before we


would begin, I would like to read the Safe Harbor statement. Our futures are subject to risk and


uncertainties, actually results may differ from our views and statements about the future due to a


number of factors. Please refer to our SEC filings on Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K under any of the


following headings


Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations or risk


factors are forward-looking statements. For description of the risk and uncertainties, also let me


state that for comparative purposes, the company’s historical financial statements have been


reclassified to present a memory stacking product line in the industrial, defense and aerospace or


IDA product line as discontinued operations.


For the fourth fiscal quarter, revenues from continuing operations were 496,000 compared to


revenues of 74,000 for the fourth quarter of the previous year and 40% higher than third quarter


revenues of 334,000. The company’s net loss from continuing operations totaled 5.7 million or


$0.24 per share, which includes a 4.5 million non-cash write-off of goodwill. The net loss from


continuing operations for the prior year’s fourth quarter was 2.4 million or $0.11 per share and did


not include a similar goodwill impairment charge but did include 871,000 of restructuring charges.


Discontinued operations in the fourth quarter realized a gain of 237,000 or $0.01 per share as


compared to a loss of 2.1 million or a negative $0.10 per share for the previous years fourth


quarter.


The current year gain resulted primarily from royalties earned under a license agreement for the


sale and manufacture of IDA products. Revenues from continuing operations for fiscal year 2005


totaled 1.4 million as compared to 96,000 for the previous year, a period in which the wireless


product line was primarily still under development. The net loss from continuing operations for


fiscal year 2005 was 10.7 million or $0.46 per share compared to a net loss of 10.8 million or $0.51


per share for the prior year. The net loss from continuing operations in the current year includes a


non-cash write-off of goodwill 4.5 million, while the net loss from continuing operations for the prior


year included 4.8 non-cash income-tax provision. The current year loss from continuing operations


includes 665,000 in re structuring charges primarily for severance costs as compared to 871,000 in


restructuring charges from the prior year.


Selling and marketing expenses increased by 1.1 million to 1.9 million for fiscal year 2005 as


compared to the prior year and as a result of the increases in spending to launch the [indiscernible]


product line, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2005 of $2.6 million decreased by
raw transcript


DPAC Technologies Corp.
 
DPAC
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


$113,000 from the previous fiscal year. Since the Airborne product line is in the early stages of


introduction to the OEM wireless connectivity market, revenues are currently composed primarily of


development kits, prototype orders, pre-production quantities, non-recurring engineering fees and


early stage production runs. The net gain from discontinued operations for the fiscal year 2005 was


$238,000, or $0.01 per share, compared to a net loss of $3.1 million or $0.15 per share for the


previous fiscal year. The results of discontinued operations for fiscal year 2005 include a gain of


$721,000 on the sale of assets resulting from the sales of the memory stacking in IDA product lines


as well as $518,000 in royalty revenues. The losses for the prior fiscal year included a $960,000


charge for the write-off of Durastack production equipment and a $320,000 charge related to a


terminated facility lease.


At February 28, 2005, DPAC had total assets of $4.1 million, including cash at $2.7 million in assets


related to discontinued operations of a $164,000. This comes to total assets of $13.1 million at


February 29, 2004, with $4.5 million in cash and $3.0 million of assets related to discontinued


operations. Working capital at February 28, 2005 was $1.5 million compared to $4.3 million at


February 29, 2004. As a result of the operating losses an anticipated need for additional capitals in


the next 12 months, Moss Adams LLP the Company's independent registered public accounting


firm, has included a going-concern emphasis paragraph in its auditor's report on the Company’s


year-end financial statements. I would now like to turn the conference call back over to Kim.


Creighton Early, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Steve. This has been a period of mixed results and developments for DPAC. Our


quarter [ph] realize to 40% increase in our revenues compared to the previous quarter while our


backlog held steady at $884,000 at the end of the February. We announced that our auditors will


be including a going-concern emphasis in their opinion paragraph, which led to a corresponding


decision that our goodwill had been impaired, there by inferring a $4.5 million charge to earnings.


We have made continued progress in achieving design wins, we now have more than 80 design


win customers, 20 more than the last quarter, working to incorporate our Airborne [indiscernible]


various phases of the design process in early stage production. So I have more than a 120


additional genuine opportunities that we were pursuing to become future design wins. We also


announced the addition of WPA and leap [ph] security functionality to our module. Important


features for an increasingly security conscious networking market and most important of all we


have been asked that we’ve been in to a definitive customers with QuaTech.


First I will address our current operating financial situation and then I will describe how the


QuaTech merger fits in. Our experience with the continued lengthening of the completion of our


customers design cycles means that our previous beliefs that we had sufficient financial resources


to reach a cash break-even level must be changed. This lower than expected pace of revenue


growth means we cannot reach a self sustaining level of revenues without additional capital. As is


implied by our accountants inclusion of the going-concern emphasis in their opinion on our financial


statements [ph] without additional capital, we will run out of cash before the end of the current fiscal


year. We of course had previously realized and warned that this could occur our [indiscernible] to


grow as quickly as we expected but we are disappointed none the less, especially so our


customers pipeline continues to grow and we continue to see ever more exciting opportunities,


especially in the vehicle telematics and fleet management, warehouse and logistics management


and medical equipment. That’s why we are pleased we have been able to reach an agreement to


merge with QuaTech. As part of this transaction we are working to raise the additional capital to re-


capitalize the newly combined company, reduce our operating cost to be able to reach cash, break-


even faster and accelerate our penetration into the machine-to-machine marketplace. We are


currently negotiating with various sources of potential funding for the transaction. If we are


successful on obtaining commit financing on terms that appear beneficial, we would then proceed


to file the appropriate documents with the SEC and seek shareholder approval through the mailing


of a proxy, giving each shareholder [ph] a chance to vote on the transaction, which would be