corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Sherry Bertner
 
– Managing Director


Edward L. Donnelly
 
– Chief Executive Officer & Director


Kenneth D. Misch
 
– Chief Financial & Accounting Officer


Other Participants


Ben Andrew
 
– Principal, William Blair & Co. LLC


Thomas J. Gunderson MBA
 
– Managing Director & Senior Research Analyst, Piper Jaffray, Inc.


Deepak Chaulagai
 
– Equity Research Associate, Dougherty & Co. LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DynaVox Third Quarter Fiscal


2011 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will


conduct a question-and-session with instructions following at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded.


And I would like to turn the call over to Sherry Bertner. Please begin.


Sherry Bertner, Managing Director


Thank you, Tyron. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the DynaVox third


quarter fiscal 2011 earnings conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Donnelly,


Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Misch, Chief Financial Officer.


By now everyone should have had access to the third quarter earnings release, which went out


after market close today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor


Relations portion of our website at www.dynavoxtech.com. This call is being webcast and a replay


will be available on DynaVox’s website.


In today’s remarks, we will refer to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pro forma net income and adjusted


pro forma net income per share, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These measures should


not to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for measures prepared in accordance with


generally accepted accounting principle.


A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable measures


calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are available on the earnings release on the


Investor Relations portion of DynaVox’s website.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that the remarks in responses to your questions


that we provide today may contain forward-looking statements. These statements do not guarantee


future performance and undue reliance should not be placed upon them.


These statements are based on current expectations of management and involve inherent risks


and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any


forward-looking statement, including those identified in the risk factor section of our most recent


annual report on Form 10-K, as such factors may be updated from time to time in our subsequent
corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


periodic reports, which are filed with the SEC and available on DynaVox’s website. DynaVox


assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to the company’s CEO, Ed Donnelly.


Edward L. Donnelly, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Sherry. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I will start today’s


call by reviewing our third quarter sales trends, the current macroeconomic environment and its


impact on our business. Then Ken will review financial results for the quarter and year-to-date, and


our fiscal 2011 guidance.


During the third quarter the three macro issues that we have spoken about previously, challenging


state budget conditions, significant restricted school budgets and a difficult international economic


climate continued with little improvement.


Yet our operating strategy is to mitigate the impact of this tough environment continued to gain


traction and we are cautiously optimistic about the improving sales trends we saw this quarter


throughout the business.


We are encouraged that despite the difficult economic climate, our consolidated third quarter


revenue is roughly equal to last year, up 1%. This growth was attributable to a 1% increase in sales


from our device business, while education software sales were essentially flat versus the prior year.


Please keep in mind that educational software sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 included a


large $800,000 international order that was not present in the current fiscal year. While we believe


our third quarter topline performance is still well below our potential in a more normal operating


environment, we are pleased that our refined sales and marketing strategies as well as our exciting


new product introductions are beginning to bear fruit.


Now let me briefly review performance by revenue type and share with you some encouraging


signs of improvement, which we believe indicate that things are starting to move in the right


direction. I will start by outlining several positive trends we saw during the third quarter from sales


of our speech generating devices. Sales of devices in the U.S., which represents approximately


three-fourths of our consolidated sales, grew 3% year-over-year and 7% sequentially.


The third quarter growth was driven by the rapid adoption of our new Maestro tablet. Customers tell


us that Maestro, our lightweight tablet product, provides a more comprehensive solution than any


other speech generating device available in the market. Underscoring the accelerating demand for


the Maestro tablet is the fact that since the product launched in October 2010, our U.S. speech


generating device sales have grown over the prior year for five consecutive months. U.S. device


sales to children have now grown for four straight months as compared to the prior year.


Sales of our international devices comprise less than 10% of our total device sales and decreased


8% in the third quarter. This represents improvement to the much higher year-over-year decreases


of more than 25% for both the first and second quarters of this fiscal year. Sales of our international


devices continue to be impacted by macro pressures during the third quarter, especially in the UK,


where rigid budget austerity measures remain in place. However, device sales were stronger in


other international geographies.


Now, moving to our revenue generated from our educational software products, sales from


educational software products were flat compared to the same quarter a year ago, which included


the $800,000 international order discussed previously. This is a very positive trend considering the


education software sales for both the first and second quarters posted year-over-year decreases in


excess of 20%. Sales in the U.S. from education software products were up 19% due to