corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the DynaVox Second Quarter 2011


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions following at that time. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.


And now, I’ll turn the call over to Sherry Bertner from ICR. Please begin.


Sherry Bertner, Managing Director, ICR, Inc.


Thank you, Tyron. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the DynaVox second


quarter fiscal 2011 earnings call. On the call today from the company are Ed Donnelly, Chief


Executive Officer and Ken Misch, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have had access to the second quarter earnings release, which went out


after market close today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor


Relations portion of our website at www.dynavoxtech.com. This call is being webcast and a replay


will be available on DynaVox’s website.


In today’s remarks, we will refer to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pro forma net income or loss, and


adjusted pro forma net income or loss per share, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These


measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for measures prepared in


accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP


financial measures to the most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with


GAAP are available in the earnings release on the Investor Relations portion of DynaVox’s website.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that the remarks and responses to your


questions that we provide today may contain forward-looking statements. These statements do not


guarantee future performance and undue reliance should not be placed on them.


These statements are based on current expectations of management and involve inherent risks


and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any


forward-looking statements, including those identified in the Risk Factors section of our most recent


annual report on Form 10-K as such factors may be updated from time to time in our subsequent


periodic filings, which annual report and other filings are filed with the SEC and available on


DynaVox’s website. DynaVox assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to the company’s CEO, Ed Donnelly.


Edward L. Donnelly Jr., Director and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sherry. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today. On today’s call, I


will provide a brief summary of our second quarter results and an update on the macro environment


to the extent it impacts our business.


As we discussed last quarter, during these unprecedented times I want – again, want to provide


you insight into our business at a greater level of detail than we would normally provide and may


not necessarily provide going forward. I will also discuss performance to-date of our recent product


launches. Then, Ken will review the financial results for the quarter and year-to-date and our fiscal


2011 guidance.
corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


During the second quarter, our confidence in the large underserved markets we target was


reinforced. And we took steps toward rebuilding our business in these difficult economic conditions.


The three macro issues that we have spoken about, challenging state budget conditions,


significantly restrictive school budgets, and a difficult international economic climate continued with


no evidence of improvement. Yet, our operating strategies to mitigate the impact of this new


environment are beginning to gain traction, and we are encouraged by the improving sales trends


we saw throughout the quarter.


Recall that on our first quarter call, we cautioned that the second quarter sales could decline by


more than the 10% to 15% range we guided to for the full fiscal year given a difficult prior year


comparable. Fortunately, this scenario did not materialize, and we reported a second quarter sales


decline of 11% on a consolidated basis. While our second quarter performance is still well below


our potential in a more normal environment, I am pleased that the decline was not as dramatic as


we had feared.


Even more importantly, we saw monthly sequential improvement in sales intra-quarter and are


somewhat encouraged that trends appear to be moving in the right direction. More specifically, we


began the quarter with a sharp 22% decline in October sales, then saw an improvement to a 9%


decline for November, and achieved 3% growth for December. The sequential monthly top line


improvement was driven by our U.S. device business, which represents approximately three-fourth


of our total sales.


On an intra-quarter basis, sales from U.S. devices demonstrated an improving trend from a 24%


decline in October followed by increases of 5% and 7% versus the prior year for the month of


November and December, respectively. While it is too soon to say we’re on a solid track to


recovery, these sales trends provide some validation of our efforts to adapt to this very challenging


budget environment.


One of our strategies has been to refocus our efforts on the underpenetrated adult segment of ALS,


MS and TBI patients. While our business has historically been split, about 49 to 51 adult/child, we


are optimizing our resources focused on hospitals and long-term care, and in the quarter we


achieved a 53 to 47 adult/child ratio.


More importantly, following the launch of our new Maestro product in October, the pipeline of gross


dollar value of potential orders awaiting approval from third-party payers has grown from


approximately $7 million at the end of September to $11 million at the end of December.


Our international business, while less than 10% of device sales continues to be impacted by


international macro pressures, especially in the U.K., where rigid budget austerity measures are in


place. However, device sales were stronger in other international geographies and we were


pleased that this business grew modestly in December. We have a cautious outlook on our


international business and continue to rationalize our cost structure accordingly.


Now let me update you on our new product initiatives in our device business. Innovation remains an


integral part of our business strategy and is especially critical during times when customers are


purchasing more selectively. During the quarter, we launched our tablet speech generating device,


Maestro. The response to this light-weight revolutionary product has been positive and we believe


we are seeing adoption by new clients as well as conversions from competitive products.


Maestro’s value proposition is compelling. The durability, accessibility, specialized clinical services


and robust communication capabilities of Maestro as well as low co-pays or co-insurance far


exceed those of tablet computers and we are encouraged by its reception by the clinical


community. While we are excited about our new product opportunities, we continue to face


challenges and we still have a lot of hard work to do.