corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to DynaVox, Incorporated First Quarter


2011 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we’ll


conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.


I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Sherry Bertner, Managing Director of ICR.


Ma’am, you may begin.


Sherry Bertner, Managing Director, ICR


Thank you, Kaeyi. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the DynaVox first


quarter fiscal 2011 earnings conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Donnelly,


Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Misch, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have had access to the first quarter earnings release, which went out


after market closed today. If you had not received the release, it is available on the Investor


Relations portion of our website at www.dynavoxtech.com. This call is being webcast and a replay


will be available at DynaVox’s website.


In today’s remarks, we will refer to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pro forma net loss and adjusted pro


forma net loss per share, which are non-GAAP financial measures. These measures should not be


considered in isolation form or as a substitute for measures prepared in accordance with generally


accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most


comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are available on the


Investor Relations portion of DynaVox’s website.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that the remarks and responses to your


questions that we provide today may contain forward-looking statements. These statements do not


guarantee future performance and undue reliance should not be placed on them. These statements


refect our current expectations of management and involve inherent risks and uncertainties that


could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement,


including those identified in the risk factors section of our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the


SEC and available on DynaVox’s website. DynaVox assumes no obligation to update any forward-


looking statements.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to the company’s CEO, Ed Donnelly.


Edward L. Donnelly Jr., Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sherry. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Let me start my


comments by acknowledging all veterans on Veterans Day, today, and especially those brave


heroes that use our devices as a result of injuries sustained while serving our country.


On today’s call, I will provide a brief summary of our first quarter results and discuss the challenges


that are facing our business. I will also outline some of the actions we are taking to mitigate the


impact of these factors on our performance. Then, Ken will review the financial results for the


quarter and provide our updated fiscal 2011 guidance. Finally, I will close with some comments on


our marketplace.
corrected transcript


Dynavox, Inc.
 
DVOX
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We remain confident in the long-term prospects for DynaVox considering the still largely under


penetrated markets we serve, as demonstrated by three years of 20% compound annual revenue


growth.


However, as we plan for this year, we cautiously lowered our performance expectations in


recognition of macroeconomic conditions. Then, we indicated in our September 30th update that


our Q1 performance was weaker than expected, and the deteriorating macroeconomic conditions


went beyond our most pessimistic estimates, leading us to withdraw our annual guidance at that


time. Specifically, sales of both our devices and our software were significantly lower than our


internal forecast.


Net sales for the first quarter were 21.6 million, 11% less than prior year. This revenue weakness


was driven by an abrupt and dramatic reduction in school spending, U.S. state and local budget


pressures and international government austerity measures. While we were aware of the risk posed


by the global economy and discussed them with you on our fourth quarter call, the magnitude and


the speed of their impact on sales were much greater than we anticipated.


Now, I’d like to provide some more context for that change in our outlook since we provided


guidance on August 25th. September represents the back-to-school season, and serves as the


leading indicator for the full year sales trends. When September sales demonstrated a softening in


the market, we decided to reevaluate and ultimately withdraw the annual guidance we provided on


August 25th. Now that we have complete data for the quarter, we are prepared to offer an updated


outlook, which Ken and I will comment on in a few minutes.


Drilling down into the major drivers of our first quarter results, given these unprecedented times, I


want to provide you with insight into our business at a greater level of detail than we would normally


provide, and may not necessarily provide going forward.


First, overall sales were down 11% with devices off 8%, and education software off 22% as


compared to the first quarter of the prior year. The U.S. device business, historically the largest


driver of device sales at 65% of total sales in the first quarter of last year, was off 1%. Contributing


significantly to this decline was a 42% decrease in sales to schools, which represented 21% of U.S.


device sales in the prior year, reflecting the significant restrictions on school spending in the


marketplace that we and other companies serving the K-through-12 market have noted. This


decrease in sales to schools was partially offset by an increase in our sales to other channels,


especially the adult market.


While the international business represented only 12% of our overall sales in the first quarter last


year, international devices were off 45% as compared to the first quarter of the prior year. Our


special education software business has also been adversely affected by the difficult school budget


climate, since virtually all education sales are tied to local, state and to federal government funding.


For Q1 our education business was down 22% from the prior year, led primarily by September


sales that did not meet our expectations. On a more positive note, during the first quarter of our


fiscal year we concentrated on the release of two exciting new products during the most difficult


market of my career. We are optimistic due to the reception of Maestro, our speech generating


tablet as well as Boardmaker Studio, a web generation of our industry-leading special education


software and we are just beginning to see the impact of these products.


We are especially encouraged by the reception to our Maestro tablet. Since its debut in early


October, customers have been telling us that the features of the Maestro tablet including its


durability, low weight, robust software and built-in camera fit their requirements perfectly. And I’m


confident that this device will be a long-term growth driver.