corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Empresas ICA’s


First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a


listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for question. [Operator


Instructions]


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Alonso Quintana, Chief Financial Officer. Please go


ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer and Director


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief


Investment Officer and Luz Montemayor, our Head of Investor Relations and Iga Wolska from


Investor Relations.


Today, I will make a brief review of ICA’s first quarter results and then provide our outlook for the


year. We will then be happy to open the call to your questions.


Let me first note that ICA has adopted IFRS effective January 1, 2011. The first quarter is prepared


under IFRS and both 2010 and 2011 results are presented on the same basis. Also effective this


year, we are including the results of Rodio as part of Civil Construction.


Looking at the results, ICA had another excellent quarter. We have strong growth in revenue, a


solid increase in adjusted EBITDA margin and major additions to construction backlog. We also


added two new concessions to our portfolio, bringing the total to 19 and starting operations of two


concessions that had been under construction. The placement of the $500 million10-year notes in


February gives us the resources and financial flexibility that we need to continue expanding.


The adjusted EBITDA margin, which takes into account interest expense that is included in the cost


of sales from financed projects, reached 16.9% in the first quarter, up 0.9 percentage points from


the prior year period.


Net income of controlling interest was up 34%. Consolidated backlog reached almost Ps.45 billion,


up 17% year-over-year and up 29% from the December level. Backlog was the equivalent of 20


months of work at the first quarter levels. We had new construction contract awards of Ps.16 billion


in the first quarter, including the second level tollroad for the Periferico Sur expressway in Mexico


City, which is known as the Autovía Urbana Sur, and the two long-term service contracts or SPC to


build and provide maintenance services for two federal prisons.


During the first quarter, ICA generated revenues of Ps.8.5 billion, up 21% from the first quarter of


2010. Four of our five operating segments reported double-digit top-line adjusted EBITDA growth. I


would like to note that ICA has now had 13 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in both


total revenues and adjusted EBITDA.


Civil Construction had revenue growth of 19%, and because of its size, made the largest absolute


contribution to consolidated revenue growth in the quarter, accounting for about 60% of the


increase. The Mexico City Subway Line 12, the La Yesca hydro project, the Rio de los Remedios


tollroad and the Eastern Outlet Tunnel were the main revenue drivers.


We expect all of these projects to continue to generate significant volumes of work for quarters to


come. It is worth noting that the construction of the Autovía Urbana Sur tollroad, which was just


initiated in the first quarter is already making a significant contribution to Civil Construction
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


revenues. Civil Construction operating and adjusted EBITDA margins increased compared to the


first quarter of 2010 as costs and expenses increased at a slower rate than revenues.


Industrial Construction was a growth leader in the first quarter with an increase in revenues of 42%,


while adjusted EBITDA increased more than three times. The Poza Rica Cryogenic Plant is still the


largest revenue generator, but the four clean fuels projects awarded in 2009 and 2010 are


advancing rapidly. The Madero and Cadereyta clean fuels project have moved into the construction


phase and are approximately one-third completed. The Salina Cruz and Minatitlán projects are in


the detailed engineering and procurement phase with construction scheduled to start this month.


Infrastructure concessions revenues increased 21% compared to the first quarter of ‘10 with the


revenue contributions from concessions under operations up 26%. Another concessions revenue


were up 15%. The EBITDA margin was basically unchanged at 62.5%. At quarter end, we had


seven operating highway concessions including the first stage of the Rio de los Remedios tollroad


that started operations in January and five under construction. ICA is still negotiating with the


Government of Panama on the sale of the Corredor Sur tollroad. Timing of the transaction is largely


in the hands of the government. We expect that we will continue to operate this tollroad and provide


maintenance and construction services even after the sale. In the meantime, we continue to


operate the Corredor Sur in the ordinary course of business.


We are also still pending authorization from the SETA for the transfer of the two operating PPP


highways Querétaro-Irapuato, Irapuato-La Piedad to our affiliate RCO in exchange for an increased


shareholding in RCO and some cash. In water concessions, we have five projects, the Aqueduct II


in Querétaro started operations in January, meaning that we now have two operational water


projects. The other three are under construction.


Airports revenues were flat in the first quarter. As a result of the big decrease in traffic volumes,


there was a 2% decrease in aeronautical revenues. This was offset by growth in non-aeronautical


revenues of 20%, the most important factors were 100% plus increase in revenues from the NH


Terminal 2 Hotel at the Mexico City International Airport and the increase in commercial revenues


from the opening of the new Terminal B in Monterrey last year.


Airports’ adjusted EBITDA margin was 39.2%. Because of a change in policy at OMA for


provisioning maintenance expenditures for concessioned assets and the fact that under IFRS,


maintenance and concessioned assets is expense rather than capitalized as under Mexican


Financial Reporting Standards.


The EBITDA margin we reported for airports are not comparable to those we were reporting in


previous periods. OMA zone analysis is that their margins decreased about 3% year-over-year,


with the decrease coming principally from the incremental cost of operating Terminal B which went


into service in September of 2010.


Housing revenues increased 17%, largely because of the increased shareholding in Los Portales in


Peru. Unit sales in Mexico were down 14%, largely because of delays in the approval of mortgages


by Infonavit and security issues in our markets along the border. Also [indiscernible] (08:03)


projects in Cancun, one outside Monterrey, started selling units in the first quarter. With this, I finish


my operational review.


Now, let me turn to our outlook. ICA expects the excellent performance we recorded in the first


quarter to continue through 2011. Our baseline for our outlook is our 2010 results as reformulated


under IFRS. We will put these reformulated IFRS 2010 financials on our IR webpage today in order


to aid your analysis. To summarize, our 2010 IFRS results were revenues of Ps. 34,801 million and


adjusted EBITDA of Ps. 5.066 billion and an adjusted EBITDA margin of 14.6%.