corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Empresas ICA’s Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in


a listen-only mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session with


instructions provided. [Operator Instructions]


I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, July 29,


2010 and I will now turn the conference over to Alonso Quintana, Chief Financial Officer. Please go


ahead.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana Garcia,


our Head of Investor Relations and Eduardo Ontiveros, also from Investor Relations.


Today, I will make a brief review of ICA’s second quarter results. And then, as always, we will take


your questions. ICA had another good quarter. Revenue grew 19% to 9.4 billion pesos. This is the


eighth quarter in a row of revenue growth. The adjusted EBITDA we generated, 1.4 billion pesos, is


a record.


The adjusted EBITDA margin, which takes into account interest expense that is included in cost of


sales from finance projects, reached 14.6% in second quarter and 15.6% for the first six months.


Consolidated backlog reached more than 39 billion pesos, a new all-time record for ICA, and was


equivalent of 16 months of work at second quarter levels.


We had new contract awards and net contract additions for 8.9 billion pesos in the second quarter.


The principle new project is Minatitlan II Chicontepec II concession highway. Based on ICA’s 60%


shareholding in the construction consortium, this project added 5.6 billion pesos in backlog.


Now looking at the second quarter results. Five of our divisions had positive growth, several


construction, concessions, rodio, homebuilding and airports. As has been the case in recent


quarters, several construction and concessions continued to be the growth drivers.


One of the main positive elements in the second quarter is the fact that airports, housing and rodio;


three divisions that were most affected by the recession are now showing the positive effects of the


changes to their business strategies that they have made in response to the crisis.


Several construction revenues were up 12%. The Mexico City Metro Line 12 and La Yesca


hydroelectric project were the main revenue drivers. The Metro Line 12 alone generated 1.5 billion


pesos in revenues during the quarter and we had an average of 3,000 workers on this project.


Underground, the tunnel boring is advancing at an average of 18 meters per day. Excavation work


on this project on all 20 stations haw begun. And the first station [inaudible] is almost completed.


Above ground, we have completed 25 of the 163 total sections. We expect that we will have


completed all of the civil works on the elevated section by this year. La Yesca is also progressing


well. We have started pouring the concrete phase of the curtain wall and we have also started


some of the electromechanical installations.


Civil construction operating and adjusted EBITDA margins decreased compared to the second


quarter of ‘09. This is as a result of increased expenses that come from delays in getting rights of


way from the government, changes in routes of some projects, such as Rio de los Remedios toll
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


road and the Aqueduct II water project in Queretaro and also because of a higher level of bid


preparation expenses.


Industrial construction continues to be in this transition phase between completing the last round of


major projects and the start of the recently awarded projects, including the four clean fuels


contracts. The Poza Rica Criogenic plant awarded in May of ‘09 was a principal source of revenue


in the second quarter.


We continue to do the engineering work of the four clean fuels projects and we expect construction


to start by the end of this year or early 2011. This transition affected both revenues, which were


down by one quarter, and margins. We expect industrial construction revenues and EBITDA


contribution to rise sharply once the clean fuels projects truly get underway.


Infrastructure concessions is the second leading revenue driver after civil construction. Revenues


jumped 62% compared to the second quarter of ‘09, with significant revenue contributions both


from operating concessions and those under construction. The EBITDA margin decreased,


principally because of delays in the delivery of these rights of way.


At quarter end, we had five highway concessions in operation and six under construction, including


the Minatitlan II Chicontepec II highway that was added during the quarter. The Querétaro Irapuato


PGP is in the final stages of construction. The obstacles that this project faced and which I


discussed last quarter have mostly been resolved and Querétaro Irapuato is expected to go into


service during the current quarter.


The concessions business unit also has one operating water project and four under construction.


We recently reached an agreement with the state of government at Querétaro to adjust the terms of


the agreement governing the Aqueduct II because of changes in the route and delays in delivery of


the rights of way. The revised work plan for this project calls for the Aqueduct to start operations in


December.


Now the Atotonilco Water Treatment Plant that we won in January is now slated to start


construction in August, after the land titles have been delivered. The ramp-up of this project is


expected to take a few months.


The Government of Panama and ICA signed an MOU regarding the sale of Corredor Sur toll road


on the same terms that we were – previously disclosed. Timing of the completion of the transaction


is largely in the hands of the Government of Panama and they have said they plan to complete this


transaction during the second half of 2010.


In the meantime, we continue to operate the Corredor Sur in the ordinary course of business. We


expect that ICA will continue to operate this toll road and provide maintenance in construction


services after the sale.


The airports business increased revenues by 20% in the second quarter. Passenger traffic volumes


increased 6.5% and the total number of take-offs and landings increased 15%. Airlines opened nine


new routes during the quarter, while closing only three. These are positive signs that the long


recession in the air transportation sector may be coming to an end.


This was the first quarter of passenger traffic growth after seven quarters of traffic reduction. The


air cargo business is showing major growth, with cargo volumes up 42% in large part because of


the new DHL cargo hub at the Monterrey Airport.


All three categories of airport revenues were up, aeronautical revenues, revenues from the NH


Terminal 2 Hotel at the Mexico City airport and non-hotel commercial revenues. OMA Carga