corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ICA Conference Call.


During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the


conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded


today, Monday, the 25th of October 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana García, our Head of Investor


Relations and Eduardo Ontiveros, also from Investor Relations. I also want to introduce Luz Maria


Montemayor, who has just joined our team and will become the new Head of Investor Relations.


Luz brings extensive experience in IR and will help ICA keep our commitment to stay in constant


concert with the market. Today, I will be making a brief review of the ICA third quarter results and


then as always turning it into questions.


ICA had another good quarter. Revenue grew 19% to Ps. 9.4 billion. This is a nice quarter in a row


of revenue growth. Since ‘07, taken into account the first nine months, ICA has doubled revenues.


We generated adjusted EBITDA of Ps. 1.4 billion, which is a record for a single quarter and


represented 21% growth year-over-year. Over the last three years, ICA’s nine months adjusted


EBITDA compound annual growth rate was of 37%.


The adjusted EBITDA margin, which takes into account interest expense that is included in cost of


sales from financed projects, was 14.9% in the third quarter and 15.3% for the first nine months.


And this is after the effect of the Mexicana provision about which I will say a few words later.


Looking at the third quarter results, five of our six divisions had positive growth. Civil construction,


industrial construction, concessions, homebuilding and airports all grew. As has been the case in


recent quarters, civil construction continues to be the growth driver and generated 85% of the


revenue growth in the third quarter.


One of the many positive developments in the third quarter is the fact that industrial construction,


which has been in a transition phase between completing the last round of major projects and the


start of new work is now back on the growth track. Civil construction revenues were up 12%. The


Mexico City Subway Line 12 and the La Yesca Hydroelectric Project continued to be the main


revenue drivers along with the Eastern Outlet Tunnel.


The Metro Line 12 alone generated Ps. 1.7 billion in revenues during the quarter and we had an


average of 6,000 workers in this project, which is near its peak. [inaudible] construction is


advancing rapidly. In September, we set a record by boring almost 520 meters. To-date, we’ve


completed almost 20% of the tunnel. We expect to start on the Ermita station by the end of the


month.


La Yesca is also progressing well. We have completed the first stage of the pouring of the concrete


of the dam with a volume of 18,000 cubic meters. The turbines have arrived on the Ukraine in


Russia and we are advancing on work on the powerhouse.


In the Eastern Outlet Tunnel project, which is constructing a 62 kilometer water drainage tunnel,


from Mexico City to El Salto in the Hidalgo State, we have practically completed eight of the


principal drop shafts. In August, we started the second stage of this project.


Civil construction adjusted EBITDA margins increased compared to Q3 of ‘09 principally because


La Yesca and Line 12 are progressing well, and the Eastern Outlet Tunnel is picking up
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


momentum. I also note that, in addition to these mega projects, civil construction is currently


constructing nine hospitals and clinics as well as a variety of other smaller projects. The largest of


the hospitals, a 120 bed general hospital in Zacatecas was inaugurated during the third quarter.


Industrial construction, as I’ve just mentioned, moving back into the growth phase, all four


Greenfield projects are now generating revenues. The work that is going on is mostly design and


engineering work with construction just starting and accounting for 45% of ICA Flour’s total


revenue. We expect these projects to ramp-up in 2011 as we move more from the engineering


phase to the construction phase.


Consolidated backlog was more than Ps. 33 billion. There were no major new awards in the


quarter. While we are down from our all time peak in June – on June 30, backlog is roughly in line


with the average over the last eight quarters, which has been Ps. 37 billion. Given projects that are


in the pipeline and projects that have been awarded, but not yet finalized, I expect that our year-end


2010 backlog will approximately be in line with the current levels.


The other point to note about backlog is that a large portion has a long tail and ensures high levels


of work through the medium term. Seven of our largest projects extend past the end of the current


government to 2013. 44% of the backlog corresponds to projects that are only 7% completed as of


September 30. In addition to the four Greenfield projects, this includes the Atotonilco water


treatment plant and Mitla-Tehuantepec toll road, neither of which has started construction. In other


words, our backlog continues to provide a solid foundation for a sustained future growth.


Infrastructure concessions revenue rose 16% compared to third quarter of ‘09 with the most of the


revenue coming from concessions that are under construction. EBITDA margin increased


principally as a result of an increase in net interest expense included in the cost of sales from the


growing number of financed projects under construction as well as a reduction in the cost of some


operating concessions.


The quarter was notable because we completed the Queretaro-Irapuato PPP highway in July. Its


93 kilometer free highway, becomes ICA’s sixth operating highway concession. We expect that it


will start to contribute revenue next quarter when start-up – documentation is finalized. Probably the


best news for concessions is that the Senate passed a new law for public-private partnerships in


the second week of October, after a month of delay. The Chamber of Deputy still needs to pass the


law. But we think that this is highly likely because the necessary political consensus has been


reached. This new law greatly modernizes the legal framework governing concessions projects.


We believe that it will address some of the issues that have slowed down execution of infrastructure


projects in Mexico. Start-up is still pending on the Mitla-Tehuantepec toll road that was awarded in


the second quarter, because we are finalizing the structure of the construction consortium and the


financing for this project.


The airports business is showing the continued recovery of the air transport sector from the


recession and our business initiatives to grow commercial revenues as well, but it was also hit by


the bankruptcy of Mexicana. We grew revenues by 17% in the quarter. Passenger traffic volumes


increased 4.3%, second quarter growth even with Mexicana suspending operations at the end of


August. On September 1, 2010, we will open the new Terminal B at Monterrey with Aeromexico,


Aeromexico Connect, and Delta as the anchor lines. 17 new stores opened in Terminal B. The


Terminal A continues to be more than 90% leased out.


The Terminal 2 hotel at the Mexico City airport, which is just starting second year of operations,


continues to set new records for the occupancy. We averaged 71% in the third quarter. We’re at


83% occupancy in the month of September. Because of the Mexicana bankruptcy, we established


a Ps. 145 million provision against our account receivable from all three airlines of Grupo Mexicana.