Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Víctor Humberto Bravo Martín — Chief Financial Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Carlos Peyrelongue — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Mexico SA de CV Casa de Bolsa
Javier Gayol — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Francisco Chávez Martínez — Analyst, Casa de Bolsa BBVA Bancomer SA de CV
Lillian Starke — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Pablo Barroso — Analyst, GMB Grupo Bursátil Mexicano, S.A. de C.V.
Roberto Barba — Analyst, Itaú Corretora de Valores SA (Mexico)
Anne Milne — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Lea, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Empresas ICA's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Your host for this morning is Víctor Bravo, Chief Financial Officer of Empresas ICA. You may begin

Good morning and thank you for joining us for ICA's second quarter 2014 conference call. With me today are Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Investor Relations; and the IR team including Paulina Rubio and Elena Garcia.

I will have to focus my comments this morning on five highlights in our result. First, the recovery of the construction segment and the strong results in concessions in airports are in line with our outlook for the year. Significant reductions on SG&A also boosted margins.

Second, we executed another step in our initiative to increase the international share of our business with the acquisition of Facchina Construction Group or FCG in the United States and contract wins in Colombia and Chile. The board have set a medium-term goal to expand international share of the construction business to 30% from a baseline of less than 10%.

Third, we are completing our concession projects. We expect to start operations of four projects in the second half including the Agua Prieta and El Realito water projects, the Mayab highway extension, and Nuevo Necaxa – Tihuatlán toll road. This push accounted for much of the debt increase in the quarter.

Fourth, capital market transaction significantly improved our debt maturity profile and cut – shortened debt in half.

Finally, we have a solid pipeline of new projects up for bid. As the SCT announced last week, ICA is in first place for the contract for the Toluca-Mexico City rail tunnel. This project win could be a positive signal to our contracting activity in the second half of 2014.

Let me address [indiscernible] (02:36) these five points, and then we will open up the call for your questions. Construction activity continues to recover in Mexico, is relatively slowly. International is making a significant contribution to construction [indiscernible] (02:52) growth. The operating concessions are maturing and generating large increases in traffic volumes. The airport business continues to exceed expectations for growth in volumes and revenues.

Revenues and operating results for the second quarter and for the first six months of 2014 are in line with our full-year outlook. Looking at the details, two factors in 2013 affect year-over-year comparisons. We have a MXN 419 million gain on the sales from RCO toll roads in last year second quarter, recorded as solid income.

In addition, revenue related to the railroad and major toll road in the first half of 2013 was concentrated in the second quarter for accounting reasons. Construction revenue increased 22% in the second quarter with the acquisition of Facchina accounting for about 15% of this growth.

In the first half, construction increased 23%. FCG contributed about 7% to growth and the other 16% was organic. Construction margins also recovered. The second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 9.6%, and the six-month adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 8.4%, up 250 basis points. Revenues from the Concessions business decreased 17% in the second quarter. It was the [ph] railroad that are really affected (04:17) in 2013 that I mentioned.

For the six months, revenues grew 16% largely as a result of the growth in traffic volumes. Traffic on the four operating highways rose 36% in the second quarter and 46% in the first half led by Rio de Los Remedios and Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles highways.

The Acapulco Tunnel had a solid rebound and Mayab toll road traffic also grew. Concession's adjusted EBITDA decreased in second quarter because of the RCO sale and the Rio de Los Remedios effect last year. For the first six months, our adjusted EBITDA decreased 1%. The adjusted EBITDA margin from concession was 45.8% in the second quarter and 50.9% in the first six months. Margin decreased because of the RCO sale last year. The sale of the two social infrastructure projects to CGL is still on hold pending government approval.

Airports recorded another quarter of solid growth in both aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues. Domestic airlines are actually increasing routes and flight frequencies. Volaris established [indiscernible] (05:32) and Aeromexico did the same in the second quarter.

14 new routes opened in the second quarter. The airport segment had a 17% increase in adjusted EBITDA in both the second quarter and the first six months as a result of the growth in revenues. Construction backlog was MXN 28.5 billion in long-term service contracts where another MXN 5.2 billion as of June sale. The decrease in construction backlog from December 31 reflects the slow rate of contract awards in Mexico and was offset in part by the addition of MXN 3.7 billion in Facchina backlog from the U.S.

ICA's non-consolidated backlog more than doubled from December 31 to MXN 26 billion. The major increases came from the maintenance contract for the Caño Limon oil pipeline in Colombia, the Acapulco Tunnel Bypass construction contract, and part of the new Line 3 for Santiago, Chile Metro.

In terms of consolidated results, operating income was MXN 1.1 billion in the second quarter, and adjusted EBITDA reached MXN 1.5 billion with a 17.1 margin.

For the first six months, operating income was a solid MXN 2.2 billion, up 33%. Adjusted EBITDA grew 26% to MXN 3.1 billion with a margin of 18.3%. The improvements in six-month operating results were principally the result of the growth in revenues and the reduction in SG&A expense. ICA implemented an expense reduction program in 2013 to increase the flexibility of our cost structure and because of the uncertainty of the timing of recovery of Mexico construction activity. As construction activity recovers and depending on the composition of revenues in each segment, SG&A expense may go back up in future quarter.

Comprehensive financial costs decreased in the second quarter and was basically unchanged in the first six months. We recorded exchange gains in the second quarter and the first six months compared to exchange losses in the 2013 period. These gains offset the increase at interest expense. The interest expense line included MXN 584 million in the second quarter for the accelerated amortization of placement expenses on the repurchase notes, the prepayment premium offered to holders, commissions and the amortization of new issue expenses.

Income from non-consolidated affiliates and joint ventures reached MXN 97 million in the second quarter and MXN 197 million in the first half, and came from ICA Fluor as well as non-consolidated concessions and construction material. The appendix to the earnings report includes supplemental information on this business operation.

Consolidated net income was MXN 22 million in the second quarter 2014, as compared to a loss in the previous year period. The improvement reflected principally the reduction in comprehensive financial cost and the positive performance of affiliated companies and joint ventures.

In the first half of 2014, consolidated net income reached MXN 259 million. The share of net income of non-controlling interests reflects the increasing minority shareholding in OMA and the strong performance of both OMA and San Martín.

As a result of the foregoing, there was a significant reduction in the loss of the controlling interest in the second quarter and the first six months of 2014.

My second topic is the execution of our strategic initiatives. With the acquisition of Facchina Construction Group in the U.S., we have taken a significant new step in our international expansion. FCG is a well-respected heavy construction company with most of its operations in the Washington DC area and South Florida. The company's strong management team will continue to develop its operations with the support of ICA's administration.

We think that FCG has ample opportunities for growth and for margin expansion, even allowing for the fact that margins in the U.S. tend to be lower than in Mexico. With FCG as a vehicle, ICA is well-positioned to grow our business in the U.S. in a controlled, low-risk manner.

The acquisition was structured in a manner similar to San Martin in Peru. ICA paid an initial $60 million for 100% of the ownership interest. FCG has minimal debt, and it's net cash position as of June 30, was MXN 446 million. Additional payment of up to $40 million will be based on the company meeting [ph] of the (10:11) EBITDA target. In other words, this contingent payment will be funded by the increased cash flows of FCG itself.

ICA's international area also had an important project wins in South America. This includes work on the 2.9 kilometers of Line 3 of the Santiago, Chile Metro including [ph] drop shops (10:31), galleries and tunnels for three stations and [ph] drop shop (10:35) for three others.

In Colombia, we were awarded a five-year contract for the maintenance of 900 kilometers of old pipeline for Ecopetrol's Caño Limon field.

The third topic is finalization of work to win new concessions online. We have said we got three new concessions with an expansion of the fourth to launch the service in the second half of 2014. Last week, while the official inauguration of the Agua Prieta water project for the Guadalajara Metropolitan region. This currently is the largest water treatment plant in Mexico. ICA heads the consortium that won the 20-year service contract for this project in 2009 and commercial operation will begin by the end of the current quarter.

The El Realito aqueduct in San Luis Potosí will also enter service after five years under construction. The extension of the Mayab toll road to Playa del Carmen is 98% completed, and we also expect this 54-kilometer road to be open for traffic in the next few months.

Finally, the remaining portions of the Nuevo Necaxa – Tihuatlán highway through the Sierra Madre will soon open for traffic. Last year, a portion of the almost completed road was damaged by landslides after the hurricane. Working with the SCT, we have been able to build detours around the damaged section and complete this critical link in the highway between Mexico City and the Gulf Coast. Accelerated growth on the Lazaro Cardenas Port expansion was also significant factor in the quarter. We are making up on some of the delays that this project has seen last year.

My fourth topic is the execution of capital market transactions. These transactions continue to improve our debt maturity profile. In December 31, we have reduced short-term debt by 51% or almost MXN 5 billion. The bond offering we've carried out in May was 2.8 times oversubscribed. ICA raised $700 million in 10-year notes and used the proceeds to prepay $200 million in notes due 2017 and the rest to pay short-term debt.

OMA also carried out a new domestic bond issue and repurchase. The company issued MXN 3 billion in fixed rate seven-year notes and prepaid MXN 1.3 billion in notes due 2016. The remaining MXN 1.7 billion will finance master development plan and strategic investments over the next several years.

Just last week, ICA completed the refinancing for La Piedad bypass in Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles highway. The MXN 3.8 billion in non-recurring debt was rated AAA for the 12.6-year tranche and AA for the 22.1-year tranche. These refinancing of these mature assets improved their cash flow characteristics along with financial expenses and will facilitate monetizing them into the future.

The financing for the world to put in the concessions into servicing increased total debt. As of June 30th, total debt reached MXN 46.4 billion. Once the new concessions are operating, we expect to carve out additional capital recycling transactions. The recycling of assets is a central element of ICA's business strategy, and we expect to continue to use the resources from this activity to pay debt [ph] and form the part of (13:52) of our investment requirement in new projects.

This is my fifth and final point. We'll have a pipeline of attractive projects in both civil and industrial construction both in Mexico and abroad. Last week, the SCT announced that ICA was in first place for the contract to build a 4.6 kilometer tunnel as part of the Mexico City-Toluca commuter rail line. This contract for MXN 2.9 billion is expected to be finalized and signed over the coming weeks. And when it is, we will add it to the backlog.

The tenders of projects under national infrastructure plan are picking up momentum and ICA expects a number of interesting projects to come up for bids in the second half of 2014 and 2015. This includes water projects, highways, refinery projects and power plant, alternative energy, there are projects in hospitals, among others. The international pipeline is also reached. And we see good opportunities for large-scale city projects in all the [indiscernible] (14:55).

Summarizing, our key lines of business are all continuing to see results, led by the general ramp in construction activity. ICA continues to execute our best strategies including our international expansion. We are ready to put a number of new concessions into service. Capital markets transaction have strengthened our financial position and we expect to cover our additional capital recycling transactions to reduce debt and fund new projects.

And finally, we'll have an attractive pipeline of projects coming up for bid. These developments are in line with our outlook for the year. We expect to continue to grow with a stable EBITDA margin and to maintain a solid financial position.

This concludes our prepared remarks and we will now be pleased to address your questions. Operator, could you please open the call for questions? Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Carlos Peyrelongue with Merrill Lynch.

Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for the call and congratulations on the results. First question is related to the peak of the due expectancy of construction. Can you provide some more visibility? Are there any large projects that you think can be awarded in the second half of this year or you think it's more the large projects for 2015?

And the second question is related to your net debt. You closed the quarter around MXN 38 billion. Should we expect that in the second half you'll reduce this level considering the recycling of capital that you mentioned through asset sales and the collection of – that is still pending on the [ph] prisons (17:21)? Thank you.

Thank you, Carlos. Just to answer the first question, what do we expect for the second quarter? Well, there's a number of projects that we are already either bidding or preparing to bid. Yesterday they announced the bidding process for the Mexico City area tunnel train. We're also preparing to bid for the other sections of the Mexico City-Toluca train.

We're also preparing to bid for the aqueduct that was to – the city of [indiscernible] (17:58) at the state of Tamaulipas. And we are preparing biddings for a couple of hospitals. There is also in process the bidding for the Chicoasén II hydroelectric plant and the Tuxpan-Tampico toll road.

So at least those are processes that we know we are either bidding or getting ready to win and there's a list of another two or three large-scale projects that we expect to win in this second half of the year.

As for the second question, we don't expect this debt [ph] being great (18:38). We are actually expecting the level of debt and also of investments to be [indiscernible] (18:42) substantially for the last two quarters of the year. Given the fact that, as I mentioned in the conference, most of the projects that we are building are going to be reduced considerably. We are going to start operation in most of those by early third quarter and then we will be in necessity of additional debt or additional equity investment. So we expect that the recycling of assets – total recycling of assets will happen in second half and those will be the devoted mostly to the [indiscernible] (19:14).

Understood. Thank you, Victor.

Thank you, Carlos.

Your next question comes from the line of Javier Gayol with GBM.

Thank you for the call. I have a couple of questions. My first question will be regarding the acquisition of the U.S. construction firm. Could you provide us with a guidance as – how are you guys are going complete the acquisition? I understand it is related to the results, could you give us more color there, please?

Certainly, we have a period of between three to five years for Facchina to reach some EBITDA ratios according to the results for those [ph] U.S. firms (20:11). If those are met, then we will be making an additional payment of up to $40 million. The reason we put it that way is because we want to have – the management has invested, to a large extent – run the company to get more results. And according to our calculations, if those results are met then the cash flow will provide – will be provided, basically, from the distribution of the results of that company.

Okay. So, just to – if I understood correctly, if the company management reaches the targets, you will be paying an additional – up to additional $30 million?

$40 million.

$40 million, okay.

40, 4-0.

Okay, sorry, yes. And my second question is related to the capital recycling process. Can you guys – are you guys expecting to sell any or to – yeah, to sell any other shares of OMA in the near future?

No, Javier, we're not considering that as part of the recycling of assets.

Okay. So, and just to get a sense of how much – is there – in the projects that the company has or some construction as you mentioned that you expect to deliver in the next two quarters. How much equity or – is still pending investment in these projects?

For the projects that we still have to complete and other investments, I would have to do it in excess of $100 million

Okay. That's very, very helpful. Thank you, Victor. Thanks for the call.

Thank you. Thank you, Javier.

Your next question comes from the line of Francisco Chávez with BVA.

Hi. Good morning, Victor and Gabriel. Thanks for the call. My question is regarding the financial expense line. In second quarter, we saw an important increase to MXN 1.6 billion, which I understand includes nonrecurrent charges. Can you give us an idea of what can we expect for financial expense in the coming quarters on a normalized basis? Thank you.

Personally, Francisco, I will tell you that the average interest rate on the total debt is between 9.5% and 10%. So, if you use our debt in – multiply it by that interest rate, you will get the expected financial expense.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Lillian Starke with Morgan Stanley.

Hi. Good morning and thank you for taking my call. My first question is regarding the MXN 830 million in revenue and MXN 28 million in EBITDA that corresponds to Facchina. Is that for the six months or only for the three months in the quarter?

And my second question is if you could give a sense of what's the proportion of cash EBITDA and non-cash EBITDA that you had in concessions this quarter? Thank you.

Certainly, Lillian. The Facchina is only for three months. Only the second quarter was registered. As for the second question, it's roughly 50/50 in the Concessions.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Pablo Barroso with GBM.

Hi, guys. Thank you for the call. I was wondering if you could give us more color of the Mayab highway. What do you expect for EBITA cash for 2013?

Certainly, Pablo. We expect that the traffic will increase roughly one-third with this additional route, Playa del Carmen, from the actual figures. So applying the same levels of EBITDA, that should give you the additional cash flow that we expect from [indiscernible] (24:50).

Obviously, it will depend very much on how the learning curve goes when we open that section of the road. We expect that it will have full operations from September to December, so [indiscernible] (25:07) will happen by the end of this year and the beginning of next one, and we expect it to be, at the most, one-third percent of the actual traffic in addition to it.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Roberto Barba with Itaú Corretora.

Good morning. Thanks for the call. I was just wondering if you can give us some color or guidance in terms of the bid going forward. I mean, we saw a spike in the net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio during this quarter. Do you have any guidance in that sense?

Thanks, Roberto. As I mentioned before, this was due to the completion of some projects. We expect that the net debt will be reduced in the second half when we complete some of the transactions that are pending on recycling of assets.

Okay. Thank you. And my second question will be regarding the account receivable, I mean, we saw an increase during this quarter, so, could you give us some color on that sense if you expect them to actually decrease as you collect from the construction projects? Or if we could expect a [indiscernible] (26:39) increase from that – in that front?

Well, if you look at the numbers of the receivables, it increased because we increased the revenue. So, it was a natural increase due to new additional work that we are expecting to recover from the client. That's where the actual – the current receivable sector, the non-current receivables, to call it that way, for example, the [indiscernible] (27:04) to collect from the Line 12 of the Mexico [indiscernible] (27:07) probably are still pending and we have not a date for receivable collection at this point in time.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Anne Milne with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Good morning. Thank you very much for the call. I have an additional call on the debt structure, following up on some of the other questions, this one really has to do more with the location of the debt. This quarter now, I know you've issued MXN 700 million bond at the corporate level, at the HoldCo level, bringing debt at the HoldCo up to 41% of total debt. I'm just wondering if this is a change in your strategy, if you're going to have more debt at the HoldCo or if eventually you will reduce debt at the HoldCo? And just your thoughts about the structure of where the debt will be located going forward. Thank you.

Thank you. And, well, no, this was not correlated to the opportunity that we found when we went to the financial markets to raise the debt. The aperture and the capability of – in the interest of the markets to allow us to raise more funds and be able to move, not only corporate debt from certain, but also we took some of the operating debt from the construction side, basically.

That they'd actually increase in the corporate debt because we took the opportunity. We are – our strategy to reduce the corporate debt is still in place, and we're really thinking that we are still having some recycling of assets pending. So with that, recycling of assets, we will continue to reduce the short-term debt and the corporate debt that was increased. So we are not changing the strategy. We just took that opportunity in that moment.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions.

All right. Thank you for your interest in ICA and for participating in this call. Please contact us if you have additional questions that we did not address in this call. Gabriel, Paulina, Elena and I look forward to seeing you in the near future. Have a good day.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.