corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Empresas ICA’s Third Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call on the 23rd October, 2009. Throughout today’s recorded presentation, all


participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask


questions [Operator Instructions].


I will now hand the conference over to Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana García, our Head of Investor


Relations, and José Ramentibegos and Ricardo Jiménez who are from our finance department,


who will be helping out in investor relations from now on.


Today I will make a brief review of ICA’s third quarter results and we will then be happy to open the


call for your questions.


ICA continues to build on the strength that we have demonstrated in the last five quarters and the


third quarter was one of our strongest ever, both in terms of revenue growth and operating


profitability. It was also a quarter where we executed strategic transactions and bid successfully for


new projects that will ensure our continued strong performance for many quarters to come.


In the third quarter, ICA generated revenues for Ps. 8.6 billion, up 26% from the third quarter of ‘08.


Our adjusted EBITDA margin reached 14.7% and net income of majority interest was Ps. 134


million. For the first nine months of ‘09, our revenues were Ps. 25.6 billion, up 41%. Our EBITDA


increased 66% to Ps. 3.6 billion and net income of majority interest was Ps. 533 million, up 67%.


Civil Construction and Infrastructure were the drivers in Q3. Civil Construction revenues were up


37% and Infrastructure Concessions were 95 – grew 95%. In the Civil Construction unit, the La


Yesca hydroelectric project, the Mexico City Subway Line 12, the Eastern Outlet Tunnel and


construction work on concession projects such as Rio de los Remedios-Ecatepec highway, and the


RCO highways are the main revenue drivers. And we expect all of them to continue to generate


significant volumes of work for quarters to come.


Industrial Construction revenues were flat, but Industrial Construction is now clearly moving into a


new growth phase with projects like the Madero and Cadereyta clean fuels projects awarded this


quarter, and the Poza Rica cryogenic plant awarded earlier in the year. This is because PEMEX is


beginning to move forward with big projects, now that last year’s energy report provided a new


framework for this company’s operations.


Rodio revenues were essentially flat in euro terms, but increased because of the exchange rate


effects. This is a positive performance given the real estate and construction downturn in Spain.


Rodio continues to execute its restructuring program, which enabled the company to post an


operating profit after an operating loss in the third quarter of ‘08.


Infrastructure Concessions revenues increased 95% compared to the third quarter of ‘08. This


reflects principally the going-into-service of the Irapuato-La Piedad PPP at the end of July last year,


traffic growth on the Corredor Sur expressway in Panama, maintenance revenue from recently


awarded concessions and other income.


At quarter-end, we had five highway concessions in operation and another five under construction.


We added two major water concessions during the quarter, the Agua Prieta water treatment plant
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and the El Realito aqueduct. That gives us a total of four concession water projects in Q3, one


operational and the other three under construction.


Just three days ago, we delivered the first six kilometers of the Rio de los Remedios-Ecatepec toll


road, which is a major improvement to the transportation network in the northern part of Mexico City


and surrounding areas of Mexico State. The new road cuts travel time from 45 minutes to just five


minutes in one of the most congested areas of the Mexico City metropolitan areas. We continue to


work on the rest of this 26 kilometer urban toll road that will be delivered in stages through 2011.


As noted in the report, we achieved control of Viabilis, the company that has the concession for this


highway during the third quarter and we will start to fully consolidate its results in the fourth quarter


as opposed to consolidated net proportionally as we have been doing up to now.


The Airports business continues to be affected by the recession in the air transport industry.


However, even here, the results are positive, principally because of the decisions taken by OMA’s


management to reposition the company and its revenue initiatives. So the new initiatives offset


almost all of the reduction in traffic volumes.


We launched the Terminal 2 Hotel at the Mexico City International Airport, which opens up a


significant new source of revenue and profitability. OMA’s cost control measures reduced costs and


G&A expense by 7.1% year-over-year. We actually increased Airport’s EBITDA in the third quarter


with an EBITDA margin of 57.1%. Operating cash flow was Ps.333 million, which means that OMA


is generating more than sufficient cash to pay dividends, make required CapEx, and service its


debt.


Housing revenues increased 8% in the third quarter. ViveICA sold a total of 1,729 units. We kept


our number nine ranking among housing developers in terms of Infonavit financing. Our margins


went down because we offered discounts on some of our middle-income housing to clear out


inventory.


We are encouraged that Infonavit and the other home finance agencies appear to have picked up


the pace of mortgage approvals. Infonavit now seems confident of making its 500,000 mortgage


credit disbursement target for ‘09.


Now, let me remind you again that ICA made early adoption of the INIF-14 Accounting Standards,


which means that housing revenue is recorded only when title of the home is transferred.


In terms of operating and EBITDA margins, ICA had a very good quarter. Third quarter operating


income rose 32% with an operating margin of 8.1%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 35% with an


adjusted EBITDA margin of 14.7%. Our tax for the period totaled Ps.142 million, including both


cash and deferred taxes, the effective tax rate of 31.3%.


Deferred taxes totaled Ps.79 million in the third quarter of ‘09 and we have principally deferred


IETU taxes in civil and industrial construction. The increase in tax provisions as compared to ‘08 is


mostly a reflection of the low level of taxes last year as detailed in the earnings report.


We generated net income of majority interest of Ps.134 million for the third quarter. This was down


principally because of higher exchange loss and higher tax provision offset the increased operating


profit. For the nine months, however, net income of majority interest is 67% higher, 500 – and that


takes it to Ps.533 million.


Construction backlog at the end of September reached more than Ps.46 billion. We were awarded


Ps.16 billion in new projects during the third quarter, including the clean fuels contract for the


Cadereyta and Madero refineries, the Agua Prieta water treatment plant in Jalisco and El Realito


aqueduct in San Luis Potosí.