corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Empresas ICA


First Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] And I would now like to turn


the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana, CFO. Please go ahead.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will first provide a brief overview of ICA’s first quarter


results and then our outlook for ‘08 performance. We will then be happy to open the call to your


questions.


During the first quarter, ICA generated revenues of MXN5.2 billion, up 8% from the first quarter of


‘07. Construction revenues were up 5% while non-construction businesses in aggregate increased


21% and accounted for 22% of total revenues. The rapid expansion of infrastructure operations and


housing operations are creating solid new revenue streams for ICA.


Looking at the individual lines of business, Civil Construction revenues decreased by 2%, which


reflects the fact that major new projects that were awarded during ‘07 have not yet begun to


contribute significantly to revenues. There have been some delays by the government in delivering


rights of way for several projects, which is slowing the execution of projects.


Industrial Construction rose 10%, but this is primarily a reflection of a low base of comparison in the


first quarter of ‘07. Rodio had a solid quarter with revenues up 13%.


The level of construction backlog at the end of March was MXN29.1 billion, the same as the end of


December. The most important new project added was the nitrogen plant for Sempra, which was


over MXN1 billion. Backlog also benefited from an accounting change, which allows us to


incorporate all of the contracted work on the Aqueduct II project while previously we were only


booking 50%. That added another billion pesos to the backlog.


The other 2 billion in the new contract awards includes a mix of project increases and smaller


projects. These smaller projects, many of which fall below our threshold for public announcement,


are an important support for our expected growth, particularly in Civil Construction.


Airports had another solid quarter. The airport subsegment, which includes the results of OMA, plus


our subsidiaries Aeroinvest and SETA, recorded a 12% increase in revenues to MXN502 million.


Operating income rose 12% and the EBITDA margin was 63.2%.


OMA is also continuing to invest to ensure that it can realize its medium-term growth potential. For


the first quarter, OMA invested a total of 657 million pesos, which is well in excess of our master


development plan commitment. OMA’s IR website has more detailed information about their


performance.


Infrastructure operations revenues grew 84% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of ‘07.


The Irapuato-La Piedad PPP is now making a significant contribution to revenues with 29 million


pesos in the first quarter, although only some of the segments have been delivered.


We also completed the acquisition of the 242-kilometer Mayab toll road that links the cities of


Mérida and Cancún in the Yucatan Peninsula, and we consolidated the revenues starting March


‘08. The traffic on the toll road increased by 16% during the last month of the quarter in comparison


with the same month of last year.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Housing revenues were up 16% in the first quarter, which is traditionally the slowest quarter of the


year. Unit sales were up 22%.


As of March 31st, our land reserves were over 1700 hectares, which is enough for about 84,000


units. According to our growth plan, this reserve represents more than eight years of units to be


sold at estimated ‘08 rates.


In terms of our operating and EBITDA margin, ICA’s consolidated results are being driven by


airports and other concessions, and reflect the growth of these businesses. Operating margin for


the quarter was 7.5%, and the EBITDA margin was 11.3%.


The new projects that we won during the second half of ‘07 are not yet contributing significantly to


revenues, but are resulting in expenses as we ramp up the operations.


I also want to repeat a point that I made last quarter. ICA is having success in arranging financing


for our projects. We closed more than MXN11 billion in finances during the quarter and in early


April. This includes the $910 million facility for the La Yesca hydroelectric project, the refinancing of


the Acapulco Tunnel securitization, a ViveICA commercial paper program and the working capital


revolver for the Chicontepec II oil field.


Being able to structure suitable financings for our projects is one of our key competitive advantages


and clearly critical in current market conditions. I think we are demonstrating that the financing


window is certainly open when you have good projects.


In addition, it is worth mentioning that we continue to experience normal conditions in the home


mortgage finance business for ViveICA’s customers. Loan approvals are taking place in the normal


fashion and within the normal timeframe.


We ended the quarter with 6.9 billion in cash on our balance sheet, essentially the same as the end


of December. I am also confident that we have ample borrowing capacity to get the capital to


finance additional projects and to continue to make the investments that will secure our ability to


keep growing through the medium term.


Now let me review the outlook for ‘08. ICA’s practice has been to provide outlook for the full year at


the end of our first quarter results, and I would like to continue that practice today. Management’s


expectation is that each of our principal lines of business, construction, infrastructure operation and


housing should experience growth during ‘08.


On a consolidated level, we expect revenues to increase between 15 and 20% over the MXN22.5


billion recorded in ‘07. The expected growth in revenues is based largely on the execution of


projects or concessions that have already been awarded and for which financing has been


arranged.


Civil Construction is estimated to grow significantly as major projects that were awarded last year


such as La Yesca hydroelectric dam move into peak construction and execution phases. Our


revenue growth expectations could be affected by delays in receiving rights of way or required


permits from the government agencies. We are currently experiencing some of these delays, as


noted in the earnings report. We expect them to be resolved, but it is up to the various government


agencies to act. Margins in Civil Construction could also be affected by these delays and by our


ability to negotiate changes in fixed price contracts to reflect the run up in raw material prices,


particularly steel, since the start of ‘08.


Industrial Construction revenues are expected to be flat. New contracts are expected to offset the


reduction of work from the Minatitlan refinery configuration project, which is winding down, but are


not expected to be sufficient to generate growth. The government’s plan for modernizing the energy