corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ICA Second Quarter


2009 Earnings Conference Call on the 27th of July, 2009. Throughout today’s recorded


presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation there will be an


opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]


I will now hand the conference over to Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President


Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana García, our Head


of Investor Relations; and Berenice Muñoz, also from Investor Relations.


We want to extend a special welcome to the new investors who participated in our recent equity


offering. I am glad I had the chance to meet a number of you during the road show and all of us in


the finance group are looking forward to deepening our relationship in the coming months.


Today, I will make a brief review of ICA’s second quarter results and we will then be happy to open


the call for questions. ICA had a strong second quarter, both in terms of revenue and profitability.


This continues a momentum for revenue and margins that have shown over the last four quarters.


Indeed, if we allow for a few quarters of stagnant revenue in ‘07 when the government changed in


Mexico, ICA has now delivered a story of consistent growth since 2002 with a compound average


growth rate of revenues of 22% per annum over the past seven years.


In the second quarter ICA generated revenues of Ps. 9.1 billion, up 48% from the second quarter of


‘08. Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 14.4% and net income was 886 – I’m sorry, Ps. 286 million.


Civil Construction and Infrastructure were the drivers.


Civil Construction revenues were up 110% and Infrastructure Concessions grew 61%. This


compensated for weaker performances by Housing, Airports and Rodio. Even in an environment


with rapidly changing economic and financial conditions, we have been able to deliver solid results


by executing our projects and adjusting rapidly to new circumstances.


ICA’s second quarter results are again demonstrating the value of our market position, which


enables us to take advantage of the opportunities in the Mexican infrastructure and of the


diversification that we started several years ago. ICA Seca is now executing such a wide variety of


projects we redesigned our earnings report in order to make it easier to understand the full range of


our activities. We hope you find the new format useful.


Looking at the different construction lines of business, Civil Construction revenues more than


doubled. The La Yesca hydroelectric project, the Mexico City Subway Line 12 and the Eastern


Outlet Tunnel are moving into their mature phases where they are generating a large volume of


revenues. These three long-term projects, La Yesca, Line 12 and the Eastern Outlet Tunnel, are


only 18% completed, so they will be making major contributions to revenues for many quarters to


come. This is also true of the construction work of the inter-urban tollroad in Mexico City, Rio de


los Remedios Ecatepec.


Industrial Construction revenues rose 18%, largely as a result of the increased work on the second


Chicontepec oil field services project. With new projects like the Poza Rica cryogenic plant, which


is just starting up, Industrial Construction is beginning to move out of the relatively slow period it


has experienced since ‘06.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Rodio revenues were essentially flat. Given the real estate and construction downturn in Spain this


is not a bad performance. Infrastructure Concessions revenues increased 61% compared to


second quarter of ‘08. This reflects principally the going into service of the Irapuato-La Piedad PPP


at the end of July last year; traffic growth on the Corredor Sur Expressway in Panama; and


maintenance revenue from recently awarded concessions.


We currently have five highway concessions in operation and another five under construction. We


also had two water projects in Q2, one operational and the other under construction.


The Airports business was strongly affected by the combination of the global recession and the


A(H1NI) flu outbreak, which had a dramatic impact on traffic in April and May. Our view is that


OMA, the operator of the airports, has done an excellent job in responding to the crisis in the sector


and mitigating the impact, both on revenues and margins.


Given everything that has happened in the sector, it is worth emphasizing that Airports limited the


decrease in revenues to 13% in the second quarter and had an almost 50% EBITDA margin in


second quarter and positive operating cash flow.


Housing revenues decreased 5% in the second quarter. ViveICA sold a total of 1,717 units, which


is down from last year. This reflects really challenging conditions in some markets, such as Ciudad


Juarez. However, we were able to increase the average selling price per unit, which offset much of


the volume reduction. ViveICA continues to change its mix toward entry level and economical


housing, where government mortgage financing is assured.


Let me remind you also that ICA made early adoption of the INIF-14 accounting standards, which


means that Housing revenue is recorded only when title is transferred. In terms of operating and


EBITDA margins, ICA had a very good quarter. Second quarter operating income rose 118% with


an operating margin of 8.2%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 102% with an adjusted EBITDA margin


of 14.4%.


The loss from unconsolidated affiliates, which is principally the RCO Farac I tollroads, was reduced


somewhat from last year, reflecting lower financial costs. Our tax provision, including both cash


and deferred taxes, was at an effective tax rate of 28%, largely because of deferred year two taxes


in Civil and Industrial Construction. Our effective cash tax rate accordingly was 19.6%.


We generated net income of majority interest of Ps. 286 million for the second quarter, an increase


of more than 400%. Construction backlog at the end of June was Ps. 37.5 billion, with new contract


awards and contract additions of Ps. 6.3 billion during the second quarter. We are keeping the


backlog at the historic levels where it has been for the past eight quarters.


The most significant new project was a Poza Rica cryogenic plant for PEMEX with a value of Ps.


3.5 billion. We built all six of the cryogenic plants in Reynosa and this new project is recognition of


ICA Fluor’s technical expertise and track record in this area.


We also won several new projects in July that are not included in the second quarter backlog. We


just signed a 25-year concession for the Realito Aqueduct in San Luis Potosi. This is a 25-year


service concession with a total value of Ps. 2.1 billion. We also won the public works contract to


build an 80-kilometer water supply line for Ciudad del Carmen worth Ps. 468 million and a new


general hospital in Saltillo worth Ps. 386 million.


We estimate that there are approximately $12 billion in Civil and Industrial Construction projects in


our target market that will come up for bid in the next 12 to 18 months. Many of the most important


projects on the horizon are in the Industrial Construction area. Projects that were on hold while


Congress debated the energy reform are starting to move forward.