corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ICA


Second Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all participants will be


in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, 29 of July, 2008.


I would now turn the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Paloma Grediaga and Berenice Muñoz,


from Investor Relations. I will provide a brief overview of ICA’s second quarter results. We will then


be happy to open the call to your questions.


During the second quarter, ICA generated revenues of MXN6.2 billion, up 10% from the second


quarter of ‘07. Construction revenues were up 4%, while non-construction businesses in aggregate


increased 34% and accounted for 24% of total revenues. The rapid expansion of infrastructure and


housing continues to build solid new revenue streams for ICA.


Looking at the individual lines of business, Civil Construction revenues increased by 23%, as the


execution of large-scale projects like La Yesca get underway. Work also began in the second


quarter on the Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles highway, and on the Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlan PPP, where


there had previously been delays by the government in delivering rights of way or approving the


executive project.


Industrial Construction had an unsatisfactory quarter. Revenue fell 10%, largely as a result of the


Minatitlan project moving to completion and the absence of major new projects. As part of our


review of the estimated profitability of Industrial Construction projects during the second quarter, we


recognized additional costs of MXN62 million net, principally as a result of cost overruns at the


Chicontepec I project.


The identification of the additional costs shows our internal control processes at work, although we


are reviewing procedures to ensure that we can identify any project problems with greater


anticipation.


Rodio declined 7%, principally as a result of the real estate and construction activity slowdown in


Spain and Europe. The level of construction backlog at the end of June rose sharply to MXN37.4


billion. In constant peso terms adjusted for inflation, this is the highest backlog in ICA’s history. At


this level, it represents 24 months of construction work.


The most important new projects added were Line 12 for the Mexico City Metro, and the Rio de los


Remedios-Ecatepec highway in Mexico City and Mexico State. The so-called Golden Line with 24.4


kilometers of track and 21 stations is the largest expansion of the Mexico City Metro system since


the mid-1980s. Our work continues ICA’s traditional role in building the vast majority of what is the


world’s fifth largest rail-rapid transit system.


Rio de los Remedios is the same project that was announced in September of ‘07, when we


acquired 50% of the company that had been awarded the construction contract. But it is only in the


second quarter that all the precedent conditions for the project were met and that we are now able


to recognize the project in the backlog.


I would like to note that in both of these large projects, Civil Construction is undertaking the projects


as part of joint ventures, and the amount that is shown in backlog is only ICA’s proportionate share.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In general terms, we can say that the pace of contracting for civil construction works and


concessions on the part of the federal government and state government has recovered its


dynamism and is moving forward rapidly, with additional large-scale projects on the horizon.


However, contracting for industrial projects continues to experience delays. Some of the delays are


clearly the result of the uncertainty regarding Pemex and the energy reform that is currently being


debated in Congress. Some of it may be a reflection of private sector caution about the rate of


growth of the Mexican economy.


Overall, we estimate that about $30 billion in projects in both the civil and industrial areas will come


up for bid in the next 12 to 18 months. This includes highways, ports, water projects, refining and


power generation projects among others.


Airports had another solid quarter. The Airports sub-segment, which includes the results of OMA,


plus our subsidiaries, Aeroinvest and SETA, recorded a 6% increase in revenue to MXN504 million.


Operating income declined 4%, and the EBITDA margin was 54.4%.


OMA is also continuing to invest for the future. During the second quarter, OMA invested a total of


MXN1.4 billion, which includes acquisition of land at key airports to ensure the ability that – to keep


growing over the long term and prevent encroaching development from affecting the growth


potential. OMA’s IR website has more detailed information about their performance.


OMA has been clearly affected by the overall slowdown in air travel caused by sustained high fuel


prices. The rate of growth in air travel in Mexico is decelerating, and the company is adjusting its


business plan in light of conditions.


Concessions’ revenues grew 82% in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of ‘07.


The 242-kilometer Mayab Tollroad that links the cities of Kantunil and Cancún in the Yucatan


Peninsula contributed MXN97 million.


The Irapuato-La Piedad PPP is now making a significant contribution to revenues, with MXN88


million in the second quarter, although only some of the segments have been delivered. The


Corredor Sur is benefiting from Panama’s economic boom. Traffic grew 37%, and revenues


increased 29% to MXN101 million.


Housing revenues were up 49% in the second quarter, with 2,088 units sold. Unit sales were up


29%, and the mix has shifted toward a middle-income housing, which has higher margin. The


operating and EBITDA margins, both improved, although they are still below our target levels.


As of June 30, our land reserves were almost 1,700 hectares, which is enough for more than


80,000 units. According to our growth plans, this reserve represents eight years of sales at


estimated ‘08 rates.


In terms of operating and EBITDA margins, ICA’s consolidated results were affected by the


additional cost in Industrial Construction, which offset the continued growth and strong performance


of the infrastructure businesses. Operating margin for the quarter was 5.7%, and the EBITDA


margin was 9.6%. For the first six months, our accumulated EBITDA margin was 10.4%, which is in


line with our expectations.


Our accumulated – ICA also closed one major financing during the quarter. This was the MXN6


billion structured financing for the Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlan tollroad concession. This is a hybrid


project. The financing is needed for the part of the highway that was awarded to ICA and our joint


venture partners last year, where our investment will be recovered over the 30-year life of the


concession.