corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the ICA’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year


2009 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following today’s


presentation, instructions will be given for the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today March 2, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, good morning ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana Garcia, our Head of


Investor Relations and few members of her team.


Today I will make a brief review of ICA’s fourth quarter and full year 2009 results. And we will then


be happy to open the call to your questions. I will focus on two issues today. First, the result


themselves. Second, the Mexican government’s Tax Reform, and the estimated impact on ICA.


Looking at the results, ICA continues to build on the strength that we have demonstrated in the last


six quarters with a solid performance in the fourth quarter. We generated revenues of 8.5 billion


pesos, up 13% from the quarter of ‘08. Our adjusted EBITDA rose 12% with a margin of 12.1%.


For the full year of ‘09, our revenues were 30.9 billion pesos, up 36% which is an all-time record.


Our adjusted EBITDA increased 50% to 4.4 billion pesos with a 14.3% margin. 2009 was the fifth


year in a row where ICA met its annual operating guidance target. If you recall, in December of ‘08,


we provide guidance of – between 20 to 30% revenue growth and a 10 to 12% EBITDA margins.


Civil Construction was the growth driver in the fourth quarter and for the full year with revenues up


53% in the quarter. La Yesca hydro dam, the he Mexico City Subway Line 12, the Eastern Outlet


Tunnel and the construction on concession projects were the main revenue drivers. We expect all


of them to continue to generate significant volumes of work for quarters to come.


Civil Construction operating margins decreased somewhat compared to the fourth quarter of ‘08.


Margins in both quarters were affected by the end of the year revisions of the estimated profitability


of all the projects in the portfolio. This resulted in the reduction of the expected margins on some


specific projects including some that were finalized in the last quarter. For the full year, Civil


Construction operating margins were 3.6% which we believe is an accurate representation of how


this business is performing, excluding one-time effects.


Industrial Construction revenues decreased because new contracts such as the Madero and


Cadereyta clean fuels projects are still in the ramp up phase. We expect Industrial Construction


revenues and EBITDA contribution to sharply jump in the coming quarters.


Rodio revenues decreased, reflecting the impact of real estate and construction downturn in Spain.


Rodio continues to execute its cost reduction program which enables it to stay in the black despite


these reductions in revenues. Infrastructure Concessions revenues decreased 41% compared to


the fourth quarter of ‘08. This is largely an accounting effect produced by the allocation of revenue


in different quarters of the year.


I ‘08, items that could have been put in earlier quarters including construction revenue and financial


income were recorded in the fourth quarter. In ‘09, we registered these items in the quarters in


which they occurred. Through the quarter, we also carried out a revaluation of the Acapulco Tunnel.


Back in 2001, we took an impairment provision as a result of traffic been far lower than the original


expectations.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the intervening years, traffic improved significantly. Like all our investments, we view the carrying


value of the tunnel on an annual basis using third-party evaluators. For the past three years, the


assessed valuation has supported the reversal of the impairment provision with an estimated fair


value for the Acapulco Tunnel in excess of Ps.1.3 billion. This recovery of the impairment provision


is reflected below the line as other income and does not affect operating or EBITDA margins.


At year end, we had five highway concessions in operations and five under construction. We are in


the final phases of the Queretaro-Irapuato PPP project. Construction of the road has been delayed


by the processes required to obtain the rights of way which have been a constant issue with most


road projects and a responsibility of the government.


We think that these obstacles have been resolved and this road should go into service during the


third quarter of 2010. The concessions area also has three water projects under construction.


These are all on track and we expect the Aqueduct II of Querétaro to go into service also in the


third quarter of this year.


The airports business has been successful in countering the effects of the recession. Revenue


initiatives offset almost all the reduction in passenger traffic volumes. We launched the Terminal 2


Hotel at the Mexico City International Airport, which opens up a new source of revenue and


profitability. OMA’s cost control measures kept full year cost and G&A expense flat even with the


addition of the hotel operating costs.


For the full year airports adjusted EBITDA margin was 53.5% or only 200 basis points below ‘08


levels. We think this is a solid performance given all what the air transport industry in Mexico and


around the world went through including the H1N1 flu, bankruptcy from many carriers and the


suspension of operations of others. ViveICA sold 2,144 homes in the fourth quarter, an increase of


2%. Over the past 12 months, we moved up three notches in terms of industry rankings as


measured by Infonavit Financing going to 9th place from 12th place.


During the year, ViveICA carried out a significant restructuring of its operations. Costs were cut and


head count was reduced while reorienting the business toward a more economic segment of the


market. We started selling homes in seven new developments last year with a total of 17,000 units.


This year we expect to break ground in the next few weeks on the 9,000 units [inaudible] project in


Apodaca in Nuevo Leon.


It is one of only four projects in Mexico that received a certification from the SHF as a sustainable


integrated urban development project. Construction backlog at the end of December reached


almost Ps.35 billion even after the effect of proportional consolidation of ICA Fluor. This continues


to be new ICA’s historical maximum levels. Thanks to new contract awards of more than Ps.20


billion in ‘09. This backlog represents the equivalent of 15 months of construction work at fourth


quarter levels.


2010 has already started positively for ICA, a consortium of, which we are part of signed the


contract with the Atotonilco water treatment plants in Tula, Hidalgo. This project has about 2,100


million pesos to ICA’s backlog. Another consortium signed the Panama Canal PAC-4 contract to


build the section of the new Pacific Access Shipping Channel. ICA’s share of this contract is $122


million.


Just recently PEMEX last Friday that ICA Fluor was awarded a $622 million contract for the clean


fuels upgrade for the Minatitlán and Salina Cruz refineries. This contract which is a clean fuel


package three is expected to be signed later this month. Our proportion is shared for accounting


purposes is approximately $311 million.