corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Empresas 2009 First Quarter Results Conference Call on the 30th of


April 2009. After this presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the


presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like


to turn the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana Garcia, our head of Investor


Relations. Today I will make a brief review of ICA’s first quarter results and we will then be happy to


open the call to your questions.


We had a very strong first quarter we have generated revenues of 7.9 billion pesos up 53% from


the first quarter of ‘08. Construction revenues were up 61%, infrastructure rose 35%, and


homebuilding increased 10%. Non-construction businesses accounted for 19% of total revenues.


Even in an uncertain environment with rapidly changing economic and financial conditions, we have


been able to deliver good results by executing our projects and adjusting rapidly to new


circumstances. ICA’s results are again demonstrating the value of diversification that we started


several years ago.


Looking at the different construction lines of business, civil construction revenues increased 61% as


large scale projects, particularly La Yesca hydroelectric project, moved into few – full execution.


Industrial construction revenues rose 15%, largely as a result of the increased volume of work on


the second Chicontepec oil field services project. Rodio revenues decreased 10%, reflecting the


real estate and construction slowdown in Spain.


Airports revenues decreased 3.1 – 3.2%, but increased revenue per passenger largely offset the


decrease in passenger traffic volumes. Revenue per passenger increased 19% to 159 million


pesos – I’m sorry, revenue per passenger was increased 19% to 159 pesos per passenger. The


most important factors enabling revenues to grow faster than traffic were an increase in non-


aeronautical revenues because of OMA’s commercial initiatives and the end of the special incentive


program on Monterrey. The commercial initiatives, include increased commercial space in our


terminals and a better mix of services in stores.


Concession revenue more than doubled as compared to first quarter of ‘08. This reflects principally


the going into service of the Queretaro-Irapuato PPP at the end of July last year, the acquisition of


Del Mayab Road in March of ‘08, strong growth on the Corredor Sur expressway, and maintenance


revenue from recently awarded concessions.


Homebuilding revenues increased 30% in the first quarter based on the new INIF-14 accounting


standards, which means that revenue is recorded only when title is transferred. ViveICA sold a total


of 1487 units, an increase of 10%. ViveICA is changing its mix towards entry level and economical


housing, where government mortgage financing is assured. ViveICA currently has 19 projects


under development in ten states.


In terms of operating and EBITDA margin, ICA’s consolidated results were on track. First quarter


operating income rose 62% with an operating margin of 8.1%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 63%


with an EBITDA margin of 11.4%.


The loss from unconsolidated affiliates, which is principally the RCO FARAC-1 toll road, was


approximately the same as the year ago period. Our tax provision was high in first quarter because


of the deferred IETU taxes in industrial construction. Our cash tax payments were 71 million pesos


including both income tax and IETU. Our effective tax rate, accordingly, was 18%.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We generated net income of majority interest of 113 million pesos for the first quarter, an increase


of 247%. The level of construction backlog at the end of March was 38.9 billion pesos, which is


second only to the backlog at December 31. We were awarded two significant projects during the


first quarter, the La Piedad bypass highway concession with construction work worth 1.3 billion


pesos, and the Mexico City Pachuca highway expansion for 809 million pesos.


We estimate that there are approximately $12 billion in civil and industrial construction projects in


our target market that will come up for bid in the next 12 to 18 months. Many of the most important


projects on the horizon are in the industrial construction area. Projects that were on hold while


Congress was debating the energy reform are starting to move forward. In the coming weeks and


months, ICA Fluor will be submitting proposals for the clean gasoline packages for the Gustavo


Madero and Cadereyta refinery upgrades, the Cangrejera aromatic plants, two new cryo-plants and


an IPP power plant, among others.


Over a medium term perspective, we see a total of about 10 to 12 billion in concession projects,


assuming some recovery in the financial market. Two days ago, Congress approved amendments


to the public works law that will speed up and make more flexible public sector contracting.


Specifically, the law authorizes the engineering and planning for public works to be contracted out


and permits parties that work on the engineering to also participate in the bid for the works. These


provisions were included in the budget law passed last December but because of how the Mexican


legal system operates, they need to be put into to the public works law in order to become effective.


Turing now to ICA’s financial position and liquidity, we ended the quarter with 4 billion pesos in


cash on our balance sheet. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our business needs


and our refinancing risks are limited. ICA has debt maturing in less than one year of 4.7 billion


pesos.


As detailed in the earnings report, 4.1 billion pesos will be paid upon project completion and does


not need to be refinanced. The remaining 567 million pesos is mostly working capital line, including


our 357 annual pesos in the ViveICA’s Commercial Paper. We are working with our banks in order


to ensure that this working capital financing continues to be available. Unrestricted cash of 1.3


billion pesos is well in excess of any debt maturities we cannot roll over.


ICA’s total debt increased by 10.3 billion pesos during ‘09 as we took on the debt needed to


execute new projects and finance new toll roads and PPS concessions. All our debt is at the project


level. We believe that all of our projects and concessions are well capitalized and able to meet their


contractual debt service, even under a significant stress in earnings.


With respect to ICA’s foreign currency and interest rate hedging position, let me note that we just


completed on April 24 a renegotiation of the FX swap agreement for La Yesca to bring it more into


line of the current conditions.


As a result the mark-to-market loss of this instrument was reduced to 466 million pesos as of that


date. This instrument is an obligation solely of our subsidiary COHYSA and is secured by a letter of


credit of $30 million. There was no change in the security and this instrument as a result of the


renegotiation. There are no margin calls or similar mechanisms that will require us to cover


COHYSA’s position beyond the amount of the LC or any of our other derivatives. While our


accounts reflect the fair value of the FX swap, they do not show the FX gains on the value of the


U.S. dollar denominated construction contract. Any loss on the market value of the La Yesca swap


is expected to be offset by exchange rate gains on the value of the construction contract, which has


a current value of $768 million.