Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Victor Bravo — Chief Financial Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Gabriel de la Concha — Chief Investment Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Carlos Peyrelongue — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Mexico SA de CV
Vanessa Quiroga — Analyst, Casa de Bolsa Credit Suisse Mexico SA de CV
Francisco Chávez Martínez — Analyst, Casa de Bolsa BBVA Bancomer SA de CV
Armando Perez Nuñez — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SA de CV Casa de Bolsa
Nikolaj Lippmann — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Gonzalo Fernandez — Analyst, Banco Santander Mexicano (Broker)
Denis Parisien — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Vivian Salomón — Analyst, Itaú Corretora de Valores SA (Mexico)
Celina Apostolo Merrill — Analyst, Credit Suisse (United States)
Francisco Suarez — Analyst, HSBC México SA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Empresas ICA Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] The conference is being recorded today, Friday, October 28, 2011.

I would now like to turn the conference over to our Victor Bravo, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us for ICA's third quarter conference call. Joining me today is Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief Investment Officer; Luz Montemayor, our Head of Investor Relations; and Iga Wolska from Investor Relations. I will make a few comments on business [ph] trends (1:01) and provide a brief overview of ICA's third quarter results, including an analysis of the two major transactions in the quarter. We will then be happy to open to call to your questions.

ICA's third quarter results showed the elements of the business strategy that the management team is executing. First, we produced some organic growth in our principal lines of business. This marks the 15th quarter in a row where ICA has delivered increases in both consolidated revenue and adjusted EBITDA. This consistent growth is only possible because we both construct and operate infrastructure.

Second, we completed two strategic transactions as part of our active management of our Concessions portfolio. Net realized the value on those assets and help us get to the financial resources to continue to develop new concessions. These transactions also further boost our net income for the quarter.

Third, we completed the placement of a mxAAA-rated 21 due local currency bonds by two special purpose subsidiaries to finance the needs of further concessions. This is the first time the Mexican securities markets have funded a greenfield infrastructure project. These fund placements in addition to being another ICA first in the financial area continues our policy of financing our concessions on a standalone basis.

Payment of the bonds is secured only by the collection rights for the projects and it's not guaranteed by the parent company. If you take these three elements and add into our internal initiatives to improve operating efficiencies, strengthen our human resources and use information technology more effectively, ICA's management team believes that we're firmly on the path to improve profitability and to seeing improved returns on equity.

Turning now to our specific results. In the third quarter, ICA generated revenues of Ps. 11.4 billion, up 22% from the third quarter of 2010. Three of our five operating segments reported double-digit revenue growth. Civil Construction had a revenue growth of 29%. The Rio de los Remedios tollroad in Mexico City generated the most value. We are moving forward rapidly in terms of building the third segment of this road and have more than 2,700 workers on the project. We now expect that the remaining section of this tollroad will be completed and open for traffic at the beginning of the second quarter of 2012.

The Metro Line 12 continues to progress. There's less than 1 kilometer of tunnel left to bore or excavate. [ph] Dynamic 2050 (3:40) is taking place on the completed segment and [indiscernible] (3:44). The inauguration is scheduled for April 30 of next year. The Atotonilco Water Treatment Plant is beginning to move into full execution after a number of delays by the client. The engineering is now mostly completed [indiscernible] (4:01). The project, as a whole, has 29% completion as of September 30.

The La Yesca project is almost exactly one year from completion and delivery to the client. We're completing the final work on the containment structure, and we closed permanently one with two diversion channels. We're on schedule to start filling the reservoir at the beginning of the next rainy season. The work on the first turbine machinery is about 68% completed. All the other electromechanical work in the powerhouse is advancing. The project, as a whole, is 91% completed.

Civil Construction operating and adjusted EBITDA margins increased compared to third quarter of 2010, as costs and expenses increased at a slower rate than revenues. Industrial Construction revenues grew 11%. The four clean fuel plants are all advancing in private sector contract, including the new contract with AHMSA on their steel mill and plate line expansion are making a significant contribution. Margins in ICA Fluor improved significantly.

Construction backlog continued at high level. The amount as of the end of third quarter was Ps. 39.4 billion, higher than either September 30 or December 31 last year. We won the construction of the next segment of the Corredor Norte Highway in Panama and the new Dos Bocas Marine Terminal project for Pemex Industrial Construction. Much of the increase in backlog was due to expansions of 15 projects under construction.

Concessions revenues increased 43% compared to third quarter 2010 with strong revenue contributions from both operating concessions and concessions under construction. We have expanded the detail on individual operating concessions to help meet the needs of the investors community. I hope you would find this additional information in the earnings report useful.

We have completed two major portfolio transactions in the quarter, which had a significant effect on our results. First, the Government of Panama completed their purchase of the Corredor Sur tollroad for $420 million. In accordance with IFRS, the sale of Corredor Sur is treated as a discontinued operation. This is because it needs to test of being a distinct line of business in a distinct year and is a substantial operations. Prior periods were restated to take out Corredor Sur results from the regular P&L line item and include them as a single after-tax line item. The internal returns on the Corredor Sur project was 13.53% without taking into account the land sales that we made.

We also completed the long-planned transfer of the Queretaro-Irapuato and Irapuato-La Piedad PPP highways to our affiliate RCO in exchange for Ps. 250 million in cash and an increase in our shareholding in RCO from 13.6% to 18.7%. Because this transaction is with an affiliate and is significantly smaller in size than the Corredor Sur, it has a different accounting treatment under IFRS. Revenues and expenses from the date of closing remain consolidated in the regular line item.

The Ps. 440 million gain on the sales is recorded as other income, which is an above-the-line concept on the IFRS, and therefore continues to both operating income and adjusted EBITDA. The gain basically represents the difference between the fair value and the shares acquired and the book value of the PPP.

The internal rate of return to ICA from its investment in the two PPPs was approximately 15.6%. This does not include construction profits realized in the construction phase or the additional Ps. 350 million in shares that we may receive in certain conditions are met. This return meets our expected rate of return in this kind of project, and accordingly, we decided to realize the value now, while achieving our important objectives.

By contributing the two PPPs to RCO, we strengthened our participation in RCO and enhanced the value of these assets in at least three different ways. First, it enables us to use existing operations and marketing capabilities of RCO with these roads. The two PPPs and the RCO always are interlinked in terms of vehicle flows. This provides opportunity for efficiency gains and economies of scale.

Second, the additional PPP revenue streams that don't depend on traffic improve RCO's risk profiles and improve its debt ratios. This is expected to make possible a risk financing of RCO's debt in the near term that will increase expected RCO shareholder returns and accelerate the date at which RCO begin generating bottom line net income. This benefits us greatly as a shareholder. Third, it improves a precedent that may be useful for all concessions as they mature. They help transform RCO from a static special purpose vehicle for managing [ph] the traffic passage (09:16) of tollroads into a true infrastructure form.

Let me also emphasize an important point. We will continue to operate the two PPP highways through our operating contract with RCO. As part of the overall transaction, we will also increase the EBITDA base fees we get from RCO by about 50%. We will also get construction revenues for the loss of the concessions and we will get our proportional share in the economic gains that the two highways generate as part of RCO.

Essentially, we're transferring the manner in which we're holding our economic interest in these highways, trading risks for a most diversified revenue stream in RCO at a fair valuation. The Concessions segment generated a 172% increase in adjusted EBITDA and a 92% adjusted EBITDA margin. Excluding the gain of the RCO transaction, the increase in Concessions' adjusted EBITDA would have been 4% with a 35% adjusted EBITDA margin.

Airports had a strong quarter. Passenger traffic grew for the second consecutive quarter. The sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenue grew 13%. Aeronautical revenues are growing because of the 1.9% increase in traffic and the new tariff that went into effect in April. Non- aeronautical revenues are benefiting from the strong performance of the NH Terminal 2 Hotel, the commercial revenue initiatives across all our airports and a new advertising agreement.

Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin bounced back from the levels in third quarter 2010, when they were affected by the provision for doubtful accounts because of Mexicana management. [indiscernible] (11:02) reporting do some more detailed analysis of their adjusted EBITDA and I encourage you to consult it for additional details.

Housing revenues decreased 5% with a 3% decrease in unit sales by ViveICA in Mexico. Housing market in Mexico continues to be difficult with many projects in their early phases as well as security issues in some areas. Ciudad Natura project in Cancún has been selling well with over 500 units sold through September. The one outside Monterrey is at an early stage and has also started selling units.

Looking at our consolidated results, operating income reached Ps. 1.3 billion in the third quarter and the adjusted EBITDA margin reached 17%. We did experience a significant exchange loss in the quarter, principally because of the effect of the devaluation of the peso in third quarter on the balance sheet value of the $500 million corporate bond.

ICA has hedged the first seven years of coupon payments on the bond, but not the principal amount, which is due 2021. This is a non-cash charge and the future valuation will look to it based on the exchange rate movement. After financial expenses and taxes, there was a loss on continuing operations of Ps. 409 million in the third quarter and income of Ps. 139 million for the nine months.

The sale of the Corredor Sur tollroad was recorded under discontinued operations, and contributed, after tax, Ps. 1,374 million to third quarter of 2011 net income. The gain in those results of Corredor Sur in July and part of August closed again of sales, net of taxes and transaction cost. The gain on the sale of the Corredor Sur after payment of taxes in Panama was approximately $220 million.

The total accounting effect included in the line of discontinued operation was Ps. 1,477 million or approximately $120 million at the exchange rate at the time of the closing. The difference reflects the prepayment penalty for paying off the Corredor's financing of approximately 22 million net and a U.S. tax provision for approximately 65 million since the legal entity through which we held the Corredor Sur is a U.S. corporation.

Net income of controlling interest was Ps. 905 million in the third quarter and Ps. 1.4 billion in the first nine months. Return on equity continues to improve. Taking into account the effect of the Corredor Sur and RCO transactions in the quarter, our results are in line with the guidance we provided at the time of the first quarter conference call and where we're feeling this guidance today.

I also want to comment on the ICA's debt position. Total debt as of September 30 was Ps. 47.4 billion and the increase on December was Ps. 17.1 billion. [indiscernible] (14:00) in concessions including the SPC bonds totaled Ps. 7.3 billion. This includes the effect of the debt reduction from the two [indiscernible] (14:09) transactions. La Yesca debt increased Ps. 3.8 billion, an impact by certifications for completed work. The corporate bond was Ps. 7.2 billion at the end of September valuation, but was used in large part to repay of all our debt. In total, our debt decreased net Ps. 1.2 billion.

In summary, about 68% of our debt is for refinance, including La Yesca and Rio de los Remedios, which are included in Civil Construction, 13% is a 10-year corporate bond and 18% is for all other purposes including working capital in Civil Construction, Industrial Construction, Airports and Housing Development.

We expect that we will need some additional working capital financing, especially as public works spending accelerates before July 2012 elections in Mexico. We expect to meet our investment requirements in the Concessions segment through a non-recourse financing at the project level, as we did with the SPC bonds. This includes project financing for a 64-kilometer expansion of the Mayab tollroad that we negotiated last quarter.

We expect that our debt levels will continue to increase as far as our normal operations until the point where we get repaid for La Yesca and the Concessions to start operations generating revenue and amortizing the debt. In the finance group, our priorities are improving cash flow generation and keeping our projects funded. We expect each of our concession projects to be financed on a standalone basis with gearing appropriate to the nature of the project.

In conclusion, ICA had strong results for the quarter including or excluding the one-time transactions. Let me repeat the three-piece theme for this quarter. First, we delivered consistent and steady growth in adjusted EBITDA generation. Second, we're actively managing our portfolio of concession assets with the objective of maximizing returns. The IRR on the two transactions during the quarter demonstrate that we're successfully developing and realizing value in our concessions.

And third, we succeeded in financing our infrastructure projects on a standalone basis. We're on solid financial footing. Debt increases are related to the development of projects that will be paid upon completion, like La Yesca, for our long-term non-recourse financed infrastructure projects, where the debt service requirements are matched to the future expected cash flows. We strongly believe our performance is not reflected in the price of our stock. It is for these reasons that we have been repurchasing shares in the market. Since July 1, ICA has repurchased close to 41 million shares or approximately 6% of the shares outstanding as of June 30.

This concludes our prepared remarks and we will now be pleased to address your questions. Operator, will you please open the call for questions?

Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Carlos Peyrelongue with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Thank you, Victor, and congratulations on the strong results. Two questions, if I may. First, you mentioned the IRR on the two highways that you contributed to RCO. I believe you said 15.6%. Is this in real terms?

Yeah, the information in the Irapuato roads. Yeah, it's 15.6% of – those are in real terms.

Great. And in terms of Corredor Sur, could you also provide the IRR that you got on this project in real terms?

Yeah, of course. That's in U.S. dollar terms and it does not include the profit we have from the sale of land that was granted together with that concession.

Sorry. I did not get the number. What's the IRR in dollar terms for Corredor Sur?

13.5%.

13.5%?

13.53%.

Great. Perfect. And then the second question is related to the next year. It's an election year in Mexico. Can you provide some light as to what are the growth opportunities and the risk that in the second half projects could dry up? Thank you.

Look, that is something that is having us working hard on getting projects to overpass the typical decrease in investment that comes when a new administration enters this mid-year period. Typically, the new President will have to assemble a team, define which projects and start bidding those. In fact, our past experience is that the last comps from the moment of election dried some period between the second and third quarter of the following year of elections.

Fortunately, most of our projects are going to be completed by half of next year or the end of next year and we're having some of the backlog due by the beginning of 2013. So, we do expect a slowdown in the economy and a slowdown in the pipeline of projects. But we are – we think that we are going to be able to mitigate a substantial part of it by the backlog that we currently have in some of the places that are going to be in the short-term bidding by the government.

Understood. And I guess concessions – you will be delivering a lot of concessions in that period of time, which should also help revenues?

Yeah, it's correct. We're expecting to start operations by the beginning of the second quarter and the last one is going to start operations by the fourth quarter of 2012.

Great. Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Carlos.

Next question is from the line of Vanessa Quiroga with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. My question is regarding your strategy for how you're managing your portfolio. We have seen you sell assets that were already generating EBITDA and monetizing those, of course, but keeping a lot of projects that are still in the construction process. So what should we expect ICA to do with these projects that are currently under construction once they start operating? Are you – is your strategy to monetize these assets as soon as you get a good price or do you have a target of maintaining certain EBITDA generating concessions in your portfolio?

Hello, Vanessa, thank you for the question. Well, it is hard to say that ICA has been selling assets in the last month from selling the Corredor Sur and these two PPP roads have acquired new concessions, or price finance the – certain infrastructure projects, which are even greater investment than we have for these two projects that we sold. But we are doing this to do an active management of the portfolio.

In the case of the Corredor Sur, it was much more important by the Panamanian Government. We didn't want to sell the asset, but there was pressure from them and threatening even risking the asset for the country, because we didn't want to sell. So that was kind of a decision that we have to make. And actually in exchange we are ceding Panama, we were granted the operation of the Corredor Sur so far and the extension of the Corredor Norte for construction and also the ability to participate in other projects. So we think that negotiation went well.

For the PPPs that we transferred to RCO, we didn't – we did not consider them as a sale of those, but an improvement in value for our portfolio because it was a win-win situation. For RCO, it allowed them to get ready for refinancing. Whereas, actually in a concession project, your cost of capital improves as long as the ramp-up period moves ahead. And therefore, whenever the projects come to maturity, you can refinance them at lower debt rates, and then you improve the value for the shareholder in return, which was actually the experience that we have in Corredor Sur. We were able to refinance it a couple of times even before we were paid by the Panamanian Government.

So in the case of RCO, they get ready for their refinancing, and we get a good – a fair price value in exchange of the PPPs and also we keep the operation, and we were able to improve our participation in the EBITDA. We charge them a fee for EBITDA, which motivate us to improve our efficiency in operating tollroads. We are absolutely operators of all RCO portfolio of tollroads. So, it provided value to us, and we don't see that as a sale or as a minus in our portfolio.

Besides that, we have decided in a couple of projects that we're much more interested in foreseeing ordered ones, like the one at Del Mayab. We have been granted the extension of the Del Mayab, and we are going to get a much better IRR in that project and the other ones that we work on. So, we are very serious about managing the portfolio of concessions. If the opportunity comes, in summary, give us a good price or we'll move into sell that. In the case of Corredor Sur, we will take that opportunity. But in this case, I would hardly see this as a starting of selling the assets during construction.

If you look – taking that argument into consideration, if you look at it from the RCO perspective, we're getting into RCO exactly when they are going to produce more value because they are in the ramp-up period. So, I think it was a lot of benefit for our shareholders in making that transaction.

Victor, talking a little bit more about RCO, do you see opportunities for – not transferring but selling more assets to RCO that could further increase the value of RCO? I mean do you see more assets that you could – that you have currently that you could do that to increase the participation in RCO? And then could you give us some guidance on when could we expect RCO to start generating positive equity contribution to ICA, or if you could give us guidance on when would you expect RCO to generate a positive free cash flow?

Certainly. On the first question, on moving more assets to RCO, well, that's one of the strategic options we have. Actually, as our portfolio of concessions mature, we have a number of strategic options. We could either package them and manage them as a whole, we could transfer them to RCO, which – where we will have the opportunity to take a company that is already making quality information into the stock exchange that has already been operational in a corporate team managing the concession. So there will be economies of scale in that. It will be very interesting to do it.

However, we have not decided what we are going to do. We are certainly taking that strategic decision. And in the following months, certainly, we could come with a more complete answer on this. As for when RCO is going to generate cash flow, it will depend strongly on the refinancing of debts. Currently, if you look at the figures, the EBITDA is very close to their interest costs. If they are able to reduce that, then in a few years they will be generating positive cash flows. And that's – I guess that's the sooner that it will be generating. It is now – refinancing will take longer to do it. But we see that as a good chance that they will be succeeding doing that by 2013, 2014.

Okay. So, for 2013, '14, that's when you could probably expect them to generate positive cash flow and positive equity contribution, both?

Positive cash flow, yes. Positive equity contribution, that will have to take longer I guess, or it would be minimal in that point in time.

Okay. Okay. Thank you, Victor.

Thank you, Vanessa.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Francisco Chávez with BBVA. Please go ahead.

Yes, good morning. My question is regarding the guidance for 2011. Do you plan to modify your guidance as a result of the transaction of the Corredor Sur and the two PPP – PPS highways? And the other question I have is regarding the margin of Industrial Construction segment. We saw a large improvement in the margins. Can you explain why such an improvement? Thank you.

Certainly. On the first question of modifying the guidance, we're not planning to do that. It's interesting that the numbers that we released on the quarter do not include already Corredor Sur at the operating level, and even though we were able to match the guidance. So we'll take that to be the case for the last quarter. As for the Industrial Construction, it improved based on the mix of projects. And usually when you start a project, you start having advancement in the learning curve. So at this point in time, Industrial Construction has a better mix and it's ahead on the learning curve on these projects.

So can we explain the 10% EBITDA margin to continue for the coming quarters?

At least for Industrial Construction, yes.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Armando Perez with GBM. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Just two questions regarding RCO. The first one, when did you expect to receive the next payment from RCO in shares? And if you could share with us how did you calculate the value per share of the company? Thanks.

Sorry, but I didn't – we didn't get the first question.

Yes. In the press release you said when you sold the two highways to RCO and you said there was a chance of receiving a subsequent payment from RCO in shares. And when do you expect this to happen?

Yes, certainly. There is a second payment of around Ps. 350 million maximum and that number could be adjusted depending on timing. We do expect this to happen during this year by the fourth quarter. We would have more information when it happens. It's – the condition for that payment is linked to certain agreements that are still pending with SCT, which we believe they will soon being applied. And the second question, I recall you were asking the way we value our stake in RCO. Is that the question?

Yes, how did you value the price of RCO per share?

Well, yeah, there was the committee and organization within RCO, they appointed a third-party, an advisor to provide a fairness opinion regarding the whole transaction. And there was – the evaluation that was done by this advisory party was done, we believe, by through DCF cash flow evaluation. We do not have the details what – since RCO has been very straightforward with the Board and the Committees in showing this number and that's the number that we've agreed to use.

And to complete that, in our side, we also had evaluation of RCO as a whole.

Exactly.

[indiscernible] (31:16)

Okay, thanks. And one last question, if I may. What's the fee that you're going to charge RCO for operating the two highways?

The fee is not a fixed fee. It's a fee that involves two agreements. The first agreement is to act as a cost-plus arrangement and the second agreement is to include a promoting fee that is based on a percentage of the EBITDA that is being produced in RCO. So, it generates incentive for both the operator and the concessionaire to maximize the EBITDA generation in RCO. And so, we get a percentage of that generation as well.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Nikolaj Lippmann with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you very much for the call and congratulations on a strong set of numbers. Two – and also, sorry, thank you for the disclosure in concessions. Two questions, if I may. First one, I saw that this is fairly significant CapEx in Housing. And I was just wondering why – the returns have been pretty bad there for a while. Why would you invest in such a big number? So, that's the first question. And the second question is if you could give – you have a lot of concessions coming into the business in 2012. If you could give us a bit of sense of sort of the revenue impact and the timing of those concessions in 2012.

Well, thank you, Nikolaj. On the first question, those Housing in the CapEx were related to land that we have already acquired. So basically they're mostly investments that we were committed already to pay. For the concessions for 2012, we're going to provide more color on this into the future on projected traffic and estimated tariffs at the time of the opening.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you, Nikolaj.

Our next question is from the line of Gonzalo Fernandez with Santander. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everyone, and congratulations on your results also. I have two questions. The first one is despite the sale of the three roads, you added another Ps. 9.6 billion to your debt this quarter and I was wondering – I know the nature of your business that supports high leverage. But how much debt would you need to add – to complete all the projects before we can start seeing a reduction in debt and until what level do you think your balance sheet can support more debt? Thank you.

Thank you, Gonzalo. Well, we'll also provide some more color on the investments required on the concessions. In rough numbers, I would tell you that we expect a decrease in debt when La Yesca is paid next year. However, the pipeline of projects that we have on the balance sheet will require anywhere from Ps. 6,000 million to Ps. 10,000 million of debt additional in the following years. It depends on the projections and depends on how many projects we estimate. Maybe the most important thing is that by the year-end of 2012, most of our debt will be already been serviced directly by the projects.

And that's also important because, for example, in the case of the water projects, there is a special tariff that goes to pay the debt, once they've done the operations; or in the case of the bonds when we start getting paid for investment purpose on projects, all the debt service will be covered on a AAA rating that they provided. So the important question for us is not really how much debt we're going to add, but how much debt is going to be serviced in the following month. And I guess, by the end of next year, roughly 80% or more of the debt related – of debt related to projects will already been serviced by the different projects.

Perfect. If I may, a follow-on regarding the transfer to RCO. If you continue to transfer the projects to RCO, I know you have an important cash inflow. But you would be transferring the businesses with the high margins, the higher free cash flow generation and keeping probably a larger proportion of construction, which has much lower margins. And I understand you would have a higher stake in RCO, but that is not clearly visible for ICA shareholders. So what is the rationale on the benefit for ICA shareholders?

Well, the rationale, as I mentioned before, is that the value of those assets is larger being at RCO than if we keep them as our – in our own operations. First, we have the fact that it's geographically related and we have the economies of scale by transferring that to RCO. We also have the fact that we are easing the refinancing of RCO that which in turn will improve our return in those projects. And also in RCO, we're getting part of the upside in the RCO. We also got the 15% IRR that we were looking for, and if the additional payment comes, that IIR will come up to 21%.

So I think those should be clear for I think – not even considering the increase in the fee collection of the operations, so that I think that shows clearly the value for the shareholder. Obviously, as you mentioned, it is not exactly looking into the cash flow of ICA, but in general terms, it provides us with a higher return on equity that will be seen in the coming years. This is – these are long-term businesses. Even if we keep those assets in our books, the return on equity will be taking a while to show up and we think will be – the possibility of the refinancing of RCO will be even at least matching that return that we were going to get if we keep them in our book.

Okay. Thank you very much, Victor. That is very clear.

Thank you, Gonzalo.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of [ph] Ivan Fernandez (38:32) with Barclays Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. A question on these two concessions that were transferred to RCO, what was the LTM EBITDA that they were contributing to your results? So, I can – we can calculate pro forma numbers.

If you take the numbers, analyze the figures, we expected for this an EBITDA of Ps. 530 million.

Okay. And just a follow-up on the question about the backlog, so you mentioned that once selections happen, there is usually a lag of about a year until new projects are awarded, right? Now, your backlog...

Yes, that's correct.

Is that correct?

Yes.

Great. Now your backlog – the average life here according to the release is about 15 months. So that means that by the beginning of 2013, you should have executed all of your projects and you don't expect to have booked many new projects, right? So, is it that – is it fair to assume that you're backlog is going to be close to zero in the beginning of 2013?

No. No, obviously that would happen if we remain static. But as long as we're moving forward, we're going to increase backlog. We have been able to increase backlog both within from Mexico and from the international arena. So we think that even though there's going to be a delay, and we will lose some amount of backlog by the middle of next year, we will be able to bridge this period with a substantial backlog to keep operations and – at a good level. How big, well, it will be a question to solve, and we will see in the following months.

Okay, all right. And is there any guidance you can give us about leverage through next year, given all that the flows you have to put into the construction of the new concessions and their cash flow generation for next year? What would the leverage be by the end of the year?

Yes, not at this point in time. As I mentioned before, if you estimated that in the following 20, 24 months, we will add around Ps. 6,000 million to Ps. 10,000 million, and we will decrease the – close to $1 billion of La Yesca debt. I would say the profit will remain flat or slightly below that.

Okay, that's great. Thank you very much.

Yes, thank you.

Next question is from the line of Denis Parisien with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi, thanks for the call. I'm wondering your cash level increased somewhat in response to the various transactions and cash generation. I'm wondering how much of your cash right now is available to the holding company and how much would be tied up in joint ventures and operating subsidiaries? You've specified that, sorry, about 68% of your debt is with Concessions. How much of the cash is with Concessions and how much of the cash that you report consolidated is actually holding company cash, and how much is sort of less available? And what is the plan for use of cash? Is that all going to be plowed into investment or how much of a cushion do you see yourselves keeping? Thanks. Hello?

Yes, thank you. I will start for the second question, what are the plans for the cash. Well, actually, our financial goal right now is to complete the projects. Those projects are up and running, so they'll start generating cash and start servicing the debt. Our priority will be tied to that. And we have been able to see that the financial markets are open for – the transactions are the one for the social infrastructure. And the good news about that is that – and the good news for that is that the pipeline of projects is going to come to a six-year period type of conclusion by the end of next year.

So as of today, most of the data we require from the projects has already been issued or has already been signed. We'll have some working capital needs and some additional debt portfolio that we're already getting but not in the levels that you saw in the past years, because we are concluding those projects. As for the cash, we have – all the cash you see in the balance sheet, Ps. 9.4 billion is related to the Concessions segment. So, total cash of ICA is Ps. 13.4 billion. So, roughly it would be like two-thirds of the cash is tied to Concessions.

Thanks. And second question, you're – as one of the previous analysts pointed out, your Housing Construction business isn't performing particularly well. A lot of the large homebuilders that have debt and equity in the market that we all follow seem to be executing fairly well, although on a free cash flow basis because the working capital investments are not generating free cash flow. But their operating metrics seem to be working at a much higher level than yours. Could you explain – is it because you lack scale? Is it – could you just give us a little bit of color, the relative performance of your Housing Construction versus the main established home developers in Mexico? Could you give us a bit of color on that please?

Certainly. In the Housing business, we have a – say, somehow different to some of the largest peers. On the one hand, obviously we don't have the scale and that's a good part of the answer to your question. We don't have as many projects maturing or as many projects that we can take advantage of the economies of scale. The second part of it is that we are developing vertical projects. We're having a couple of projects already. One has already started sales. It is in Reforma. It is Reforma 27 in the city center, and it's going to start generating cash in the third quarter. And that will improve – sorry, in the fourth quarter.

That will improve our mix of projects since the low-income housing is really suffering not only from the Infonavit delay or lack of funds but also from the market – the crisis is filling, and the previous growth that we anticipated in certain of our areas like Ciudad Juárez, for example, is not there now. We have some issues particularly in that area and in some more areas related to the expected growth. So it's – on the downside, we have the situation of the housing market in general and the scale. But on the upside, in the following quarter, in the next couple of quarters, we will see an improvement due to these vertical projects that we're already starting to sell.

Thanks for that additional color. If your Housing Construction division doesn't start generating a return on equity, return on invested capital somewhere in the neighborhood that the larger – your larger competitors are generating, would you consider selling that division to someone that has the skill to possibly extract greater value from it?

Well, surely that's one of the things we are evaluating, whether our Housing unit is going to have the scale or not. And if we decide or we see that it is not, then we will have to take another decision.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Vivian Salomón with Itaú. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Thank you for the call. I just wanted to – if you could clarify for us why would the two sales – the gain of sale, if it could be operating model. I don't know if you have already mentioned this. But can you please clarify why the two RCO PPP highways were booked at the EBITDA level? Thank you.

I'm very sorry, Vivian. I – somehow, the line is not working well. I couldn't understand the question. Could you repeat it, please?

Yeah. Is this better? I just – if you could clarify for us why was there two sale of the RCO PPP highway booked at the EBITDA level?

Okay. Yeah, all right. So, the – under IFRS, there are I think four criteria for qualifying something as a discontinued operation. Those four criteria is, one, if you close a major line of business; two, if you are closing any geographical incidence area; three was...

The scale.

The scale, correct. And then in – on those, Corredor Sur clearly matched the first two criteria. We were actually doing the Concessions business from a geographical area and it was a major business. So, the other two projects did not match those criteria. It was not a major business. They were – they remain within the geographical location, and therefore, the – we consulted this with the other industries doing that and they said that this was – it has to be done.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Celina Merrill with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Thank you for the call. One is, if you can provide further information regarding your working capital lines that you mentioned for the upcoming year. Can you provide what your expected ties would be of the incremental lines that are unrelated to specific projects, and in general, what financing rates you would be expecting?

Okay. Thank you, Celina. I will ask Gabriel to come in with this one. But before that, I would say that the latest transaction we did, the bonds and leases were a fixed rate of 10.10% nominal rate for 21 years. So that was a very good call. And we have a number of working capital lines with banks here in Mexico and outside. Gabriel, could you complement this, please?

Certainly. We have a short-term debt, which is related to the Construction division, basically the working capital lines. We are oscillating between a number of Ps. 3 billion and Ps. 3.5 billion. We believe that this number will be maintained. As Victor mentioned, in getting near the election periods, many of these things get accelerated and we might see some increases in this number. But it will be marginal. We do not see this number increasing over Ps. 4 billion. And the financing rates we're getting here are pretty much market. We have seen some increases in the margins, but these have been offset by the decrease in the reference rates. We expect in the short-term that maybe the Mexico's Fed will lower these reference rates roughly. So, banks have and even the markets have also been working towards this. The change is not material, so we really think that the profile is going to be maintained throughout this month.

Okay, that's great information. Thank you. And my last question was regarding your share repurchase program. What, if any, is the amount that you expect to spend on the share repurchases during the rest of the year? And could you provide us maybe a little bit of guidance there for 2012?

Okay. Well, the Shareholders Meeting allows us to go for a reserve of up to Ps. 1 billion. We're approaching that number. If we see the opportunity to go beyond that number, we will have to go to the Shareholders Meeting and call for a new one and keep repurchasing. But as for today, we're approaching the limit and we will evaluate whether to do a new one or not.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Francisco Suarez with HSBC. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning. Congrats on the results. If I may, can you give us a little bit of color on the amendment that you signed with Del Mayab tollroad? Specifically, my question relates with is this amendment neutral in terms of IRR? Or in other words, does the Ps. 1.9 billion provisional investment is actually compensated by the extension of the concession?

It is, completely.

Great, thank you very much. And also, if I may, a follow up on Housing. And it seems that changes in regulation and so forth has really make it difficult for us to get a sense of the quality on the land bank among home-builders. So my questions here is that given the size of your land bank, do you have an overall assessment of the quality on the land bank in terms of – if these pieces of land bank might be actually – might get access to the pool of subsidies and incentives that the government is actually doing right now? In other words, my question relates with the possible divestiture of land bank or asset stores to monetize those assets even if you are not able to spin-off the whole unit or sell the whole division.

Pardon me. We're experiencing some technical difficulties right now. The conference will resume shortly. Thank you. One moment.

Okay.

Okay. Please continue.

All right. Sorry for that. Can you hear us now?

Yes.

Okay. Sorry.

Yeah.

Some interruption there. But I was telling you that actually what we got is this extension, 2050, the construction of this new – the new segment is Ps. 1.9 billion as you mentioned. Just to give you an idea, this road right now is producing around Ps. 400 million to Ps. 500 million every year of EBITDA.

Okay.

So, we're getting next 40 years of this number which more or less gives you an idea of the – I mean the – it's not only is more than enough to finish the construction of this, but it's also improving the IRR and the targets we have for this road. And it will eventually make us able to do a much better financing plan for the road to really access this IRR in this one or the better. So it's...

Oh.

It's a very good improvement. Actually, it provides a lot of value.

Okay. So if I understood correctly, actually, it is not IRR neutral. It is actually positive for you.

Yes.

Yeah, okay, great.

There have been some traffic reductions due to the – you know, the swine flu and stuff that happened over there in Cancún over the last year. So, it hasn't been able to service it debt, et cetera with the EBITDA generation it's providing. About this number, it will certainly be improved in the following months or even better in the following years.

Great.

Yes, adding on that, Francisco. Actually, the concessions operations management really is about how can you improve your IRR when it is open. In the case of Corredor Sur, it was open, it's a continuous exercise to open access and to open exit to the tunnels to attract new traffic. In the case of Del Mayab, as you are aware, all or most of the supplies and logistics take place in the

Yucatán Peninsula by roads. Actually, we don't have a regular port in that Peninsula.

Yeah.

So this is opening – this is an extension going to the high – more quickly or the faster-developing area in the Yucatán Peninsula. So we see this as a very good opportunity, and our job is to keep it improving this package. [indiscernible] (57:27).

No, that's great. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry I think that we got disconnected. And my second question is related with the follow-up on Housing and related with the fact of the potential divestitures in your land that you might take in the case if you don't sell the whole division or if you're not spinning off the whole division. You have a large sizable area of land bank, but now we have noticed trouble a lot to get a sense of how the quality of land bank is at among all homebuilders because of the recent changes in regulation in Mexico. So my question relates with how likely that this huge reserve of land bank that you have might be actually also another way to monetize those assets and to actually provide you more liquidity?

That is – there's a possibility there. However, in the present market, selling that amount of land in one shot, I guess, would not be the better thing for getting a good price. We're selling on a case-by-case basis. That, we're doing. We're making liquid, so we are not – all the support for the company is organic. So, they are generating their own resources to keep growth and to keep investment in place even if they have to sell land. We're not making any new land purchases and [indiscernible] (58:59) awfully quick. Having said that, I think that we have – we think that it would be – give more value if we do something as a whole would be weaker than selling it by parts. It would take longer if we do that to get the prices.

Yeah. So in other words that there is no rush to sell assets, isn't it? This is sort of the message here as well, isn't it?

That is correct.

Okay. And lastly if I may and I apologize because I got disconnected. Perhaps you talk about it. Can you share with us the amount of EBITDA that Corredor Sur was doing the level from EBITDA?

Last year?

Yeah.

Or this year? It was roughly $40 million.

$40 million? Okay, thank you.

$40 million, yes.

Congrats again.

Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Vanessa Quiroga with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Thank you. My question is regarding RCO again. Do you see a trigger for RCO doing an IPO? Would you expect to wait until RCO has capacity to do such a monetization of these investments or what would be the trigger? Then also I'm not sure if you updated guidance in terms of EBITDA for the full-year for ICA following your most recent transactions. Thanks.

Thank you. Thank you, Vanessa. The – regarding the first question, the first trigger is to – before thinking on an IPO, we have to think about the restructuring of the debt. That would be resources for making a successful – a more successful IPO, I guess. And so there's no specific agreement on that, and what we are looking for is to go for the restructuring and improve the margin as we said. As for the guidance of EBITDA, we are sustaining the 16% EBITDA target, even though we have sold Corredor Sur.

Victor, thanks. And regarding your strategy, I mean of the portfolio that you're managing, do you have a minimum EBITDA generation that you want to maintain from concessions, or at a good price, you would be willing to monetize all of them as soon as they become operational and keep basically a construction operation?

That's definitely a good question Vanessa. It goes into the heart of the strategy of the company. The idea primarily behind our investment in concession is that it was construction-related and did it to balance the jumps in construction that come every six-year period, which is actually going to happen next year.

Having said that, we are considering to keep a substantial investment in concessions for the following years. It is very difficult to see these projects in the ramp-up period being sold at a good price. If we were going to sell something, it will be something that is much more mature, let's say [indiscernible] (1:02:30) for example. That's an asset that is already mature. And if there's a good price for that, then that will operate on our lead. And it will provide enough resources to cover whatever needs that we'll have at that point in time. So, this portfolio management is going to be an active...

Endeavor.

Endeavor. We're going to keep managing the portfolio and maybe exiting some small operation and entering things like the Del Mayab extension project. So, this is going to be going on a case-by-case basis. But as an overall strategy, we're seeking certainly to have an infrastructure arm strong enough to compensate the construction. You can have in and out, but in general, we're still thinking in having that at the time.

Okay. But you wouldn't be able to give a specific EBITDA amount that you think is appropriate for you to maintain, like Ps. 1 billion of EBITDA or Ps. 800 million?

No, not really. In the strategic terms, we're looking much more in terms of return on invested capital or return on equity. Those are all tariffs.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Please continue with any closing remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for your interest in ICA and for participating in this call. I will have to come quickly through an outlook note that we talked with you before regarding the Industrial Construction. I must say that there was a recognition of fixed price – on our fixed price content of increasing prices. So, part of the improvement in the margin is related to that. That 10% of that increase is related to this project.

And the second one is regarding the question on the stock repurchase program, where we think it's a good time for us to basically focus on the lower book value. And we think that our shareholders share that – join in that we will look forward to more opportunities on increasing the stock repurchase program. Well, then please contact us if you have additional questions that we did not address during the call. And Gabriel, Luz, Iga and myself look forward to seeing you in the near future. Have a good day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.