Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Víctor Humberto Bravo Martín — Chief Financial Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Alonso Quintana Kawage — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Carlos Peyrelongue — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Nikolaj Lippmann — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Javier Gayol — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Pablo Barroso — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Roberto Barba — Analyst, Itaú Corretora de Valores SA (Mexico)
Anne Milne — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Mariela Anguiano — Analyst, BCP Securities
William Eric Ollom — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Nur Cristiani — Head of Research & Strategy, JPMorgan Casa de Bolsa SA de CV

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Therese, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Empresas ICA First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I would now turn the conference over to Víctor Bravo, ICA's Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you, and good morning and thank you for joining us for ICA's first quarter 2014 conference call. With me today are Alonso Quintana, ICA's CEO; Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Investor Relations; and the IR team including Ana Paulina Rubio and Elena Garcia.

We will discuss six topics today: new contract awards, first quarter results, debt management, Mexico's National Infrastructure Program, an update on the Mexico City Metro Line 12 and our outlook for the full year 2014. I will address the first three topics and Alonso will speak on the final three. After this, we will open the call to your questions.

First, new contract awards. We're starting to see an acceleration of the tenders for new public sector projects. In the first quarter, ICA was awarded Ps. 1.1 billion contract for the construction of the General Canal Tunnel in the Chalco Valley in Mexico State. This 7.9 kilometer tunnel is a key piece in the National Water Commission's long-term plan to improve water management in the Mexico City metropolitan area.

We also signed a significant contract in the Industrial Construction area for the Los Ramones Sur gas pipeline. We will provide more information on this contract in the very near future. The new National Infrastructure Program, which Alonso will discuss, is expected to add to the upturn in public sector construction.

In terms of our first quarter results, ICA sustained the trend we have shown over the past several quarters. Adjusted EBITDA reached Ps. 1.6 billion with an EBITDA margin of 19.8%. The positive performance of Concessions and Airports are the main drivers. Traffic volumes on operating highways grew 64%, principally because of an increase in traffic on the Rio de los Remedios and the Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles highway. The Acapulco Tunnel and La Piedad bypass also had good growth.

Airports had a 7% increase in annual traffic volume and continued traffic growth of non-aeronautical revenues. The first quarter marked [ph] 24th (02:59) quarter in a row of growth in non-aeronautical revenues from passengers. At the same time, we sustained backlog in our target range because of the General Canal Tunnel, new San Martin contracts in Peru, in addition to [ph] 15 projects (03:12).

Construction backlog was Ps. 28 billion and the long-term service contracts were another Ps. 6 billion as of March 31. ICA's non-consolidated backlog rose by 70% to Ps. 19 billion, principally because of the Los Ramones Sur gas pipeline.

Looking at the results of our business segments in the first quarter, Construction revenue was Ps. 5.7 billion. The operating margin was 2.7% and the adjusted EBITDA margin reached 7%. These are well above the levels in the first quarter of last year, but we are still below our target. The Avenida Domingo Díaz and the Corredor Norte in Panama and the Mitla-Tehuantepec highway in Oaxaca were the largest sources of revenue.

The Concession business had another good quarter, largely as a result of the growth in traffic volumes I already mentioned. Operating income and adjusted EBITDA rose largely because of the ramp-up of traffic of the operating concessions in the financial and construction revenue from the Rio de los Remedios tollroad and projects under construction. The completion of the sale of the two social infrastructure projects to CGL is on track. We're still waiting for some governmental regulatory approvals.

Airports delivered a 7% increase in total revenues with growth in both aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues. Additional information about Airports operations is included in OMA's earnings report, and I encourage you to consult it.

Looking at ICA's consolidated results, operating income was a solid Ps. 1.1 billion, with a margin of 13.5% and adjusted EBITDA grew 135% to Ps. 1.6 billion with a margin of 19.8%. Improvements in operating results were basically the result of the growth in revenues and a reduction in SG&A expense. Interest expense decreased 12%. However, there was an exchange loss of Ps. 51 million in the first quarter 2014 as compared to an exchange gain of Ps. 842 million in the first quarter of 2013.

The growth of income from non-consolidated affiliates and joint ventures is making a significant contribution to results, and principally, came from ICA Fluor. The Appendix at the end of the earnings report includes supplemental information on all our non-consolidated affiliates and joint ventures.

ICA's consolidated net income was Ps. 237 million in the first quarter, down from Ps. 273 million in the first quarter of 2013. The principal factor was the exchange loss in the first quarter 2014, as compared to an exchange gain in the prior year period, which offset the increase in operating income. The share of net income of the non-controlling interest reflects increased minority shareholding in OMA and the strong performance of OMA and San Martin. [ph]

After report of the foregoing (06:17), there was a net loss of the controlling interest of Ps. 24 million as compared to income of Ps. 164 million in the prior year period.

My third subject is debt. At the beginning of last year, ICA started several initiatives to reduce debt. We have reduced net debt by 14% through the end of 2012, and at the same time, adjusted EBITDA has grown by more than 50%, improving our debt ratios significantly. Compared to last December, first quarter's debt levels were basically flat, but there was a re-composition of debt.

We refinanced a portion of certain Construction segment's debt at the constant level to reduce interest expense. The recycling of assets is a central element of ICA's business strategy and we expect to continue to use the resources from these activities to pay debt and fund as part of our investment requirement in April.

The proceeds from the [ph] El Sur (07:15) transaction in the first quarter were used to repay debt. We also expect to refinance debt from operating projects in order to convert corporate debt into long-term project finances, which will continue improving our financial position.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to ICA's CEO, Alonso Quintana.

Thank you, Víctor, and welcome, everybody.

Yesterday, I had the honor of being with President Enrique Peña Nieto and his cabinet for the launch of the National Infrastructure Program for 2014-2018. The total investment in this program is above $500 billion over the next four years with a mix of public and private investments.

The objectives of the National Infrastructure Program are ambitious and it could boost Mexico's growth rate. According to Finance Secretary, Videgaray, the investment program, together with the structural reforms, will raise the rate of GDP growth by an average of 1.4% per year over the next five years.

The investment program represents a 130% increase over the 2007-2012 plan. The program's top objectives are: to develop a modern transportation and communication infrastructure that will increase competitiveness, productivity, economic development; and to improve the country's energy infrastructure to provide ample energy with quality and at competitive prices.

Transportation and communication and energy infrastructure projects make up two-thirds of the infrastructure program. These priorities will provide many opportunities for ICA, including highways, rail projects, ports and airports, pipelines, power plants, refineries, among others. The program will also include a revitalization of the housing sector, critical water management and water supply projects and [ph] national (09:27) and tourism infrastructure.

We are confident that ICA will win our fair share of projects over the life of the program. I am also optimistic that we will see the same leadership from the government in executing this plan as we saw last year in enacting the structural reform agenda. This is very good news for our sector and for Mexico.

Now, I will comment on two other subjects this morning: the status of the Metro Line 12 controversy and our outlook for the year 2014. With regard to the Line 12, ICA as part of the construction Consortium that built this line has an immediate goal of working with the government of Mexico City and the Metro to reestablish service on the 11 stations that were closed in March, and this we will do as quickly as possible.

The Consortium's part of the Line 12 was delivered in July 2012. It was fully certified as to quality and meeting contract and industry standards. As we have proven many times during our 67-year history, ICA is ready to contribute to solutions that benefit the people of Mexico.

In addition to the closure issue, the construction Consortium also has claims against the client for payments of additional work that was done at the client's request and that was outside the initial Line 12 contract scope. Any material development related to this project will be communicated by the Consortium and ICA when they occur.

Turning to our outlook for the full year 2014, ICA expects that full year 2014 revenues will increase an estimated 10% to 12% above 2013. We expect Concessions and Airports to be the growth drivers in 2014. The Concessions business will benefit from the continued ramp-up of traffic of the five operating tollroad. In addition, the El Realito and Agua Prieta water projects and the Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlan highway start operations this year.

The Airports segment is benefiting from solid passenger traffic volume growth aided by the opening of new routes. Those are commercial and diversification initiatives. Construction revenue is expected to recover gradually. Our international operations are likely to make important contributions to growth. New major project wins from the National Infrastructure Program are likely to be more important for results in the coming years, 2015 and later this year.

ICA expects to generate an adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of 14% to 16% or approximately the same level as 2012 and 2013. We also expect to continue to recycle mature assets to provide resources for required investments and debt reduction. As we mentioned, ICA has reduced debt and improved debt ratios significantly since 2012. The start of new construction projects means that debt is likely to remain near current levels through the end of 2014, and we expect to continue to improve our leverage and debt coverage ratios in both the short and medium term.

This outlook is also based on signing new Construction contracts and Concession agreements, completing financing for projects that require financing, timing of the delivery of rights of way and required permits for projects, investments in several projects and divestments of others and general economic and financial conditions in Mexico and key markets in Latin America, among others.

Last year, we demonstrated our resilience with our ability to increase EBITDA, even in an environment of relative scarcity of new contract awards in Mexico. This is changing now. I am confident that ICA will have a positive 2014. Our first quarter results are solid, and we have a strong underlying revenue and EBITDA generation dynamic. As new projects are put out to bid, we expect to be able to generate the financing required through a combination of internal cash flow and recycling of capital from assets in our portfolio management.

Now, let me turn the call back to Víctor.

Thank you, Alonso. This concludes our prepared remarks, and we will now be pleased to address your questions. Operator, could you please open the call to questions?

Sure. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Carlos Peyrelongue with Bank of America.

Thank you. Thank you for the call, gentlemen, and congratulations on the strong results. My question is related to margins. We saw, as you mentioned, a very important pickup in margins across the board, but to that that I would like to ask on our Concessions and the Airports.

On Concessions, a very important increase on a year-over-year basis with EBITDA margin of 56%. My question is, do you expect that margin to be maintained over the year, around the 55% or 56% level? Or can you provide some visibility as to what your expectations are on margins on this division?

And the same question for Airports; also an important pickup on a year-over-year basis. Last quarter, on the Airports, you have I believe some one-off that impacted margins, but now margins are back to the 51% level. So can you comment also as to, do you see margins around 50%, 52%? Where do you see margins? Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Carlos. Well certainly, we look that the Concessions margins will remain in the same range between 50% and 55%. The only thing that would change is that we're going to open three new projects, and that may affect to keep in maybe lower part of that range, 50%, 55%. But in general, that should be exchanged for just this.

As for the Airports, they are going to remain in the levels that you see now. You know that our business has scaled and as long as traffic continues increasing, we should be looking for improvement in the margins in that area.

And so, Víctor, a follow-up on this, if I may; I look at your Construction margins around 7%. Assuming that those remain, even if the percentage of revenues that comes from Construction increases materially going forward, when we run the numbers into our model, the margins we get are 17%, 18%, and your guidance is 14% to 16% when the first quarter EBITDA margin is at 20%. So am I missing something here? Or do you think it's conservative, the 14% to 16% range on full year EBITDA margin?

Yeah. You know it depends a lot on also new projects that are coming online, which we have no visibility so far. Therefore, you should not expect that the margin in Construction remain at that high level that we've seen in this quarter. So in general, we are very confident that we can get the 14% to 16% guidance, and if we do better, then that will be good news for everyone.

Okay. Understood. So it is the expenditures that you might have to incur to win more projects and more expenditures on the Construction that could put some pressure on margins versus the first quarter? Is that correct?

That, but also we don't know how the margins are going to be in new projects that we are going to be awarded [indiscernible] (18:09).

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Nikolaj Lippmann with Morgan Stanley.

Hi. I think that's probably me. Nikolaj Lippmann from Morgan Stanley. Thanks for taking my questions and congratulations on the improvements. I have three questions. First, could you help us out with the cash component of the infrastructure EBITDA for the quarter, potentially also what you expect for the full year? That's question number one.

Question number two has to do with Rio de los Remedios. There's a big difference; you grow traffic by 60% or so or more than that. Your revenue grows by less and EBITDA goes down. Can you help us how to forecast Rio de los Remedios, because that does become an increasingly important, I can say, concession?

And finally, I was wondering in terms of your asset sales, we saw that you're selling Urbana Sur this quarter. Can you comment on the valuation? And also can you comment on whether you're a buyer or seller of Nuevo Necaxa? That's it. Thanks.

Hello, Nikolaj. This is Alonso Quintana. So in general, the more we – under the current accounting rules, the more mature the asset, the more percentage of cash EBITDA you will have. So some of our assets right now are still incurring in non-cash EBITDA, so that's why we estimate that we are around 60% cash EBITDA, because – one of them is precisely Rio de los Remedios like you mentioned.

That contract, you were very good to point out that we'd have grown in traffic, but EBITDA hasn't grown too much. And that is because it's a different type of contract. This is a public finance works. It wasn't established as a concession, but the way we get paid is through, obviously, the traffic revenues. So right now, we are accounting for a bit more of non-cash EBITDA in that project and some other projects that are still in the construction phase. So I don't know if that also answers the Rio de los Remedios question.

And in the Autopista Urbana Sur, the valuation I think it was pretty high. I mean, because the valuation maybe it was like 16 times EBITDA in [ph] El Sur (21:02). I mean, I don't know. It's still ramping up and it's a good concession, so I'm not sure exactly what the multiple was, but maybe it was in the high range because it's still grossing up in terms of maturing in terms of traffic. So it was a good valuation for us.

Got it. Thanks. And can you comment on the asset sales in general, or specifically, on Necaxa, if that's possible? Is that something that why you would be more inclined to be a buyer or more inclined to be a seller?

No, not at this point, Nikolaj. We have to complete it first and that's our goal and then we will look at it, because when you complete it, you have to also [ph] see (21:51) the number of operations and in this case, [ph] El Sur was very good in that (21:55) place.

So I mean it could be a candidate, but not in the very near future.

Got it. Many thanks.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Javier Gayol with GBM.

Hi, Víctor and Alonso. Thank you for taking our questions. I have a couple of questions. The first one would be regarding the holding debt increase that you mentioned. We saw a Ps. 3.9 billion increase in the holding that Nuevo construction that goes down like Ps. 2.3 billion, Ps. 2.2 billion. So could you tell us some color as to what the company uses this increasing holding debt?

I'm sorry. I didn't get the last part of the question, Javier. Could you repeat it?

That's okay. Sorry, Víctor. My question is even if we considered that all the debt you paid in the Construction division came from holding debt, there's still like Ps. 1.7 billion additional. So I want to get a sense of what is ICA using these inflows at a holding level, what's the use of that additional debt?

Well, it was not additional as I mentioned. It was a substitution and the idea is that we are finding it more efficient in terms of cost, in terms of trying to make it up at a [ph] year-to-date level such as (23:35) reducing the cost of debt at the corporate level. There was no news yet and it results in our company's [ph] beat (23:46) for new projects and to be ready for [ph] best place and we can get on that (23:49).

So just to understand, you mentioned it's not [ph] that where so (23:56), just to me it doesn't add up because you can see Construction, it goes down Ps. 2.3 billion and I don't know, the Concession division remains virtually flat and there's a Ps. 3.9 billion quarter-over-quarter increase. So what would be the difference there? Or where could we find that remaining debt? [indiscernible]

(24:31) numbers.

Well, okay, maybe I'll follow-up with you guys on that question, just to keep the conference going. Could you also tell us how was the – you mentioned you expect the debt for the Construction division to remain flat or – well, basically you mentioned every debt should remain flat through the end of the year. I just want to get a sense of is this levels of debt in the Construction division going to be stable even when considering that you guys should expect the Construction division to continue to increase in revenues?

Yes, but we are expecting the Construction division that these debt levels remain around the same as they are today, even if they get new companies. The reason is that now [ph] we're hoping (25:33) much more into collecting revenues, which will also [indiscernible] (25:38).

Okay.

There's not need for Construction to...

Okay. Okay. And just to – for the Concession division, is there any more equity that the company is ready to invest or pending investment in the Concessions division for the CapEx or equity investments on projects under construction?

Well, right now, we would think we will get new concessions. However, the cycle of investment will be heavier in the following years since they award us for this year the [indiscernible] (26:16) the finance of the equity will have an impact [indiscernible] (26:21).

Thank you. Yes, but I was referring to current projects. Is there any further equity investments needed for current projects already awarded to you?

I'm sorry, [ph] Javier. I didn't answer your (26:38) question. Where we are right now around Ps. 900 million to complete [indiscernible] (26:42).

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much, Víctor. Very helpful.

Thank you, Javier.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Pablo Barroso with GBM.

Hi, guys. Thank you for taking my call. I have two questions. The first one is, could you give us more color in the monetization of future assets? And regarding your receivables, do you guys have a timeframe and a breakdown of your collection?

Thank you [indiscernible] (27:17).

And my – oh. [inaudible]

(27:20).

Pardon me?

I will start with the second question. On the timing of receivables, basically it's kind of stable. We are slowly collecting what we are [ph] owned (27:34), and we certainly expect in the year to receive a substantial amount of these receivables. Just to mention, we're getting another $20 million from [indiscernible] (27:46) from CFE there was [indiscernible] (27:50) and it's going to happen in the next few days and so we expect another $50 million for the next two months or three months. That's the only one on which we have the significant [indiscernible] (28:06) amount of the working capital of the operating company.

As for the monetization, we are awaiting for some authorizations and we should be ready to launch the monetization of a couple of our assets in the following couple of months, depending on how fast these authorizations go.

Oh, okay. Thank you. And my second question is related to ICA Fluor. You just won Los Ramones Sur contract, right? Is the company planning to finance this backlog?

Well, that is from the client. That is like...

Could you repeat?

That's from the client.

Okay. And could you tell us more about the structure of contract, please?

We'll make a formal announcement of that project in the next few days. We still don't have permission from the clients and we have to get it together and then we'll have all the information that you're asking.

Okay. Well, thank you, Víctor and Alonso.

Thanks, Pablo.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Roberto Barba with Banco Itaú.

Hi. Good morning, Alonso, Víctor. Congratulations on the results. Just a quick question, I want to know what was the driver behind the large increase in operating service revenues and as well as the increase in the EBITDA margin from that business?

Which business you mean you mentioned?

I mean the operating service revenue, which increased around 85% to Ps.300 million.

Is this Concessions?

Yeah, on the Concession division.

Yes, this company is the one that operates the tollroad in general I think it provides services to companies that [ph] aren't wasting (30:35) ICA [indiscernible] (30:37) or ICA subsidiaries. And therefore, they specialize in collecting tolls in setting up services for the concessioners. And that's the company specialized in operating, yeah. And obviously the new projects come into line and start operating [indiscernible] (30:56).

Okay. And so going forward we could expect similar levels like the ones in this quarter?

Not at this time, because we have had a lot of new projects come into line or new projects that they have been awarded to operate, I would say that this should be that these operating revenues will have a peak in 2014 and then continue [indiscernible] (31:26) operation they will [indiscernible] (31:28).

Okay. Well, very clear. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Anne Milne with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Good morning. My questions relate to the debt structure that you currently have. During your comments, you did mention that you've refinanced I believe some Construction division debt at the corporate level and that you are planning to convert also some corporate debt into long-term project finance debt. I'm wondering if you could please give us sort of an overview of where you expect debt levels to be at the end of the year compared to where they are now and where we might see financing activities, in which divisions during the year a little bit more specifically than this? And particularly if you could comment at where you see the hold co level debt going. Thank you.

Certainly. Thank you, Anne. In a global overview, the trend is that we'll continue adding debt for the Concessions both because we're completing [indiscernible] (32:40) and also because of their financing of [ph] projects there (32:41). So by the end of the year, you should expect a slightly level above of what we have today, but a decrease in the corporate debt and increase in the Concession portion.

Okay. So decrease in Concessions and decrease at the hold co level?

Increase in Concessions and decrease at hold co.

Okay. Very good. And at the Construction level?

At the Construction level, it's [ph] slightly dependent (33:11).

Okay. Very good. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Mariela Anguiano with BCP Securities.

Hi, everyone. Just a quick question. You guys mentioned one of the government program's objectives is to recapitalize the housing sector. Can you please provide an update on your plan for ViveICA?

Hi. Yes, it's so now part of the – so I guess the new thing about the national infrastructure plan is it now includes health, it includes tourism, and it includes housing. And our plans for ViveICA are still to probably find a partner if it's possible. Nevertheless, we are proving that we are in a good position for the new housing plans.

So in other words, before maybe scale was more important and just having a lot of land reserves. Right now, it's more about the quality of the homes and the fact that they are closer to the cities. And those are the type of projects that we have.

So we will continue to grow that business to make it better, make it more attractive. And if it makes sense and there's a partner out there where we can create shareholder value. We will obviously look at it, but right now – I mean it's not something that you can just find immediately, but again, if it makes sense, we will probably do a transaction in the next few years.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes Eric Ollom with Citi.

Yes. Hi. Good morning, everybody, and thank you for the call. My question is just really on a consolidated basis, what sort of free cash flow expectations do you have for 2014, and what sort of CapEx spending budget can you share with us for 2014 as well? Thank you.

Thank you, Eric. Well, the free cash flow, I would say that the cash, the EBITDA would be a good indicator. If you recall, we said that 6% there was cash flow, that's a good indicator of what we expect for the year. As for the CapEx, we have commitments of Ps. 900 million in equity that we have [ph] to invest completely (36:10) we have and probably three times that would be the total amount of CapEx on this portfolio. Of the new additions we have [ph] to come and the financing (36:22) for most of those additions will require CapEx for 2015.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from [ph] Miguel Garcia (36:39).

Yes. Hello. Thanks for the call and congratulations on the results. Most of my questions were already answered. I just have one quick one. Do you have an estimate of the IRR from the Avenida-Norte highway? And can you give us a little bit more color on what returns are you looking at for future asset sales? Thanks.

Yes. I think the IRR for – it was Urbana Sur, if we would take only the investment, then it would probably be at around 10% or 11%. But the fact that we built all of the project and also the profit coming from the construction which is part of our business model, that would raise the [ph] double rate (37:41) around 16% or 17% on Urbana Sur.

As for the return for future asset sales, we're still looking for 15% nominal IRR. Probably that's based on the risk profile of the project that could be placed at 19% of IRR or 10% IRR risk profile. We have seen some employees are having [ph] set up for being processed (38:07) and we have just now to participate we don't reach our expected IRR. So that's how we look at it.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Nur Cristiani with JPMorgan.

Thank you, everyone. Thanks for the call. My question is regarding short-term debt. According to the release, you have around Ps. 8 billion in maturities for this year. Do you have any color on how you're planning to tackle these maturities? Are you planning on tapping equity markets or refinancing through that?

Yes. Thank you. It's Ps. 9 billion. That's further starting to turn that debt into the recycling portion of debt that we're planning to do and put into Concessions. And the rest will be working capital we will keep from rolling over. And obviously, as much as we can use our asset sales to reduce debt, that will be another component to this.

Thanks.

You're welcome.

Thank you. I was referring more to corporate debt.

Sure. The portion of that is to be converted in Concessions debt.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Javier Gayol with GBM. Your line is open.

Hi. Yes, I have a follow-up question. Sorry. My question is regarding what you guys answered about the operating services revenue. Does this have anything to do with penitentiaries or with any other new project, because the 85% increase in revenues, it's quite important? And the margin expansion also, could you comment further on that?

Yes, it does include our operating company here in Mexico [indiscernible] (40:40). It includes capacity for Panama, which operates two [indiscernible] (40:47) Corredor Sur and Corredor Norte. It also includes the penitentiary operations. That's what I meant when I say that that company provides services to Concession holders.

So – and this is – this Ps. 158 million in EBITDA, is this cash EBITDA?

Yes. That's completely cash EBITDA.

And you do expect this to be recurrent?

Yes. Yes, of course. Well, we sell the [ph] prisons we share in (41:22) part of that. In general terms, whenever you see that, those revenues will continue increasing.

Okay. Thank you. Thanks for the question.

Thank you.

Thank you. We are showing no more questions. I will now turn the call back to Víctor Bravo for final remarks.

All right. Thank you, everyone. Thank you for attending the conference call and [indiscernible] (41:57) if you have additional questions that we did not address in this call, Gabriel, Paulina, Elena and myself look forward to seeing you in the near future. Have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. That does conclude the conference.