Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Víctor Humberto Bravo Martín — Chief Financial Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Carlos Peyrelongue — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Javier Gayol — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Roberto Barba — Analyst, Itaú Corretora de Valores SA (Mexico)
Pablo Monsivais — Analyst, Barclays Capital Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Pablo Barroso — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Jacob A. Steinfeld — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Francisco Chávez Martínez — Analyst, Casa de Bolsa BBVA Bancomer SA de CV
Anne Milne — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Juan Ignacio Guzmán — Analyst, Vinci Zafferano Capital (UK) LLP
Manuel Ramos — Analyst, Credit Suisse
Eduardo J. Simpson — Analyst, Taplin, Canida & Habacht LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Phyllis, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Empresas ICA Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Your host for this morning is Victor Bravo, Chief Financial Officer of Empresas ICA.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us for ICA's fourth quarter 2014 conference call. With me today are Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Investor Relations, and the IR team, including Elena Garcia and Gabriela Orozco.

I will start by discussing the highlights of our fourth quarter and full year results. Then I will provide a perspective on the current year and our outlook for 2015. After that, we will be pleased to answer your questions.

The main elements of the year can be summarized in three points. Strong operating performance with solid generation of adjusted EBITDA. All three lines of business contributed significantly to this performance. From an operating results point of view, 2014 was the second best in ICA's history, second only to 2012.

Second, major additions to backlog, both for ICA Construction and ICA Fluor during the quarter. These awards make us confident that we will continue to grow over the coming quarters. Third, the negative impact of the peso depreciation particularly in the fourth quarter. These resulted, in large, non-cash exchange losses and consolidated net losses for the quarter and the full year, and also there was improvement in our leverage indicators over the past several quarters. Let me address each of these points.

First, our operating performance. ICA exceeded our guidance for both revenue and adjusted EBITDA. Total consolidated revenue grew 24% to MXN 37 billion, almost doubling our guidance from 12% to 15%. Adjusted EBITDA grew 30% to MXN 6.1 billion with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 16.7%. This was also above our guidance of 14% to 16%. All three lines of business contributed to the success.

The construction sector finally started to recover in Mexico, and our Construction revenues took off, showing the kind of performance we had originally expected in the second half of 2013. Construction revenue increased 24% in 2014. In Mexico, the major contributors have been the two large highway projects in Oaxaca. Major project awards during 2014 will only start contributing to results this year.

The International unit is also making a significant contribution to Construction segment growth with projects ranging from the Santiago Metro in Chile to the pipeline maintenance in Colombia. Overall, Construction contributed with 80% of revenues and 36% of adjusted EBITDA.

The Concessions business recorded a 10% increase in revenues in the fourth quarter and 21% for the year. The highways are maturing and generating significant increases in traffic volumes. For the 12 months, traffic on the five operating highways rose 28%, led by the Río Verde-Ciudad Valles and Rio de los Remedios highways. The new branch of the Mayab toll road was partially opened in September and completely opened in December. Despite only being operational for a part of the fourth quarter, Mayab generated a 14% increase in revenues.

Concessions adjusted EBITDA rose 11% for the full year. It decreased in the fourth quarter only because of the sale of land development rights in Panama related to the Corredor Sur in 2013. In addition, we completed the testing processes for the [indiscernible] (04:18) plant and the El Realito aqueduct in the fourth quarter. Both of these concessions will be fully operational in the first quarter of 2015, totally increasing ICA's portfolio of operational infrastructure assets.

The Airports business continues to exceed expectations for growth in traffic volumes, revenues and generation of free cash flow. During the full year, OMA's airports had a net increase of 46 new routes, including 13 in the fourth quarter. This is a major expansion of our airports connectivity. Passenger traffic rose 11% for the full year, reaching a new record in aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues, each increased 12%. Adjusted EBITDA rose 78% in the quarter and 28% in the full year.

The performance of these three business segments resulted in a 25% increase in consolidated operating income for the fourth quarter and 40% for the full year. Management has invested significant resources in improving the efficiency of our operations. The new SAP platform went live in October and the new shared services center is getting staffed.

As a result of our cost control and efficiency programs, SG&A was held to a 2% increase for the year. The increase was larger in the fourth quarter because of [ph] meeting (05:39) expenses and severance payments [indiscernible] (05:42).

Income from non-consolidated affiliates and joint ventures reached MXN 549 million in the full year, an increase of 57%. As detailed in the appendix to the earnings report, the non-consolidated construction affiliates principally ICA Fluor had a 20% increase in full-year revenues and a 9% increase in the fourth quarter. In other words, ICA Fluor is in the early stages of a mega ramp up of its activities.

My second topic is the major new contract awards and increased backlog. This growth in backlog provides a solid foundation for continuing ICA's growth performance in 2015 and beyond. In the fourth quarter ICA added MXN 9.1 billion in consolidated construction contracts to backlog and MXN 26.8 billion in non-consolidated contracts principally for ICA Fluor. In the Construction segment, the main new contracts were for the Santa Maria dam, Churubusco – Xochiaca water tunnel, Mexico – Toluca railway tunnel and the Veracruz High Technology Center for Pemex.

The major new ICA Fluor contracts include the coker plant for Tula Refinery, the fabrication of well pads for Shell Canada, and the Madero Refinery diesel hydrodesulfurization contract. It is likely that some of the Pemex contracts will be delayed or cancelled as a result of the government's budget cuts. To-date, we have not received any notification from the kind. Management believes that those budget cuts could reduce the rate of growth, but will not affect growth itself. As a result, total construction backlog reached MXN 35.5 billion as of December 31, equivalent to 18 months of work at average 2014 rates.

ICA's non-consolidated backlog reached MXN 44 billion, of which ICA's proportionate share was MXN 21.2 billion. Long-term mining service contracts were another MXN 5.1 billion as of December 31. Taking a broad view on our backlog, including our share of non-consolidated projects and affiliates and joint ventures in the long-term mining contracts of San Martin, our comprehensive backlog reached MXN 56.7 billion plus MXN 5.1 billion in Mining Services, the highest in our history.

My third topic is the impact of the depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar, particularly in the fourth quarter. The resulting expense losses, which are non-cash charges offset the strong performance of our consolidated and non-consolidated businesses.

In addition, full year financial expense includes the cost of terminating the interest rate hedges on the La Piedad Bypass and Río Verde-Ciudad Valles financing, which were financed in the third quarter, and the yearly payment cost for the tender offer on 2017 due notes realized in the second quarter. As a result of the exchange losses, ICA's consolidated net loss was MXN 1.8 billion in the full quarter and MXN 2.1 billion for 2014.

The peso depreciation also had a significant impact on the valuation of our foreign currency debt and therefore on our leverage ratios. As of December, net to adjusted EBITDA rose to 7.6 times compared to 7.0 times as of December 31, 2013. The currency depreciation which could continue to affect our result in 2015 present a negative challenge to management's efforts to stabilize and improve ICA's debt levels. We'll remain committed to reduce our leverage ratio to our target of five times, but perhaps over somewhat longer timeframe than we previously targeted.

Let me also note that our agreement with CGL to sell a 70% stake of our two social infrastructure projects did not get governmental approval and expired in November. We may consider to sell a portion of our participation this year. Accordingly, we're keeping these projects classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financials.

Before moving to our outlook for 2015, there are two other points to address: deferred taxes and the Metro Line 12. First on taxes, there were some stories in the press late last year regarding the illegal claims for tax deconsolidation. ICA can confirm that we have been making payments according to the schedule that was agreed upon, which has not undergone any changes.

Furthermore, we have a series of legal claims related to other tax deconsolidation issues. If the court eventually rules against us, it will have no impact on our cash flow. If on the other hand our legal claims are successful, we will equate deferred taxes already paid with a positive impact on cash flows.

Second, on Line 12, ICA as a member of the civil construction consortium and the consortium's technical teams have made great progress in developing solutions for our client. At the same time, we have taken the appropriate steps to protect our legal interests. For now, ICA can't provide specific timing for a legal conclusion.

Turning to our 2015 outlook. Let me start by noting that we begin the year with a great deal of momentum. This is clear from our fourth quarter results. Our plan is to continue on this path in 2015 and we are on a solid track to continue to generate top line growth and increases in adjusted EBITDA. At the same time, the environment we're working has clearly changed since we held the ICA Day in November, and even since the beginning of the year. Our business plan needs to take this into account.

The three most important factors that affect ICA are the fall in the price of oil, the spending cut announced by the Mexican government last month, and the uncertainties in the global financial markets, which are reflected in the depreciation of the peso. In light of these developments, ICA is adjusting its business plan and taking firm steps to keep our company solid and to strengthen our financial positions. We are making some organizational changes to increase client focus and streamline operations.

Second, we are accelerating the monetization of our assets and will prioritize the repayment of debt. Management is committed to reduce leverage from the current levels of 7.6 times. We expect some of the improvement to come from organic growth in revenue and EBITDA, but monetization of assets will also play a key role to accelerate the process. Monetization could include the sale of minority interests or controlling interests in operating concessions. These positions are [ph] underutilized (12:25) assets including real estate and/or refinancing of operating concessions to release capital.

Management's resource generation target for this capital recycling is MXN 5 billion in 2015. This is an ambitious but achievable target. To put this in perspective, over the past three years we have generated MXN 17 billion through asset recycles. We're not simply selling assets, we're refinancing them and seeking partnerships that would allow ICA to develop more products. Even with these potential transactions, we expect to have a substantial portfolio of concessions in operation and under development at the end of the year.

The monetization proceeds will be used first to ensure working capital for ongoing and new projects, second to pay debt, and third to provide capital for new long-term investments. The large majority of the proceeds will be used to pay debt.

I also want to remind you that our ongoing operations also generate substantial cash flow to the holding, which will be available to repay principal after meeting corporate and debt service expenses.

Let me summarize our parameters for the current year. First, we expect to continue to grow, though more slowly than 2014. Second, we will reduce our expense ratios. Third, we will accelerate the monetization of assets. And finally, we will prioritize debt repayment and the improvement of our leverage ratios.

In terms of the quantitative outlook for 2015, ICA expects that revenues will increase by 10% to 12% in 2015 with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 14% to 16% excluding one-time gains or losses. This outlook is supported by the company's substantial backlog of projects and international businesses. ICA also expects to generate growth proceeds from asset monetizations of at least MXN 5 billion in 2015. Most resources will be assigned to debt reduction.

It is important to mention that this outlook is based on current exchange rate levels, timetables for project execution and the pipeline of potential projects in Mexico and abroad. Numerous factors including changes in the overall economic environment, delays in project execution, delays in completing asset sales or inability to contract required financing among others could affect this outlook.

ICA has built a solid foundation over the past several years and we are ready to confront the challenging environment that we see in 2015. Through our 68-year history, we have faced many difficult situations and emerged stronger each time. I am confident that we will succeed this time as well.

This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we are now ready to open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Carlos Peyrelongue with Merrill Lynch.

Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for the call. Two questions for Victor, if I may. First one related to the second phase of the Tula Refinery. Has there been any contracts with Pemex with regards to the potential of canceling the project? They mentioned they wanted to cancel projects related to refinery and clean fuels. Is there any news on that front, would be appreciated. And the second related to your cost reductions, you mentioned that you are planning cost reductions. Are there any numbers that you could provide in terms of targets to reduce costs, improve margins? Anything would be appreciated. Thank you.

All right. Thank you, Carlos. First on the first question, yes, we have been aware of this on the news and on the government declarations of the reduction of CapEx. However, we have not received any particular indication of cancellations or delays in the projects that we have already signed. We expect, as we mentioned in the press release that maybe these cancellations or these delays in investments could be referred to new projects or that other projects that we're looking forward to. But at the present time, we have no news and we are moving ahead as we are expecting to proceed with these projects.

As for cost reductions, what we're planning is to keep the SG&A basically around the same levels as you are having them in 2014. That means the containment is related mostly to the growth in revenues that will bring about growth in the SG&A. So right now, around on the level of 8% would be a good target for us in terms of SG&A.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Javier Gayol with GBM.

Hi, Victor. Thank you for the call. I have a couple of questions. I just wanted to understand better regarding the holding debt. We saw a MXN 3 billion increase quarter-over-quarter in this line and according to our numbers, roughly MXN 1.5 billion of this is explained by the Mexican peso devaluation. So could you tell us to which projects was the balance invested?

Certainly, Javier. The total increase of the debt in [indiscernible] (18:21), in excess of 20% in the year was due to the corporate, around 45% was related to Concessions and Airports, and the rest was in the corporate. And the corporate took this debt in order to complete the projects. Last year, as you heard, we completed the Mayab and we completed two water projects that are going to start operations in the first quarter of this year. So most of it was allotted to projects and...

Okay.

And obviously the FX had an impact on [ph] the total (18:55).

Okay. That's very helpful, Victor. And just a follow-up on that. You mentioned in your press release, you [ph] only had under (19:04) something like MXN 5.2 billion CapEx on the quarter. I just wanted to get an understanding of how much of this was equity investments and how much was debt related?

Right. So that's roughly 30% of that, Javier, was equity.

Oh, okay. And just a final question from my side. Could you give us a guidance for 2015? How much pending equity do you have to invest, do you know, in order to finalize the projects that you already have, the Apaseo-Palmillas and some of other projects that are on an earlier stage? Could you tell us how much equity are you guys planning to invest in 2015?

Certainly. We are expecting to invest MXN 2.5 billion in equity.

Okay.

Already [indiscernible] (20:06).

Thank you.

All right. Thank you.

That will be for the whole 2015, right?

Yes, it's for the full year. I mean, the thing is that clearly we are in a lower type of investment is [ph] we're completing most of our projects (20:22) by now.

Okay. That's very helpful, Victor. Thank you for the call.

Thank you, Javier.

Your next question comes from the line of Roberto Barba with Itaú BBA.

Hi, Victor. Thanks for the call. I just wanted to see if you can provide some detail on the operating service revenue and EBITDA line in the Concessions division? I mean what are the main drivers behind this line? Where do we see negative contribution from EBITDA? And what can we expect going forward?

All right. Thank you, Roberto. Well, this operating line item includes all the operations of the company that we have to operate all our concessions. That includes toll roads, that includes the prisons and so on. So this is basically a line item for pure operational revenues. What happens was that in last year we sold the rights to fill part of the bay in Panama to create an island. So those revenues in 2015 were one-time items. So this year you can see a decrease but because of that, otherwise the revenues of these operational company are increasing given the fact that we are opening more projects.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Pablo Monsivais with Barclays.

Hi, guys. Thanks for the call. I have one quick question if I may. Why your cost of debt increased to 13% in the fourth quarter, coming from 9.1% in 3Q 2014?

Yes. What you calculated as 13% was the calculation of the some of the payments we have to do in some derivative instrument that were related to some refinancing that we did on projects, but this calculations is for the full year.

Okay.

Included also, for the full year included not only this unwinding of the derivatives, it included also the premium we had to pay to retire part of the bond that we retired around May or June of last year.

Perfect. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Pablo Barroso with GBM.

Hi, Victor and Elena. Thank you for the call. I have a couple of questions? The first one, in term of dividend collected from non-consolidator subsidiary, there's some 80% year-over-year decrease. Can you give us more information related to this decrease?

No. It wasn't necessarily [ph] a swing (23:41) on dividends. I think it was related to the result of one of the payments of the associates, [indiscernible] (23:53).

Could you repeat that, Victor? Because I didn't hear anything.

See, Pablo – sorry, it was not due to a decrease in dividend payments. Actually all the dividends of last year were about the same and we may need to come back to you on this because it have to be related to some adjustment of results of one the subsidiaries, but was nothing as a decrease in dividend payments.

Okay. On which subsidiary was the adjustment, Victor?

I'm not sure at this point in time which one, but [ph] I will come back on that very soon (24:44). Okay?

Okay. Regarding this question, how much were for the regular dividends?

Well, usually the most improvement one in this line item is our dividends coming from ICA Fluor, but each year, not reflected only the dividends. Here are all the results from all the subsidiaries that we have not only the dividend payments. So the most relevant here would be usually ICA Fluor with, let's say, at least half of that result or more.

Okay. Thank you, Victor. My next question is regarding the monetization of assets. In order to achieve the MXN 5 billion, are you see a viable option additional stake in OMA, serving an additional stake in OMA?

Well, the MXN 5 million that we have considered are not considering OMA at this point in time.

Can you give us more color in which concessions could you be selling?

Well, as we mentioned before, it could be some of the operating assets, remember that we have something like toll roads that we have been doing that with the prisons and also some minority stakes or even real estate assets.

Okay. Thank you. And could you give us an update on Monterrey Aqueduct VI project?

Certainly. So far we are proceeding as we have signed a contract with our client, and we are now proceeding with all the studies and all the financing arrangements to make this project possible. So we're moving ahead and well, as we have signed a contract we have the commitment to make that a project that is going to be executed.

Okay. And do you know how much roughly – how much will be equity to invest in the project?

Yes. The project is around MXN 17 million, and equity is around – it's going to be – for us it's going to be around MXN 1 billion.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you, Victor and Elena [indiscernible] (27:27). Thank you very much.

Now. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jacob Steinfeld with JPMorgan.

Thanks very much for the call. So I had a quick question on free cash flow. So you reported pretty strong operating results, pretty good revenue and EBITDA growth in 4Q in 2014, but net debt was up by MXN 6.3 billion in 4Q and MXN 13.6 billion in 2014. So I was wondering if you could explain a bit why free cash flow has been so negative while your operating results have been so good?

Thank you. Well, it's something very straightforward. The speed at which we are investing has been higher than the speed at which operational results have come on line. This was a good quarter, as I mentioned in the comments, [ph] probably, it (28:21) has been the best quarter we have had for the last, let's say, eight or more quarters. So the pickup is very good for us and looks – points to a much better outlook for the following quarters. So in terms of comparison between capital niche and growth, there was some mismatch. So for this year we expect smaller equity contribution and faster EBITDA performance.

So what do you expect free cash flow to be in 2015 before assuming any of the MXN 5 billion in potential asset sales? Do you still expect it to be negative? And if so, by how much?

Well, if you recall I said that we are planning to have around MXN 5 billion in asset sales, and we also are having a cash flow from subsidiaries close to MXN 3 billion. So if you add those up and deduct the typical interest payments and the corporate overhead, the corporate overhead should be around MXN 1.5 billion then you have a figure of the cash flow that we might generate.

And what is that number?

Sorry. I missed the – no, we usually don't give outlook on cash flow.

Okay. But do you expect to be positive after cash flow from subsidiaries and the asset sales? Or do you expect to be negative again?

After asset sales, we will be positive, that's correct.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Francisco Chávez of BBVA.

Hi. Thanks for the call. I have a question regarding the CapEx. You mentioned that the equity contribution is going to be around MXN 2.5 billion, could you let us what's going to be the total CapEx figure for this year?

Usually, the CapEx is around 30% equity and 30% debt, so you can make the OpEx calculation and you'll have total CapEx figure.

Okay. A second question will be regarding the outlook for this year. Are you still considering to reach a leverage ratio of five times?

Yeah, well as I mentioned, we were on that track, but obviously the devaluation – depreciation of the peso has delayed that figure. So we might be looking to five times between now and next year at the closest.

Okay. And just a final one, regarding the financial cost, you mentioned that the 13% in the fourth quarter was distorted by some non-recurring events. Can you let us know what will be the normalized current financial cost for the company?

Certainly. It should be around 11%.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Anne Milne with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Good morning. Thank you very much for the call. Several of my questions have been answered. The last one that maybe you could give a little color on is, when you do look at paying down debt with some of the proceeds from your asset sales, how do you look about doing that? Because a lot of your debt is at the operating company level, and sort of is self-liquidating. Then you have the bonds that have fixed maturity dates. Where do you think that will primarily be dedicated? Thank you.

Well, when we sell the assets, usually the shares we sell are from the sub-holding company. So obviously all that cash flow from selling those shares will come up to the holding company. That's how we'll be paying the debt. Is that what you were asking?

Yes. So most of it – so you would try to use debt reduction at the holding company whether it's – I think most of the debt there is bonds. There's very little that's bank debt, I think. I think you mentioned earlier on the call that there was some that was used to complete projects. Usually you try to bring that debt down to the project level at some point afterwards. So I guess, it would be dedicated for bond repayment, the next one of which is in 2017?

Well, we will be doing first before [ph] paying (33:22) the bonds we would do of any short-term debt that corporate has.

Okay. Very good. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Fernando Belden with Bondos Banamex (33:36).

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Two quick questions. First, could you share what was EBITDA from your social infrastructure projects for 2014? And the second one, is there any projects for which we might expect refinancing any time this year?

Could you repeat the second question, please?

Yeah. Sure. Is there any project for which we might expect refinancing that might help your cost of debt to decrease during the year?

Okay. Well, the first one is our EBITDA margin on the social infrastructure projects is in excess of 60%. And as for refinancing for second year, we're not considering any in the short term, no.

What will be the amount of EBITDA from the social infrastructure projects?

It should be around MXN 900 million.

Okay. Thank you.

Each.

For each. Okay. [ph] It's great (34:50). Thanks.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of Ignacio Guzmán with VZ Capital.

Hi. Thanks very much for the call. A couple of questions. The first one is you mentioned the asset sales would be gross numbers MXN 2.5 billion. And you also mentioned that you are not considering selling a stake in OMA. So if we assume that you are selling Concession assets, would it be fair to assume a 60% to 70% debt, a project finance debt on those assets, and hence, the net proceeds would only be 30% to 40% of the sales? The second question is could you explain or give a little more color on what are your committed bank lines? How much do you have and are they actually committed, you can draw down tomorrow if you want, if you need them? And the third one is, could you please confirm that you are in compliance with your covenants and that your bonds are under the [ph] all other (36:08) debt you have in your capital structure. Thanks.

Certainly, Ignacio. Well, the asset sales that you are mentioning, the figure of MXN 5 billion is of the net proceeds that we're expecting perhaps. That means this is only the proceeds – the equity that we are getting back, so you don't have to make calculations. The MXN 5 billion is the net proceeds. The second one is we're not – we're in compliance with all the covenants in all our projects and corporate debt. And third, the committed bank lines as of today are in excess of MXN 5 billion.

MXN 5 billion. Okay. Thanks.

Yeah.

Thank you.

Billion, I said. Sure.

Yeah.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Manuel Ramos with Credit Suisse.

Hi, guys. Good morning. Thank you for the call. I just have some follow-up questions from previous questions. Can you explain again the increase in total debt? You said a part came from corporate, a part came from FX, but can you give the absolute numbers so we know where the absolute increases are coming from? The other question is you mentioned an 11% cost of debt. Can you clarify if that's in pesos or dollars? And last, can you tell us how much in dollars you have in short-term holdco debt?

Okay. Manuel, thank you for the call. Well, the full increases in debt, you can find them in the table of the report. Construction closed in MXN 6 billion, which represents 12%. Concessions MXN 18 billion 35%, Airports close to MXN 5 billion is 9%, and Corporate and other MXN 23.7 billion, which is 44%. As for increases, I believe, you have...

Sorry, Victor. Is that in pesos or dollars?

That is translated into pesos.

Okay.

But obviously most of the debt in dollars is at the holdco.

Got it. And the bond?

Well, the cost of 13% that I mentioned is also translated into pesos. All of that is translated into pesos. So, obviously, we have different rates in dollars and pesos, but this is a blended cost of debt. And as for the short-term debt, $200 million not including the bonds.

$200 million at the holdco level?

That is correct.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Javier Gayol with GBM.

Hi, Victor, and thank – I'm very grateful you allowed me a follow-up question. I just wanted to understand better on the Concession end. We saw a decrease in traffic in Mayab and I understand this is related to the expansion to Playa del Carmen. However, we saw revenues increasing and EBITDA increased. So is this related to changes in tariffs or something? Or is this number that we're looking at has some part of a non-cash item? If so, could you tell us how much of the Mayab highway is cash?

And also in the Rio de los Remedios highway if we look back at 3Q or 2Q we see very, very large differences in revenues and EBITDA. And I just want to understand to get a normalized cash revenue and cash EBITDA for 2015 in this project. And just finally, this is a question regard in the backlog of ICA Fluor. In your press release you're [ph] not (40:32) disclosing the contract of the Ramones in this quarter. Could you tell us the amount of the Ramones pipeline backlog? Thank you.

Thank you, Javier. Well, first on the Mayab traffic. It is related much more to the how the formula of the traffic [indiscernible] (40:58) is calculated. The things that – since we extended the road, that extension leads to a decrease of the average traffic per section. So that's the way it is calculated, but in general terms the opening of these additional kilometers increased the revenues. This is not coming from any construction or any non-cash item. So what you see there is only cash, and it is related mostly to the formula calculation.

So – sorry, Victor, so tariffs remained – do you happen to know the increase in tariff? Do you have it year-over-year?

Not at this moment, but we can get it for you. I don't think it would be material.

But there wasn't extraordinary increase in tariffs or anything like that?

No. No. Not at all. Of course not.

Okay, okay.

Right. On the Rio de los Remedios, we are providing you with information of the cash flow for the whole project in the company, in particular because this project is a contract whereas the government collects all the revenues and then later on provides us with the excess cash flow that came from the collection, and after paying the expenses. So you will find that information there.

Okay. So just to understand correctly, the concession of the Rio de los Remedios, what we're seeing at 4Q at this, for the whole year, should we expect this to be sort of the normalized revenue – cash revenue and cash EBITDA? Sorry.

That is correct.

Okay.

And for Los Ramones, the backlog is around MXN 9 million, [indiscernible] (42:53) and ICA Fluor is proceeding with the construction as expected.

So just to understand, there's MXN 9 billion. I'm looking at the press release, I can't seem to find them where usually you usually used to put those. So to better understand, are those related in the industrial construction side or where could we find those on your backlog?

Yeah. Well, we have it in the page 21 of the press release.

Okay. Maybe I'm – okay. I'll look into that.

We can send it to you. Don't worry.

Okay. Thank you, Victor. Very grateful on the follow-up. Thank you.

No problem.

Your next question comes from the line of Eduardo Simpson with Taplin, Canida & Habacht.

Thanks for taking the call. A couple questions on the backlog. Number one, I just wanted to get a better feeling for what the breakdown of the backlog is. You mentioned MXN 56 billion equivalent of about 18 months of 2014 revenue. Just to get a breakdown of how much is highways, how much is energy related projects, et cetera? And the second is, what is the trend in the amount? So it would be interesting to know what the backlog was, for example, at the end of third quarter versus the current backlog. Thank you.

Sure. Well, I would say that most of the backlog initially was from toll roads. And I guess now with the projects that we have added in the water areas, I would say that probably half of it is related to water and the rest would be on other contracts. We'll come back to you on that. And the second question was? Sorry. I missed that one.

I just wanted to get an idea of what the trend in the backlog was, so in other words, what was the backlog two quarters ago, what was the backlog one quarter ago and what's the backlog today? And do you expect that to – what do you expect that to go – where do you see that going over the next year?

Okay. The backlog at the third quarter was MXN 34.1 billion and the backlog as of today at December was MXN 35.5 billion. We have been able to increase the backlog mainly with projects for water or water-related. We expect that the trend will continue. Also this – it's difficult to say or to make an estimation of what the government plans are going to be looking forward, but we remain on the positive side and we are participating in a number of bidding processes at this point in time.

Okay. What kind of an impact do you think the energy situation in terms of the oil prices could have on that?

Well, it's hard to say, since it's related to the government budget intentions. We think that, as we said in the conference call and in the comments that the growth might slow somehow, but will not stop the growth. So as I mentioned, we are looking at projects, just for in the next months for bidding processes, we have identified around MXN 20 billion in bidding processes, so we think that even though there might be some part of a slowdown or some budget cuts, we still have the ability to increase our backlog looking into the next months.

Okay. Okay. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions.

All right. Thank you for your interest in ICA and for participating in this call. Please contact us if you have additional questions that we didn't address in this call. Gabriel, Elena, Gabriela and I look forward to seeing you in the near future. Have a good day.

Thank you. That does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.