corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Empresas ICA’s First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all


parties will be in a listen-only mode, and following the presentation, the conference will be open for


questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Monday, April 26, 2010.


Now, I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr. Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana Garcia, our Head of Investor


Relations and [inaudible] from Investor Relations.


Today, I will make a brief review of ICA’s first quarter results, and then provide our outlook for the


year. We will then be happy to open the call for questions.


Looking at the results, ICA had another excellent quarter with the highest adjusted EBITDA margin


in recent years in a new record level of construction backlog. The adjusted EBITDA margin, which


takes into account interest expense that is included in the cost of sales from finance projects


reached 16.8% in the first quarter, up 2.9 percentage points from the prior year period.


The margin is also well above the full year 2009 margin of 14.3%. Consolidated backlog reached


more than 18 billion pesos, an all time record for ICA and it was the equivalent of 21 months of


work at first quarter levels.


We had new contracts awards of 9 billion pesos in the first quarter, including the two new clean


fuels projects for Industrial Construction, the Atotonilco water treatment plant that will serve Mexico


City, and the PAC-4 contract for the widening of the Panama Canal and Civil Construction.


As important as the total amount is, also the fact that the order book from Industrial Construction


has been replenished over the past 11 months. We expect that this will provide ICA a better


balance of construction work between civil and industrial construction in the coming quarters.


During the first quarter, ICA generated revenues of 7 billion pesos, up 2% from the first quarter of


‘09. Four of our divisions had positive growth; civil construction, concessions, airports and housing.


This is the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in total revenue.


Civil construction was the growth driver in the first quarter with revenues up 12%. The La Yesca


hydro project, the Mexico City subway line 12, work on the RCO toll road, and the Eastern Outlet


Tunnel were the main revenue drivers. We expect all of these projects to continue to generate


significant volumes of work for quarters to come.


Civil construction operating and adjusted EBITDA margins increased compared to the first quarter


of ‘09 as costs and expenses increased at a slower rate than revenues. In addition, higher


depreciation and amortization benefited the EBITDA margin. Industrial construction is in the


transition between completing the last round of major projects and the start of the recently awarded


projects, including the four clean fuels contracts.


The Poza Rica cryogenic plant awarded in May of ‘09 has moved into execution, and we are doing


the engineering work for the Madero and Cadereyta clean fuels project. But none of the four clean


fuels projects has actually started construction. This transition affected both revenues, which were


down by one-third, and margins. We expect Industrial Construction revenues and EBITDA


contribution to jump sharply in coming quarters.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Rodio revenues decreased reflecting the real estate and construction recession in Spain. Rodio


continues to execute its cost reduction program, which enabled it to stay in the black despite the


reduction in revenues. Infrastructure concessions revenues increased 16% compared to the first


quarter of ‘09, with revenue contributions from concessions, under operation and those under


construction as well. The EBITDA margin increased to 63.3%. At quarter end, we had five highway


concessions in operation and five under construction. The Queretaro-Irapuato PPP project began


partial operations. Overall, it is still generating significant revenues.


We think that the obstacles that this project faced and which I discussed last quarter have been


resolved. And this road is expected to go into service during the third quarter of 2010. The


concessions business unit also has four water projects under construction. These are all on track


and we expect the Aqueduct II in Querétaro to go into service in the third quarter. The Atotonilco


water treatment plant that we won in January has not yet started construction. The State of


Guanajuato still needs to deliver title to the federal government on some of the land where the


project is sited.


In March, the government of Panama and ICA reached an agreement in principle for the


government to acquire the Corredor Sur toll road for $420 million. We expect that we will continue


to operate this toll road and provide maintenance and in-construction services after the sale. Timing


of the completion of the transaction is largely in the hands of the government of Panama. In the


meantime, we continue to operate the Corredor Sur in the ordinary course of business.


The airports business increased revenues by 5% in the first quarter despite the continuing


reduction in traffic volumes. All three categories of revenue were up; aeronautical revenues,


revenue from the Terminal 2 Hotel at the Mexico City International Airport, and non-hotel


commercial revenues. Airports’ adjusted EBITDA margin was 57.4% or only 3.5 percentage points


below 2009 levels.


ViveICA sold 1,644 homes in the first quarter, an increase of 11% and revenues rose 3%. We


started selling homes in 7 new developments last year with a total of 17,000 units. We also have


master plans for the Sustainable Urban Development Program. The first one in Monterrey, suburb


of Apodaca is scheduled to start construction this year, and two others are in the approval process.


With this, I finish my operational review.


Turning to our outlook, ICA expects the excellent performance we recorded in the first quarter to


continue through 2010. Management expects that consolidated revenues will increase between 15


and 20% for the year, and our adjusted EBITDA margin will be between 16 and 18%. Our record


construction backlog is the foundation for the growth forecast. We also expect growth in


construction revenues to be more balanced between civil and industrial construction in 2010 than it


has been in the recent past.


In fact, we expect industrial construction to become the new driver for ICA’s overall growth, as the


industrial projects that were awarded during the last 11 months ramp up. The four clean fuels


refinery upgrades in particular are expected to start generating substantial revenues in the coming


months. At the same time, we expect that civil construction will continue to grow, although at a


slower pace than in the last couple of years.


The existing large-scale projects in civil construction provide a solid platform for the growth and


profitability. We expect to supplement this foundation through winning a fair share of the new


projects in Mexico that come up for bid and also to look selectively at projects in some markets in


Latin America. We are currently promoting projects in Panama, Colombia and Peru. We also


expect that concessions will continue to develop. We have 6 operating concessions and 9 under


construction.