corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the ICA’s Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call on the 4th of


March 2009. Throughout today’s recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only


mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]. I


will now hand the conference over to Alonso Quintana. Please go ahead, sir.


Alonso Quintana Kawage, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me today is Luciana Garcia, our Head of Investor


Relations, and Berenice Muñoz from Investor Relations.


Normally, we would have had our conference call on Monday. However, I needed to be in Panama


for the delivery of the formal bid for the new Panama Canal Locks. As many of you know, ICA is


part of one of the three consortiums that submitted bids for this multibillion-dollar project. So I hope


you will understand the reason for the delay in the call. We should know that the Panama Canal


results by this summer.


Today, I will start with a brief review of ICA’s fourth quarter and full year results. I will make some


comments on our expectations for ‘09. Finally, I will then talk about backlog and the perspectives


for new contracts. We will then be happy to open the call to your questions.


ICA had a solid fourth quarter of ‘08 and solid full year. For the year, we generated a 21% increase


in revenues, with an EBITDA margin of 10.9%. We exceeded our revenue growth target, and met


our EBITDA margin target. ‘08 was the fourth year in a row that ICA has met or exceeded our


guidance. And so far, we have doubled revenues and doubled our EBITDA generation. We ended


the year with total backlog of MEX42.6 billion, our highest backlog ever. During the fourth quarter of


‘08, ICA generated revenues of MEX9.1 billion, up 34% from the fourth quarter of ‘07. Construction


revenues were up 34%, infrastructure rose 85% and home building increased 23%. Non-


construction businesses accounted for 26% of total revenues.


ICA’s results are again demonstrating the value of the diversification that we started several years


ago. Even in an uncertain environment with rapidly changing economic and financial conditions, we


have been able to deliver good results by executing our projects and adjusting rapidly to new


circumstances.


Looking at the different construction lines, civil construction revenues increased 67% as large-scale


projects particularly La Yesca hydroelectric project move into full execution. Industrial construction


revenues rose 9%, largely as a result of the increased volume of work on the second Chicontepec


II (oil field services project. Rodio revenues decreased 4% reflecting the real estate and


construction slowdown in Spain.


Airports revenues increased very slightly even though traffic was down. The most important factors


enabling revenues to grow faster than traffic were needs, increase in non-aeronautical revenues


because of OMA’s commercial initiatives, and the end of a special incentive program at Monterrey.


The commercial initiatives include increased commercial space in our terminals, a better mix of


tenants, and the development of the OMA carga freight logistics business.


Concessions revenues more than tripled in the fourth quarter, compared to fourth quarter of ‘07.


This reflects principally the going into service of the Irapuato-La Piedad PPP at the end of July, the


acquisition of the Mayab toll road last March, strong growth on the Corredor Sur expressway and


operating revenues from the RCO toll roads.
corrected transcript


Empresas ICA SAB de CV
 
ICA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Housing revenues increased 23% in the fourth quarter, with 3,072 units sold. The mix continues to


shift toward entry-level and economic housing. ViveICA has just started up three new projects for


entry-level housing, two in Guadalajara and one in Ciudad Juarez, with over 7,000 units. In terms of


operating and EBITDA margins, ICA’s consolidated results were on track. Fourth-quarter operating


income rose 58% with an operating margin of 7.6%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 66% with an


EBITDA margin of 11%. Our full-year EBITDA margin was 10.9%.


In ‘07, as you may remember, ICA reflected the effects of the enactment of the IETU tax was


resulted in a large noncash tax charges that – and a net loss. In ‘08 taxes were at normal levels,


and we generated net income of majority interest of MEX98 million for the fourth quarter and


MEX453 million for the year.


Turning now to ICA’s financial position and liquidity, we ended the year with MEX5.8 billion in cash


on our balance sheet. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our business needs and


our refinancing risks are limited. ICA has debt maturing in less than one year of MEX4.2 billion. As


detailed in the earnings report MEX3.6 billion will be paid upon project completion and does not


need to be refinanced.


The remaining MEX560 million is mostly working capital line, including the 353 million – MEX57


million in ViveICA’s commercial paper. We are working with our banks in order to ensure that this


working capital financing continues to be available.


ICA’s total debt increased by MEX10.4 billion during ‘08. As we took on the debt needed to execute


new projects and finance the new toll roads and PPS concessions. All our debt is at the project


level; we believe that all our projects and concessions are well capitalized, enabled to meet their


contractual debt service even under significant stress scenarios.


With respect to ICA’s foreign currency and interest rate hedging position, let me repeat two points


that I made last quarter. First, the policy of the company is to match the currency of the debt in


source of repayment. We borrow dollars to finance dollars-denominated contracts and borrow


pesos to finance peso projects. Of our total debt, 67% of our total debt is convinced. Second, we


use derivatives only to increase the certainty of project returns. Derivatives are contracted at the


level of the project company and used to hedge the specific projects’ cash flows.


The earnings report and the derivatives report we filed with the La Yesca contained comprehensive


disclosures of our derivative position in the fourth quarter. We analyzed on a periodic basis, the


performance of all our derivative positions. Our conclusion is that ICA’s hedges are doing their job


and protecting our project cash flows.


In the specific case of La Yesca hydroelectric project, we have an FX swap agreement in place that


provides pesos to meet local currency costs for the project. The current mark-to-market of this


position is a loss of MEX1,545 million. However, I need to emphasize that this instrument is an


obligation solely of our subsidiary, COHYSA, and is secured by a letter of credit for $30 million.


There are no margin costs or similar mechanisms that will require us to cover COHYSA’s position


beyond the amount of the LP or any of our other derivatives. While our accounts reflect s fair value


of the FX swap, they do not show the FX gains on the value of the U.S. dollars denominated


construction contract.


Any loss on the market value of La Yesca FX swap is expected to be offset by exchange gains on


the value of the construction contract, which is currently at close to $800 million. As a result of this


offsetting effect, ICA does not expect that the company will suffer any material adverse impact on


its results of operations in the first quarter of ‘09, as a result of the additional depreciation of a peso


since December 31 of ‘08.