Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Víctor Humberto Bravo Martín — Chief Financial Officer, Empresas ICA SAB de CV
Carlos Peyrelongue — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Pablo Barroso — Analyst, GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano SAB de CV Casa de Bolsa
Lillian Starke — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Mexico Casa de Bolsa SA de CV
Pablo Monsivais — Analyst, Barclays Capital Casa de Bolsa SA de CV

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Shalan, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Empresas INCA (sic) [ICA] (00:07) Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Your host for this morning is Víctor Bravo, Chief Financial Officer of Empresas INCA (sic) [ICA] (00:29). Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us for ICA's third quarter 2014 conference call. With me today are Gabriel de la Concha, our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Investor Relations; and the IR team, including Paulina Rubio and Elena Garcia. We will be holding our ICA Day Analyst and Investor event on November 10 here in Mexico City, and we look forward to seeing many of you on that day.

I will focus my comments this morning on four highlights. ICA delivered solid operating performance in all three lines of business, with significant growth in revenue, operating income, and adjusted EBITDA in our Construction, Concessions, and Airports segments.

Second, [ph] for (01:13) all major contracts both for ICA Construction and ICA Fluor during the quarter increasing our backlog significantly. This award solidifies our outlook for sustaining work volumes over the coming quarters. Third, we expanded our operating Concessions portfolio. Two new highways opened for commercial operations, and the ramp-up of traffic on other operating highways continues. We also expected to start operating two other projects in the fourth quarter, and we won the concession for the new Monterrey VI aqueduct. Fourth and final, debt increased only slightly, and most of this was an exchange rate effect so that our leverage ratios continue their improving trend.

Let me address each of these four points and then we will open up the call for any questions.

First, our operating performance. Construction activity continues to recover in Mexico, if relatively slowly. International is making a significant contribution to Construction's segment growth. The Concessions businesses are maturing and generating large increases in traffic volumes. The Airports business continues to exceed expectations for growth in volumes and revenues.

Revenues and operating results for the third quarter and for the first nine months of the year are in line with our full-year outlook. Construction revenue increased 15% for the first nine months of the year. The acquisition of Facchina contributed about 11% to growth, and the other 4% was organic. Construction margins also recovered. The nine-month adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 8.1%, up 130 basis points.

The Concessions business recorded 47% increase in revenues in the third quarter and 25% over nine months, largely as a result of the growth in traffic volumes. For the first nine months, traffic on the five operating highways rose 57%, led by the Rio de Los Remedios and Rio Verde – Ciudad Valles highways. Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled in the quarter and increased 22% in the first nine months.

Airports had another very strong quarter, with 16 new domestic routes and 2 international routes opening. Passenger traffic rose 9% and revenues increased at double-digit rates. Most importantly, our cost control efforts resulted in a 20% increase in adjusted EBITDA in the quarter and 18% in the first nine months. Additional information about Airports operations is included in all mass earnings report.

Consolidated operating income rose 45% for the first nine months of 2014 as a result of this solid performance across our three business areas. Adjusted EBITDA grew 50% to MXN 4.6 billion with a margin of 17.9%. Improvements in operating results were principally the result of the growth in revenues and a reduction in SG&A expense.

ICA implemented an expense reduction program in 2013 to increase the flexibility of our cost structure, and because of the uncertainty of the timing of recovery of Mexico construction activity. The reduction also reflects improvements in administration, finance and planning services.

Income from non-consolidated affiliates and joint ventures reached MXN 332 million in the first nine months, an increase of over 300% and came from both the ICA Fluor and our other non-consolidated affiliates. The appendix to the earnings report includes supplemental information on these business operations.

This strong operating performance was offset by the [ph] counting (04:53) effect of the depreciation of the peso on foreign currency-denominated debt, principally the three U.S. dollar bonds at the parent company [ph] level (05:00).

In addition, financial expense includes the cost of terminating the interest rate hedges on the La Piedad Bypass in Rio Verde – Ciudad Valles financings, which were financed in the third quarter.

ICA's consolidated net loss was MXN 260 million in the first nine months of 2014. The share of net income of non-controlling interests reflects the increased minority shareholding in OMA and the strong performance for both OMA and San Martín.

My second topic is the major new contract awards and increased backlog. ICA added MXN 10.7 billion in consolidated construction contracts to backlog and MXN 11.4 billion in non-consolidated contracts, principally for ICA Fluor in the third quarter.

In the Construction segment, the main new contracts were for the Monterrey VI aqueduct, the Churubusco-Xochiaca water tunnel in Mexico City, and the tunneling segments of the Mexico City – Toluca rail project. In ICA Fluor, the new projects include the Ramones Sur natural gas pipeline.

As a result, total construction backlog reached MXN 34 billion as of September 30, equivalent to 20 months of work at average 2014 rates. Long-term service contracts were another MXN 4.6 billion as of September 30. ICA's non-consolidated backlog reached MXN 26 (sic) [25] (06:21) billion, of which ICA's proportionate share was MXN 12 billion.

The third topic is the continued dynamism of our Concessions portfolio. During the third quarter, we started operations of the Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán highway, completing one of the most challenging civil engineering projects in Mexico City. We also opened a 54-kilometer section of the Mayab toll road, running from Tintal to Playa del Carmen. As a result, ICA now has five operating concession highways.

The traffic continues to ramp up quickly on the roads that have opened recently – the Rio de Los Remedios, the Piedad Bypass, and Rio Verde – Ciudad Valles highways. As a result, total traffic volumes increased 21% in the third quarter and 57% in the first nine months. In addition, as already mentioned, we were awarded the 30-year service contracts for the Monterrey VI aqueduct, which has a three-year construction phase.

The El Realito aqueduct in San Luis Potosí and the Agua Prieta water treatment plant in Jalisco are also expected to enter service before year-end. As of September 30, our Concessions portfolio included 10 highways, 5 water projects, 2 social infrastructure projects, and a port. Of the 18 projects, 9 were operational and 9 under construction.

My fourth topic is debt management and leverage. We carried out one significant capital markets transaction during the quarter which I mentioned during the last conference call. This was the refinancing for the La Piedad Bypass and Rio Verde – Ciudad Valles highways. The MXN 3 billion in number cost for refinanced debt was rated AAA for the 12.6-year tranche and AA for the 22.1-year tranche. The fix rate UD-denominated securities replace floating rate debt and extend maturities. This refinancing of this mature assets improves our cash flow characteristics, lowers financial expense, and will facilitate monetizing them in the future.

The recycling of the capital invested in our assets is a central element of ICA's business strategy, and we expect to continue to use the resources from these activities to pay debt and fund a part of our investment requirements in April.

Debt levels increased only modestly from June period, despite a significant increase in business activity. Most of this increase – it should be noted, was the result of the depreciation of the peso during the quarter and is an accounting effect, not a cash flow effect.

These means that our leverage ratios continue to improve. As of September, net debt to last 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 6.7 times compared to 7.1 times as of June period and 7 times as of last December 31. Management is committed to further reduce this consolidated level towards our target of 5 times, while also maintaining appropriate debt levels in the operating segments.

In conclusion, our three lines of business are all contributing to results. ICA continues to execute our business strategy, led by the international expansion. The new contract awards added to backlog strengthen our outlook for the coming quarters. The start of operation of new concessions and the ramp-up of [ph] traffic (09:40) will provide a further boost to operating results and open the door for asset recycling transactions.

Our debt leverage ratios continue to improve even as we move into a renewed world phase. And the outlook for new project awards continues to be positive. These developments are in line with our outlook for the year. We expect to continue to grow with stable EBITDA margins and to maintain a solid financial position.

This concludes our prepared remarks, and we will be now be pleased to address your questions.

Operator, could you please open the call to questions? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Carlos Peyrelongue from Merrill Lynch.

Thank you. Carlos Peyrelongue. Thank you for the call. Two questions, if I may. First one, can you give us any update on the expected payment of the prisons? And second, with regards to civil construction, we've seen that your backlog increasing. But so far, the revenues from civil construction remain relatively weak. Can you comment on when do you expect those to start reflecting construction work and start to bounce? Thank you.

Well, thank you, Carlos. Well, on the prisons, we're still working on the permits by authorities. We have not been granted the authorizations to move ahead with transaction and obviously, everything depends on getting those. We have no perspective on when that would happen but obviously, as soon as it happens, we'll [ph] commence (11:47) construction.

As for the civil construction growth, the – well, with this backlog that has been growing, we expect that in the following quarters, probably by the beginning of next year, in first quarter, you will start seeing the effect of that increasing backlog into the revenues of the company.

Thank you, Victor. So in with regards to the prisons' payment, in terms of the steps needed going forward, we should expect the payment until 2015 or do you think there's a chance we will get the payment this year?

Well, it's hard to say. [ph] Release about the (12:24) authorization, it could be tomorrow or it could be for months. So it's been long term by now but we still have no visibility on a date for that.

Okay. Thank you, Victor.

Your next call comes from Pablo Barroso from GBM.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for the call. I was wondering regarding your prisons. How much of the assets and liabilities are related to this – to the prisons?

Thank you, Pablo. At the present, everything is in the line of discontinued operations. So you won't see any financial number in any line item of the balance sheet or the income statement.

Okay. Well, thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Lillian Starke from Morgan Stanley.

Hi. Good morning, gentlemen. My first question is how much of the additional traffic did you see in the Mayab coming from the Tintal – Playa del Carmen portion? And if it was [ph] inevident (14:05), can you give us some color on how much should we expect for the next quarter? And my second question is regarding the debt increase. Do you see any incremental debt coming from the additional backlog that you have received?

Thank you, Lillian. Well, for the Mayab, it has been only a few days operating. So, there's still no visibility on that. We expect at least double-digit growth for the first year into that portion of the concession. But you will see that probably most strongly in the fourth quarter. As for the debt, the only additional debt that we're contemplating because of the backlog is the Monterrey VI financing. Although this is – we have no majority stakeholder on that one, we would not consolidate that debt. It is a MXN 17-billion project, and you expect a 70/30 debt-to-equity ratio.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Pablo Monsivais from Barclays.

Hi. Hi, everybody. I have a quick question. This quarter, Construction EBITDA margin was below third quarter last year. So, I was wondering what is expected normalized EBITDA margin for construction activity that you expect going forward? Thanks.

Thank you, Pablo. Yes, it was below. This is a spread in the range of 7.5% to 8%, when it's normalized.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, there are no further questions.

All right. Well, thank you for your interest in ICA and for participating in this call. Please contact us if you have additional questions that we did not address in this call. Gabriel, Paulina, Elena, and myself look forward to seeing you in the near future. Have a good day.

This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.