raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Evergreen Solar's Third Quarter 2005


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded and webcast. With us today is President and Chief


Executive Officer, Rick Feldt and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Rich Chleboski. At


this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Jason Berdet [ph] of Sharon Merrill


Associates. Please go ahead, Sir.


Company Representative


Thank you James, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin today's call, we would like to


remind everyone that statements that are made in this conference call that are not historical facts,


such as those dealing with future financial performance and growth; revenue and product gross


margins; solar power industry trends; the demand for renewable sources of energy; Evergreen's


capacity expansion plans; the availability, and supply and cost of raw materials; demand for its


products; its research and development programs; and expectations with respect to the EverQ


venture, including the cost and timeframe for developing the Thalheim facility, and expectations


regarding its financial results, operation and expansion are forward-looking statements under the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


The future performance and financial results of the company may differ materially from those


expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements, due to various factors. Such factors


include but are not limited to those described in the filings the company makes from time to time


with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including without limitation its 10-Q for the year


ended – 10-K, sorry, for the year ended December 31, 2004, which was filed on March 10, 2005,


and subsequent filings. The company undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the


results of any revision to the forward-looking statements that may be made during today's


conference call.


I'll now turn the call over to President and CEO Rick Feldt for his review of the third quarter. Rick?


Richard M. Feldt, President, CEO, Director


Thanks, Jason, and good morning, everyone. Hopefully, you'll have seen the two press releases


we issued this morning. In one we recorded our Q3 financial results. And in the other, we


announced a $70 million sales agreement with Powerlight. I will address both, but let's start this


morning's discussion with a brief recap of the Q3 financials.


In the third quarter, Evergreen Solar continued to execute on plan. Our product revenues of 11.1


million and gross margin of 10.4%, are both records and at the high end of our guidance range.


We expect to continue to operate our Marlboro factory at our targeted annual production rate of 12


to 13 megawatts, reserving the balance of capacity for process development. Given this constraint


we expect to see revenues of around 10 million or so per quarter and expect gross margins to


remain in the 5 to 10% range until our Thalheim factory begins ramping production in Q2 of '06.


Our net loss for the quarter was $4.6 million or 7 cents a share.


We closed the quarter with more than $130 million in cash, marketable securities and investment.


This provides us with the financial resources necessary to continue to aggressively execute on our


growth strategy. Turning to EverQ, we continue to make rapid progress on our expansion in


Germany. A few weeks ago we marked another project milestone by celebrating the roof closing of
raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our Thalheim plant, additionally the personnel hiring and training effort is running right on schedule.


We are extremely pleased with the caliber of people we have hired.


EverQ now has approximately two dozen people on board and up to speed on the technologies and


manufacturing processes that both Evergreen Solar and Q-Cells have in place. On our Q2 call I


mentioned that we had shipped one of our string ribbon furnaces overseas and had already


produced our first string ribbon wafers in Germany. We have now established a temporary off-site


facility and will install ten of our furnaces there by the end of the month [audio gap] and plants to


capacity in the next summer of next year. As side from our EverQ venture our biggest investment


has been in the area of R&D. We made further progress in two of our primary R&D programs, that


is thin-wafers and quads. Today our wafers are a little over 300 microns thick, our thin-wafer


initiative is aimed at reducing this thickness by about one-half. When implemented this will reduce


our silicon consumption by 60 or so percent over conventional methods.


On a previous conference call I described how achieving standard yield performance on processing


thin-wafers through out the factory was a key requirement to enable the introduction of thin-wafers


as our primary production process. At that time our thin-wafer yield was equal or better than


standard wafers in seven of the twelve process steps where we track yields. Today that number


has increased to ten of twelve. This week we are building modules with our thin-wafers for


qualification testing by industry certification lab. This is a three month process required to certify


our modules before sales. At this time we remain confident that we will begin implementation of


thin-ribbons in our Marlboro factory by year end and we'll scale through out quarter one after final


certification from the testing laboratory. Turning now to quads I would remind everyone that our


current Gemini II platform allows us to grow two wafers simultaneously from each of our furnaces.


Quad is intended to double that capacity as well as simplify furnace operations. This process is


undergoing extensive R&D, development and testing in our labs and we have now advanced the


technology far enough to begin pilot production testing. To that end we've recently ordered five


proto-type furnaces that should be in Marlboro in February with pilot production beginning shortly


thereafter. Now let me provide you some insight with our new relationship with PowerLight.


The deal that we announced with them this morning represents the largest sales agreement in our


company's history. This contract is worth approximately $70 million over the next four years.


PowerLight can exercise options which could increase the value to approximately 170 million


contingent on Evergreen's future expansions. Our customer PowerLight is one of the world's


leading designers and installers of commercial scale group connected solar electric systems.


They will be receiving the product that we produce both here in Massachusetts as well as those


that EverQ will be producing in Germany. PowerLight is a powerful new ally for Evergreen Solar.


Their scale, capabilities and global reach will extend Evergreen's reach and brand recognition,


particularly in large-scale grid connected projects, a market we've had very limited access to


previously. As I've also commented on before, as Evergreen or as EverQ comes online we will be


looking to partner with the appropriate value-added distributors, such as PowerLight. These clearly


are exciting times for Evergreen Solar. Looking forward to the month ahead, here's what you can


expect from us. We will continue to refine our assembly for manufacturing process and expect to


begin our full-scale implementation of our Marlboro factory in late January of '06.


By the end of Q1 '06, we should have our prototype plant furnaces running in palad [ph] production.


We expect to complete construction of the EverQ facility and begin installing our first piece of


equipment by year-end. The first string of the furnaces should be installed in the new factory in


January. And, we expect EverQ to begin producing its first product at the Thalheim plant by late


first quarter, or early second. With this right venture, we are well on our way to establishing a


powerhouse that will be capable of significantly reducing the cost of solar power. Our alternative


objective is to achieve power use [ph] with retail electricity. We have made important strides in this


segment.