raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Evergreen Solar’s First Quarter 2005 Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded and webcast. With us today is President and Chief Executive Officer,


Richard Feldt, and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Richard Chleboski.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to your host Jason Fredette of Sharon Merrill


Associates. Please go ahead sir.


Jason Fredette, Associate Vice President Sharon Merrill Associates


Thank you Kenton and good morning everyone. Before we begin the conference call, we would like


to remind everyone that under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the statements


contained in this presentation that are not historical facts such as those dealing with future financial


performance and growth, revenue and gross product margins, solar power industry trends, the


demand for renewable sources of energy, Evergreen’s capacity expansion plans, its cost reduction


initiatives, expectations with respect to its joint venture in Germany including with cost and


timeframe for developing the facility and expectations of its potential financial results, operation,


and expansion, the availability and supply cost of raw materials, demand for its products and


research and development programs are forward-looking statements that are subject to change


based on various factors that may be beyond the Company’s control. Accordingly the future


performance and financial results of the Company may differ materially from those expressed or


implied in any such forward-looking statements. Such factors include but are not limited to those


described in the Company’s filings that it makes from time to time with the Securities and Exchange


Commission including without limitation its 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 which was


filed on March 10, 2005. The Company undertakes no obligation to revise of publically release the


results of any revision to the forward-looking statements that may be made during today's


conference call.


I will now turn the call over to Rick Feldt, President and CEO of Evergreen Solar. Please go ahead


Rick.


Richard M. Feldt, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thanks Jason, and good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us.


Well, Q1 was a game changing quarter for us at Evergreen that's creation of our joint venture with


Q-Cells in January, we began to execute against the plan that will serve as the backbone of the


company’s growth for years to come. We also raised capital in the quarter to help fuel that growth.


We advanced our industry leading technology even further in our labs and on the factory floor. And


as we announced earlier today, we received notice that our EverQ joint venture will receive as


expected 45% subsidy for construction of its first 30-megawatt production line. In short, our long


term prospects have never been brighter.


Let's begin with a brief financial review. Evergreen generated more than $10 million of product


revenue in Q1, a Company record. We also achieved positive gross margins for the second


consecutive quarter. We were able to accomplish that despite a 40% increase in the cost of silicon.


We now have our Marlboro factory running at about its design capacity, given our plans to reserve


approximately 10% to 15% of our productive capacity for technology development.
raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the quarter, we posted a net loss of $3.2 million or $0.06 per share. We ended the quarter with


approximately $70 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. This balance


includes a 62 million we raised in our February 2005 equity offering to help fund our EverQ venture.


As a remainder for those of you who maybe new to Evergreen, EverQ is our joint venture with Q-


Cells, the worlds largest independent manufacturer of crystalline silicon solar cells. Evergreen and


Q-Cells have joined forces to build a state of the art solar wafer cell and module manufacturing


plant in Thalheim, Germany. This plant will initially have a 30-megawatt capacity, which could result


in roughly 100 million in annual revenue. In time it is our hope to expand the EverQ venture to


approximately 120 megawatts of capacity. We currently own 75.1% of the joint venture while Q-


Cells own the remainder.


We announced EverQ early in Q1, completed our follow on offering to help fund it and initiated the


design phase of the project. I just returned from Germany yesterday and I can tell you first hand


that our project designs are progressing rapidly and smoothly. As we mentioned in our Q4 call, we


have hired Rolf Coopershaus as COO to spearhead the joint ventures construction and operations.


Rolf has done an excellent job for us and we are confident that he and the expense of cross teams


of people from both Evergreen and Q-Cells will help keep everything on schedule. We plan to break


ground on the plant this summer and by the summer of 2006, we should be fully operational.


The cost of equipment and facilities for this initial 30-megawatt phase of the joint venture is


estimated at $79 million. The joint venture will benefit from approximately $35 million of government


support. Overall our joint venture with Q-Cells has significantly raised Evergreen’s profile and


stature in the solar industry. It has been a transformative event for our company and is opening


some new doors for us. Companies on both sides of the value chain are now viewing Evergreen


Solar as a long-term player in the industry.


Since the EverQ announcement, we have been approached by a variety of companies both large


and small about potential partnerships or supply arrangements. Well, still in the early stages, I


would label these discussions as promising and indicative of the tremendous opportunities


available to us in the industry.


With the solar power market growing at an annual rate of more than 30% and demand still power


outstripping supply through a significant untapped potential for Evergreen. Our long-term plan is to


establish the manufacturing presence in geographies were adoption is on the upswing such as


Germany, Spain, India, China and the US. We believe partnerships and joint ventures represent an


attractive way to accomplish this.


Another major focus for us here has been our R&D efforts. In Q1, we dedicated a portion of our


capacity in Marlboro to pilot some of our newer technological innovations including a thin String


Ribbon wafers. I am pleased to report that the yields that we have achieved from the furnaces


employing us and wafer design are now equivalent to those from our standard 300-micron


operations. Our next step is to carry these results to the remainder of the manufacturing process,


which is our current design for thin wafers.


We remain confident that we will meet our steady goal of beginning full production implementation


of our Thin Wafer technology in our Marlboro facility by year-end. Our potential to produce low cost


solar power is what is setting Evergreen apart from the competition. Our current technology when


installed at full commercial scale will position us as one of the lowest cost producers in the entire


industry. This does not include the work we are undertaking with thin wafer high efficiency cells,


frameless modules as well as other projects in our labs.


All of these innovations have the potential to lower our cost even further and boost the overall


volume of our String Ribbon technology. Going forward we plan to continue to invest heavily in


R&D. We believe that accelerating our technology development programs in the near term will be