raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Evergreen Solar's Second Quarter 2005 Conference


Call. Today's call is being web cast and recorded. With us today is President and Chief Executive


Officer, Richard Feldt and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Richard Chleboski.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to your host Jason Fredette of Sharon Merrill


Associates. Please go ahead sir.


Jason Fredette Associate Vice President, Sharon Merrill Associates. Inc.


Thank you, Larry [ph] and good morning everyone. Before we begin the conference call, we would


like to remind everyone that statements that are made in this conference call that are not historical


facts such as those dealing with future financial performance and growth, revenue and gross


product margins, solar power industry trends, the demand for renewable sources of energy,


Evergreen's capacity expansion plans, the availability of supply and cost of raw materials, demand


for its products, its research and development programs and expectations with respect to its


strategic partnership in Germany including the cost and timeframe for developing the facility and


expectations regarding its financial results, operation and expansion, our forward-looking


statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The future performance and


financial results of the Company may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such


forward-looking statements due to various factors. Such factors include but are not limited to those


described in filings the Company makes from time to time with the Securities and Exchange


Commission including without limitation its 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 which was


filed on March 10 2005.


The Company undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to


the forward-looking statements that maybe made during today's conference call.


I will now turn the call over to President and CEO Rick Feldt for his review of the second quarter.


Rick?


Richard Feldt, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thanks Jason. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us. Once again, Evergreen had a


good quarter of delivering solid financial results, tangible operational progress and we’ll continue


momentum with EverQ. First the financial side of the business. For Evergreen set several records,


product revenue was 10.7 million exceeding last quarter’s high watermark by nearly $400,000 of


[ph] still reserving production capacity for new process development. We continue to achieving


positive gross margins coming in at 6.2%. This improvement is significant given the strengthening


dollar, we have experienced throughout the quarter. We also raised an additional $90 million as


financing in Q2 to an offering of convertible notes. Previously, we had only approached the capital


market to seek funds that were year marked for very specific needs. That was not the case with


this offering. This financing was for just a level of flexibility that we’ve not had previously.


Although, we have no specific plans today, this new capital provides us with the ability to accelerate


our growth, should a strategic opportunity present itself. We may have filed these funds to the


anticipated future expansion of our Thalheim plant from 30 to up to 100 point megawatts. We may


pursue partnerships with key players both upstream and downstream in the value chain from our


core wafer and cell making capabilities or we might invest more aggressively on R&D. Or whatever


the path we choose, we will spend the funds widely.
raw transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On the operational side, our work to install our String Ribbon technology in Marlboro continues to


be a principal focus for us. When we spoke on our previous conference call, we have success, we


had been successfully thin wafers on one of our pilot production furnaces. In Q2, we expanded our


production to five furnaces. While we still have material handling issues to, that are now [ph] in our


downstream cell and module fabrication processes, we are quickly moving up the leaning curve.


We remain on schedule to begin four production implementation of our String technology in


Marlboro by year end. And it is our intention to convert our EverQ operation to thin wafer


production after a successful full scale of implementation in Marlboro.


As most of you know by now, earlier this year, we forged a strategic partnership with Q-Cells and


created a new venture called EverQ. This was a significant turning point for the company as we


moved into the next stage of commercializing our technology. Since forming the partnerships, our


primary focus has been on execution. Since our Q1 call, EverQ completed the design and


engineering phase of the facility and broke down ground in mid July. What’s more the EverQ team


has got it's first String Ribbon wafers in Germany on a machine designed to meet all the regulatory


standards in Germany. The teams from Evergreen, Q-Cells and EverQ are working together very


well for leverage our advanced String Ribbon wafer manufacturing technology with Q-Cells will be


now in cell technology. When completed, we believe the EverQ factory can become a real


standard in the Solar industry.


The investors say we are moving very rapidly. We expect the Doling [ph] construction will be


mostly completed by year end, from that we’ll be starting Q1 of next year and we will begun our


production ramp in Q2. We remain on track to being fully ramp by this time next year. For those of


you who wish to file the progress of our construction activities, we will began posting pictures of the


construction site, on our website within a couple of weeks.


One topic that we brushed on our last call was how our new partnership has increased our visibility


and strengthen our position with suppliers generally and with silicon suppliers more specifically.


Given our small size, our silicon contracts in the past have been relatively short-term and we had


only one supplier. Recently, we added a second silicon supplier and secured contracts with the two


suppliers that satisfy by both Evergreen’s and EverQ’s expected needs over the next 18 months.


And by the way, we made some upfront payments which were enabled by our recent convertible


financing, to secure some of that supply.


In terms of silicon market in general, prices remain high and supply is tight. Remember, at this


market environment accentuates our competitive advantage. We currently require about 35% less


silicon than traditional suppliers to make a wafer, giving us both a cost and output advantage. In


other words, we commercialize on thin wafers is aimed at expanding this lead and lowering our cost


of goods sold even further.


Moving on to some guidance, from an overall viewpoint, everything remains on track. We continue


to expect product revenues will be in the $38 million to $42 million range and gross margin is in the


5% to 10% range, even [ph] given today’s Euro-Dollar exchange rate. Consistent with our


guidance from late February, we expect EverQ start up and working capital needs to be in the $15


million range, a majority of which will occur in the first half of ’06. Having said that, if we see an


opportunity to reduce operating costs or are increased throughput or quality by making additional


investments we will.


In the months ahead, we will continue to work on a next generation technologies in Malboro while


we maintain a steady production level. The demand environment is stronger than ever and virtually


also power producers including Evergreen are running at full capacity. That’s of all this market is


still in its tendency. New states and countries are adopting solar-friendly legislation on a regular


basis. In fact, for the first time in 30 years, the US Federal Government is poised to provide a


significant investment tax credit for solar power. This in turn, should lead to more rapid adoption of


PV in the US.