corrected transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Evergreen Solar’s fourth quarter and yearend 2004


conference call. Today’s call is being recorded and web cast. With us today is President and Chief


Executive Officer, Richard Feldt; and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Richard Chleboski.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to your host Jim Buckley with Sharon Merrill Associates.


Please go ahead sir.


Jim Buckley, Executive Vice President, Sharon Merrill Associates, Inc.


Thank you, Melinda. Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us for Evergreen Solar’s Q4


and yearend call.


Before we begin today’s call, we would like to remind everyone that under the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the statements contained in this presentation that are not historical


facts such as those dealing with future financial performance and growth, revenue and gross


product margins, solar power industry trends, the demand for renewable sources of energy,


Evergreen’s capacity expansion plans, its cost reduction initiatives, expectations with respect to its


joint venture in Germany including with respect to receipt of German Government investment


grants, the cost and timeframe for developing the facility, and expectations with respect to its


potential financial results, operation, and expansion; the availability of supply and cost of raw


materials, demand for its products and its plants with respect to research and development


programs are forward-looking statements that are subject to change based on various factors that


may be beyond the Company’s control. Accordingly the future performance and financial results of


the Company may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking


statements. Such factors include but are not limited to those described in the Company’s filings that


it makes from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission including without


limitation its current report on form 8-K/A filed with the Commission on January 21, 2005.


The Company undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to


the forward-looking statements that maybe made during today’s conference call.


I will now turn the call over to Rick Feldt, President and CEO.


Richard M. Feldt, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thanks Jim. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.


I am pleased to report that 2004 was a very successful year for us. We hit all our major corporate


milestones initiatives. The actions we took on advancing our String Ribbon technology and


demonstrating its capabilities enabled the joint venture we announced with Q-Cells in January.


There has never been a more promising time period at Evergreen Solar.


I will briefly touch upon highlights of our fourth quarter and year before discussing our 2005 outlook


and then turning the call over to Rich for a financial recap.


In 2004, we transitioned all 116 of our furnaces to our latest generation Gemini II platform as our


Marlboro factory neared its full capacity of 15 MW. We also achieved several significant


technological advances including our thin wafer breakthrough in Q4. Our thin wafer process holds


substantial promise for the industry as a whole because once fully implemented it will require about
corrected transcript


Evergreen Solar, Inc.
 
ESLR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


one-third of the silicon per watt used in conventional wafer production. We believe that this will be a


critical competitive advantage particularly given the very real possibility of industry constraint on


silicon supplies. We currently plan to be ready to fully install our thin wafer technology at Marlboro


by the end of 2005.


From a financial perspective, we closed 2004 with record product revenues of $9.3 million for the


quarter and $22.2 million for the full year, more than triple our sales in 2003. This substantial rate of


growth demonstrates the enormous opportunity available to us in the rapidly expanding solar


industry. Presently, all of our capacity is essentially sold out for 2005 as demand continues to far


outstrip supply.


Our fourth quarter results also prove that our String Ribbon process, even implemented on a small


scale here in Marlboro, is capable of producing positive gross margins. This is an important


validation and it clearly demonstrates the margin potential of our technology. In January we


announced our joint venture with Q-Cells and our intention to build a solar manufacturing plant in


Thalheim, Germany.


Q-Cells produces some of the highest efficiency solar cells in the world. Their cell technology is a


compelling complement to our wafer technology. For those of you who still may not be familiar with


Q-Cells, it’s a privately held Germany company that grew from startup to becoming the world’s


largest independent solar cell company in the last four years. Its 2004 revenue is estimated to be


more than a €146 million. This past November Q-Cells began construction of its fourth


manufacturing plant which upon completion will give Q-Cells approximately 290 MW of capacity.


We believe our joint venture with Q-Cells, which we are calling EverQ, has a potential to lead the


solar industry. The project is currently in the design phase. Initial plans call for the construction of a


30 MW facility at a cost of around $75 million. We anticipate breaking ground for the facility some


time this summer, after which it will take on the order of 12 to 15 months to build a factory and ramp


it to full operating capacity. At that time we believe that the EverQ plant could be capable of


producing approximately $100 million in annualized product revenue with gross margins expected


to be in the neighborhood of 30 to 35%.


Having just been in Germany this past week, I can tell you that our cross company teams are


making real good progress on this new factory planning. The next critical element for EverQ will be


hearing from the German government about the level of investment incentive support. As Anton


Milner of Q-Cells mentioned on our call announcing the joint venture, the German Government has


adopted a very pro-renewable energy posture and has earmarked millions of Euros for investment


in alternative energy job producing projects.


These local incentive programs frequently provide support for up to 45% of our projects’ capital


costs. Now we have no absolute guarantee of a similar level of support here, however, I will share


with you that on the day preceding our announcement call in January, Anton and I visited with the


Ministry of Finance in Saxony-Anhalt. The tenor of the meeting was extremely upbeat and positive.


Our Thalheim project was met with genuine enthusiasm since it will be creating between 350 and


400 jobs in the region. We were even more encouraged when the government officials took the


unusual step of sending us a non-binding letter of intent a week after our meeting referencing the


government’s plan to fund up to 45% of the EverQ plant. This would amount to a subsidy of nearly


$34 million. Our understanding is that the government’s official timetable for responding is in the


mid April timeframe. However, we are hopeful to hear from them back sooner than that.


We view this outlying facility as the first creation of what we hope will be a long and fruitful


relationship with Q-Cells. Assuming we achieve the initial success we are envisioning, our next step


will be to expand that plant to 120 MW. At that point we believe that EverQ will have established a


new standard for the industry. If so, our intent would be to take the blueprint of the Thalheim facility


and build additional state of the art plants around the world where the demand for solar justifies


additional capacities.