corrected transcript


Furniture Brands International


Inc
 
FBN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Furniture Brands International Second Quarter Earnings


Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I


would like to turn the call over to Mr. Lynn Chipperfield. Please go ahead sir.


Lynn Chipperfield, Senior Vice President and Chief Administration Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone. Welcome to our second quarter conference call. With us this


morning are Mickey Holliman, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Foy,


President and Chief Operating Officer; and Denise Ramos, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and


Chief Financial Officer. As usual, we will be making some forward-looking statements during this


call. So, once again I’ll ask that -- I’ll caution you that such statements are based on current


expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ,


and we refer you to our public filings for further information.


Just as we have in the past, we plan to limit this call to no more than one hour. So, in order to allow


everyone an opportunity to participate, we ask that you give us once again, your single best


question, and then we will move onto the next participant. If you have additional questions or a


follow-up, please re-enter the queue and we will be glad to address it time permitting, and we’ll start


with some introductory remarks from Mickey.


W. G. “Mickey” Holliman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. We appreciate your being with us again today. We issued our second


quarter earnings release yesterday afternoon. This morning, I will focus my comments on our


business strategies and current business conditions. Then, I’ll turn the call over to Denise Ramos


for a discussion on the second quarter, and then we will open the call to your questions.


We reported results of $0.18 per diluted common share yesterday. Before the restructuring and


severance charges, our net earnings per diluted common share for the quarter were $0.33, $0.01


above the top-end of the range we gave you in June. This compares to pro forma results of $0.43 in


the second quarter of last year. Written business in the second quarter was up slightly over the


second quarter of last year with continuing weakness at Broyhill being offset by stronger order


trends at Thomasville. Orders in the quarter for Lane and the HDM companies were essentially flat


against the second quarter of last year.


During the second quarter, we made some important announcements intended to strengthen


Furniture Brands. In our first quarter conference call, we told you about Harvey Dondero joining


Broyhill early in April as the new Chief Executive Officer of that company, and Joe McClelland


joining Furniture Brands in late April as our Vice President of Logistics and Supply Chain


Management. In the month of May, we announced the operations of Henredon, Drexel Heritage


and Maitland-Smith were being consolidated into one reporting structure called HDM under the


leadership of Jeff Young.


We have too much redundancy in our back office operating functions and this important first step


demonstrates our commitment to get our operating expenses under better control. This new


structure will help all of our high-end companies provide more efficient and more cost effective


services to their customers.
corrected transcript


Furniture Brands International


Inc
 
FBN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In June, we announced a major manufacturing restructuring. Two Broyhill case goods facilities will


close and one Broyhill upholstery facility will be converted to an import warehouse. In addition, one


Thomasville case goods facility and several smaller Thomasville support plants will close. This was


the largest such announcement we have made to date, affecting over 1,200 employees. These


were difficult decisions for our management team, but greater reliance on imported products and


greater efficiencies in our domestic manufacturing have resulted in overcapacity of our domestic


manufacturing facilities. This overcapacity has impacted margins and our overall profitability. This


realignment will help us address those profitability issues. And just last week, we announced a


management change at Lane. Tom Foy will be overseeing those operations on an interim basis.


In June, we hosted an Analyst and Investor Conference in New York City. And at that conference, I


laid out six strategic imperatives we are addressing to lay the foundation for our company’s growth


and profitability. One of those was to continue to upgrade the quality of our management team and


to create an organizational structure that drives results. The management and organizational


changes I just mentioned are important steps in that direction. In addition to these, we have also


brought in four new upholstery experts in our brands to help drive that business, and we have made


numerous other positive changes.


While we have made several senior management changes recently, we employ many talented


people who do a good job everyday, and I have faith in their abilities and their dedication. Another


of our strategic imperatives is to ensure proper distribution of our branded products through an


intelligent focus on both dedicated channels and traditional distribution.


Our stores program continues to grow. At the end of the second quarter, we had 256 single


branded stores, an increase of 53 stores or 26% over the 203 stores we had at the end of the


second quarter last year. The Thomasville and Drexel Heritage stores will continue to be the


primary vehicle for growth. As I have said before, Broyhill and Lane will use stores to leverage


underdeveloped markets. To make sure our stores development programs are handled with


process and discipline, we are organized in a corporate group to oversee the implementation of


standard retail guidelines and best practices.


We speak frequently about stores. We often neglect to mention the other important aspect of our


expansion of dedicated space; the establishment of single brand galleries within traditional retailers.


Our number of such galleries now stands at 1,077 and represents twice as much dedicated square


footage as our single brand stores. These galleries continue to be a critical element in our retail


strategy, particularly at Broyhill and at Lane. And, we are not ignoring the long-term relationships


we have with traditional retailers around the country who do not sell products through dedicated


space, but who credit our brands as a means of growing their business. Strengthening our


presence in all retail floors is critical to building our brands and meeting the high expectations of


today’s consumer.


Another of our strategic imperatives is to continue to shift the sourcing of our products to lower cost


options and to optimize distribution and warehousing. This reflects our commitment to deliver value


to the consumer, while at the same time improving our overall profitability.


At the end of the second quarter, 36.3% of our products were sourced from overseas, up from


33.7% for the full year 2004. Half of our case goods products are now manufactured offshore. The


efficient movement of these products from the manufacturer to the ultimate consumer is one of the


challenges our new VP of Logistics and Supply Chain Management. There are great opportunities


there for both improved service and cost reduction. The plant closings, we have announced at


Thomasville and Broyhill are proceeding on schedule and should significantly improve our capacity


utilization numbers. Last year at this time, our utilization numbers were at 78%. After the


completion of these closings, we expect that number to be in the mid 80s.