corrected transcript


Furniture Brands International


Inc
 
FBN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the 2005 Third Quarter Furniture


Brands Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation


over to your host for today's call, Mr. Lynn Chipperfield. Sir, you may proceed.


Lynn Chipperfield, Senior Vice President and Chief Administration Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone. Welcome to our conference call. With me here this morning


are Mickey Holliman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; Tom


Foy, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company; and Denise Ramos, Senior Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company


We will be making some forward-looking statements on this call. So, once again I’ll caution you that


any such statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to a number of


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ. We refer you to our public filings for further


information.


Again, just as we have in the past, we plan to limit this call to one hour. So, in order to allow


everyone an opportunity to participate, we ask that you give us your single best question, and then


we will move onto the next participant. If you have additional questions or a follow-up, please re-


enter the queue and we will be glad to address those time permitting, and we’ll start with some


introductory remarks from Mickey. Mickey?


W.G. “Mickey” Holliman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. We appreciate your being with us again today. We issued our third


quarter earnings release yesterday afternoon. This morning I will focus my comments on our


business strategies and current business conditions. Then I will turn the call over to Denise Ramos


for a discussion of the third quarter, and then we will open the call for your questions.


We reported results for the third quarter of $0.19 per diluted common share. Before the


restructuring and severance charges, our net earnings per diluted common share for the quarter


were $0.24, in line with the range we gave you in July. This compares to pro forma results of $0.38


in the third quarter of last year. Written business in the third quarter was down slightly from the third


quarter of last year with relatively strong business at the higher end being off-set by continuing


weakness in the middle price points, primarily at Broyhill, but including Lane to a lesser degree.


We continue to see significant difference in business between the mid-price and upper end


segments of our business. At our investor conference in June, I outlined the strategic initiatives we


are pursuing to drive both growth and profitability across the company. I won't go through each one


of those initiatives again this morning, but I will tell you that we have teams of people at each of the


brands working both independently and collectively in pursuit of these initiatives.


I feel good about the level of engagement and the quality of the new ideas that have been


discussed in strategic meetings of our senior management team. Along those lines, I do want to


make some comments about one of the strategic initiatives. The commitment to further strengthen


the quality of our management team and to create an organizational structure that drives results.


We have announced a number of changes in our senior management since the start of this year.


All part of a carefully thought out and deliberate process to put the right people in the right jobs from
corrected transcript


Furniture Brands International


Inc
 
FBN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


within our industry and to expand our knowledge base by bringing in talent from outside the


furniture industry where appropriate.


This process has given us a team that is working collaboratively to drive growth initiatives and


operating efficiencies across all aspects of this company. It would take me too long to tell you about


everything we have in the works. But I will give you a few examples. Under Jeff Young's leadership,


the consolidation of our high-end companies, Henredon, Drexel Heritage and Maitland-Smith, is on


schedule. The consolidation of back office functions is underway, and we are beginning to see the


benefits of manufacturing consolidation as combined plants are realizing greater capacity


utilization.


Joe McClelland, our new Vice President of Logistics and Supply Chain Management, is working


with personnel at each of our brands to streamline our logistics operation and he has made


significant progress to date. We are moving quickly toward a much more effective program of


container-direct shipments to many of our retail accounts and I expect our reliance on that program


to increase. This will allow dealers to receive container-loads of our products including mixtures


from multiple brands, and I repeat, including mixtures from multiple brands directly from the Far


East at a significant discount and it minimizes handling and capital costs for Furniture Brands and


reduces the risk of damage. This is an area where the leverage of our size represents a distinct,


competitive advantage for Furniture Brands.


As you know, Broyhill is a company undergoing a transformation of its own, and Harvey Dondero


continues to drive change at that company. With the completion of the closing of three


manufacturing facilities, and that’s during the quarter, and with a greater reliance on imported


products, the value equation at Broyhill is improving. Broyhill's dedicated distribution strategy is


primarily focused on an enhanced gallery program which is the correct method of distribution for


that brand. And Broyhill will be spending more money on advertising, rolling out and an aggressive


marketing campaign throughout 2006 to drive awareness and demand for the Broyhill name.


Harvey has a keen focus on where he wants to Broyhill to be and he has a clear plan to get there.


I was also proud to announce the appointment during the third quarter of Nancy Webster as the


new Chief Executive Officer at Thomasville. As you know, Thomasville's business has been


relatively strong lately due largely to a product line that has substantially improved. This is a very


good time for someone with Nancy's background to join Thomasville, where she can focus on


improving the retail experience in building the Thomasville brand.


These are just a few examples of the positive changes we have made to assure a long-term growth


and profitability for this company. In future quarters, I will continue to update you on our progress in


the context of our strategic imperatives. I, and the rest of our management team, remain focused


on their implementation.


With that, I will turn the call over now to Denise for a discussion of the third quarter results.


Denise L. Ramos, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mickey. Net sales for the third quarter were off approximately 3% against the third


quarter of last year. Thomasville’s strong business partially offset the sales decline which was


almost exclusively related to Broyhill. Our imports of higher-margin products continue to increase;


we estimate this increase is benefiting our gross margins by about 50 basis points. Net of that


benefit our pro forma gross margins declined 150 basis points. We estimate half of the decline is


related to manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from lower sales of Broyhill and inefficiencies from


manufacturing consolidations at both Broyhill and Henredon.