raw transcript


Furniture Brands Intl.
 
FBN
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Furniture Brands International First Quarter Earnings


Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I


would like to turn the call over to Mr. Lynn Chipperfield. Please go ahead sir.


Lynn Chipperfield, Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone. Welcome to our first quarter conference call. With us on the


call today are Mickey Holliman, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Foy,


our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Denise Ramos, our Senior Vice President,


Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. We will be making some forward-looking statements on this


call. So, once again, I will caution you that any such statements are based on our current


expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.


We refer you to our public filings for further information. Also we plan to limit this call to one hour


this morning, so in order for everyone to have an opportunity to participate we ask that you give us


your single best question and then we will move on to the next participant; if you have additional


questions or follow ups, you can reenter the queue and we will be glad to address it time permitting.


Right now, we will start with some introductory remarks from Mickey.


Wilbert G. (Mickey) Holliman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. We appreciate you being with us again today. We issued our first quarter


earnings release yesterday afternoon. I will assume that all of you have read the earnings release


or at least have access to it, so I won’t spend any time reviewing the details. If you have any


specific questions about the release, we will certainly answer them. This morning I will focus my


comments on our business strategies and current business conditions and then we will open the


call to your questions.


Before we get started this morning, I want to introduce to you to our new Chief Financial Officer,


Denise Ramos. As most of you know, Denise joined our Company in early February, coming to us


from her position as Chief Financial Officer of the KFC Division of Yum Brands in Louisville,


Kentucky. With her experience in retail and her strong consumer focused background, she has


already had a positive impact on our strategic thinking across this entire Company. We are


pleased to have her as part of our management team, and you will be hearing much from her as we


go forward.


And looking to the business, our net sales for the first quarter were off 5.3% from the first quarter of


2004. You may recall that the first quarter of 2004 was the best revenue quarter in the company's


history. There were however a few bright spots in the quarter, written business in some of our


smaller operations, such as the Lane wood business, and Hickory Business Furniture was up year-


over-year. Hickory [ph] shares written business was up strongly in the mid double-digits.


Henredon’s wood business and Drexel’s upholstery business are trending ahead of last year and


both of those companies showed overall first quarter revenue growth over last year.


However, none of that was sufficient to overcome a general weakness in order trends across our


larger companies. Orders were weak at Broyhill, at Thomasville and in the Lane upholstery


business. The middle price business was generally off more than the upper end and case goods


written business was softer than the upholstery written business.
raw transcript


Furniture Brands Intl.
 
FBN
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net earnings for the first quarter were 46 cents per diluted common share consistent with the


guidance that we gave you at the start of the quarter. Included in the first quarter net earnings were


restructuring asset impairment and severance charges totaling 3.8 million on a pre-tax basis or 5


cents per diluted common share. As was the case throughout the last three quarters of last year,


our earnings are still being impacted by increases in raw material prices. A high competitive pricing


environment make it difficult to pass those increases on in the prices of the product. Additionally,


there are issues with regard to our operating expenses. They have not been adjusted quickly


enough to account for the weakness in incoming business but we are in the process of addressing


that situation as we currently speak.


Also on the cost side, during the quarter Broyhill announced the closing of case goods


manufacturing plant in Conover, North Carolina. That closing is substantially complete now.


Henredon is also winding up the closing of a case goods manufacturing plant in Spruce Pine, North


Carolina, announced towards the end of last year. Partly, because of a reduction in plant down


these, our capacity utilization is improving, standing now at 82 percent, up from 78% at the end of


the fourth quarter, but still down on a year-over-year basis. This is an issue to which we will


continue to pay close attention.


In the first quarter, we opened 50 new single branded stores throughout the company as we move


towards our stated goal of opening 59 new stores, net of closures by yearend. Our total number of


single branded stores is now 244. The company owned stores now represent a total of 10. We will


continue to open more stores throughout the balance of the year.


The stores program is an important part of our strategic plan because it builds our brands, gives us


a more visible presence in the marketplace and most importantly gets us closer to the consumer,


so we can react more effectively to changes in the marketplace. We are pursuing this strategy


carefully however because it makes many of our existing customers nervous. Thomasville and


Drexel Heritage are moving toward a vertical model of fully controlled distribution. But as I have


said many times before, we are opening Broyhill and Lane stores only in those areas, where we do


not presently have a strong retail presence. Where our existing retail customers are adequately


served in a market, there is no need for us to establish single branded stores.


We have made some management changes since the end of the year. I have already introduced


you to Denise Ramos, our new CFO. On April 4 of this year, we were pleased to announce the


hiring of Harvey Dondero as President and Chief Executive Officer at Broyhill. Harvey is a well


seasoned and highly experienced executive and he comes to us from one of the finest furniture


manufacturing companies based in the Far East. He has also had experience in the high end of


our business and he has a great product background and a strong focus on value. We are facing


some challenges at Broyhill today and we believe Harvey is the right guy for the job. We have also


just announced the appointment of Joe McClelland as our new Vice President of Logistics and


Supply Chain Management. Joe comes to us from the Home Depot and he will help us take cost


out of our logistic operations and satisfy our most critical need and that is getting the products into


the hands of the consumer faster. And, we are still engaged in a search for high-caliber marketing,


branding and retail talent to make sure our brand positioning is optimized and our growing retail


structure is developed and run effectively and efficiently. These are difficult jobs to fill because of


the range of our business and the variety of our brands across the breadth of our company. We


have very high expectations for these positions and we are going to find the right people to fill it.


Lastly, we continued to generate strong cash flow. Share repurchases and the dividend remained


the top priorities for our free cash. Since the start of the year, we have repurchased just under


440,000 shares at an average price of $22.77, spending a total of $10 million. This brings to 3.9


million the number of our shares we have repurchased since we started our repurchase program in


the first quarter of 2004. Our average cost has been $25.52. At the end of the first quarter, we had


approximately 40 million in Board authorization remaining to repurchase shares. We expect to


remain in the market, buying stock on an opportunistic basis using available free cash flow and to