raw transcript


Gottschalks Inc.
 
GOT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Gottschalks


Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Year Fiscal 2004 Earning Conference Call. [operator


instructions]. Any reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without prior


authorization of Gottschalks. As a remainder this conference is being recorded today Thursday


March 03, 2005.


I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Lee Parrish of Financial Dynamics. Please proceed.


Leigh Parrish, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for the Gottschalks conference call.


The company issued its press release earlier this afternoon, if you haven’t received a copy, please


feel free to call us at 212-850-5600 or visit the company website at www.gottschalks.com. Before


we begin, I would like to make a brief statement regarding forward-looking remarks that you may


here today on the call.


During the course of this conference call management may make projections rather forward-looking


statements regarding among other things results the team to be achievable for fiscal 2005, as well


as with regard to trends incomparable store sales performance. Such statements are based on


management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties, which


could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking


statements. These factors may include without limitation, risks, rising from competition, vendor


relations, timely receipt of merchandise leverage and restrictive covenants in the company’s debt


agreements, the company’s ability to turnaround or close under performing stores.


The effects of seasonality and weather conditions; changing consumer trends and preferences the


company’s ability to manage and minimize healthcare, pension and workers’ comp benefit costs,


energy costs and insurance costs dependence on key personnel and general labor conditions as


well as events of war or terrorism in general economic, and market condition. We urge you to


review the factors discussed under captation ‘Risk’ related to the business in the company’s most


recent annual report on Form 10-K as well as other documents, which have been filed with the


SEC. In line of these risks and uncertainties there can be no assurance that the forward-looking


statements made in this conference call will in fact to be realized.


And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Famalette, President and CEO of Gottschalks.


James Famalette, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you Leigh. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today. On the call with me


today is Gregory Ambro, our Chief Administrative and Financial Officer. Following my initial


remarks Greg, will review our financial results for the quarter and full fiscal year. Then I will discuss


our outlook for 2005. Following our comments, we will both be available for any questions you


might have.


2004 was a very successful year for us. We are pleased with our overall financial performance.


We achieved a 212% increase in net income for the full year compared to fiscal 2003, while sales


for the year were not as robust as we had originally anticipated, we improved our gross margin by


60 basis points. We also reduced many SG&A expense categories all addressing increased cost in


certain areas of our business. We accomplished a great deal over the course of 2004 and we are
raw transcript


Gottschalks Inc.
 
GOT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


pleased with where Gottschalks is currently positioned today from an operational, financial, and


competitive standpoint.


To briefly recap some key initiatives and achievements for the year, first at the start of 2004, we


looked forward to the celebration of our 100th anniversary. We were successful in our marketing


efforts with strong periods of sales growth in both March and September, tied to major anniversary


campaigns. We also made great strides in publicly telling the Gottschalks story culminating with


the ringing of the closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange on September 17th which was the


actual day of our 100th anniversary.


During the year, we introduced new merchandising and marketing programs which included


reemphasizing major brands in all our advertising and enhancing promotional marketing.


Additionally, we placed significant emphasis on improving our merchandise assortment targeting


the youth business in both young mens and juniors, and focused on updated fashion merchandise


in the better category directed as the 30 to 45 year old female customer segment. As a result of


our focus on specific merchandize categories and strategic marketing, better sportswear, junior’s


and the women’s accessory merchandize categories all performed well throughout 2004.


Our performance in these categories and additional feedback from our store associates


demonstrates that we were successful in expanding our customer base. Importantly, we were


successful in implementing a major initiative focusing on better inventory management and


expanding the use of our dynamic replenishment system. This resulted in an increase in our


inventory turnover by 4% to 2.05 times a year compared to 1.98 times in 2003. We averaged


approximately $10.2 billion at retail less than comp store retail inventory compared to the prior year,


which was a factor in the improved gross margin that I mentioned previously.


Mid year, we also introduced a Hispanic consumer task force action plan focused on in-store


training, updated sinage and targeted marketing initiatives designed to improve our service to and


the penetration of what is a very important customer base in our markets. We successfully


launched new private label brands in 2004. In women’s sports runner line Athelon Bay [ph] and the


men’s updated topline Nessit [ph]. And we expanded our men’s casual sportswear line Shaver


Lake. Sales of private label branded merchandize were 11.5% of total sales in 2004. Our new


direction during 2004 to increase brands major brands in juniors, some men’s, and better women’s


resulted in a slight decrease in overall private-label penetration. We believe our focus on the key


fashion brands to be critical to growing our customer base. We expect to continue to grow private-


label in the future albeit at a more conservative rate, inline with our long-term goal of maintaining


private-label brands at approximately 15% of total sales.


In addition to introducing new private-label brands, implementing merchandize and marketing


initiatives intended to broaden our customer base entailed a new bridal registry system with Internet


capability. We were pleased to have experienced an almost immediate increase in the number of


registries for the new system in place, and we have begun to experience increased sales from this


venue as a result.


With regard to in store initiatives, we completed two major store remodels during the year in


advance of the holiday season, we also reinstituted our “raise the bar” program, focused on visual


and display enhancements to existing stores. We have finalized the comprehensive schedule of


renovations and remodels for other stores and have positioned Gottschalks for our new store


growth planned to begin later this year.


And finally, we think it’s important to note that we turned in a significantly improved financial


performance, despite the largest level of new competition to impact our markets in any single year,


as Cole’s began opening stores throughout Central California in our core markets. Overall, we are


very pleased with our performance in 2004. It generated strong results from the strategic initiatives