corrected transcript


Gottschalks Inc
 
GOT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Gottschalks Inc.'s First


Quarter Fiscal 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will follow at that time.


Any reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without prior authorization of


Gottschalks. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday June 1, 2005.


I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Leigh Parrish of Financial Dynamics. Please go ahead.


Leigh Parrish, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good afternoon. And thank you for joining us today for the Gottschalks conference call.


The Company issued its first quarter press release earlier this afternoon. If you haven’t received a


copy, please feel free to call Financial Dynamics at 212-850-5600 or you can also visit the


Company’s website at www.gottschalks.com. Before we begin, I would like to make a brief


statement regarding forward-looking remarks that you may hear today on the call.


During the course of this conference call, management may make projections or other forward-


looking statements regarding among other things results deemed to be achievable for fiscal 2005


as well as with respect to trends in comparable store sales performance. Such statements are


based on management's current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and


uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the


forward-looking statements. These factors may include without limitation risks arising from


competition, vendor relations, timely receipt of merchandise, leverage and restrictive covenants in


the Company’s debt agreements, the Company’s ability to turn around or close underperforming


stores, the effect of seasonality and weather conditions, changing consumer trends and


preferences, the Company's ability to manage and minimize healthcare, pension and workers'


comp benefit costs, energy costs and insurance costs, dependence on key personnel and general


labor conditions as well as events of war or terrorism and general economic and market conditions.


We urge you to review the factors discussed under the caption risks related to the business in the


Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other documents, which have been


filed with the SEC. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the


forward-looking statements made in this conference call will in fact be realized.


So, now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Famalette, President and CEO of Gottschalks.


Jim.


James R. Famalette, Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Leigh. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Greg Ambro, our Chief


Administrative and Financial Officer, is on the call with me today. But he has dialed in from outside


the office. Kevin Bradshaw, our Vice President of Finance, has also joined us today. Following my


initial remarks, Greg will review our financial results for the quarter. Then I will discuss recent


events and our focus for the balance of the year. Following our comments all of us will be available


for any questions you might have. As we stated in our release, we are pleased with our


performance in the first quarter. We generated sales that were essentially in line with our


expectations and were able to accomplish this against a tough comparable period last year when


we generated strong sales from the launch of our 100-year anniversary marketing campaign.
corrected transcript


Gottschalks Inc
 
GOT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
2


We continue to focus on improving inventory management. Our comp store inventory levels at the


end of the first quarter were 2% below the first quarter of 2004. We are also pleased to have


maintained expense controls during the quarter, slightly reducing SG&A as a percentage of sales


compared to the same period last year. Additionally, we continue to successfully lower our debt


level, which allowed us to reduce interest expense for the quarter. While our gross margin was


somewhat lower than last year, our expense controls and ongoing focus on improving the strength


of our balance sheet contributed to our improved bottom line for the quarter.


As we announced during the quarter, we opened our third store in Oregon in mid April. The store,


which is 43,000 square feet, has been well received in the greater Albany, Oregon community and


to-date its first 6 weeks of operations have produced solid results. During the quarter we continued


to put an emphasis on improving certain key segments of our merchandise assortment, specifically


within the juniors, better sportswear, and shoe businesses. These are important areas which we


believe will help us to continue to grow our customer base. As a result of our focused efforts, each


of these segments performed well in the first quarter. We are pleased to see that these positive


trends we were experiencing in these categories last year have continued, and we hope to maintain


this momentum going forward.


As we mentioned in our release, our home store division also produced solid results for the quarter.


Since the implementation of our merchandizing initiatives in this area, we have seen good initial


results that have been in line with our expectations. Recognizing that there is a significant


opportunity in the home store business, we hope to see a continuation of these results for the


balance of the year.


We have been experiencing gradual improvement in sales as the year has progressed. As we


announced this morning our comparable store sales for the month of May were up 4.2%. Apparel


sales were strong across the board, with the best performers being better sportswear, special


sizes, shoes, and juniors. We also had a very solid month in sales of home furnishings.


Overall, we are pleased with our results to-date this year. We have generated improved results


through a commitment to our financial, merchandizing, marketing, and store related initiatives, and


we believe we are solidly positioned to meet our stated objectives for the full fiscal year.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Greg for a review of some of the financial results. Greg.


J. Gregory Ambro, Chief Administrative and Financial Officer


Thanks Jim, and good afternoon to everyone. Now I will review our financial results for the first


quarter in more detail. Beginning with sales, same-store sales for the first quarter decreased 0.6%


from the same period in the prior year. Total sales for the first quarter were 144.1 million, a slight


decrease from the total sales of 144.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.


The Company operated with the same number of stores in the first quarter, opening one new in


store in Albany, Oregon, and closing one store in the Fig Garden Area, Fresno. Total gross margin


in the first quarter decreased 50 basis points to 33.9% compared to 34.4% in the first quarter of


fiscal 2004. This reduction was in part caused by high sales levels achieved in last year’s first


quarter resulting from the March kick-off of the 100th anniversary campaign. For the quarter, total


SG&A as a percentage of sales was 33.8 compared to 34.0% in the same period of fiscal 2004.


As Jim mentioned, we were successful in maintaining expense controls and reduced expenses in


many categories for the quarter. As we have mentioned previously, we continue to improve our


inventory management controls and have lowered our interest expense as a result of our efforts. At


the end of the quarter, Gottschalks’ total debt was 17.9 million or 13.8% lower than the first quarter