raw transcript


Gottschalks Inc
 
GOT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Gottschalks Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session.


Instructions will follow at that time. Any reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted


without prior authorization of Gottschalks. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today,


Tuesday November 29, 2005.


I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Leigh Parrish of Financial Dynamics. Please proceed.


Leigh Parrish, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today for the Gottschalks conference call. The


Company issued its third quarter press release earlier this afternoon. If you haven’t received a


copy, please feel free to call us at 212-850-5600 and we'll send you a copy or you can also visit the


Company’s website at www.gottschalks.com. Before we begin, I would like to make a brief


statement regarding forward-looking remarks that you may hear today on the call.


During the course of this conference call, management may make projections or other forward-


looking statements regarding among other things results deemed to be achievable for fiscal 2005


as well as with respect to trends in comparable store sales performance. Such statements are


based on management's current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and


uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the


forward-looking statements. These factors may include without limitations risks arising from


competition, vendor relations, timely receipt of merchandise, leverage and restrictive covenants in


the Company’s debt agreements, the Company’s ability to turn around or close underperforming


stores, the effect of seasonality and weather conditions, changing consumer trends and


preferences, the Company's ability to manage and minimize healthcare, pension and workers'


comp benefit costs, energy costs and insurance costs, dependence on key personnel and general


labor conditions, as well as events of war or terrorism and general economic and market conditions.


We urge you to review the factors discussed under the caption risks related to the business in the


Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other documents which have been


filed with the SEC. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the


forward-looking statements made in this conference call will in fact be realized.


And now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Famalette, President and CEO of Gottschalks.


Jim?


James R. Famalette, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Leigh. Good afternoon everyone. Thanks for joining us today. On the call with me today


is Greg Ambro, our Chief Administrative and Financial Officer. Following my initial remarks, Greg


will review our financial results for the quarter and nine month period, then I will discuss our outlook


for the remainder for the year. Following our comments, we will both be available for any questions


you might have.


During the third quarter, we continued to make steady progress on many of our key long-term


operating objectives. Our sales for the quarter were up 2.3%, during the large part of the grand


opening of the new River Park lifestyle store in Fresno. So our comparable store sales were down
raw transcript


Gottschalks Inc
 
GOT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


slightly, which was not inline with expectations. We were still able to increase our gross margin as a


result of our efficient inventory management and a more disciplined approach to managing our


promotional activity. As a result of the softer sales and better margin, we generated a bottom-line


that was similar to last year's level.


The primary reason for our sales being softer than anticipated for the quarter, was lower than


expected sales in our home store division. It is important to note however that the furniture and


mattress segments within the home store division continue to perform very strongly. We are in the


process of updating our store layouts to potentially allocate more space on the floor for these


segments. Only 26 of our 64 stores carry furniture and mattresses. During the quarter, we tested


adding mattresses to the mix of home products in two stores and this new fore layout generated


positive results.


We think there is a great opportunity to build on the strong performance in the furniture and


mattress segments and we look to leverage our success in these areas going forward. We expect


to add these categories into five more stores for the spring of 2006. At the same time, we are


putting a great deal of focus on improving the other areas of the home division that haven't


performed as strongly as we would have liked, mainly tabletop, house wares and textiles. We are


going through a product disortment [ph] reviews and space allocation by store as well as looking at


our marketing efforts for this business category.


Outside of the home division, we have continued to emphasize our key merchandize areas


including better sports wear, accessories, shoes, cosmetics and junior apparel and we are


experiencing solid growth in sales and margin in all of these departments. Through an enhanced


merchandize mix in these categories we have been able to attract a broader customer base beyond


the traditional Gottschalks target customer. These areas have been generating solid sales results


for the first nine months of the year and we believe current business trends support us maintaining


this momentum for the reminder of the year. Our River Park lifestyle store Fresno which was


opened on August 11 is performing very well. In its first quarter of operations, results are in our


expectations.


The new format is being very well received with a greater breath of data merchandise consisting


more fashion forward products, which continue to be the strongest sellers. We are very pleased


with the way people have reacted both from the customer and shopping center developers'


standpoint. Numerous shopping center developers have visited the stores and it is already being


considered for design awards for its exciting format. We are very pleased with the results we have


generated so far and I believe this solid performance will continue in the holiday season. We are


currently beginning to implement some of the positive presentation standards from River Park into


several existing stores which are currently being renovated.


As we previously announced, we closed our Factoria Mall store in the Seattle area in late


September, which was not performing to our expectations and was contributing negatively to our


bottom-line. The closing will be a positive for the overall health of our business in long-term.


We continue to focus on improving inventory management during the third quarter, our comp store


inventory levels at the end of the quarters were even with the third quarter of 2004 and our


inventory turn year-to-date has improved by 2%. We are pleased with the significant progress we


have continue to make and implementing stricter inventory controls. We believe we are in a good


position going into the holiday season and we will continue to emphasize inventory turn over as a


priority initiative going forward into 2006.


While we also continue to focus on maintaining our expenses in the third quarter, we did begin to


feel the impact of higher fuel costs related to our product distribution and supply purchasing. We


are continuing to monitor the impact of these costs and will make necessary adjustments as


needed. Our expense controls remain a key area of emphasis for us going forward.