corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 18, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 2009 Grubb & Ellis Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Keith and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants


are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Mike Rispoli, Senior Vice


President of Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


Michael J. Rispoli, Chief Financial Officer, Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, LLC


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. Before I


turn the call over to Tom D’Arcy, our President and Chief Executive Officer, I would like to remind


you that this call is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay. The replay may


be accessed from the Investor Relations section of the Grubb & Ellis website.


Comments made during this call may include certain forward-looking statements. Actual results and


the timing of certain events could materially differ from forward-looking information discussed on


this call. Factors that may cause such results to differ are set forth in the company’s fourth quarter


earnings release issued today and the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


In an effort to present a more complete financial and narrative description of the results of


operations, the company has provided non-GAAP financial measures. As required by SEC


regulations, the company has provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in both its


earnings release and related SEC filings.


Now I will turn the call over to Tom D’Arcy.


Thomas P. D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, great, Mike, and good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our 2009 fourth quarter


and year-end results. With me here today is Rich Pehlke, our Chief Financial Officer; Jack Van


Berkel, our Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Hanson, who Heads our Investment Management


business. Following some introductory remarks, Rich will review our financial performance and then


I’ll discuss our priorities for 2010. On prepared remarks, we’ll all look forward to discussing your


questions.


As many of you know, this is my first earnings call since joining Grubb & Ellis in November as


President and CEO. What I’d like to do is just provide some perspective on what brought me to


Grubb and what I’ve learned since I’ve been on board.


First off, Grubb & Ellis is one of the oldest and best-known brands in the commercial real estate


industry. It’s also one of the very few real estate services and investment companies in the country


that is national in scope, with a broad platform and multiple business lines. This company has


experienced and talented executives at all levels throughout this organization.


Between our owned and affiliate offices, we have 1,800 brokerage sales professionals operating in


nearly 130 offices. While these professionals are productive, we believe there is room for them to


become even more productive, and we’re working on providing the right tools and resources to


ensure that they are.
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 18, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We also have the ability to expand the sales force. Upgrade of talent is something that Jack is


working hard on, as we speak. Our brokers are supported by over 100 research professionals


providing market data on all asset classes and in almost all markets.


Our Management Service business is among the best in the industry. And while we manage close


to 300 million square feet today, the infrastructure is in place to grow this business significantly. As


the trend in outsourcing to professional firms accelerates, Grubb & Ellis is very well positioned to


capture increased market share.


We see the same opportunity in our Investment Management business. The company’s non-traded


REITs are gaining momentum and bringing attractive real estate investment products to the retail


investor. There are also great opportunities to position this company as a player in the institutional


investment management business. This is a business we don’t even have a presence in today.


We have an emerging mutual fund business run by Jay Leupp, who’s well known throughout the


industry. Grubb & Ellis Alesco Global Advisors emerged as the leading real estate mutual fund


manager in terms of performance as measured by Morningstar during 2009.


For the year, our International Fund placed second among 147 global real estate fund classes. The


Realty Income fund placed seventh of 262 funds and our U.S. Realty Fund placed ninth out of 262


funds. Obviously outstanding performance. There’s also room to expand into products and services


which are extensions of and related to all of our core businesses.


Well, I joined Grubb & Ellis because I believe the pieces are in place for us to grow this business


and to create real shareowner value. Since being on board, I also recognized the need to make


some fundamental changes in the company’s cost structure. I think this is especially true in light of


the recent earnings miss and our lower guidance for 2010. Now, although the economic downturn


has really impacted the entire commercial real estate industry, we obviously must look for ways to


increase cash flow and profitability in both strong and in weak markets.


In recent weeks, we’ve acted on our corporate overhead costs. And these actions were a result of a


company-wide review undertaken by senior management and included evaluating our entire


organization in the context of the overall economic environment and our growth initiatives. Our goal


was really simple. It was to make the company leaner and more cost competitive. And as a result of


these actions, we reduced our overall operating expenses by 12 to 14% or $25 million on an


annualized basis. We believe the company’s new cost structure along with our recapitalized


balance sheet from the recent equity offering allows us to fund both our short and long-term growth


initiatives.


As part of this review, the senior management team established long-term strategic goals as well


as specific 2010 initiatives. I’ll provide some details of this plan later in the call. Before I turn the call


over to Rich, I’d like to offer just a few comments on the overall employment picture as well as on


the commercial real estate market outlook, just share some of what our research professionals are


seeing for 2010.


As I’m sure you all know, payroll job losses have slowed to a relative trickle as the economy began


to rebound in the second half of 2009. The President’s Council of Economic Advisers had


forecasted the labor market to add an average of 95,000 jobs per month or a total of 1.1 million jobs


this year. You have to put that in perspective though, since 8.4 million jobs have been lost since the


recession began.


In terms of commercial real estate, while leasing fundamentals continued to deteriorate in the fourth


quarter, they did so at a slower rate than the previous three quarters. Although there’s clearly more


business confidence in the market, which we believe should encourage more transaction activity,


we believe 2010 will continue to be a challenging year for the industry.