corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2010 Full Year Earnings


Conference Call for Grubb & Ellis Company. Today’s call is being webcast and will be archived and


available for replay in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website.


Please turn to slide 1. This presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include assumptions


regarding expectations or estimates of future financial and operating results or events, industry and


market trends, and other market opportunities for Grubb & Ellis. The information in this presentation


discusses the state of Grubb & Ellis’ business as of the date of the presentation. Except to the


extent required by applicable securities laws, Grubb & Ellis does not assume any obligation to


update or correct any information you may hear today.


Please refer to the company’s annual report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ending December


31st, 2009, the company’s quarterly reports on 10-Q for the three months ended March 31st, 2010,


June 30th, 2010 and September 30th, 2010. And the current report on Form 8-K filed on February


10th, 2011 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, for a discussion of risk


factors or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the comments made


today.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Mr. Thomas D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive


Officer for opening remarks. Please go ahead, sir.


Thomas P. D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, thank you, Operator, and good morning everyone. We certainly appreciate you joining us


today to discuss our 2010 fourth quarter and full year results. With me on the call today is Mike


Rispoli, as you know, our Chief Financial Officer. Mike and I certainly look forward to taking all of


your questions following a few prepared remarks.


Let me begin with just a brief overview of the fourth quarter results, so I direct you to slide 2. During


the fourth quarter 2010, the company generated revenue of $163.5 million. This is approximately


10% higher than the $148 million we generated for the fourth quarter of 2009. The majority of the


growth came from our Transaction Services business. Our Transaction Services had a very strong


year, as well as a strong quarter and had a 45% revenue increase.


When you look at the increase, it’s largely attributable to the investments we’ve made in town over


the two plus years, adding brokers to the platform, as well as the additions we’ve made in our


service offerings and obviously, the overall improvement in market conditions. So, our expectation


is that this top line growth will continue, especially as the new brokers whom we’ve added to the


platform accelerate their production and also the service lines we’ve added begin to add to


EBITDA, and obviously, as the commercial real estate market continues to strengthen. So,


although we are generally pleased with the revenue performance, we know we have more work to


do to translate this revenue into sustained profitability.


For the year the company reported negative adjusted EBITDA of $19.7 million, and again, although


we made incremental progress throughout the year and have breakeven adjusted EBITDA for the


quarter, this is far from where we need to be. Simply put, we know we must translate revenue into


profit, as both Mike and I will discuss, we’ve taken a number of actions, including certain


organizational changes, to make sure that this happens. Before I address the financial performance


in greater detail, I would like to recap some of the 2010 accomplishments which we believe have


positioned the company for improved future results.
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


What you see in slide 3, during the year as we’ve discussed in detail we did invest in talent, adding


brokerage to the platform, we both expanded our service offerings, which we’ll discuss in detail on


this call. We’ve strengthened our geographic reach; we also have repositioned our investment


management business for future profitability. Our Management Services business ended the year


with $255 million square feet of property under management, this is up from $241 million square


feet a year ago.


Now that mentioned in our previous calls, the business has experienced a mix in revenue


throughout 2010. During 2010, in this segment, we added six new corporate outsourcing


relationships and renewed or expanded the work we do for an additional 14 clients. By the way of


example, during the fourth quarter, a Fortune 100 financial services provider selected us to manage


their – more than $10 million square foot U.S. real-estate portfolio. This for time and action includes


both facilities as well as project management, and was one of the largest corporate outsourcing


contracts awarded to any real estate services provider during 2010, so great work by the FM team


on this particular contract. Also [inaudible] has been a long-term client of ours to which we provide


transaction management and lease administration, awarded us for five year contract extension.


Our goal in this business is always been to differentiate our outsourcing business really in two


ways, through service and value added solutions. And we believe that these high profile


assignments, as well as our recently announced alliance with Manhattan Software, which we’re


incredibly excited about will help deepen this distinction.


As I mentioned Transaction Services had a solid year, they saw a solid growth in revenue


throughout all of 2010. Leasing was up 25% and sales increased to 92%, we believe both of these


are in line with industry trends, from our view this signals that Grubb & Ellis is capturing its share of


the improving commercial real estate market.


You’ll see some of our more notable transactions for the quarter on slide 4. During the year we


recruited a 102 – 122 senior level professionals into the organization, expanded the platform by


entering the Debt & Equity Valuation businesses and actually our debt practice is currently staffed


with 16 highly experienced professionals located in key markets throughout the country. And Grubb


& Ellis lender valuation begins 2011 with a presence in 24 markets. We also expanded our


geographic footprint by opening company-owned offices in San Diego and Phoenix, Cincinnati, as


well as acquiring our affiliates in Las Vegas and Central Florida. The transaction in Central Florida


added offices in Orlando, Tampa and Melbourne.


Our Investment Management business, which we discussed throughout the year has struggled for


the first three quarters of 2010, but we really feel like it ended the year on a pretty solid footing.


Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT II had an average daily equity raise of nearly $1 million in


December. Clearly above the $800,000 daily average we believe represents the breakeven point


for this business. The non-traded REIT began 2011 at strong position, has a portfolio of 25


properties valued at nearly $200 million, compared to the end of 2009 when we were really just


beginning to raise equity for the company.


So, from my perspective, the progress that we’ve made during this year makes us a better, more


competitive company. Now as we begin to achieve consistent profitability, we believe fundamentally


that our position as a domestically focused, full service commercial real estate company, that has


responded to market dynamics and has an intense focus on our clients real estate needs will put us


in a really really strong position for future growth.


Turning to slide 5, let me just walk you through a change that we announced in our reporting


segment and that’s the new segment that includes the majority of the legacy NNN business. Now


the addition of this business segment follows our announcement last week of the creation of


Daymark Realty Advisors. Daymark will be a wholly owned, but separately managed subsidiary that


will specialize in managing tenant-in-common programs. There are numerous benefits to this