corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2009 Grubb &


Ellis Earnings Conference Call. My name is Isha and I will be your operator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards


the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mike Rispoli, Senior Vice President of Investor


Relations. Please proceed.


Michael J. Rispoli, Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor Relations


Thank you, operator, and good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. Before


Gary Hunt, our Interim Chief Executive Officer, provides his opening remarks, I would like to remind


you that this call is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay. The replay may


be accessed from the Investor Relations section of the Grubb & Ellis website.


Comments made during this call may include certain forward-looking statements. Actual results and


the timing of certain events could materially differ from forward-looking information discussed on


this call. Factors that may cause such results to differ are set forth in the Company’s second


quarter earnings release issued today and the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


In an effort to present a more complete financial and narrative description of the results of


operations, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial measures. These financial measures


exclude the impact of non-cash items such as charges related to sponsored programs, real estate-


related impairments and stock-based compensation, as well as the impact of merger-related costs


incurred in the prior year. As required by SEC regulations, the Company has provided


reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in both its earnings releases and related SEC filings.


Now I will turn the call over to Gary Hunt.


Gary Hunt, Director and Interim Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us today. With


me on the call is Rich Pehlke, our Chief Financial Officer. Following my opening remarks, Rich will


review our performance and provide some context for the results we reported this morning.


Those of you who make it a point to listen to our quarterly conference calls, I am sure I am going to


sound a bit like a broken record. However, there has been little change from what we’ve reported


for the past year. The economy in general and the operating environment for commercial real


estate services and investment firms like Grubb & Ellis, in particular, continues to be extremely


challenging. Both our most recent second quarter and six month results reflect the continued slow


down in leasing throughout all sectors and a stalled investment sales market.


To give you some perspective, prolonged recession and, specifically, continued job losses sent


second quarter vacancy rates higher across the four core property types: office, industrial, retail


and family – multi-family. Based on our analysis, leasing activity in the second quarter of 2009 was


down nearly a third from a year ago. Effective rental rates were down 16 to 22% over the past year,


depending on the property type.


Consensus appears to be that the recession is close to a bottom and the GDP will expand in the


second half of 2009. However, the labor market, which is the single most important driver of
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


demand for commercial real estate is a lagging indicator. And it may not bottom out until sometime


in the first half of 2010.


Given this scenario, leasing fundamentals for the four core property types are likely to soften at a


fairly rapid pace over the next six months. With office and industrial vacancy rates increasing by as


much as a 150 to 200 basis points by year end. Rental rates could fall another 3 to 5% during the


same period. We do not expect to see an increase in leasing volume until sometime in 2010. Lease


sizes will remain below average and tenants will continue to show a preference for short-term lease


extensions over the new five year leases.


Sales of the four core property type sale types totaled 8.6 billion and 17.5 billion in the second


quarter and first half of 2009 respectively, according to real capital analytics. This is a drop of 77%


from the second quarter of last year and 78% from the first six months of 2008.


Investment sales may finally begin to pick up toward the end of 2009, fueled by the rapid increase


in distressed loans and assets. Regulations governing CMBS provide far less flexibility for the


services to alter the terms of the original loans. Banks, however, appear more willing to extend loan


terms assuming the borrowers are current with their payments, because they are not anxious to


take the properties back, concerned is they are about their own capital reserve ratios.


Nonetheless, the way before closures is likely to build through the next two to three years, creating


opportunities for investors with equity and good relationships with financially sound lenders. Based


on these expectations, we do not anticipate noticeable improvement in the operating environment


for the commercial real estate services industry this year and the improvement next year is likely to


be gradual.


Our view from the onset of the downturn has bend a focus on what we can control, which is to


serve the needs of our clients and strengthen these relationships by providing exceptional client


service and innovative solutions to the real estate issues they are facing. In support of this strategy,


we have continued to make investments to position the company to achieve its long-term growth


objectives which are based on delivering integrated real estate solutions to corporate users and


individual and institutional investors around the globe.


Those objectives are to better serve clients by recruiting more experienced, productive brokerage


sales professionals, expand our platforms to capture more corporate outsourcing business, and


leveraging our investment management expertise to grow assets under management through the


introduction of new, real estate-related investment programs.


I’m very pleased to report that during the second quarter we made progress across the board.


Although Rich is going to provide more detail in his remarks, I do want to highlight a few of our


accomplishments in each of these areas. We have recruited an additional 13 senior level brokerage


sales professionals during the quarter, bringing to 68 the total number of sales professionals


recruited over the past 12 months.


We significantly expanded the company’s capital markets platform, adding corporate finance and


mortgage banking capabilities that will allow us to better serve both our corporate and institutional


clients. Our global client services business, which serves the needs of our largest corporate clients,


added 20 new property and facilities management assignments during the quarter.


On the investment side of our business we have announced the formation of a joint venture with


Meridian Partners. In addition, the follow on offering to Grubb & Ellis Apartment REIT was declared


effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission and one of the funds offered through our


mutual fund subsidiary, Grubb & Ellis Alesco Global Advisors, was the top performing fund among


the 274 real estate mutual funds tracked by Morningstar through the first half of 2009.