corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Grubb & Ellis First Quarter 2010


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Gerry and I’ll be your coordinator today. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I


would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Mike Rispoli, Senior Vice


President of Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


Michael Rispoli, Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Before I turn the call


over to Tom D’Arcy, our President and Chief Executive Officer, I would like to remind you that this


call is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay in the Investor Relations


section of the Grubb & Ellis website. Also available, is a slide presentation which you can follow as


we provide our prepared remarks.


I would like to direct you to Slide 1 of our presentation, forward-looking statements. This


presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include assumptions regarding expectations or


estimates of future financial and operating results or events, industry and market trends and other


market opportunities for Grubb & Ellis. Information in this presentation discusses the state of Grubb


& Ellis’ business as of the date of the presentation. Except to the extent required by applicable


securities laws, Grubb & Ellis does not assume any obligation to update or correct any information


you may hear today. Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A and other filings with the


Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of risk factors or uncertainties that could


cause our actual results to differ materially from comments made today.


In an effort to present a more complete, financial and narrative description of the results of


operations, we make certain statements during the course of this presentation, which include


references to non-GAAP financial measures. As required by SEC regulations, the company has


provided reconciliations of these measures in our earnings release, as to what we believe are the


most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are included in the Appendix.


Now, I will turn the call over to Tom D’Arcy.


Thomas P. D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well thanks, Mike, and hello, everyone. First of all, let me thank you for joining us to discuss our


2010 first quarter results. Participating on today’s call with me in addition to Mike, is Matt Engel, our


Interim Chief Financial Officer; Jack Van Berkel, our Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff Hanson, who


heads our Investment Management business.


I’m going to start this morning with just a brief overview of our first quarter performance so I direct


you to Slide 2. I’m really pleased to report that we saw improved year-over-year performance in


total company revenue and significant growth in our Real Estate Services business. Our first


quarter 2010 revenue was $133 million, an increase of 8% compared with revenue of $122 million


for the first quarter of 2009.


Transaction Services revenue, which includes brokerage commission, valuation and consulting


revenue, was up nearly 26% from the first quarter of 2009. Leasing revenue increased 15%, and


Investment Sales revenue was up 30%. We saw an increase in the amount of transaction work on
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


behalf of our corporate clients, which have selected Grubb & Ellis as their corporate real estate


outsourcing partner. Our Management Services revenue increased 11%.


We are really encouraged by this performance for 2 main reasons. First, it signals that the


commercial real estate industry is entering the early stages of a recovery. Second, the way I think it


fits well with these actions that we’ve made today to strengthen our platform, all of which position


us to capture market share as the recovery continues.


In Slide 3, we review it as occurring in the broader market. The fixed commercial real estate is a


lagging economic indicator, momentum needs to build in overall economy over several quarters


before real estate fundamentals show tangible signs of improvement. As measured by GDP growth,


the economy began growing again in the third quarter of 2009.


As you’ll see from the graph on the right, we began to see real improvement in the employment


figures. These stronger trend lines and the macro indicators have contributed a clear change of


attitude from just 7 months ago. And while we still believe that sustained recovery will not fully take


hold until 2011, we did see a clear pick up in velocity during the first quarter.


Occupiers are showing a greater willingness to make space decisions, and really seeking to take


advantage of the current rental rates to upgrade the quality of their space, or extend and expand


their current leases.


Turning to Slide 4, we review the commercial real estate pricing index and the impact on


transaction velocity. According to Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index, prices began to


stabilize in late 2009. This is really where the buyers and sellers start to come together on price,


which in turn has resulted in the increase in transaction velocity from its historically low levels. In


addition, according to REAL Capital Analytics, investment sales were $15.4 billion in the first


quarter. This is up 50% from the first quarter of 2009.


Although the increase in sales volume is impressive on a year-over-year basis, obviously the first


quarter of 2009 probably marked the bottom of the downturn, so the comparison was relatively


easy one. The actual number of properties sold was flat as compared to the first quarter of 2009.


This means that the average transaction size was significantly larger than it was a year ago, which


we interpret as a really healthy sign. Although leasing velocity should continue to improve, the


office market is not yet in recovery mode as vacancy rates continue to climb during the first quarter


of 2010. While we’re certainly encouraged by the signs of the recovery, we don’t believe it’s going


to be a straight line across all businesses and all markets.


Please turn to Slide 5, where we view the current commercial real estate environment as an


opportunity to continue to build and enhance our platform. And we plan to be even more aggressive


in positioning Grubb & Ellis for sustained long-term growth. Towards this effort, last week we raised


$30 million of new capital in an offering of unsecured convertible notes. Matt will walk you through


the details shortly, but I wanted to thank the strong line up of institutional investors who participated


in this offering.


We view this as really positive news for the company. It reaffirms the progress we have made and


continue to make in pursuit of our strategic growth initiatives. It also speaks to the confidence our


investors have in our company, and our opportunity for long-term growth.


We also announced last week that Richard Pehlke has stepped down as the Chief Financial


Officer. Rich provided steady leadership to our company and played absolutely key role in


strengthening the company’s financial position. We can’t thank Rich enough for all of his efforts. We


are also very pleased that he’ll continue to be available to the company on a consulting basis up


until the end of the year.