corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Grubb & Ellis First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Michelle and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question and answer session toward the


end of this conference.


[Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I


would now like to turn the call over to Mike Rispoli, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.


Please proceed.


Michael Rispoli, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor


Relations, Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, LLC


Thank you, operator. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning. Before


Gary Hunt, our Interim Chief Executive Officer provides his opening remarks, I would like to remind


you that this call is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay. The replay may


be accessed from the Investor Relations section of the Grubb & Ellis website.


Comments made during this call may include certain forward-looking statements. Actual results and


the timing of certain events could materially differ from forward-looking information discussed on


this call. Factors that may cause such results to differ are set forth in the company’s fourth quarter


2008 and first quarter 2009 press releases and the company’s filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


In an effort to present a more complete financial and narrative description of the results of


operations, the company has provided non-GAAP financial measures. These financial measures


exclude the impact of merger related costs and non-cash items such as charges related to sponsor


programs, real estate related impairment and stock-based compensation.


As required by SEC regulations, the company has provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP


measures in both its earnings release and related SEC filings. Now I will turn the call over to Gary


Hunt.


Gary Hunt, Interim Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Mike. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning. Admittedly, it


has been a while since our last earnings conference call, so we have a lot to cover this morning.


We welcome the chance to update you on our progress toward our stated objectives and the


opportunities we see moving forward.


With me on today’s call is Rich Pehlke, our Chief Financial Officer. Much of what we will cover this


morning pertains to our results and the steps we are taking to provide the company more financial


flexibility in the current environment. Last week, we obtained an amendment to our senior secured


credit facility. Rich will provide greater detail on the credit facility later in the call.


We’re pleased that we were able to amend the facility especially in light of the current environment


and believe that it is an endorsement of the company’s strength, resilience and growth strategy. I


don’t have to tell you that we’re operating in a very challenging environment characterized by one


of the weakest transaction markets in decades.


First quarter vacancy rates increased across the four core property types: office, industrial, retail


and multi-family. Drivers of demand for each property type though slightly different are weakened in
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


response to the recession. Based on our analysis, leasing activity in the first quarter was off by 30%


from the fourth quarter and by 43% from the first quarter of 2008.


Effective rental rates were down 10 to 15% over the past year depending upon property type.


Leasing activity tends to lag the labor market suggesting that a meaningful recovery may not begin


for some time. First quarter sales of the four core property types totaled 8.6 billion as reported by


Real Capital Analytics. This is a drop of 53% from the fourth quarter and 80% from the first quarter


of 2008.


Recently, there have been some signs that the economic outlook is improving. The rally in equities


is encouraging and bond spreads have narrowed. Although the majority opinion among economists


is that the recession could end late this year, we have yet to see positive impact on the commercial


real estate markets, and we are not counting on any short-term relief.


Despite this environment, our core businesses continue to make progress. As a result of our


aggressive recruiting efforts and our new go-to-market strategy, which is focused on providing our


clients with integrated solutions to their real estate needs, Grubb & Ellis is emerging as one of the


top choices as more companies elect to outsource their real estate operations. And our decision to


re-brand our investment products under the Grubb & Ellis name has catapulted the company’s non-


traded REIT sales.


Like the rest of the commercial real estate industry, the downturn has impacted our transaction


services business, where velocity is down considerably. It has also impacted equity flowing into our


tenant-in-common programs, and the pace at which the equity raised by the investment programs


is being deployed. Until market conditions are improved, our focus has and will continue to be to


essential consistently serve our clients, effectively manage our balance sheet and reduce costs.


We’re also looking to leverage disruption in our industry, to be opportunistic and add key talent,


strengthening our platform for the long term. Our goal is to be prepared to take advantage of the


markets when they do recover. To date we’ve had considerable success achieving our growth


objectives using our cash on hand and available line of credit facility.


We are taking steps to pursue additional capital to adequately fund growth objectives as well as


comply with the company’s debt covenants. The company has retained a financial advisor to assist


in its efforts to attract additional capital. And I am very pleased to report that the process is well


underway. We believe this will allow us to accelerate our growth strategy, making Grubb & Ellis


more attractive to our employees and allowing us to better serve our clients.


With those comments, I’d now like to turn the call over to Rich Pehlke, our Chief Financial Officer.


Richard W. Pehlke, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Gary, and good morning to everyone on the call. As Gary indicated, we have a lot to


cover this morning. We put a lot of information in the market over the last 24 to 48 hours. So I’ll


quickly touch on some of the key items related to our fourth quarter and full year 2008 results. Then


I will address the first quarter results and our recent credit facility amendment.


So I’ll begin with the 2008 fourth quarter and full year results. It is important to note that the delay in


reporting our fourth quarter and 2008 full year results had nothing to do with our current businesses


or accounting practices. The restatement was necessary to correct historical accounting errors


related to the timing of revenue recognition, related to certain tenant-in-common investment


programs sponsored by NNN Realty Advisors, or its affiliates, prior to the company’s merger in


December 2007. The accounting errors themselves date back as far as 2004.