corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Grubb &


Ellis Company. Today’s call is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay in


the Investor Relations section of the company’s website.


Please turn to slide 1. This presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include assumptions


regarding expectations or estimates of future financial and operating results or events, industry and


market trends, and other market opportunities for Grubb & Ellis. The information in this presentation


discusses the state of Grubb & Ellis’ business as of the date of the presentation. Except to the


extent required by applicable securities laws, Grubb & Ellis does not assume any obligation to


update or correct any information you may hear today.


Please refer to the company’s annual report on Form 10-K/A and other filings with the Securities


and Exchange Commission for a discussion of risk factors or uncertainties that could cause actual


results to differ materially from comments made today.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Thomas D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive


Officer, for opening remarks. Please go ahead, sir.


Thomas P. D’Arcy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, thank you, Operator, and hello, everyone. And thank you for joining us today to discuss our


2010 third quarter results. Participating on the call with me today is Mike Rispoli, our Chief Financial


Officer, and we certainly look forward to answering all your questions following our prepared


remarks.


Just let me begin with just a brief overview of third quarter results, so please turn to slide 2. For the


quarter of 2010, Grubb & Ellis generated revenue of $144 million, which was approximately 6%


higher than the 136 million in revenue for the third quarter of 2009. Adjusted EBITDA was negative


3.3 million, lower than the adjusted EBITDA of 0.7 million reported in the third quarter of 2009, but a


sequential improvement compared to the negative 5.3 million posted in the second quarter of the


year.


These results are consistent with the company’s preliminary third quarter 2010 earnings


announcement on October 19. Although the results clearly do not reflect the earnings potential of


our platform, we have reported sequential improvements in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA


throughout 2010 and believe we are moving the company in the right direction. We continue to be


really pleased with the revenue growth in our Transaction Services business, which posted double-


digit revenue gains for the third consecutive quarter.


As reflected on slide 3, the segment’s revenue increased 29% from the third quarter of 2009. This


follows year-over-year revenue increases of 26% and 40% in the first and second quarters,


respectively. I think our continued growth in this segment really indicates that the commercial real


estate market is improving in the United States and also that we’re generating a really strong top


line return on the investments that we’ve made in the adding of higher quality talent to the platform.


In terms of specifics, leasing revenue increased 17% for the quarter, and investment sales revenue


was up 121% overall during the quarter itself.


Management Services revenue was down slightly year-over-year due to the shift in the mix of


assignments in our management portfolio, which as we mentioned last quarter was something that


we had expected.
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Our Investment Management business reported revenue of 3.5 million less than last year’s third


quarter, but it was a 2.7 million improvement over the second quarter of 2010. The equity raise for


our non-trading REITs continues to lag our projections. This in turn has lead to delays in the


investment activity of the REITs, which lowers fee revenue to the company. As we stated in a


preliminary earnings announcement, weakness in the Investment Management segment and the


uneven economic recovery has impacted our third quarter performance and also our expectations


for the fourth quarter, which prompted us to update our full-year outlook.


Now as we’ve said before, our top priory remains achieving sustained profitability for the company.


Now as we’ll see on slides 4 and 5, we believe we made substantive progress towards this goal


during the third quarter.


Now if you turn to slide 6, as we move forward, our efforts are really going to focus on five primary


areas. First is to continue to capitalize on our recruiting success, which is going to drive operating


leverage in the improving commercial real estate market. Second is to differentiate our


Management Services business. We’re offering best-in-class client service with innovative


solutions, and we’ll talk a little bit about during this call about a major announcement we made


during the quarter.


Third is to continue to leverage the leadership position that we have in healthcare real estate to


increase our non-traded REIT equity raise. Fourth is to direct resources into those businesses with


higher growth and margin potential, which we’ll also discuss during the course of this call. And last,


but certainly not least, continue to focus on lowering the company’s fixed cost base.


So based on current trends, we expect to generate positive net cash flow in the fourth quarter and


anticipate a return to profitability on an EBITDA basis for the full year 2011. So certainly, although


returning Grubb & Ellis to profitability is the first step, our vision for the company is certainly longer


in term, with our overriding goal being the creation of shareholder value over time.


So before I outline the specific steps we will take in each of the areas I just mentioned, and also


providing a perspective on how we believe to best quantify the progress that we’ve made, let me


ask Mike to provide a review of the financial results for the quarter. Michael?


Michael J. Rispoli, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Tom. Good morning, everyone. As you’ll see on slide 7, Grubb & Ellis reported revenue


for the first nine months of 2010 of 417.5 million, up 8% compared with the first nine months of


2009. As Tom said, the revenue increase for both the quarter and year-to-date was largely driven


by the strong performance of our Transaction Services segment.


On a GAAP basis, the company reported a third quarter net loss of 14.8 million, or $0.27 per


common share, and a year-to-date net loss of 56 million, or $1.00 per share. This compares to a


net loss of 21.4 million and 95.7 million for the third quarter and year-to-date periods in 2009. For


the first nine months of 2010, the company reported adjusted EBITDA of negative 19.7 million, a


22% improvement compared with a year-ago period. Reconciliation of the GAAP numbers to


adjusted EBITDA can be found in Table 3 accompanying the release.


Next, I’d like to briefly review segment revenue as outlined on slide 8. Revenue from our


Management Services segment was 65.3 million in the third quarter. Year-to-date, the segment


generated revenue of 207.7 million. This segment is up 4% year-to-date compared to the prior year


and down slightly in the third quarter due to the shift in mix of revenue as well as the timing of when


new assignments began.