corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2009 Grubb & Ellis


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Janeta (00.08) and I will be your operator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Michael Rispoli, Senior Vice


President, Investor Relations. Please proceed.


Michael J. Rispoli, Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor Relations


Thank you, Operator. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. Before I


turn the call over to Rich Pehlke, our Chief Financial Officer, I would like to remind you that this call


is being webcast live and will be archived and available for replay. The replay may be accessed


from the Investor Relations section of the Grubb & Ellis website.


Comments made during this call may include certain forward-looking statements. Actual results and


the timing of certain events could materially differ from forward-looking information discussed on


this call. Factors that may cause such results to differ are set forth in the Company’s third quarter


earning’s release issued today and the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


In an effort to present a more complete financial and narrative description of the results of


operations, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial measures. These financial measures


exclude the impact of non-cash items such as charges related to sponsored programs, real estate-


related impairment and stock-based compensation, as well as the impact of merger-related costs


incurred in the prior year. As required by SEC regulations, the Company has provided


reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures in both its earnings releases and related SEC filings.


Now, I will turn the call over to Rich Pehlke.


Richard W. Pehlke, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mike and good morning everyone. And thank you for joining us today. Before providing


the review of our third quarter results, I’d like to review two very significant announcements we


made in the last week, because we’ll refer to them later in the call. First, we are pleased to report


Grubb & Ellis closed the $90 million preferred equity transaction on November 6.


On Monday, we announced that Tom D’Arcy, an experienced industry leader who joined the


company as its President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the company’s Board of


Directors. Tom officially starts his role next Monday, November 16. For those of you who know


Tom, you know that he brings considerable experience and has held senior leadership positions at


successful public and private real estate companies. He has been non-Executive Chairman of


Inland Real Estate Corporations since 2008.


Earlier, he spent 11 years as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bradley Real Estate, an


NYSE-listed real estate investment trust. We’re very much looking forward to Tom being onboard


and we look forward to working with him.


Now, I’ll make some brief remarks regarding the general operating environment that we’ve


experienced over the past quarter, that will help put our financial results in context. We’ll later in the


call, Jack Van Berkel, who is joining me today, our Chief Operating Officer and President of Real
corrected transcript


Grubb & Ellis Co.
 
GBE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Estate Services, will outline some of the progress Grubb & Ellis has made within our services


business.


The third quarter brought another increase in vacancy rates across all four key sectors of the


commercial real estate industry. The good news is that the increase in vacancy rates across each


sector was less than in the first and second quarters. This is consistent with the general consensus


among the economists that the economy improved gradually through the spring and summer, and


now appears to be in the very early stages of a recovery. It is also due to the fact that the


construction pipeline is emptying, so less new vacant space has been added to the market.


Despite the slower rate of deterioration in leasing market fundamentals during the third quarter, the


market is likely to report several more quarters of softening before bottoming out in the second half


of 2010 and embarking on a sustained recovery in 2011.


The capital markets remain on hold. Although there is a growing pool of investors with equity capital


waiting to invest in distressed assets, sellers don’t want to give in to the biggest buyers market


since 1990, that are being enabled by banks, which are granting short-term loans extensions, even


though collateral values have fallen sharply.


Therefore, distressed assets continue to pile up, totaling 138 billion at the end of August, according


to real capital analytics. As a result we expect to see an increase in transaction volume next year,


in the range of 20 to 30% above the very depressed 2009 levels.


Based on our expectations, we think the operating environment for the commercial real estate


services industry will be challenging for some time. Year-to-date, leasing activity is down nearly a


third from a year ago. Effective rental rates are down five to 15% over the past year depending


upon the property type. The dollar volume of sales is down 66% for all property types year-to-date.


As we noted in the morning’s earnings release, despite the difficult market conditions, Grubb & Ellis


did see some encouraging signs in our third quarter performance, most notably, sequential


improvement in adjusted EBITDA, transaction volume and revenue, over the second quarter. This


is a favorable trend and compared with 2008 second-quarter, the third quarter revenue growth. We


believe this trend is consistent with the slightly better tone of the leasing market data in the third


quarter, as well as the company’s recruiting successes over the past 15 months.


Today, we reported revenue of 136.1 million for the third quarter, which was down 11% from last


year, due primarily to weak sales and anemic leasing activity. For the first nine months for 2009, the


company reported total revenue of 385.1 million down from 468.8 million in 2008. The net loss for


the quarter was 21.4 million, or $0.34 per share. For the first nine months of 2009, the company


reported a net loss of 95.7 million, or $1.51 per share.


Please keep in mind also that the per share numbers that I’m quoting do not reflect the accounting


impact of the preferred equity offerings since that closed in the fourth quarter.


Turning to adjusted EBITDA, for the third quarter it was 674,000 positive, compared with adjusted


EBITDA of 7.4 million in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease was due to a lower transaction


revenue in both the Transaction Services and Investment Management businesses, largely due to


industry conditions. The adjusted EBITDA excluded the following charges that are recorded in our


GAAP numbers; 7.2 million in charges related to the companies Investment Management


programs, 7.4 million in real estate related in impairments and 4.4 million of stock-based


compensation and amortization of signing bonuses.


For the nine months of 2009, adjusted EBITDA was negative 25.1 million, compared with a positive


adjusted EBITDA of 27.4 million in the same period a year ago. The nine-month 2009 adjusted


EBITDA results exclude the following charges that were recorded in the company’s GAAP