Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher T. McKee — General Counsel and EVP, Corporate Development, GTT Communications, Inc.
Richard D. Calder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, GTT Communications, Inc.
Michael R. Bauer — Chief Financial Officer, GTT Communications, Inc.
H. Brian Thompson — Founder & Executive Chairman of the Board, GTT Communications, Inc.
Barry Michael Sine — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC
George Frederick Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Jim D. Breen — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Keith Glenn LaRose — Executive Vice President & Portfolio Manager, Bradley, Foster & Sargent, Inc.
Josh Nichols — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's GTT First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

Now, at this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Chris McKee, General Counsel and Executive Vice President, Corporate Development. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and good morning. I'm joined today by Rick Calder, GTT's President and CEO; Mike Bauer, GTT's Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Thompson, GTT's Executive Chairman of the Board.

Today's discussion is being made available via webcast through the company's website www.gtt.net. A replay of this call will be available for one month. Dial-in information for the replay, as well as access to a replay of the webcast is available on our website address I just mentioned.

Today's comments will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are predictive in nature that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that involve the use of words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, may, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements include by way of example revenue and margin expectations or projections in various references to trends in the industry and GTT's business. Such statements reflect current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some beyond our control, which would cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements.

There are many risks and uncertainties and other factors that can prevent the company from achieving its goals or cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in these comments. These factors and others are more fully discussed under Risk Factors in GTT's Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. Statements in this call should be evaluated in light of these important factors.

Also, the discussion this morning will refer to adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measure. The presentation of GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of non-GAAP information to GAAP financial measures is included in the press release we issued this morning, which is also available on the GTT website.

I will now turn the call over to Rick Calder. Rick?

Thanks, Chris, and good morning everyone. 2014 is off to a terrific start. We recorded strong performance in Q1 that built further scale on the growth platform we cemented in 2013. First quarter revenue grew 80% and adjusted EBITDA grew 132% year-over-year.

Our sales teams are penetrating new accounts and generating demand for our robust cloud networking services. We have maintained our churn rates under 2% with the majority of churn in our lower margin business. Additionally, we continue to manage the business efficiently overall, generating incremental synergies as part of our ongoing network consolidation.

We remain focused on executing our three-part strategic growth plan. First, we are extending ubiquitous network connectivity worldwide. Today, we have 200-plus points of presence serving clients in over 100 countries and we are upgrading our core network capacity to 100 gigabit wavelengths on selected high capacity routes. We are adding to our network and our customer base in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia-Pac and our value by these customers for possessing the proven capability to connect our network to client locations anywhere in the world using our 800-plus operating partners. We also recently opened offices in the first quarter in Hong Kong, and in the Greater New York City metro area to expand our global presence to 10 offices in six countries.

Second, we are expanding our cloud network service portfolio. We serve our clients' core wide area networking needs through our Ether cloud EtherCloud Service portfolio and connect clients worldwide to the internet through our Dedicated Internet Access and IP Transit Services. We have recently launched an expanded portfolio of Managed Network Services, including managed router services and Managed Security Services. Lastly, we are providing seamless private access for our clients to a wide range of cloud computing services through our EtherCloud portfolio.

Third, we deliver outstanding client experience with our core values of simplicity, speed and agility that are unmatched by other multinational network providers. Our sales and service teams concentrate on providing highly reliable, scalable and secure cloud networking services to meet our clients' increasing demands [Technical Difficulty] (04:46-05:23).

And sir, this is the operator. We're unable to hear you.

...financials.

Thanks, Rick. First quarter revenue of $47.5 million grew 80% year-over-year, driven primarily by the Tinet acquisition completed in April 2013. Sequentially, Q1 revenue grew 3% from fourth quarter 2013. The strong installations in the fourth quarter helped drive first quarter revenue growth.

First quarter gross margin of 37% expanded 380 basis points from the 33.2% in Q1 last year and 80 basis points from 36.2% in Q4. Gross margin continues to expand as we sell more higher-margin services, achieve further network synergies and churn lower [audio gap] (06:14-07:00).

The majority of our CapEx will be to expand our core routing infrastructure to support increasing customer demand. [audio gap] (07:08-07:51) cost of debt. During the first quarter, we filed a universal shelf in order to give ourselves even greater optionality in the composition of growth financing.

Hey, guys, the conference has been cut out from time to time here. They're having problems at the service.

Operator?

Yes, gentlemen, your phone line keeps cutting in and out. [audio gap]

(08:20-08:34)

Hello? [audio gap]

(08:35-08:46)

Mike, why don't you continue?

Okay. We apologize. We've been told there's been some technical difficulties and then some of the prepared remarks may have been missed here. So at this point, I'll turn the call back to the operator and open the call for questions. And if there is significant parts of the prepared remarks you missed, it may make sense for us to...

To repeat them.

...to repeat some of it.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go to Barry Sine with Drexel Hamilton.

Good morning, folks. So most of your comments were cut off. Maybe Rick, your three points upfront, you only got through the first before it cut off. Maybe if you don't mind going through the three points to your growth strategy and then I have a couple of other questions.

Sure. That would be fine, Barry. We apologize. We actually have been doing this for seven years on the same infrastructure. So I apologize that this – that you couldn't hear them. But, let me restate the three parts of our strategic growth plan. First, we are extending ubiquitous network connectivity worldwide. I think that was the part you heard. Second, we are expanding our cloud networking service portfolio. We serve our clients' core, wide area networking needs through our EtherCloud service portfolio and connect clients worldwide to the Internet through our Dedicated Internet Access and IP Transit Services. We have recently launched an expanded portfolio of Managed Network Services including Managed Router Service and Managed Security Services. And lastly, we are providing seamless private access for our clients to a wide range of cloud computing services through our EtherCloud private wide area network portfolio.

Third, we deliver outstanding client experience with our core values of simplicity, speed, and agility that are unmatched by other multinational network providers. Our sales and service teams concentrate on providing highly reliable, scalable, and secure cloud networking services to meet our clients' increasing needs globally for bandwidth and personal service. We also plan to add to our quota-bearing sales force currently at 50 reps throughout calendar year 2014 as we have seen good progress year-to-date on our sales performance.

Finally, we will accelerate our growth through selective strategic acquisitions to help to extend our network scope and scale, expand our cloud networking service portfolio and add multinational clients. Our acquisition discipline is anchored in our proven approach that drives post integration EBITDA synergies. We are set for a very strong 2014 growing toward our next financial objectives of $400 million in revenue and $100 million in adjusted EBITDA. So that was the end of my prepared remarks, Barry.

So why don't I turn it to you for your question?

Okay. Thank you very much. That stuff was cut out. So that's helpful for you to repeat that. I guess, first question, I can kind of do the math, but one of the questions people wonder about is apart from the M&A growth aspect of the company, the organic growth potential and I know your sales force is still a relatively early work-in-progress, can you talk about what the organic growth was in the quarter apart from acquisitions and what drove that?

Yes. So, I mean we saw a very nice installation activity in the fourth quarter that drove some very nice sequential organic growth quarter-over-quarter. So organically, sequentially from 4Q 2013 into 1Q 2014, we grew 3% or 12% annualized, because we had fully integrated the last significant acquisition with Tinet. So we're seeing good progress, we're seeing very nice progress with our sales force as I noted.

And as a function of that, as I think we mentioned on the last call, the key limiter to our growth is the scope and scale of our sales force. So we are now committed to starting to ramp our sales force above the 50 that we've been at for the past six or so months. And we would see most likely working to grow that sales force 20% and working to exit at the 60 range by the end of the year.

Okay. And maybe you could also highlight what industry segments you're seeing the most demand in, both in the quarterly results and then looking forward? And I think, Rick, when you and I have spoken during the quarter, you've called out the cable and content industries as areas of particular opportunity for GTT?

Yes. I would say that the primary focus, Barry, for the business is on multinational enterprise carrier and government accounts. And so we have seen nice traction across all three. So, I'd say our business continues to be, I think, as we've noted in the past, about 50% enterprise, and I'll give some more color on some of the specific verticals within that, about 35% carrier and about 15% or so government, maybe a little bit less than that, maybe 10%, it's probably 50%, 40%, 10% at this stage. And we see we're very committed to playing in all three segments and we see our business growing across all three.

So we have seen good traction in demand in the carrier, in the large content delivery companies, [ph] in for (14:21) particularly in the IP Transit and access to the Internet, our business continues to grow very nicely in that area. And we're most encouraged, and I think this is where we see most of our sales force expansion in growth in the multinational enterprise space.

We've had good wins in the first quarter across a whole range of specific verticals, including the broadcasting, the financial management, the professional services area, a cloud computing backup security services, the pharmaceutical industry, the Internet services industry. So we have seen a real nice traction in terms of entering select accounts. And it's important to note that for us one of the key growth drivers is expanding our share of wallet with these companies.

So one of the important parts for us is to enter and have as we call it a wedge application in with these large multinational enterprises that gives us tremendous opportunity to grow with these accounts over time. And so expanding the scope and scale of our sales force, we believe, give us even more capability to attract and penetrate more multinational enterprises.

And what's the opportunity you see on the content side with tremendous amount of content coming out of people like Netflix and then going back into people like Comcast, is there a specific opportunity there?

Well, we – absolutely, we are, I think, as you know, Barry, a top five global Internet backbone, and we see the Internet traffic growth being tremendous, and [ph] there's an (15:56) opportunity for us to continue to capture share in the growing market for Internet transit services, is – continues to go a pace for us. And so, yes, we see opportunity in both of those segments. As we think about our business today from a services perspective, about half of our business, slightly less than half of our business is in the IP services, IP services space, both IP Transit Services and Dedicated Internet Access to multinationals, and about a third of our business now is in the multinational EtherCloud services portfolio.

I would say over time, as we've noted in the past, given our even smaller penetration there, we see that business growing even faster than the transit portion of our business, but we see growth in both areas.

And then shifting gears to kind of the numbers question. And again, I apologize if you've mentioned this because a lot of Mike's comments were cut out. I want to zero in on the SG&A line. That was about $9.7 million in the quarter. Rick, you just called out by year-end a 20% lift in the sales force as you grow that. If I look at SG&A as a percentage of revenue, I think you've talked about a 20% of revenue number there. So what is the good expectation for SG&A expenses given everything you know right now? [ph]

What I'll do now (17:22), I'll answer that question right now. I'll ask Mike just because it will only take a couple of minutes just to repeat his prepared remarks, just so that we have them in the event that they did, many of them were cut-off. I think as I mentioned, we were at 19.3% SG&A as a percent of revenue, excluding non-cash comp in the first quarter of 2014. I'd say as we continue – as we've talked about sort of our long-term approach, we think 20% SG&A as a percent of revenue is a good yardstick for us. And as we gain efficiency and scale, as we continue to grow our business, we want to continue to reinvest and grow the quota-bearing sales organization as well as all the [ph] intent (18:07) in other functions that will require some addition as well to maintain our [ph] say (18:13) client experience.

So we would expect to actually invest, but at the same time, be growing both the revenue and adjusted EBITDA. As we've said, over our long-term plan organically, we'd see our business growing in the 10% range on the top line and in the 15% to 20% range on the bottom line consistent with that sort of stable SG&A of around 20%. But Mike let me let you actually read the comments back again.

Okay. Yeah. So first quarter revenue of $47.5 million grew 80% year-over-year driven primarily by the Tinet acquisition completed in April 2013. Sequentially, Q1 revenue grew 3% from the fourth quarter. The strong installations in the fourth quarter helped drive first quarter revenue growth. First quarter gross margin of 37% expanded 380 basis points from the 33.2% in Q1 last year and 80 basis points from 36.2% in Q4.

Gross margin continues to expand as we sell more higher margin services, achieve further network synergies and churn lower margin revenue. We had a new sales in Q1 at gross margins above 60%. First quarter adjusted EBITDA of $8.4 million increased 132% from Q1 last year and grew 5% sequentially from last quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.7% expanded 400 basis points from 13.7% last year.

Capital expenditures in the first quarter of $1.7 million or 3.6% of revenue generating unlevered free cash flow of $6.7 million in Q1. Given our CapEx-light model, we expect to invest approximately 3% of revenue in CapEx for the full-year 2014. The majority of that spend will be to expand our core routing infrastructure to support increasing customer demand.

During the first quarter, we also recorded a $7.2 million non-cash mark-to-market adjustment for our warrant valuation. We also recorded a $1.6 million non-cash mark-to-market adjustment related to the final earn-out from the 2012 nLayer acquisition. Both of these charges were driven by the 44% growth in our stock price during the quarter and are recorded in the other expense line item on the income statement. These items accounted for $0.37 of the $0.41 loss per share in the quarter.

Over the past year, we have significantly increased our financial flexibility and lowered our cost of capital. Based on our success integrating and extracting synergies from the Tinet acquisition, we expect to continue to reduce our costs of debt. On April 1, we filed a universal shelf in order to give ourselves even greater optionality in the composition of our growth financing.

And those were my prepared remarks. Apologize again that they got cut off, but I'll turn it back to you, Barry, if you had any additional questions there.

Yes. Thank you, Mike. I do have a final question. Rick, this is kind of obligatory in terms of the M&A environment. I realize you're not going to announce something live today, but maybe you can comment, you guys have pretty specific parameters that you look at when you look for transactions. Are you still seeing good opportunity? Is the pricing still out there? And is it realistic for us to expect, perhaps, another acquisition in the 2014 timeframe along the one major acquisition per year schedule that we have come to expect from you guys?

Yes. Thank you for the question Barry. I'd say if history is any past judge of the future, yes. I mean we have done a significant acquisition over the past three, four years, so at about a one a year pace and so we see, as we've reported the last time, two months ago, a very active funnel of potential strategic M&A opportunities and we are actively involved in multiple processes at this stage.

We have nothing to announce. But to your direct question, would we expect acquisitions to be part of growth strategy, absolutely, provided and that we have a very crisp strategic filter that we go through to make sure that it's consistent with our strategy to extend the ubiquity of our network, to add to our portfolio of cloud networking services and to add multinational clients to our roster.

So we see good opportunities in – that fit one or more of those strategic dimensions. We have a very proven approach to integrate within one to two quarters and to ensure that we can maintain and operate any company that we were to acquire using the proven back office client management database that we have.

And so I'd say, yes. It remains a very key part of our growth strategy as we look to achieve our next financial objectives of $400 million of revenue or $100 million in EBITDA.

And just, Rick, on the valuations, you're still seeing potential valuations in the range that you'd liked in the past make sense that things... [indiscernible]

(23:14)

Yeah. Absolutely. We have seen, we still believe we're very much in the range of where we can deliver and be very accretive to our shareholders in any of the acquisitions that we do.

Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thank you, Barry. [Operator Instructions]

We'll hear next from George Sutton with Craig-Hallum.

Many of my questions were asked, but a couple more detailed questions if I could. If I'm looking at your growth rate or the incremental growth that you're getting, can you break it down between the penetration of new accounts versus the growth in the existing accounts?

It's a great question in terms of new order flow and I would say generally we've seen – it does fluctuate, I would say, quarter-over-quarter, it can be as high as 70% of orders from existing customers in terms of new selling activity to as low as 30%. And I'd say, we're – so it has historically, quarter-over-quarter, been in a relatively wide range. And I would say on average it's over 50% from existing clients, which furthers the comment that I mentioned to Barry that one of the keys to our strategy is penetrating logos, new multinational logos that give us enormous opportunity to upsell and grow within those accounts.

And so over time we're very happy to actually grow our existing base and I would say generally we've seen about half of our business or more come from existing accounts.

And I would guess the growth in the reps that you're seeing, you're going to see more coming ultimately from those newer accounts or at least they're fueling the growth going forward?

Correct, correct. And we're happy to see both and we do want a good portion, which historically has been the below 50% portion, although in select quarters it goes above it, from new logos that will help fuel future quarter growth, yes.

I wondered if I could get a little more detail on the new Managed Network Services in terms of exactly sort of how you're positioning those relative to existing competitors? And then also as we look forward, is that going to be a [ph] lead in (25:37) sale or is that largely going to be adding onto existing customer business?

I would say, it's a good question. If we think about our EtherCloud services portfolio, we have several different technology options in it, where we see the Managed Service option is when we sell, not to be too jargon-intensive, but MPLS, IP VPNs. And so when we sell [ph] to (26:06) these Layer 3 wide area networks, most of our clients ask us to manage the endpoints. And so to manage at customer premise, the routers. And, occasionally, we'll be asked to manage firewalls for them at the customer premise as well.

So, generally we see it as a service that is sold in conjunction with the core EtherCloud wide area network service. We have had customers start on a do-it-themselves basis and come back to us and ask us to provide the Managed Network Services for their wide area networks as well. So I would say, it would be both. But generally it is one of the key offerings that we have as we continue to penetrate multinational clients for wide area networks.

So as I think through the impacts, it's going to make your average deal size go up as..

Correct.

Okay.

And we are seeing that. That average revenue per client continues to rise for us as a business.

Perfect. Thank you very much. Appreciate your reading it twice.

Right. Thank you, George.

We'll go next to James Breen with William Blair.

Thanks. Can you just talk about sort of the margin projection that you've seen? And as the business scales, how you think about mature margins in the business over the next several years? Thanks.

So, thank you very much, Jim. Good the question. I'd say as we discussed, we still continue to see our new sale at – new sales, new install margins at well above 60%, and I think that's a reflection of the fact that our business has transformed to being a network-centric business with a worldwide network asset.

So, we roughly – as I think I had mentioned in the last call about two-thirds of our business now traverses our core network and about one-third remains sort of completely off of our network as part of a more legacy services.

But we would see the margin trend in our business continue to tick upwards, given the fact that new sales and installs continue to come in and been fairly consistent over the last four quarters or five quarters at above 60%. And we continue to churn a disproportionate portion of our churn on the legacy off-net lower margin services. And so I think you've seen that reflect in our gross margins in first quarter of 2013, there were at [ph] 33.2% (28:32). First quarter of 2014, they were at 37%. So we've seen some nice increase. [ph] Two (28:38), as we continue to grow toward our next financial objective, we would see margins we believe rising into the 40% to 45% range, at the gross margin level and maintaining as I had noted to Barry, SG&A in that 20% range.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you, Jim.

We'll go next to [ph] Michael Bowen (28:58) with Pacific Crest.

Okay. Thank you for taking the questions. I was wondering if we could go back to the sales force. Thanks for the detail there. You said you'd grow to probably about 60 by the end of the year. With the existing sales force of 50, can you give us any thoughts on – with respect to how many reps are meeting full quota and perhaps any detail around how many of your reps are full-time equivalent, if you will, or full quota reps at this point.

And then second question, thanks for the information on the organic growth. I think I heard you correct, you said 3% in the quarter. Is that a rate of organic growth that we should think about kind of keeping steady over the next couple of years or should we expect that perhaps to grow? Thanks.

Great. Thanks. Thank you, [ph] Michael (29:54), for the questions. I'll take the last one first, which is organic growth. I think, we've been consistent that we would like to see an organic growth outside of major strategic acquisitions in the 10% range, which is what I said to Barry this quarter. It's a little above that to the degree that we continue to grow our sales force. Could we grow faster, potentially, but I think we feel comfortable in that and I think we would fluctuate quarter-over-quarter around that 10% number. So we were clearly higher fourth quarter into the first quarter.

On the question of sales reps, one of the reasons that we want to start to grow now is, we are seeing a nice proportion of our sales reps achieve quota. And we have quota. We think about our business in a monthly recurring revenue quota basis. So, our reps have varying degrees of quota, around monthly recurring revenue, depending on the market segments they're focused on, and the types of clients they're focused on.

But, particularly here in the Americas, we've seen some really nice performance from our sales force, and in select areas in our and EMEA region as well. And so, I think that those are areas we want to actually continue to expand. [ph] It is (31:10) as I mentioned limiter to our growth. So to the degree that we can continue to grow the quarter quota-bearing sales force, we think we could potentially even grow at faster rates over time.

So, on the question of maturity, I would say it is about two-thirds at this stage, a mature and a sort of fully ramped. It takes a while for the sales force to fully ramp. I'd also tell you, there's always flux in the global worldwide sales force, so there will always be some level of maturing of the sales force as we do move out underperformers and hire new reps into the business.

There will always be some level of ramp in the business reflected in [ph] quotas (31:53) that are slightly smaller than reps that are full maturity. So, but we are very heartened by the progress that we're seeing with the sales force. And so, I think this is the first time we said we are going to absolutely look to grow the sales force towards the end of the – as we go through the year to try to achieve a 20% growth on the 50%, which would be an exit of about 60 people.

Okay, thanks. And can you talk a little bit about the government business? Anything new there that you'd like to highlight? I appreciate that? Thank you.

No. We continue to win business. And one of the things that we're most heartened by the government historically as we've said, the government, the U.S. Federal Government in particular has a purchase Layer 1 private line service that we do not put on our network. Historically, has been off of our network.

One of the things that we're encouraged by our opportunity to grow our government business over time is the eventual move of the U.S. Federal Government to Layer 2 and Layer 3 services, either Ethernet, MPLS and IP services and that play directly into our sweet spot given our next-generation network.

So as with the government, that movement is slow. So we expected that to be in a slow migration of the government over time, but we believe that it can represent a good opportunity for growth for GTT as they continue to migrate away from Layer 1 traditional, say [ph] T1 and DS-3 (33:25), services to Ethernet and IP services, which play very well with our sweet spot. So we are maintaining our relationships, we are continuing to sell off network Layer 1 services to them and being very aggressive on the initial Layer 2 and Layer 3 services that they are putting out for bid.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll hear next from Keith LaRose with Bradley Foster & Sargent Incorporated.

Good morning. Can you characterize the competitive landscape, give some color on that in your verticals of the enterprise, [ph] carrier, (34:07) government?

Sure. I think as we think about our business, we are very focused on serving multinational clients even the U.S. Federal Government for many of their multinational needs, and in both the [ph] carrier (34:25) enterprise market.

As a function of that, we generally transcend most of the regional competitors who are very focused on building regional networks whether they be in the United States of America, whether they be in Western Europe or regional in Asia-Pac. And as such, we try to very much focus on multinationals to rise above and really focus on the seven or eight major global brands that are out there, that have historically focused on multinational business, the likes of Verizon, AT&T here in the United States or BT, Orange or an NT in Europe or [ph] NTT (35:00) in Asia-Pac.

And as such one of the real differentiators we see is the core culture of simplicity, speed, agility. We pride ourselves on being a company easy to do business with, moving very fast at much greater pace than many of our larger competitors and being able to be very agile with the service platforms that we owe for the next-generation of EtherCloud platform that we have, and ability to really say yes to many of the unique needs that these multinationals have.

So we've seen some real ability to compete very effectively against the seven or eight major global players that do have multinational scope and scale and our ability to win against them and our right to win is very strong at this stage.

The only downside is the brand. We are continuing to build the brand GTT, and be that go-to brand that CIOs around the globe would turn to when they need someone that can be easy to do business with fast and very agile in terms of responding to their unique demand. So, we've seen, and as I noted with the traction we've been seeing and the new wedges we've had into multinational enterprises, we see our ability to win increasingly against the global incumbents who first and foremost are consumer wireless companies at this stage.

And for your sales force and the new people that you're adding, and how long does it take them to get up to speed? And I know you have turnover and things like that, but what type of time structure to achieve productivity or targeted productivity for the people that you're adding is [ph] Richard (36:41)?

It's a great question. I think, historically what we've seen is that, if we think of the two major segments of business we're in the IP, high-end IP services business, where we're selling to is, I think I noted to Barry, the content delivery carrier cable community et cetera. Those ramps can be much shorter. The needs sort of are more well understood, and an ability to ramp in that business can be in the quarter or two, sort of the in the first six months.

The longest ramps are in the folks we hire to sell and penetrate into the enterprise cloud networking world. So those can be six months to a year to build a good funnels and actually begin to see the first cracks. The beauty of that is once we see them, the ability then to expand the wedges within these accounts to become very large building accounts for us are very nice. So those are longer, and we actually give a lot more latitude to those that join us in the enterprise cloud networking multinational market.

And what's your assessment of the pool of candidates like?

Strong. Interestingly, we're having some really good success in recruiting. I mean, we represent – we play in what we believe is a fantastic industry that's growing very nicely across both of our core segments, in the IP services segment, and the wide area networking EtherCloud business.

So, we like the growth of the industry overall, and we as a company have grown significantly, and create great opportunity for players who can come to GTT with a relatively small sales force sales force, and make a difference. And so and have a wide open canvas of potential prospect accounts to go after attack with a very powerful multinational multi-national value proposition. And so, we are seeing some really good talent in the funnel to hire for GTT.

Appreciate the time this morning.

Thanks, Keith.

We'll go next to Josh Nichols with B. Riley.

Yeah. A quick question, as far as the hiring, I know that you're looking to ramp up from 50 to 60. Is most of that hiring looking to be in the cloud-base spot, where the training hands are significantly longer than some of the other areas of the business?

Yes. I would say, I think as I mentioned before, I think about a third of our business is in the multinational cloud networking part of the business, where we provide wide area networks and Dedicated Internet Access Services and Managed Network Services to these clients. So, I would say more of the hiring will occur there, because our opportunity is so much larger in that area given the fact that we're still a relatively small player relative to the seven or eight real big global incumbent. So we see tremendous opportunity to take share in that [ph] not just (39:37) we continue to hire in the high-end IP Transit Services space as well to selling to the carrier, content cable, CN area and so we see hiring there. But I would say more of it will come into the enterprise cloud networking business, as we look to make that even a – as all segments in our business will grow, we would look to make that even a bigger part of our business on a percentage basis over the coming years.

And what percentage of your reps are hitting quota generally and what kind of turnover are you seeing given that the training time could be pretty significant for some of the sales people?

Yeah. We have been in the – in terms of full year turnover 50% to 75% range, so we do turn over some of our reps as they come in. So, we always have a cycle of new reps that are coming in and out of our business. But the reason we're actually growing is, we see actually the highest percentage of folks hitting quota than I think we have ever had in the history of the business. So looking back over the seven years that I've been here, we have more reps over quota than we've ever had and it's a function that we feel very bullish about continuing to add to the scope of the sales force.

Okay. And last question about any potential future acquisitions. I know historically a lot of things have been probably around like the $50 million, but they might actually be a little bit bigger this time. Are you still looking maybe like $75 million-plus range and then also is there a particular area. I know, Asia is obviously a big growth opportunity, and then also some room for expansion in America.

Yeah. So, again, I think we've mentioned probably on the last call that the acquisition funnel is very deep. We have acquisitions that range in size in the $30 million range to acquisitions that are sort of in the $100 million range. I would say that's probably the range of company sizes we're looking at $30 million to $100 million.

The largest one we did was $70 million, the one was Tinet. We could, we believe, do an acquisition that's slightly larger than that as well. So we do see opportunities in the funnel in that range. In terms of type and scope and scale, again, I think we're looking for firms that do extend our ubiquity and continue to add scope and scale to the network, so those are key and they occur, as you noted around the world.

We see opportunities in the Americas, we see opportunities in EMEA, and we see opportunities in APAC. So, we have opportunities in all parts of the funnel. We also see some that are service-related that would expand our cloud networking service portfolio to clients. And whether in specific geographies or that are – that span multiple geographies for us.

And then, obviously, we do look for firms that have a good presence with multinational accounts to give us incremental account base to actually grow with. And so – and again we do as I think I've noted to Barry that we do see opportunities in the funnel. We would if the history is any prediction for the future, yes we would expect. It's a key part of our growth strategy and that we would expect to do acquisitions as part of our growth strategy as we look to achieve our next financial objectives.

Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And gentlemen, we have no further questions in the queue.

Great, Melody, I'd like to turn the call over for some closing remarks to our Chairman Brian Thompson.

Thanks, Rick. Sorry that we had a malfunction on the phones, but that will not take away from the value of the discussion. I think that the – I have very little to add except to say that the company is truly operating along the lines we've set a long time ago and it continues to be a long-term and a very viable strategy that Rick is pursuing. And that strategy really does have to do with generating the kind of cash flow that we have been generating, that will allow us to both, improve our position as a bankable company and improve our ability to go further in acquisitions, mergers and growth by financing it at ever-improving rates to the company, and therefore ever-increasing values to our shareholders.

I think the real ability to de-lever when the cash flows increase and to take away some of the earlier [ph] costly, which means (44:39) financing is real. And that means that, when you look at for example this quarter or some 90% of the loss, that was booked is a loss from non-cash charges for the share price going up. It's a very interesting dichotomy, the more the public recognizes the value of the company, the more loss we have to book, because of the warrant charges and the way they're treated mechanically on the income statement. But that's the nature of the beast as you grow a company like this.

And I think we're on the verge of being able to move the company from that hyperactivity in the marketplace to have one that recognizes the consistency of performance. The team has done it again. We still have both, the growth internally, the management of the network internally, the proposition that we're offering to our customers and the acquisition opportunities in the marketplace that make this a very exciting future for GTT.

With that I'll turn it back to you, Rick.

Great, excellent. Thank you, Brian. And thank you for everyone. We apologize again for the technical difficulties. We did repeat [ph] also (46:00) hopefully all of the prepared remarks were heard by everyone. We very much look forward to the reporting in the future quarters. We think again we're off to a terrific start and we believe that 2014 will be an outstanding year for GTT. So thank you again.

And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's call. Thank you all for joining.