Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tony Hansel — Vice President, Deputy General Counsel, GTT Communications, Inc.
Richard D. Calder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, GTT Communications, Inc.
Michael T. Sicoli — Chief Financial Officer, GTT Communications, Inc.
Christopher T. McKee — General Counsel and EVP, Corporate Development, GTT Communications, Inc.
H. Brian Thompson — Founder & Executive Chairman, GTT Communications, Inc.
Scott Goldman — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Jonathan Charbonneau — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
George Frederick Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
James Breen — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Walter Piecyk — Analyst, BTIG LLC
Brandon Nispel — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to GTT Communications Fourth Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's event is being recorded.

I now turn the conference over to Tony Hansel, Deputy General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and good morning. I'm joined today by Rick Calder GTT's President and CEO; Mike Sicoli, GTT's Chief Financial Officer; Chris McKee, GTT's General Counsel and EVP of Corporate Development; and Brian Thompson, GTT's Executive Chairman of the Board. Today's discussion is being made available via webcast through the company's website, www.gtt.net. A telephonic replay of this call will be available for one week. Dial-in information for the replay as well as access to a replay of the webcast is also available on our website.

Before we begin, I want to remind you that during today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements regarding future events and financial performance made under the Safe Harbor Provision of the U.S. securities laws, including revenue and margin expectations, projections, and references to trends in the industry and GTT's business.

We caution you that such statements reflect our best judgment as of today, March 1, based on factors that are currently known to us and that actual future events or results could differ materially due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties affecting our future results, we refer you to our SEC filings. GTT disclaims any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.

During the call, we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures including certain pro forma information which were not prepared in accordance in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of our GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in today's press release and is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website.

I will now turn the call over to Rick Calder. Rick?

Thank you, Charlie, and good morning, everyone. In addition to our regular earnings announcement, we are very excited to announce the acquisition of Interoute earlier this week. I will provide some initial commentary on our 2017 results, turn the call over to Mike to walk through the 2017 numbers and the financing plan for Interoute and I will provide more details regarding the Interoute acquisition before opening the call to your questions.

2017 was a terrific year for GTT as we grew revenue and adjusted EBITDA by 57% and 77% respectively. We closed our two largest ever acquisitions, Hibernia Networks and Global Capacity, and completed five smaller acquisitions, Mammoth, Giglinx, Perseus, Transbeam, and Custom Connect. To better serve our clients and increase rep-driven growth, we moved to three new divisions: Enterprise, Carrier and EMEA, enabling us to increase our investment in both direct and indirect sales resources.

To further our position as the disruptor brand in our industry, we launched our software-defined wide area networking service which positions GTT to succeed disproportionately as enterprises rethink their bandwidth needs and look to migrate away from expensive, inflexible legacy solutions. We also received several awards in recognition for our accomplishments in 2017, including the Fortune Future 50, World Communication Awards CEO of the Year and the Deloitte Technology Fast 500.

On the integration front global, capacity is almost done, with organization integration completed in 4Q 2017, systems integration now substantially complete and network integration on track to be completed in 2Q 2018. Transbeam integration is right on the heels of global capacity, with organization integration completed in 4Q 2017, systems integration on track to be completed by the end of 1Q 2018 and network integration on track to be completed in 2Q 2018.

Right at the end of the year, we acquired Custom Connect, an Amsterdam-based provider of high speed network connectivity, serving leading multinational enterprises and financial trading firms. This is a highly complementary combination that extends the reach of GTT's global Tier 1 IP backbone, with additional points of presence in Europe and Middle East, expands GTT's sales presence in the Benelux region, augments our portfolio of ultra-low latency services, with the industry's lowest latency service from Frankfurt to London, New York and Chicago, and adds highly strategic multinational clients to GTT's client base. Organizational integration for Custom Connect has already been completed, with the systems and network integrations on track to be completed 2Q 2018.

On the rep-driven growth front, we have expanded our sales force to 165 quota-bearing reps and we are still targeting 200 reps by midyear. We plan to continue to grow our sales team aggressively in 2018, targeting 250 reps by the end of the year, excluding Interoute. We also plan to continue hiring the support resources needed to help our sales team succeed including quoting pre- and post-sales sales support, service delivery, and client account managers.

In December, we also expanded our channel partner program to ensure the success of our agent partners from initial engagement with GTT to direct support of our partners and user clients. We appointed three regional vice presidents to lead these efforts each with extensive track records of success. GTT provides channel partners with a dedicated team supporting the end-to-end sales process for our entire services portfolio including SD-WAN. I will highlight these capabilities further as the keynote speaker at the 2018 Channel Partner Conference & Expo in April in Las Vegas.

We are off to a great start in 2018, well positioned to extend our leadership as the disruptor brand in our industry, attacking the market share position of large incumbents with our comprehensive portfolio of cloud networking services and an outstanding client experience driven by our core values of simplicity, speed, and agility.

Let me turn the call over to Mike now to provide more details on the numbers and the Interoute acquisition. Mike?

Thanks, Rick. Fourth quarter revenue of $249.2 million grew 81% year-over-year and 23% sequentially. This includes $5 million of deferred revenue amortization from prior prepaid capacity sales. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA of $60.8 million grew 80% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. Full year revenue of $827.9 million grew 57%, and full year adjusted EBITDA of $221.7 million grew 77% compared to 2016.

Revenue and cost of revenue include $5.6 million and $17.4 million in 2016 and 2017, respectively, related to Federal Universal Service Fund and similar taxes and surcharges which are now reported on a gross basis. Previously, these taxes and surcharges had been reported on a net basis. Revenue and cost of revenue have been adjusted for all periods presented to reflect the change in methodology.

Acquisitions drove most of our year-over-year growth particularly Hibernia and Global Capacity. On a pro forma basis including Hibernia and Global Capacity in prior periods and in constant currency, revenue grew 5% year-over-year and 2% sequentially while adjusted EBITDA grew 11% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Hibernia and Global Capacity lowered our pro forma growth based on their pre-close trajectories, but as Rick mentioned earlier, we are aggressively investing in the resources needed to produce consistent rep-driven growth and keep up with our ever-increasing revenue base.

Adjusted EBITDA margin of 24.4% decreased by 340 basis points compared to last quarter and was flat compared to last year. The reduction in margin was expected due to the inclusion of Global Capacity for a full quarter and to a lesser extent due to the change in USF methodology. On a pro forma basis, adjusted EBITDA margin grew by 120 basis points from last year and by 60 basis points from last quarter. We continue to expect that we will grow margins back into the upper 20% area throughout 2018 as we fully realize the synergies associated with all of our recent acquisitions.

We estimate there's approximately $30 million to $35 million of annualized adjusted EBITDA yet to be realized from our recent acquisitions including Global Capacity, Transbeam and Custom Connect. We recognized $5 million of transaction and integration costs related to acquisitions during the quarter, which are included in our reported SG&A but excluded from adjusted EBITDA.

Fourth quarter net loss was $49.6 million compared to net loss of $900,000 last year and $9.5 million last quarter. The fourth quarter net loss was primarily the result of several nonrecurring costs, including $5.8 million in exit transaction and integration costs related to acquisitions and several tax-related items. The new tax law change resulted in $5.5 million of expense for the onetime deemed repatriation tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries and $11.8 million of expense for the revaluation of U.S. net deferred tax assets from 35% to 21%.

In addition, we recognized $29.1 million of expense related to the recording of a valuation allowance against our U.S. net deferred tax assets. Some of you may recall that we released the valuation allowance a couple of years ago, but our significant acquisition activity since then has resulted in additional tax losses and per GAAP guidelines, we are now putting the valuation allowance back in place.

Capital expenditures in the quarter were $15.2 million or 6.1% of revenue compared to $6.4 million last year and $9.1 million last quarter. Full year CapEx was 5.1% of revenue, in line with our target range of 5% to 6% of revenue. Adjusted EBITDA less CapEx was $45.5 million in the fourth quarter or 18% of revenue, a rate that we expect to rise throughout the year as adjusted EBITDA margins rise due to the realization of synergies from prior acquisitions. Fourth quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $17 million, an $11 million decrease from fourth quarter 2016. This figure is net of several key items not included in adjusted EBITDA such as cash interest, exit transaction and integration costs, prior prepaid capacity sales and changes in working capital.

During the quarter, we paid $54 million for the Transbeam and Custom Connect acquisitions and $6 million in holdback payments for prior customer-based acquisitions. At quarter end, we had a balance of $20 million related to future holdback payments of which $14 million is in current liabilities. Our cash balance was $101 million at year-end and our outstanding debt balance was approximately $1.3 billion including $693 million of term loan B and $575 million of senior unsecured notes. The senior unsecured notes balance includes the $125 million add-on issuance that we completed in October.

At year-end, we had $95 million of availability under our revolver net of $5 million in letters of credit issued. Our net leverage ratio using fourth quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 4.8 times on an as-reported basis and 4.2 times on a pro forma basis including the additional post-synergy, annualized adjusted EBITDA I highlighted earlier from recent acquisitions that has not yet reflected in our reported results.

Turning to the Interoute acquisition, we signed a definitive agreement to purchase the company at a price of approximately €1.9 billion or $2.3 billion to be paid in cash at closing. This price represents a multiple of approximately 11 times Interoute's LQA, adjusted EBITDA as of September 30, 2017. We expect to achieve approximately $100 million and run rate cost synergies within four quarter's post close, resulting in a post-synergy multiple of 7 to 8 times.

I want to point out that Interoute's financial results are prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, which is different than U.S. GAAP. We are in the process of converting Interoute's financial into U.S. GAAP, which will be provided in an Form 8-K/A with our pro forma results likely at the end of March. At this time, we're not aware of any significant adjustments.

We received committed debt financing for the transaction from a group of financial institutions and committed equity financing of $250 million from the Spruce House Partnership, our largest institutional investor, as well as Acacia Partners. We expect the transaction to close in three to six months subject to certain European regulatory approvals.

At closing, after funding the acquisition with a combination of debt and equity, we expect the ratio of total net debt to adjusted EBITDA to be approximately 5 times to 5.5 times using pro forma combined adjusted EBITDA plus expected cost synergies. After closing, over time we expect to reduce the ratio of total net debt to adjusted EBITDA to our long-term target range of 3 times to 4 times.

We expect to maintain our CapEx-light model post close. Historically, Interoute spent a significant amount on CapEx as they were building and upgrading their network, but they are now spending at a much lower rate of 11% to 12% of revenue. Combined with GTT, we expect this spending level to decline further as we realize synergies from eliminating duplicate activities and fully leveraging our combined asset base.

Post close, we're targeting CapEx of approximately 7%of revenue, which will continue to be largely success-based, driven by specific client contracts and overall demand growth. After integration is complete, we expect combined adjusted EBITDA margins to be about 30%, with some upside into the low 30s in the years ahead. This, combined with the modest amount of CapEx I just noted, should translate into significant recurring cash flow.

Now, I'll turn it back over to Rick to talk more about the Interoute acquisition. Rick?

Thank you, Mike. As we announced earlier this week, we have signed a definitive agreement to acquire Interoute, which operates one of Europe's largest independent fiber networks and cloud networking platforms. This highly strategic combination significantly augments GTT's scale, expanding our Tier 1 global IP backbone with a robust network that includes over 400 point of presence and interconnects 126 cities and 13 subsea landing points across 29 countries; strengthens GTT's leadership position in software-defined wide area networking SD-WAN with expanded capabilities; enhances GTT's cloud connectivity platform by adding 15 data centers, 17 virtual data centers, and 51 colocation facilities; contributes to infrastructure edge and hosted services to GTT suite of cloud networking services; expands and complements GTT's multinational client base, adding over 1,000 strategic enterprise and carrier clients primarily headquartered in Europe; and enhances GTT's global team with a world class sales operations and customer service organization.

This represents a major milestone for GTT in delivering on our purpose of connecting people across organizations and around the world. The combination creates a disruptive market leader with substantial scale unique, network assets, and award-winning product capabilities to fulfill our clients' growing demand for distributed cloud networking services in Europe, the U.S., and across the globe.

We looked at this opportunity with the same disciplined approach we use for all acquisition opportunities focusing on three key criteria. One, a strong strategic fit. Interoute is a highly complementary platform, essentially the European version of GTT. We sell the same services to the same type of customers just in different geographies, and this gives us the ability to significantly increase our total addressable market and wallet share on both sides of the Atlantic.

Two, ability to integrate successfully and quickly. Given how similar our businesses are, we are confident that we can integrate Interoute with GTT within three to four quarters which includes an extra quarter or two compared to our historical target integration timeframe to account for Interoute's relative size and geographic footprint.

Three, creative post-synergy price. Once integration is complete, we expect to achieve a post-synergy purchase price multiple of 7 to 8 times adjusted EBITDA, which is highly accretive. We have tremendous respect for the business that Interoute has built and we think the value of that business will be enhanced significantly in combination with GTT.

We are eager to build on the success and reputation for exceptional client service that the Interoute team has created and look forward to closing this deal as soon as possible and welcoming Interoute's employees and customers to GTT.

This concludes our prepared remarks, and we will now open up the call for questions. Operator?

Yes. Thank you. We will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Scott Goldman with Jefferies.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Two questions. I guess, one just on the Interoute that you're just talking about, Rick. Can you talk a little bit about – typically companies don't talk a lot about revenue synergies, but it seems to me you have a lot of scale in the U.S., you're adding a lot of scale in Europe now; How do you think about the cross-selling ability to deliver your U.S. accounts and sell into Europe or vice versa to leverage the new European accounts and sell them connectivity in the U.S.?

And then secondly, just a larger picture on M&A, I guess if you looked back over the past year, two of your larger deals have included fiber assets to some degree. Just wondering whether your view has changed a bit in terms of the mix of assets you look for or whether perhaps the M&A funnel has changed a little bit in terms of the type of assets that are out there? Thanks.

Great. Thank you very much for the questions, Scott. To your point on Interoute and synergies, I'd actually agree, we never plan, and in our assumptions associated with synergies, we never plan on any revenue synergies. That said, I agree with your statement, one of the reasons we believe will emerge as the real disruptor brand in the industry is that we will have deep operating presence in the two major economic power houses in the world, North America and Europe. And as such, our value proposition plays very well all the way up the scale to the largest multinationals in the world where historically we haven't focused as much, given our relative lack of really deep presence in Europe.

Likewise, we believe Interoute and – through the process, felt the same way. That given their lack of real presence in North America, that their ability to compete for some of the largest corporations and multinationals in the world was not as strong. And moreover, even for the clients that they did compete for their ability to sell, and it really had historically been one of their weaknesses, is the ability to deliver to locations anywhere in the world, particularly in North America.

So, we absolutely think our value proposition has significantly strengthened our early feedback from clients. Both our own existing clients as well as Interoute's clients has been very strong. And, we think, there are significant opportunity for us to be much more aggressive as we continue to grow our business, which is why we said in our prepared remarks that we put another marker out there to grow our sales force to 250 pre-Interoute by the end of this year. We think our – we're an outstanding place for the great talent in our industry to come to, and we see great opportunity to continue to penetrate in the market.

On your point about M&A and maybe I'll comment on it, maybe I'll turn it to Chris as well, who's here with us, we have always said that while it's not critical for us to own long-haul fiber as we continue to scale our business, having ownership economics on long-haul fiber, given the scope and scale of our core network, is beneficial to us. It also allows us to sell on a deeper footprint. And so, we felt first and foremost the Atlantic made a lot of sense to us and we think that long-haul footprint in Europe that Interoute has is significantly beneficial to us both as an asset to sell and as our business, at a scale of close to $2 billion in revenue, gives us significant ownership economics over that asset.

Specifically, we've also always said that we're not as keen on last mile fiber. And so, we don't see a significant amount of last mile or building-specific fiber. We generally historically have leased that and it's a very similar strategy to what we see with Interoute in terms of leasing the very last mile access usually diversely across multiple players, across multiple access technology. So, we still see that as very much part of our strategy but owning in what we believe is now one of the most differentiated core network backbones in the world, owning fiber asset within that core network we think is very consistent as part of our strategy and still yields a very CapEx-like business in new – probably pro forma moving forward, probably more in the 6% to 7% of revenue range, but still relatively speaking to anyone else in our history, very much a CapEx light, but a very differentiated core asset that we have.

Yeah. And I mean, I think just to echo sort of some of what Rick said, I think pure infrastructure plays that are focusing just on fiber in the ground or as Rick said last mile connections, that's really never been a focus of ours or what the M&A funnel sort of features for us. The focus is on connecting customers anywhere and everywhere in the world, and as sort of as part of that having ownership economics in some of the key infrastructure assets that are part of the overall sort of delivery of those services, that remains of interest. And as we've gotten larger and some of the companies that we've looked at have gotten larger, they'll have those types of infrastructure assets in there. But as Rick said at the end, I don't think you'll see us pivoting to suddenly looking at very CapEx intensive businesses that would be at the top of our M&A funnel going forward.

Okay. Thank you, Scott.

Thank you.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Jon Charbonneau with Cowen and Company.

Great. Thanks for taking the questions. In terms of Interoute, while their business isn't growing, I believe this is due to what I'll call some non-core stuff like churn from their SMB base. How do you recommend do we think about how fast their business should be growing going forward? And then along the same lines, how, if at all, does this change how fast you can grow your rep-driven business longer term? Thank you.

Sure, Jon. It's Mike. I'll take the first one. Yes, if you look at their publicly reported results over the past couple of years, they've had a slight decline in revenue. There's really three key reasons; One is currency translation. They have a lot of revenue in British pounds, but the functional currency is euro, and the pound to the euro exchange rate has not been great post-Brexit. The second is they've had some declines in non-cash revenue as legacy IRUs have rolled off and haven't been replaced at the same rate.

And then the third one, as you mentioned, is some SMB churn specific to the Easynet acquisition that we did back in 2015, which is abating but is expected to continue at least at some level. But when you net those three things out, they are actually growing today. And our expectation around growth rate is somewhere between low-single digits to maybe mid-single digits on what they would do going forward. And in terms of when they would turn the corner into positive territory, netting out those other three items or basically including all those other three items could be as early as this year. Yeah.

And to your question about how do we think moving forward about our business, we're very bullish about our ability to drive rep-driven growth in our business. It's just one of the reasons that, as I mentioned in the last question, we've put another marker out there just stand alone to grow up to by the end of the year from the 165 we're at right now to 200 mid-year, 250 at the end of the year. And we see the same type of opportunity in Europe to be much more aggressive in terms of adding to the number of reps that we have and just the initial three-day or four-day feedback in the competitive market in terms of attracting talent has been very positive.

We think we are the disruptor brand to go after the heart of the incumbent telco monopolists and take share from them at the very top of the market all the way down starting from the largest multinationals [indiscernible] (27:37). And so, we're very excited about that opportunity. We think we have a significant opportunity to grow. As Mike said, it will take a little time. It's not going to happen right away as we integrate their business in. But all of the trends that we see in terms of number of reps, productivity per rep is actually trending very strongly on a standalone basis for us. And churn rates across both organizations we think will be right in the range that we need to be able to drive ever-increasing levels of rep-driven organic growth in our business.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And the next question comes from George Sutton with Craig-Hallum.

Thank you, Chris. You mentioned your funnel earlier pipeline of potential M&A opportunities. I'm curious if you could help us understand, how do you treat that funnel currently given this large acquisition?

Yeah. I mean, I think, and GTT wants to be involved and looking at every relevant process and every – so, we're continuing to take a look at anything that opportunistically comes available as a possible sale. I think realistically, given the size of this one, what you'll see us focus on in terms of material acquisitions is focusing on closing and integrating this one over sort of the balance in the next few quarters, focused on getting to closing within the next quarter or so and, obviously, the hard work that comes in integration after that. As we said in the prepared remarks, I think we would continue to be opportunistically looking at small deals, and the funnel is rich of those. We talked about the number of deals that we did both material and non-material in 2017. So, expectation-wise is that we would continue to look at that non-material deals even during the process that I'm talking about.

Okay. Perfect. And you mentioned with Interoute you're adding some edge capabilities, obviously with some of the new technology drivers out their edge is going to become increasingly important. Can you help us understand how you address that holistically as an opportunity?

Sure. I'm one of the things that we are most excited about with the Interoute acquisition is their product capability in software defined wide area networking. Ironically or actually, I think very fortunately they actually branded it Edge, E-D-G-E, right. And they've made some very significant investment in it, and we will be building on that investment and committed to supporting the investment in Edge and software defined wide area networking that they have made to date. And we see a tremendous opportunity to move clients who traditionally have built closed MPLS networks in an era where the Internet didn't exist as big as the true capability it has.

Pairing that technology that they've invested in in Edge together with a Tier 1 Internet backbone with some of the deepest access options around the globe, we think will set us up to be an even more rapid share shift player as we move share from the incumbents to GTT. So, we're very excited about these capabilities, and we think it's one of the sort of hidden gems with Interoute.

Super. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. And the next question comes from James Breen with William Blair.

Thank you for tanking the question. Just on the sales force side, can you talk about the cells head count that Interoute has now and how that can complement the 250 you're trying to get to? And then with respect to your current business, we saw pro forma sort of 5% year-over-year growth and then just under 2% sequentially. So, clearly, some productivity has improved there. Can you just talk about the sales growth productivity you've seen in the last six months as you've been hiring more sales people in the back of 2017? Thanks.

Sure. Yeah, I'll start with the first one, and I'll let Mike talk about the productivity one as well. But I might start with productivity. On the salesforce side, let me be very clear that the $250 million that we announced today is exclusive of Interoute, right? So, we would expect to get to $250 million stand-alone prior to adding in on the Interoute side. We haven't been specific in terms of the salesforce size and structure of Interoute yet, given that we haven't closed, but we see ability to take it from their base and continue to grow and invest in the quota bearing side that they have as well.

So, given the market opportunity we have in front of us and the fact that we still represent even on a combined basis at close to $2 billion revenue, an under 1% market share of the addressable market opportunity with the great technology to be able to reinvent and re-architect for CIOs the ability to help them connect their people across their organizations and around the globe, a tremendous opportunity to grow the size and scope of our salesforce moving forward across, again, these two major economic powerhouses North America and throughout Europe. And so, we're very bullish about that and our ability to continue to grow in every geography sort of the world.

And then maybe – Mike, talk about productivity?

And I'll just – while we can't provide specific numbers for their workforce, I can tell you that it's a similar size to GTT, and a similar strategy in terms of having a mix of hunters and farmers or as we call them or [indiscernible] (33:10). So, I don't think there's a tremendous amount of difference in the way we're going to market, I'm sure, there are some. But it is a similarly sized and structured salesforce.

In terms of ours, as Rick mentioned, we've been pleased that the productivity levels have remained strong despite the rapid growth in reps over the past few quarters. So it's still in the same area as we've talked about previously, in that high-single digit thousands of MRRs sold each month. We just still, as Rick said, don't have enough, right? We need to get to that 200 level and beyond in order to drive the consistent growth on the rep-driven side relative to the size of the base that exists today on the back of loss of M&A last year.

Yes. I mean, even – I mean, just to clear that. I mean, I've haven't seen a [indiscernible] (34:05) where our rep productivity is actually increasing as we grow the size of our sales force, and we think, and I probably mentioned in an earlier question, the opportunity here with the combination with Interoute is to take it up even further, right, because of the sort of cross-sell, upsell, the deeper worldwide platform that we will have, just the early returns we're getting from our sales force, from our clients says we'll consider you for things we would not have considered you for earlier given the deep and very disruptive and very unique network you now have.

Great. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Walter Piecyk with BTIG.

Thanks. Mike, on the cash flow statement, this line that talks about the holdout, holdback, earn out, that stuff, is that all for small deals, or is that at all related to the larger transaction that you do?

That is related to the smaller transactions.

Okay.

And just to reiterate sort of the way those work is we typically do not pay all of the cash for those smaller transactions upfront. There's usually 10%, 20% held back for one year – usually one year post close, sometimes a little longer, so that we can have a better view of any undisclosed liabilities or issues you have to find in the purchase agreement that we can net it against those final payments. Our experience has been typically that there isn't much if anything that does get held back. But it's a structure that we prefer just to make sure.

And then if I look at – those – that line item as well as the purchase of customer lists in the investing section, does the Interoute transaction should that change the pace of those types or the pace slash size of those types of deals going forward? And shouldn't those numbers if anything goes up just because the scale of the company is obviously much larger now?

Yeah. I would say two things. One is, obviously, as a – almost double sized business on the back side of that transaction the definition of immaterial does go up. So, it is possible that there are more things that could fit into that category. I would also say that just like Rick just described on the commercial side from an M&A perspective, there's a lot more opportunity available to us now in Europe that really wasn't as actionable or wouldn't have produced the same level of synergy that we can produce now. So, I think that there's more now in the Europe funnel which should also potentially increase the amount of that activity.

Yeah. More available meaning in terms of the smaller of the smaller deals as opposed to the bigger deals right?

Correct.

The customer list type of deal. Yeah.

Yeah. Correct. As Chris said earlier, I think we'll be very focused in the large material on completing and consummating Interoute. We'll be – we will not be in the market for a large material transaction prior to successfully closing and integrating the Interoute transaction.

That said, the funnel of smaller deal opportunities is quite large. We'll be cautious about making sure that we do those at an appropriate pace, but we see an actually increasing funnel for an actually increasing funnel for small transactions that, at customer base, adds select network assets that are complementary to our business that could be integrated very rapidly, and that deliver on a price. post synergy multiple that's very attractive to our investors. So, those opportunities are bigger now, and I think as we continue to scale, we see a growing funnel of opportunities on the M&A front that complements our very bullish outlook on rep-driven growth.

Right. So, from 10,000 feet, the growth stories, that's still a component, a key component of the growth story, even though the size of what you're going to have to do, is going to have to be much larger than we've done in the past in order to deliver whatever hundreds of basis points we were expecting from that element of growth. Is that fair?

That is correct. We'll execute our growth strategy, both through selective, strategic acquisition, both material and non-material deals, as well as through rep-driven growth. And we would expect that we will be growing at a north of 10% with a combination of reps and selective, strategic and sort of non-material deals.

Got it. Is there any update also on the change in the tax code and how that impacts NOLs or when you expect to pay, or how that impacts your cash taxes?

Yeah. There was a lot of moving pieces. Some good, some not as good. There is a limitation on deductibility of interest that does limit – have an impact on us. Meaning, there is some interest expense that is not deductible. However, the offsetting items kind of netted those out, and we're basically in the same place we were before in terms of when we would expect to be a cash taxpayer, which is still a few years out at least.

And if and – well, when we become a cash tax payer, it will obviously be now at a much lower rate. On a pro forma basis for Interoute, clearly, they don't have much of any, U.S. income and so European tax laws become more important. We do have Ireland and the UK today as meaningful taxable jurisdictions for us and we have a large NOL in the UK, not as much in Ireland. So there'll be some cash tax on both sides in jurisdictions where we don't have as much NOL. But we'd expect that cash tax to be pretty limited on both sides, they have a pretty significant NOL position as well in most countries.

So I think it's a pretty similar set up on their side as well as ours. You're looking at least a few years before there's any significant amount of cash tax.

Thank you, Walter.

And if you don't mind just sneak one last one in.

Okay.

Yesterday, Donovan at AT&T was pretty bullish about enterprise. He wasn't willing to be specific on macro versus success there, because I think the last quarter, they were marginally less worse than they have been recently. Do you have any comments on that macro? Are you seeing anything different from them in their competitiveness or is there just a better macro feel in terms of enterprise business in general?

We're very bullish on it and we're very bullish on our ability to take share from the largest incumbents. Their businesses have continued to shrink, they're generally anchored by legacy technologies and we think our ability to compete, given the values we live; simplicity, speed, agility and delivering outstanding client experience positions us very well. We think we have a network that's second to none, a service and value proposition with software-defined wide area networking that is highly disruptive to their business models, and a value proposition in terms of culture that allows us to compete very effectively against any of the incumbent telco monopolies.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Brandon Nispel with KeyBanc.

Okay, thanks for taking the question. I'm only going to ask two. One is for Rick. Rick, I was hoping you could talk a little bit about churn at Interoute. One of the things that maybe stood out to me is that the churn profile that they have even with the SMB exposure seems to be lower than what I've seen from some of U.S. peers that you guys have. So, I guess, why do you think the churn profile is so low 1% or so? And is there something that you can do to implement their practices into your U.S. business to move your churn rate lower?

And then for Mike. Are you, guys, hedging the transaction cost at all? And do you have any plans to hedge the FX translation risk with the euro going forward? Thanks.

Yeah. Thank you, Brandon. You're absolutely right. The churn profile measured on an apples-to-apples basis with ours is lower. Very excited about that. We think that creates an opportunity to – on the entire base of business to lower our churn profile. As we said in our prepared remarks and the release, we think the team at Interoute is fantastic. We think it's very complementary to the strategy that we've employed. It's [ph] from a mirror (42:39) business. I think as we said we're more focused in the U.S., they in Europe.

I think one of the things that we have said publicly about the difference is, we're much more acquisitive. And I think as we buy lots of different businesses, we've seen our churn be a slightly bit higher. We would expect that in an organization that's as acquisitive as we are. That said, to your point about best practices, we always do that. We look at every company as we integrate to take a best-of approach and look to take practices that we believe are superior, whether they're Interoute or whatever firm we buy and adopt them across the entire organization.

So, back to the point about rep-driven growth, if we were bullish about the number of reps we continue to recruit to our banner, we're bullish about productivity. We're also bullish about churn rate, which is why we think over time we have an opportunity to continue to grow the rep-driven side of our strategic growth strategy.

Now, I'll turn to Mike for the hedging.

Yes, we have hedged the Euro exposure between now and closing. It's obviously a big number, and that was not something that we were comfortable just letting float based on where rates might go. In terms of what we will do post-close, both from an interest rate and a cross-border currency standpoint, we haven't made final plans yet. That isn't something we would do until closer to close or even after close.

But we would clearly be looking – if there's any material amount of cross-border exposure; for example, if there's cash flows from the U.S. that need go to Europe or from Europe that needs to come to the U.S., we would look to put some hedging in place as well. We're not really that interested in being currency traders, right? So, today, we don't have that problem because the amount of cash flow that would have to go cross-borders is pretty limited, but that may change post-transaction. And if it does, we'll be prepared.

Thank you Brandon.

Thank you.

Thank you. And as this does conclude the question-and-answer session, I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Calder for any closing remarks.

Well, I really appreciate that. And as we have always done, I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman, Brian Thompson, for some closing remarks.

Okay. I hope people can hear me. I wanted to make a couple of comments because, I think, we've spent a good deal of time talking about mergers and acquisitions and rightly so, especially in light of the Interoute transaction. But I want to go back because I want to add some color to what we really do when we acquire even the smallest of companies, because I think it's important for people to get some color on what goes on in the company. In this case, I don't like the word rollup, which a lot of people have used for multiple acquisitions. In our case, I call it a roll-in. We roll all of these acquisitions into the single organization that we've got.

And in doing that, we really do spend, as Rick pointed out, and I'd like to underscore it. We really do spend time looking for the best and brightest, both in terms of the people, as well as the way in which they're doing business. And that's one of the great successes of GTT. We are wide-open in terms of adopting and adapting to both the markets and for the acquisitions.

As a result of that, you've got a lot of new people that come in with new ideas, and we don't just say, hey, we bought you, what we – do as we say, you're part of us. And that's a very important thing. When you look around the organization now, and you look people in the eye, and you see their excitement about whether it's an acquisition or something new that we're doing. I think I'd put this company up against any company I've ever worked with for looking at that excitement, and just feeling it within any office you go to.

The second thing I wanted to talk about is this acquisition of Interoute because there's no question, this will be transformational for this company. The Interoute acquisition, I think the team once again did a spectacular job of putting together both an approach to the acquisition, but also having, as we do in every case, a well thought through strategy, what do you do, what can you do, before you even enter into it.

We had a very good sense of what they were doing. We've known the company a long time. We sold to them, they sold to us, and we had a great deal of respect for what they were doing. When you can put together two organizations like this, the excitement is beyond what I can describe to you on the phone. And what we have now is a great future for what we've been doing right along. And that's merging, acquiring, and creating a whole new enterprise that is going to attack the marketplace in a fairly substantial way.

The last thing I wanted to talk about is I'm a student of leads and lags, and then in every case when you establish a new approach to things or you do things such as trying to bring in more salespeople or and trying to restructure the company as we have in the three divisions, it takes a while for those things to really take root. The good news right now – and you can't see it because the numbers you're just looking at are numbers from last year, and they really reflect an awful lot of the business we were doing in the early fall, not in the late fall. What you find out is the trends and the sense of perspective of our sales force in these new organizations, as well as the way in which they're beginning to produce sales, is really remarkable.

So we're quite bullish about our future. We think that adding salespeople, we can really grow the organic – as you like to call it, most of the analysts call it organic – from the sales force itself. Or we add these smaller acquisitions and buying books of business which I call organic as well because it's a lot less expensive sometimes to buy those books than to take six months or nine months to build a sales organization to achieve that. In any event, it does take time, but when you've got the direction that this company has got, you can't help but be excited.

With that I'm going to turn it back to you, Rick.

Great. Thank you very much, Brian, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. We're very excited about the future opportunity for our firm. And we look forward to reporting in future quarters. Thank you.

Thank you. The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.