raw transcript


Handleman Co.
 
HDL
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Aldus [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Conference Call. All lines have


been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a


question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Mr. Mize, you may begin your


conference, sir.


Greg Mize, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Aldus and good morning everyone. My name is Greg Mize. I'm the Vice President of


Investor Relations for Handleman Company. I would like to welcome you to our second-quarter


fiscal year 2006 conference call. After the market closed yesterday, we issued our second quarter


results and announced our quarterly dividend. A copy of these releases, along with a replay of this


call will be available on our website at www.handleman.com.


On the call with us this morning is Stephen Strome, Chairman and CEO of Handleman Company


and Tom Braum, Senior Vice President and CFO. Steve and Tom will discuss the Company's


second quarter results, comment on the balance sheet and cash flow, update you on the Crave


Entertainment Group acquisition and provide guidance for the balance of our fiscal year.


Management will be available for questions after our prepared statements.


Certain statements during the conference call, and the question-and-answer period to follow, may


relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Private Securities and Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve known


and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause the actual results,


performance or achievements of the Company in the future to be materially different from the


statements that the Company's executives may make today. Those risks are further described in


the press release issued yesterday and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


I would now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO, Steve Strome.


Stephen Strome, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Greg, and good morning. Yesterday after the market closed we issued press release. The


first press release announced our quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share. The second announced


the operating results for our second quarter and the closing on the Crave Entertainment Group


acquisition.


Let me begin by updating you on the state of the music in. During our second quarter, overall music


sales in the U.S. declined nearly 7% from the same period a year ago, and for the first time in over


two years music sales in mass merchant suburbs were also down approximately 3%. The decline


was driven by disappointing sales of new releases, which in turn resulted in somewhat higher level


of product returns from our customers. Examples of the decline include releases by Ashley


Simpson. Early release at the end of October this year 'I Am Me' sold 220,000 copies in it's first


week while this was successful it's only about half of what her debut album 'Autobiography' sold


when it was released at this time last year. Another example is Rod Stewart Great American


Songbook is volume IV, it just released and sold the 193,000 copies its first week. This compares to


volume III which released last year and sold 240,000 copies in its first.
raw transcript


Handleman Co.
 
HDL
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


That being said, more recently there have been some strong new releases which show promise


and a bit of encouragement. Madonna, Confessions On A Dance Floor released last week and


debuted number one on Billboard with sales of over 350,000 units in its first week. Also last week,


Carrie Underwood the most recent American Idol winner released her debut album, 'Some Hearts'.


It sold over 315,000 units first week. In contrast to the U.S. marketplace, the Canadian U.K. music


industry has reflected on our second quarter results are faring much better than U.S. In Canada,


music industry sales are up 3% for calendar 2005 for mid-November. In sales by mass merchant


retailers are up over 10%. Mass merchant retailers in Canada now account for approximately 33%


of the total music sale compared to 27% for the same period last year. This contrasts to a market


share of 40% in the U.S. And the data suggests that mass merchant retailers in Canada can still


achieve some meaningful growth. And in that U.K., music industry sales were down 3% for


calendar 2005 today, but like Canada mass merchant sales and our sales were up. How the


holiday season will fare is still unknown. What we do know is that the holiday season is extremely


important for the music industry. The last 10 weeks of the calendar year represents nearly 30% of


the entire year sale and there are several new releases by both new and established artists that


could drive music sales for the balance of the year.


Now turning to our results, sales for our second quarter this year were 302 million, up slightly from


295 million last year. The increase can be attributed to higher sales in our U.K. and Canadian


operations up $12.7 million. This was somewhat offset by a general weakness in the U.S. music


industry combined with the previously announced reassignment of 400 Kmart stores to another


supplier during the first quarter of this year.


Net income for our second quarter this year was $9.8 million or $0.46 per share compared to 8.2


million or $0.36 per share last year. While we are pleased with the net income and earnings per


share results they included one time benefit. We would have certainly preferred it if ongoing


operations had generated these results. Included in the net income this year was 2.4 million from


the gain on the sale of an investment in PRN. Companies that provide in-store media network, gain


3.5 million of tax benefit largely due to the utilization of capital losses. The Company was able to


utilize its capital losses as a result of the PRN sale. Well our gross profit margin of 17.9% for the


second quarter is below last year's rate, is a full point above the margin rate in our first quarter and


is inline with our discussion in the last conference call. The decrease in the margin rate year-over-


year is the result from an increase in the proportion of non-service sale, higher sales within our U.K.


operations and the larger percentage of promotional shipment. All of which have a lower margin


rate. As a result of our lower gross margin and the relatively flat SG&A expense our operating


income for the second quarter declined to 6.5 million compared to 11.9 million last year.


I would like to take a couple of minutes to provide some additional information about PRN


transaction and to talk about our acquisition of the Crave Entertainment Group. CRN is a company


that provides in-store media networks with the objective of engaging consumer while they shop.


Handleman Company made a small investment in this company over 10 years ago when our


ownership was less than 5%. The investment was not strategic to our core operation. And as a


small share holder we did not participate in the management of the company. Therefore the


decision to sell our investment was not difficult. The sale provided the Company with 3.8 million in


cash and since the payment was a capital gain we were allowed to utilize capital losses through an


offset to the pack [ph].


I will now talk a bit about our acquisition of the Crave Entertainment. This acquisition was


announced after several months of review, due diligence through negotiation. Importantly it aligns


with and will allow us to utilize our core competencies of logistic, intellectual fulfillment,


replenishment capability and our field service force. Further it provides diversification of our


customer base as well as broadens the product lines we can offer our customer.


The video game industry is expected to grow at a compound annual rate of over 8% for the next


four year. This will be driven by the introduction of three new hardware platforms like Sony,