raw transcript


Handleman Company
 
HDL
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Carrie [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Fiscal year 2005 Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks


there will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Mr. Mize you may


begin your conference.


Greg Mize, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Carrie [ph]. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Greg Mize and I am the Vice


President of Investor Relations for Handleman Company. I would like to welcome you to our third


quarter fiscal year 2005 conference call.


On the call with us this afternoon is Stephen Strome, Chairman and CEO of Handleman Company.


Steve will provide a summary of the Company's third quarter results, update you on our new share


repurchase authorization, and comment on the sales and earnings outlook for our fourth quarter.


Also on the call is Tom Braum, Senior Vice President and CFO. Tom will give you a further update


on music industry, provide additional details regarding operating results, and comment on our


balance sheet and cash flow highlights. We will be available to answer questions after our


prepared statements.


Certain statements during the conference call and the question-and-answer period to follow may


relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Private Securities & Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve known and


unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance, or


achievements of the Company in the future to be materially different from the statements that the


executives will make today. Those risks are further described in the press release issued


yesterday and also in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


And now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Steve Strome.


Stephen Strome, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Greg and good afternoon. Yesterday we issued three press releases. Each of these


releases can be characterized as providing positive information in support in terms of our driving


greater shareholder value. The first press release announced the third quarter dividend of 8 cents


per share that will be paid on April 8th to shareholders of record on March 24th 2005.


The second press release announced a new 15% share repurchased program. This is the sixth


stock buyback program the company’s board has authorized since 1997. During the five previous


programs the company has repurchased 13.9 million shares of our common stock returning nearly


$200 million to our shareholders. This authorization again demonstrates our confidence in the


business as well as our commitment to providing returns for you the shareholders. We maintain a


positive outlook regarding future cash flows therefore as our previous authorizations this one will


also be funded by internally generated cash. We expect to begin repurchasing shares under this


authorization next week. Purchases will be made based on market condition and the company’s


available cash.


Finally, the third press release presented the operating results for the company’s third quarter. The


company’s third quarter is comprised of November and December of 2004 in January 2005, and
raw transcript


Handleman Company
 
HDL
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


thus includes the holiday sales period which is most important. This quarter is our largest in terms


of both sales and profits. Sales during our third quarter this year increased 3% to $459 million


compared to 444 million last year. Higher sales were achieved in each of three major markets in


which the company operates, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. The company’s


third quarter gross profit margin as a percent of sale was 19 percent, a decrease from 19.6% when


compared to the same period last year. The decline this year resulted primarily from a large


proportion of promotional product shipped to our customer stores to support to their advertise and


sale price merchandize.


Promotional titles that are sold at a lower cost to support lower retail pricing with the objective of


increasing store traffic and specifically increasing music sales. As music product is somewhat price


elastic, lower prices are used as an effective vehicle to increase sales. In addition, lower retail


prices make music more attractive when competing with other forms of entertainment products,


such as DVDs and computer games.


Our selling, general, and administrative expense for the third quarter of this year was 54.8 million or


a 11.9% of sales, compared to $56.7 million or 12.8% of sales last year. The Company's


management continues to focus on productivity improvements and controlling cost.


As a result of higher sales and lower SG&A, new income for the third quarter increased to $20.8 or


94 cents per share. This represents a 19% increase in earnings per share from the prior year.


Finally, EBITDA for the third quarter this year was $37 million, 2 million more than last year.


Now let me say a few words regarding our customer base. First, in the UK we have been named


the supplier of music and video to Wait Rose [ph], which are food stores. Wait Rose [ph] operated


121 supermarkets and is in the process of opening 19 additional stores. This new customer


expands our category management and distribution of both music and video product in the UK. In


the US, we recently completed the test that began at the end of the summer with a national retail.


Based on the results achieved, we are currently working with the retailer to identify any potential


ongoing opportunities.


Finally, I’m pleased to report that we have settled the critical trade vendor matter with K-Mart. This


was the last remaining issue from their bankruptcy and we are pleased that we were able to reach


inimical total resolution.


Let me now spend a minute to put in perspective the size and the growth rate of digital music


downloading. During 2004, digital music sales experienced meaningful unit growth. However, over


95% of the downloads were single that carried an average retail price of 96 cents. During this year


digital music downloads generated approximately a $160 million in revenue growth, and in total


represented 2% of the music industry sale. That being said, the downloading of singles also


generates interest in new artist, much like singles did in the past. And, often the consumer goes on


to buy the full length CD. In addition, some sources have asserted that the growth in the sales of


digital devices has contributed to CD sales improvement. iPods have the capacity to hold several


thousands songs, which if downloaded represent a large investment of money. Therefore,


consumers often purchase the CD to have a physical backup copy of the music that is stored on


their iPod.


Mass merchant retailers also experienced sales and market share growth in 2004. As a matter of


fact, their sales growth in dollars outperformed that of digital download. Music sales within the


mass merchant retailers grew approximately $250 million in the year. This growth represented a


156% of the sales growth in digital downloading, which was, again, a $160 million. As a result,


mass merchant retailers increased their music industry market share by over 2.5 points to 37.5


percent. We believe the factors that contributed to the music sales growth in the mass merchant


stores include: low retail prices, increased consumer traffic and the music DVD, a new format within


the industry.