corrected transcript


Handleman Co.
 
HDL
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Cynthia and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Handleman Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2005


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions].


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Greg Mize, Vice President of Investor


Relations. Mr. Mize, you may begin your conference.


Greg Mize, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Cynthia. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Greg Mize. I'm the Vice President of


Investor Relations for Handleman Company. I would like to welcome you to our fourth-quarter and


fiscal year 2005 conference call. I hope you had the opportunity to review the press release that we


issued earlier today before market opened. A copy of our earnings release, along with a replay of


this call is available on our website at www.handleman.com.


On the call with us this afternoon is Stephen Strome, Chairman and CEO of Handleman Company.


Steve will highlight the Company's accomplishments during fiscal year 2005 and comment on sales


and earnings for next year. Also on the call is Tom Braum, Senior Vice President and CFO. Tom


will provide a brief summary of the Company's operating results and review the balance sheet and


cash flow. Management will be available for questions after our prepared statements.


Certain statements during the conference call, and the question-and-answer period to follow, may


relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Private Securities and Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements involve known


and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause the actual results,


performance or achievements of the Company in the future to be materially different from the


statements that the Company's executives may make today. Those risks are further described in


the press release issued this morning by the Company and also in our filings with the Securities


and Exchange Commission.


With all that being said, I would now like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO Steve


Strome.


Stephen Strome, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Greg, and good afternoon. Earlier today we announced our fourth-quarter and fiscal


year 2005 operating results. Despite a weaker than expected fourth quarter, overall, fiscal 2005


was in line with the guidance we issued as we entered the year.


Before reviewing these results, let me take a minute to discuss some highlights of the past year in


the press release we issued last Friday. During fiscal 2005, the Company continued to return


capital to the shareholders through our share repurchase and dividend programs. During the year,


the Company repurchased over 2.2 million shares of its common stock, and paid $6.7 million in


dividends. In total, we returned nearly $54 million to shareholders.


As an indication of our commitment and support for these programs during the year, the Board of


Directors authorized a new 15% share repurchase program. This authorization, effective February


2005, allows the Company to repurchase an additional 3.2 million shares, and in November 2004,


the Board increased its quarterly dividend from $0.07 to $0.08 per share.
corrected transcript


Handleman Co.
 
HDL
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Also during fiscal 2005, the Company focused on growing and enhancing its core competencies.


These competencies include logistics, field in-store services, and intellectual components critical to


assortment management and replenishment.


To enhance the Company’s in-store field services, last Friday we announced the acquisition of


REPS. With annual revenues of approximately $17 million, REPS provides nationwide in-store


merchandising for home entertainment and consumer product at mass merchants, warehouse


clubs, and specialty retailers.


They have merchandisers servicing virtually every Wal-Mart store. Other retailers they service


includes Sam’s Club, Kmart, Target, and Best Buy. REPS customers are the brand owners such as


Gillette, Microsoft and Electronic Arts.


The in-store merchandising structure for REPS is very similar to ours and will be combined to drive


savings and synergies. The acquisition is expected to be immediately accretive to earnings and


cash flow. The size of this acquisition does not leverage our balance sheet, and we will begin


buying back our stock tomorrow.


Focusing on our logistics competencies, the Company closed its distribution facility in Reno,


Nevada, and is in the process of opening a hits facility on the East Coast. This new facility will


reduce delivery time of top hit titles to nearly 70% of our stores which are located in the eastern


third of the United States. This allows for quicker replenishment and delivery of products and just-


in-time inventory, resulting in increased sales and profits.


In terms of new business, during the year, we were awarded the category management and


distribution of all Latin and deep catalog products to all Best Buy stores throughout the U.S. This is


in addition to the new store openings and the orders we ship to them as we have done for the past


three years. In addition, we expect to reach an agreement to supply selective products to another


retailer that is not a current customer of the Company in the U.S. This is the same retailer with


which the Company had a test that ended this past January. We expect an agreement will be


completed shortly and that we will begin shipping to this customer during our second fiscal quarter.


Sales during our fiscal year 2006 to this customer are expected to be less than 5% of our


consolidated annual sales. We expect that we will be able to disclose the name of this retailer once


our agreement is completed.


And in the U.K., we began to service and distribute music and videos, DVDs, to 120 Waitrose


stores during our fiscal year 2005. We believe our proprietary systems and programs forecast,


replenish, and react quickly to this different and changing consumer demographics that shop at


each store we service. A good example of how our systems and programs maximize retail sales is


demonstrated through the value we add to both Latin product and music DVDs. These are both


growing categories within the music industry, and during our fiscal year, we significantly


outperformed the industry. Our growth in Latin product, for example, was nearly 43% compared to


an industry increase of 12%. And for music DVDs, our growth was over 54% compared to a 6%


growth rate for the industry.


Also during the year, the Company migrated from its legacy operating and financial systems to an


ERP [enterprise resource planning] platform. As with any major conversion, we experienced and


had to overcome a number of integration challenges. However, in the end, this new platform will


provide improved flexibility, and will enable the Company to adapt to changes within our business,


and allow us to successfully integrate new customers or product lines very quickly.


Now, let me highlight our operating results for fiscal 2005. Earnings per share from continuing


operations for our fiscal year were $1.54. This represents the highest annual EPS the Company


has achieved. Sales were $1 -- excuse me -- sales were 1.26 billion, compared to 1.22 billion last