Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, The Equity Group, Inc.
Paul J. Evans — Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director, Hill International, Inc.
John Fanelli — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Hill International, Inc.
Tahira Afzal — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Peter J. Enderlin — Portfolio Manager, MAZ Partners

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Hill International First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Devin Sullivan. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, Daren, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. On the call today are Craig Martin, Executive Chairman of Hill International; Paul Evans, the company's Interim Chief Executive Officer; Raouf Ghali, President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Fanelli, Hill's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that certain statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and it is our intention that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor created thereby. Except for historical information, the matters set forth herein, including, but not limited to, any projections of revenues, earnings or other financial items; any statements concerning planned strategies and objectives for future operations; and statements regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the expectations, estimates and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in our forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements are set forth in the Risk Factors section and elsewhere in the reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul Evans, Hill International's Interim Chief Executive Officer. Paul, please go ahead.

Thank you, Devin. Good morning, everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2017 earnings call. Before we talk about the first quarter results, I wanted to talk about our recent announcements. Yesterday, we entered into an agreement with Bridgepoint for the sale of our Construction Claims business for $140 million. We expect the transaction to close and fund on Friday, May 5, 2017.

Also yesterday, David Richter resigned as Chief Executive Officer and member of the board. And I have assumed the role of Interim CEO until a permanent replacement is appointed. I will continue to be a member of the board. We owe a great deal of thanks to David and hope to build on his efforts as we move this company forward.

I will now turn the call over to John to talk about Hill's first quarter results.

Thank you, Paul and good morning, everyone. As a result of the expected funding and closing tomorrow of the Claims Group sale, for financially reporting purposes, we have treated the Claims Group together with our existing senior credit facilities, which will paid off and terminate upon the close as discontinued operation for both periods presented. So let's get right to the numbers.

Total revenue in the first quarter was $107.6 million, which represented $26.8 million decline or a 19.9% decrease from the first quarter of last year. Consulting fee revenue for the first quarter was $95.9 million, a [ph] $20.7 million (03:48) decline or 17.7% decrease from last year's first quarter.

With respect to geographic breakdown of our CFR decline, Middle East region was a primary driver to decrease declining 36.7% or over $22 million. Other regions experiencing declines were Brazil, Asia-Pacific and our African regions. This decline was partially offset by continued strong growth in the United States with CFR up $5.4 million or 16.9%. Europe was also up slightly year-over-year.

Our gross profit for the first quarter declined $6.7 million to $34.4 million, down 16.3% from the first quarter of 2016. Our gross margin as a percentage of CFR was up 60 basis points to 35.8% versus the first quarter of last year.

SG&A expenses from our PM Group were $26.4 million in the first quarter of 2017, down $2.6 million or 9% from a year ago. As a percentage of CFR, they were 27.6%, up 270 basis points. Our corporate SG&A expenses were $8.4 million for the quarter, down $900,000 or 9.8%, but as a percentage of CFR, they were up 80 basis points from the year ago to 8.8%.

Operating loss for the first quarter was $0.5 million compared to operating profit of $2.7 million in the first quarter of 2016. This $3.2 million difference is due to the CFR decline and in related gross margin decline, partially offset by decreases in bad debt expense and unapplied and indirect labor expenses.

Hill's net loss from continuing operations was a loss of $1.4 million or $0.03 per diluted share compared to net earnings from continuing operations of $2.3 million or $0.04 per diluted share during the first quarter of the prior year.

The net loss from discontinued operations was $5.7 million or $0.11 per share in the first quarter of 2017 compared to a net loss from discontinued operations of $900,000 or $0.02 per share per diluted share a year ago.

On a consolidated basis, Hill's net loss for the quarter was $7.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share compared to net earnings of $1.4 million or $0.03 per diluted share in the first quarter of prior year. EBITDA from continuing operations for the first quarter was approximately $1 million compared to $4.6 million in the first quarter of 2016.

Hill's backlog was up $52 million or 6.3% during the first quarter to $883 million. The geographic breakdown of our total backlog is 52% from the U.S., 33% from the Middle East, 7% from Europe, 6% from Africa, 1% from Asia Pacific, and 1% from Latin America. Our 12-month backlog at the end of the quarter was $324 million, down 3% during the quarter.

Hill's solid new project management work during the first quarter of $149 million equates to a book-to-bill ratio of 155%, which is significantly above our minimum quarterly target of 110%.

In our recent year-end earnings release, we provided guidance between $400 million and $425 million with respect to our consulting fee revenues for 2017. This guidance equates to between a 2% to 8% decrease in consulting fees for the year. This guidance remains unchanged from our March 30 conference call.

With that said, let me turn the call back to Paul Evans.

Thank you, John. With that, John and I are now happy to take your questions.

At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, Paul. Good to hear your voice again on the call.

Yeah. Good to hear yours also, Tahira.

So, Paul, I guess first question, just in regards to the numbers, you've reiterated before the consulting fee guidance from the revenue side. Assuming you have certainty even around the lower end or the midpoint, can you provide some color on how we should think about profitability trending for the rest of the year? And if there's anything strategically you have to do in terms of cost rationalization, et cetera that we can watch with milestones.

Sure. Let's start with the end first. Without a doubt, we need to look at our costs. I mean, this company, on a contract margin basis, does very well. Something happens with this company when we take that number down to the bottom line. So, my focus is going to be looking at financial performance and also liquidity. So, we are going to dig in to the costs. Everything is on the table and that's going to be my focus. And obviously as we progress through the year, we'll also – we're planning to attend your conferences at the end of May. We can give a further update on that. But to this point, I'm in the seat 24 hours.

Okay. Fair enough. But it seems like you have, from the conference [indiscernible] (10:17) some idea of what you might need to do. So there is somewhat of a game plan and I assume some of that was [ph] brewing (10:25) from last year as well, Paul?

Yeah. We definitely have an action plan. And as we progress through the year, we will update our shareholders.

Got it. Okay. And I guess the second question I have, have you gone to your customers to talk about the continuity of its leadership change, the divestment and have you received a positive response, are they comfortable with Hill International as a company as of right now?

Hill International has a stellar reputation. Our front office people do a great job and that process of reaching out to our key customers has begun.

Got it. Okay, Paul. And I guess third question is for me and then I'll soon as sort of hop back in the queue and this is on the free cash flow side. I know you guys were giving a guidance earlier on. In regards to that, have you taken that off the table? Is that still out there?

I think it's off the table for now. We'll revisit it. I mean, obviously, I'll seek feedback from our shareholders, from folks like yourself, on what we should putting out there going forward.

Got it. Okay. 0I'll hop back in the queue, Paul.

Our next question comes from Pete Enderlin of MAZ Partners. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Pete.

First question. Could you give us some better sense of why the price of the Construction Claims Group went down by $7 million? It almost looks like they did it just because they could.

I'll answer that, Pete. It's just part of the negotiations. This has been a long process that started probably midyear last year. And as the process continues, the claims business on a month – on a 12-month year-to-date [ph] of processes (12:35), and our EBITDA was declining, so they were in a better position to adjust the purchase price or suggested purchase price. So this really continued until this week when we finalized the number and the reduction of $7 million of the headliner price.

Okay. What was the revenue trend for the group in the quarter?

I don't have that right in front of me. But for 12 months, it's around $165 million.

Okay. And did the trend weakened late in the quarter. Was that part of the adjustment?

The trend started to decline in the beginning of the third quarter, fourth quarter, and first quarter. And a lot of it had to do with focus, because they were focusing on trying to do the deal. And a lot of the rainmakers were not out in the field getting work.

Right. Okay. And then, Paul mentioned that you need to do more on the cost side, obviously. But SG&A was only down 9% and corporate about that amount as well. I thought this was a process that have been underway for quite a while actually. So why didn't we get more of a reduction, especially given the revenue trends?

I'll answer it. We need to do better. It's not good enough because what results at the bottom line is just – it's not good enough for our shareholders. We owe them more. And so we're going to look at all costs and where we've got to make adjustments, we'll make adjustments. We've given out revenue guidance. We're a smaller company than what we were before. So we've got to make sure we've got the right cost structure to service our front office.

The other part of that fee is that a lot of the cost with respect to corporate was contingent on the Claims sale and there's a four-month transition agreement. So with the anticipation of what we thought we could do was really been deferred because of the delay in actually getting this deal completed.

Right. Still having to carry some of that – some of your overhead.

Yes.

On the last call, I think there was a comment about or a question about using consultants for cost cutting. Is that something that you're looking at or doing at this point?

We are going to consider that. We haven't finalized anything around that.

Okay. And then just a couple of more questions. One is small point, but is there any particular reason why the pass through expenses were down 35% in the quarter, the non-CFR revenues? They were down more than usual and more than the overall supply.

Pete, I really don't know the answer to that question.

Okay. Usually, it has something to do with the mix of domestic where some of the government work has more of those kinds of expenses in it, but that's not a major point.

Then the other question I have is does the company have any long-term target? I know you're not giving any particular guidance on operating margins or EBITDA. But first of all, do you have a preference to use an operating margin or EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenues? In the press release, you gave operating margin as a percent and I know in the past you've talked about EBITDA. So, anyway, the question is do you have any sort of general feeling of what would be a reasonable target to shoot for on a very long-term basis?

Look, I personally have some thoughts. I need to sort of be in the seat for little while before we sort of revisit if we're going to focus on op margin or EBITDA margin or some other margin. So, as we sort of refine that, it'll be reflected in our next or subsequent filings.

And the other factor, Pete, would be our success of our cost cutting. And once the Claims business transition period ends in the next four months, I think we'll be in a better position to see what our costs will be going forward. We'll be in a better position to assess what we think is our target EBITDA numbers or percentage.

Well, you have a couple of at least two, I know, conferences coming up. It doesn't sound like you'll be in a position to give guidance on that specific subject at either of those coming up. Is that fair?

I mean, at this point, the only conference that we're planning to attend in the month of May is KeyBanc's conference.

Okay. I think there was a tentative schedule for [ph] Houlihan Conference (17:47) but you're not going to go to that now.

No.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

You're welcome. Thanks, Pete. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is a follow-up from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, Paul. I guess as a follow-up. In the past, one and a half years, we've seen some people interested and looking at Hill and its opportunities. Clearly, the program management business has a very compelling story to tell. As you look at the clean balance sheet and a pure play program management business, are you – do you feel that once again, you could potentially be a target for other companies and have you guys really thought about whether it would make sense for Hill to be part of a bigger company? It can really offset some of the regional volatilities you're seeing today.

Yeah, Tahira. I mean, Obviously we're public. We're always a target. We're always – because any time, we could face an unsolicited offer. If we do, then the board knows its fiduciary duty. My focus is to optimize the costs and that's what it should be right now. We think when we're through that process then we can sort of pop our heads up and think about other ideas.

Got it. Okay, Paul. And then in terms of the CEO search, can you provide any color in terms of where you are and was it started [indiscernible] (19:41) just very recently, given David's departure, have you guys been planning it for a little while? Are there any internal candidates? And what type of profile are you looking for to lead the company?

So let me answer this way. I mean, obviously, everything has just happened in this week. So the board will form a special committee that's going to be chaired by our Chief Executive Chairman. And we will both consider internal and external candidates and that process will commence soon. And we'll have a successful conclusion of that at some point. I just don't know the end date of that.

Thank you very much, Paul.

You're welcome.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Paul Evans for closing remarks.

Thank you. I appreciate everybody being on the call this morning. On behalf of Craig, John, Raouf, and myself, thank you, and look forward to updating you on our progress during our next earnings call in early August.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.