corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Hill International Fourth Quarter and Year End


2008 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Devin Sullivan of The Equity Group. Please go ahead, sir.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group Inc.


Thank you, Dennis. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s call


will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International, and John Fanelli,


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call


may fall within the definition of forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995 and it is Hill’s intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor


created thereby.


Except for historical information contained during this call, the matters set fourth including but not


limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any statements concerning plans,


strategies and objectives for future operations and any statements regarding future economic,


conditions or performance are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are


based on current expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to certain risks and


uncertainties. Although Hill believes that the expectations, estimates and assumptions reflected in


forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those


projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results of performance and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in Hill’s forward-looking


statements include modification and termination of construction management, project management


and claims management contracts; control and operational issues pertaining to business activities


that Hill conducts pursuant to joint ventures with other parties; difficulties Hill may incur in


implementing its merger and acquisition strategy; the need to retain and recruit key technical and


management personnel; and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much, Devin, and thank you to everybody that is joining us on the call this morning.


I’d like to go through a summary review of our 2008 full year financials and then discuss in more


detail the fourth quarter results for our company.


We had a very strong 2008. Our total revenue for the year grew to $380.5 million, a 31% increase


over 2007. Our consulting fee revenue for the full year rose to $333.9 million, an increase of more


than 64% over the prior year. Of that, consulting fee growth 60 – of 64%, 40% was organic growth


and 25% growth came from acquisitions, the five acquisitions that we closed on in 2008.
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our operating profit for the full year improved to $22.2 million, an increase of 26%, and net earnings


grew nearly 25% to $17.7 million, which equated to $0.43 per diluted share based on 41.1 million


shares outstanding over the course of the year. All of these numbers were a record for our


company. We’ve seen some tremendous growth in the last couple years, but particularly in 2008,


and we’re very proud of the accomplishments we achieved during the year.


In the fourth quarter, our total revenue was $104.6 million, an increase of over 21% from the fourth


quarter of 2007. Our consulting fee revenue for the fourth quarter rose to $95.2 million, an increase


of more than 62% from the fourth quarter of 2007. That growth consisted of organic growth of a little


more than 39% and 23% growth from acquisitions.


Breaking down our consulting fee revenue, 78% came from the Project Management Group and


22% came from the Claims Group. The percentage of CFR, consulting fees, from Project


Management continues to grow as that’s the side of our business that sees faster organic growth


and the bulk of our acquisitions.


Breaking down our CFR by geography, in the fourth quarter 22% came from the Americas, 32%


came from Europe, 35% from the Middle East, 8% from North Africa and 2% from the Asia Pacific


region. For the first time this year you’ll see in our 10-K, for those of you lucky enough to read it, we


are breaking out North Africa from the Middle East because we’ve seen a tremendous amount of


growth there. The region only began for us about two years ago and has become a significant


factor in our business, and as of this quarter and going forward, North Africa will be its own region


in our financial breakdown.


Looking at operating profit in the fourth quarter, we achieved operating profit of $3.8 million, a 24%


decline from the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of several charges which I’ll discuss in a minute.


Net earnings in the fourth quarter were down 64% to 1.9 million as a result of the same charges,


which equated to $0.05 per diluted share based on 40.7 million diluted common shares


outstanding.


The charges I just mentioned I can summarize as follows: We took on additional reserves with


respect to the collection of certain receivables totaling $1.5 million in the fourth quarter. We took on


an expense for discretionary management bonuses that were made as of the end of the year that


had not been accrued for during the year, and that totaled $1.2 million, or as we calculated it an


additional $900,000 in the fourth quarter, assuming that it had been accrued over the course of four


quarters.


We were impacted quite a bit. We have a significant operation in the UK and in Europe now, and


the decline principally in the value of the British pound but also secondarily in the decline of the


value of the euro had a significant impact on our earnings, and not just our earnings but also our


net worth and our backlog figures.


As a result of that, the decline in the operating profit in the fourth quarter as a result of those


currency devaluations was nearly $600,000. And we had an acquisition that we had spent close to


a year negotiating and were close to closing at the end of October of last year, and given the


change in the marketplace and the valuations of companies and all of the events in the economy


and the stock market, we re-evaluated the value and the benefit of that deal and its price and


sought to renegotiate the price downward. The seller declined to do that, and in the fourth quarter


we walked away from that acquisition.


We have been a very aggressive acquirer but only of good companies at good prices and we’re


prepared to walk away from deals that we don’t think create value for our shareholders. But we,


having gotten to the 11th hour of that deal, had a significant amount of legal, accounting and other


costs involved and had to expense that in the fourth quarter. That was an additional $400,000.