corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Hill International 2010 Third Quarter Conference


Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all


participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Devin Sullivan. Sir, please go ahead.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group, Inc.


Thank you, Tanisha. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. Our speakers on


today’s call will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International and


John Fanelli, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I’d like to remind everyone that certain statements contained in today’s call


maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. And it is our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe


Harbor created thereby, except for historical information the matters set forth herein including but


not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any statements concerning our


plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations and any statements regarding future


economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and assumptions


and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although, Hill believes that the expectations,


estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results


could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause the actual results, performance, and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements


include modification and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues, pertaining to


business activities that we conduct on our own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with the other


parties, difficulties incurred in implementing our acquisition strategy and need to retain and recruit


key technical and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to


backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do


not intend and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


Having said that now I’d like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating


Officer of Hill. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Devin. And good morning to everyone joining us this morning for our quarterly earnings


conference call. Yesterday, we announced our financial results for the third quarter and first nine


months of 2010. First, we will review results in detail relative to our year-over-year quarterly


performance, meaning the third quarter of 2010 versus third quarter of 2009. Then we will look


more closely at our sequential performance, third quarter 2010 versus the second quarter of 2010,


which is really where we focus on more closely internally to see how our business has changed


over the past 90 days.


For the third quarter of 2010, Hill’s total revenue grew to a record $111 million, a 7.6% increase


from the third quarter of 2009. Consulting fee revenue for the third quarter was also a record at
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


$97.4 million, up 12.4% from last year’s quarter. This was due to 3.1% organic growth plus 9.2%


growth from acquisitions.


Primary reasons for our change in CFR year-over-year included increases of $6.4 million in North


Africa projects, $2.2 million in Asia-Pacific claims, which was primarily the result of our recent


acquisition of McLachlan Lister in Australia, $2.3 million in New York projects and $1.8 million in


Western U.S. projects, all offset by the claims of $5 million in Iraq and $1.7 million in Middle East


projects.


Our work in Iraq essentially ended this past quarter after our Stanley Baker Hill JV spend 6.5 years


as the primary construction management advisor to the U.S. army Core of Engineers in the Iraq


Reconstruction Program, an assignment we are all very proud of.


Operating profit for the third quarter of 2010 was $6.3 million, a 22.6% decrease from the third


quarter of 2009. Our operating margin as a percentage of our consulting fees was 6.5%, down from


what was a very strong 9.4% in last year’s third quarter.


Our overall SG&A as a percentage of consulting fees was higher in the third quarter at 38.7%


versus 36.1% a year ago. This was primarily driven by the four acquisitions that we closed this last


year’s quarter adding the SG&A of acquired businesses, which were mostly higher than Hill’s on a


percentage basis, plus related legal and accounting expenses for those deals, plus the higher


amortization cost that resulted following the closing of those deals.


Our net earnings for the third quarter were $5.1 million or $0.13 per diluted share based on 39.1


million diluted shares outstanding, that number is down 12.6% from last year’s earnings. Looking at


our financial performance sequentially, meaning versus the immediately prior quarter, paints a


much clearer picture where our business is heading in the short term than the figures I just gave


earlier for year-over-year performance.


From the second quarter of 2010 to the third quarter, Hill’s total revenues were up 2.6% and our


consulting fees were up 6.4%. Our gross profit was up by 12.6% and even more importantly as a


percentage of consulting fees increased 250 basis points to 44.9% in the third quarter from 42.4%


in the second quarter.


SG&A expenses as a percentage of consulting fees were up slightly by 70 basis points to 38.7% in


the third quarter, from 38.0% in the second quarter. This was primarily the result of the two


acquisitions of McLachlan Lister in June and dck in July, although it was offset significantly by a


strong increase in our professional utilization during the third quarter, which was up 210 basis


points companywide versus the second quarter. This was the result of a combination of two events,


our overhead cost cutting at the beginning of the second quarter and an increase in work during the


third quarter.


As a result of the above, our operating profit improved dramatically, up 48.6% in the third quarter


versus the second quarter. As a result of that, plus an effective tax rate in the third quarter of zero,


our net earnings were up by even more, 76.8%.


Looking at the sequential performance of our two operating segments separately, they each had


substantially improved performance in the third quarter. Total revenues for the Project Management


Group in the third quarter were $85.5 million, an increase of 0.9% compared to the second quarter.


Consulting fees for the Projects Group were $72.9 million in the third quarter, an increase of 3.7%


versus the second quarter. Higher gross margin by 270 points drove operating profit higher to $10.8


million, a 19.1% increase.


Operating margin for the Projects Group increased to 14.8% in the third quarter, up from 12.9% in


the second quarter. This is also versus 7.6% in the first quarter. So we’ve seen significantly