corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Hill International 2010 Second Quarter Conference


Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all


participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Devin Sullivan.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group, Inc.


Thank you, Christy and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Our speakers on


today’s call will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International and


John Fanelli, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I’d like to remind everyone that certain statements contained in today’s call


maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It’s Hill’s intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe


Harbor created thereby, except for historical information contained in this call. The matters set forth


herein including but not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any


statements concerning plans, strategies, and objectives for future operation and any statements


regarding economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and assumptions


and are subjected to certain risks and uncertainties. Although, Hill believe that the expectations,


estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results


could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance, and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements


include modification and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues, pertaining to


business activities conducted on Hill’s own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with the other


parties, difficulties incurred in implementing the company’s acquisition strategy and need to retain


and recruit key technical and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and


cancellations related to backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much, Devin. And good morning to everyone joining us for our quarterly earnings


conference call. Yesterday we announced our financial results for the second quarter of 2010. First


let me review the numbers in detail relative to our year over year performance, meaning second


quarter 2010 versus second quarter 2009. Then we will look more closely at our sequential


performance, 2010 second quarter versus the first quarter 2010.


When our management team is reviewing Hill’s performance internally, this is what we focus on


more closely seeing how our business has changed over the past 90 days and how we can
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


improve our performance over the next 90 days. Towards the end, I’ll also discuss our two recent


acquisitions, on McLachlan Lister and the CM Division of DCK Worldwide.


For the second quarter of 2010, Hill’s total revenue grew to $108.2 million, a 3.7% increase from


the second quarter of last year. Consulting fee revenue for the second quarter was 91.6 million,


unchanged from the prior year’s quarter. This was due to a 3.4% organic decline, offset equally by


a 3.4% growth from acquisitions.


Major positive changes for the second quarter in our consulting fee revenue year over year


included increases of $3.3 million in North African projects, $2.5 million from our acquisitions of


Boyken and TRS late last year, $1.9 million in Middle East claims, and $1.6 million in New York


projects, offset by declines of $5.8 million in Iraq, $2.8 million in U.K. claims, $2.1 million in Europe


projects, and $1.9 million in Middle East projects.


We continue to see our biggest upside in the short term being our project management operations


in North Africa and the United States. Our work in Iraq, however, continues to wind down as


mentioned above and we are expecting the work in Iraq to end completely by the end of the current


quarter.


Operating profit for the second quarter of 2010 was $4.3 million, a 34.5% decrease from the second


quarter of 2009. Our operating margin as a percentage of CFR, consulting fee revenue, was 4.6%,


down from 7.1% in the year earlier quarter.


Our overall SG&A as a percentage of CFR dropped slightly from 38.1% to 38%. Our corporate


overhead, which is a component of our SG&A dropped even more from 7.1% to 6.9% of consulting


fees. Our net earnings for the second quarter were $2.9 million, or $0.07 per diluted share based


on 40.4 million diluted shares outstanding, down 38.3% from $4.7 million or $0.12 per diluted share


based on 40.3 million shares for the second quarter of last year.


Looking at our financial performance sequentially, meaning versus the first quarter, it paints a much


more accurate picture of where our business is heading than the numbers I gave earlier for year


over year performance. From the first quarter to the second quarter, Hill’s total revenues were up


3.6% and our consulting fees were just slightly down, a 0.4% drop.


Our gross profit was unchanged, but our SG&A expense was down 5.8%. This equated to a drop


from 40.2% of consulting fees the first quarter, to 38.0% in the second quarter. This decline was


primarily the result of our cost cutting efforts in March and April of this year as well as increased


utilization during the second quarter which was up 150 basis points companywide versus the first


quarter.


As a result, our operating profit improved dramatically, up 57.6%, and our net earnings were up


17.4%. We achieved these results in the second quarter relative to the first quarter despite three


major hurdles.


One, the continuing wind down of our assignment in Iraq; two, that we earned an unusual $2 million


contingency fee in the first quarter in our UK claims operation; and three, that we had a large


income tax benefit in the first quarter, but an income tax expense in the second quarter. Despite


these three challenges, we improved our EPS from $0.06 to $0.07 from the first quarter to the


second.


Looking at the sequential performance of our two operating segments separately, Hills Project


Management Group had a much improved second quarter. Total revenues for the group in the


second quarter were $86.2 million, an increase of 9% compared to the first quarter. Consulting fees


for the Projects Group were $70.2 million, an increase of 4.3% from the first quarter. With higher