Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, The Equity Group, Inc.
David L. Richter — President, Chief Operating Officer & Director, Hill International, Inc.
John Fanelli — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hill International, Inc.
Lee Jagoda — Director, CJS Securities, Inc.
Chase A. Jacobson — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Gerard J. Sweeney — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood Securities
Peter Enderlin — Portfolio Manager, MAZ Partners LP
Walter M. Schenker — Founder, MAZ Partners LP
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Hill International Reports First Quarter 2014 Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President of The Equity Group. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, Shea. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Our speakers for today will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International, and John Fanelli, the company's Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that certain statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor created thereby. Except for historical information, the matters set forth herein, including, but not limited to, any projections of revenues, earnings, or other financial items; any statements concerning our plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations; and statements regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, and assumptions, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the expectations, estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements are set forth in the Risk Factors section and elsewhere in the reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to David Richter. David, please go ahead.

Thank you, Devin, and good morning to all of you joining us today. Yesterday, after the close of the market, we announced our financial results for the first quarter of 2014. Our strong top-line growth from 2013 has continued into this year, with Hill having generated record consulting fees for the sixth quarter in a row. Our bottom line, however, continues to be a challenge, with Hill achieving essentially a breakeven quarter with respect to net earnings.

This is primarily the result of our high interest expense. Lowering the amount and the cost of our debt continues to be our top priority, and we will have more to say on this topic later in the call, but first let's take a look at the details of our first quarter financial performance.

Total revenue for the first quarter of 2014 was a record $150 million, a 10% increase from the first quarter of 2013. Consulting fee revenue for the first quarter was a record $137.2 million, a 12% increase from last year's first quarter. This growth in consulting fees consists of 10% organic growth plus 2% growth as a result of our acquisitions of BCA, a South African claims firm, and Collaborative Partners, a New England project management firm, over the past year.

Our geographic breakdown in the first quarter was as follows. The Middle East was our largest geographic market, at 46% of our consulting fees, and is from 41% during the first quarter of last year. The U.S. and Canada were 21% of our consulting fees in the first quarter, down from 24% last year. Latin America was 8%, down from 11% last year. Europe was 15% of our consulting fees, down from 16% a year ago. Africa was at 5%, up from 3% a year earlier, and Asia-Pacific was also at 5%, up from 4% a year ago.

Africa, which grew by 56%, was our fastest-growing region, due to strong organic growth as well as the acquisition of Binnington Copeland. That was followed by Asia-Pacific, which grew its consulting fees by 42%. The Middle East grew by 24%. Europe saw growth of 4% during the first quarter, the first time in a long time that we have seen organic growth in this part of the world. The U.S. and Canada were essentially flat in the first quarter versus a year ago, and Latin America was down 21% in the first quarter.

Companywide, our gross profit in the first quarter rose to $58.7 million, up 18% from the first quarter of last year. Our gross margin as a percentage of consulting fees improved by 200 basis points, to 42.7%, in the first quarter. This increase was the result of improving gross margins in both of our two operating segments.

Our SG&A expenses in the first quarter were $52.7 million, up 24% from a year earlier. With SG&A growing faster than consulting fees in the first quarter, the result was an increase in our SG&A margin to 38.4%, a 380-basis-point rise year-over-year. This was primarily the result of lower than normal utilization of our billable professionals during the quarter, as we ramped up staffing in several regions in anticipation of further growth during the year. We expect that our SG&A margin will be lower than the first quarter for the remainder of the year.

Hill's EBITDA for the first quarter was $8.2 million, down 14% from last year's first quarter. EBITDA margin as a percentage of consulting fees was 6.0% in the first quarter, down 180 basis points from a year earlier. Operating profit in the first quarter was $6.0 million, down 19% from last year, and our operating margin in the first quarter was 4.4%, down 160 basis points from the first quarter of 2013.

Regarding our bottom line, we had a small net profit in the first quarter of $53,000, which equates to zero cents per diluted share, although this was an improvement from a net loss in the year-ago quarter of $380,000, or $0.01 per diluted share loss.

Now, looking at the first quarter performance of our two operating segments separately, total revenue at our Project Management Group during the first quarter was $113.2 million, a 5% increase from the first quarter of last year. Consulting fee revenue for the first quarter at the Projects Group was a record $101.8 million, a 7% increase from a year earlier. This growth was comprised of 6% organic growth and 1% growth from our acquisition of Collaborative Partners at the end of last year.

The geographic breakdown of the Projects Group's growth in consulting fees was a negative 3% in the U.S. and a positive 11% internationally. The Projects Group saw a 12% increase in its gross profit, to $39.0 million for the quarter, with gross margin on a percentage basis at 38.4%, up by 180 basis points versus last year. SG&A expenses at the Projects Group, however, were up 26% in the first quarter, to $28.1 million.

As a percentage of consulting fees, SG&A expenses were up 410 basis points year-over-year, to 27.6%, for the Projects Group. As a result, operating profit during the first quarter was $10.9 million for the group, a decline of 11% from the first quarter of last year. Operating margin as a percentage of consulting fees was 10.8%, a 220-basis-point decline versus a year ago.

For our Construction Claims Group, total revenue during the first quarter was a record $36.8 million, a 29% increase from the first quarter of last year. Consulting fees for the Claims Group were a record $35.5 million, also a 29% increase. The breakdown of the Claims Group's growth in consulting fees was 24% organically and 4% from the acquisition of Binnington Copeland. Geographically, the group was up 18% for the U.S. and Canada and up 32% internationally.

The Claims Group saw its gross profit rise by 30%, to $19.6 million, and saw an improvement in its gross margin as a percentage of consulting fees, to 55.3%, up 40 basis points from last year. SG&A expenses for the Claims Group were up 34%, to $17.0 million, in the first quarter, and as a percentage of consulting fees, they were up by 190 basis points, to 48.0%.

First quarter operating profit for the Claims Group was $2.6 million, a 7% increase from the first quarter of last year. As a percentage of consulting fees, this was a 150-basis-point decline from the year-earlier quarter, with operating margin for the Claims Group dropping to 7.4% in the first quarter of this year. Claims had a great quarter for growth but continues to be challenged, as does the Project Group, by rising overhead expenses, and this will be a major focus for both groups during the remainder of 2014.

In addition to the SG&A incurred by our two operating segments, we also incur SG&A in our corporate group. For the first quarter, our corporate SG&A expenses were $7.6 million, up just 2% from the year-earlier quarter. As a percentage of consulting fees, it was 5.5%, down by 50 basis points from last year's first quarter. This is getting much closer to our goal of having our corporate expenses be under 5% of consulting fees.

Regarding our backlog, our company's total backlog at the end the first quarter was $978 million, down 5% from the end of last year. This backlog consisted of $934 million from our Projects Group and $44 million from our Claims Group. Twelve-month backlog at the end of the first quarter was a record $400 million, up 2% during the quarter. This was broken down into $356 million from our Projects Group and $44 million from our Claims Group.

Hill had net bookings during the first quarter of $88 million, which included three major backlog reductions totaling $18 million. Absent these three adjustments, Hill achieved net bookings of $106 million during the quarter, or a book-to-bill ratio of 77%. Obviously, a weak sales quarter for the company, but one we don't expect will be repeated during the balance of the year.

During our last earnings call, we gave guidance for 2014 consulting fees. Based on the consulting fees we achieved during the first quarter, current market conditions, and the backlog amounts we discussed earlier, we reaffirm that our 2014 consulting fees will be between $575 million and $600 million for the year. This equates to approximately 12% to 17% growth in consulting fees for this year versus last year.

As we've discussed on our last earnings call, given our much improved operating performance over the past year and the beginning of the collection of our overdue receivables from Libya, we believe we are now in a position to be able to restructure our balance sheet in order to significantly lower our interest expense. As mentioned before, we retained financial advisor Houlihan Lokey last year to help us with this process, and we believe we are well along the path to a successful debt restructuring.

We are in advanced negotiations at the moment with a major international commercial bank to provide us with senior debt financing that will allow us to replace both our Bank of America revolving credit line and our term loan with Tennenbaum Capital Partners. The effect of this restructuring means that we should be able to lower our interest expense, which has been running at an annual rate of about $22 million to $23 million, by approximately two-thirds.

We still have a lot of work to do to get this new financing in place, and there are certainly no assurances that the current deal we are negotiating will close or they will close on the same terms we are currently discussing, but at this moment, we are confident with how the negotiations are progressing. If we are able to close the transaction, we expect it will occur and be announced before our next earnings call.

With that, John Fanelli, our CFO, and I are happy to take any of your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Lee Jagoda from CJS Securities.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Lee.

So, looking at the SG&A, is the rising overhead just a function of adding head count ahead of growth, or is there something else in that number that you could potentially adjust in the next couple of quarters?

It's a combination of that, as well as some pockets of the company just had a slow quarter. February, in particular, was a very slow month for us. Primarily, that occurred in Middle East Claims and U.S. Project Management, but most other areas of the company are ramping up, and some delays, unanticipated delays between when we hired the people and when we expected work to start, had a significant impact on our unapplied labor for the quarter. That being said, utilization improved month by month. In fact, in both groups, January was the worst month for utilization and March was the best, so we have expectations that the March performance will continue into the second quarter.

Okay, and then just focusing on claims revenue, it was much stronger than our estimate and grew nicely year-over-year. To the extent that the increase in SG&A was just simply adding head count there ahead of the growth, can you provide an expectation for claims revenue as we move into Q2 and Q3?

Yeah, as you know, claims is the more difficult side of our company to project long-term with any kind of accuracy, but the feeling within the Claims Group management right now is that it's going to be a very positive year for us and the growth that we've seen is going to continue.

Okay. And then just one question on the refinancing, to the extent you're in advanced negotiations with this international bank, why should it take up to the time of your next quarter's call to get something done on that?

I agree with you completely, but unfortunately, when you're dealing with bankers and lawyers, things tend to drag out. We're talking about a facility big enough to take out both Bank of America and Tennenbaum, and that takes time to negotiate, it takes time to document, and it takes time to implement. So our expectation is that we're probably talking about July at some point, just given what we need to do between now and closing. Now, we have a draft commitment letter from the bank. We're currently reviewing it and expect to get back to them with comments in a few days, and we're progressing as quickly as we can.

Okay. I'll hop back in queue. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Lee.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Chase Jacobson from William Blair.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Chase.

Another question on the SG&A, so you mentioned that it should come down as a percentage of sales throughout the year. How about on absolute basis, and is 35% to 36% of CFR still the target for the year?

Yeah, I think it's going to come down as a percent. We don't expect it to come down on an absolute basis. And, yes, that is still our target for the full year.

Okay. And in your previous answer about that, you mentioned that some projects were starting a little bit slower than you had originally thought. It's something that we've heard across a lot of the E&C companies in our coverage. Is that something that you're seeing, like a trend that you're seeing throughout your business, and are you worried about that continuing throughout the year, where things just move slower, where customers are awarding the work but they're not releasing it on schedule?

No, we're not worried about it because we think it's going to continue. I think it's more the new normal. Certainly, before the recession, projects began and ramped up very quickly. We saw a huge slowdown in 2008 and 2009. It has gotten better. But certainly on all projects, between when we get hired and when they actually give us the go-ahead to start work, there can be a lag, and we're anticipating that now.

Okay. And last one, John, can you just give any detail on the movement in receivables in the quarter and anything on Libya worth noting?

On the receivables, our DSO improved, when you exclude the Libya receivable, improved to 89 days versus 85 a year ago, and improved even from last...

You mean 95 a year ago?

95 a year ago, and 91 at the end of 2013, so we're seeing some improvement in our DSOs. With respect to Libya, do you want to take that?

Yeah, I'm happy to take that one, John. We saw a little bit of a slowdown because there was a change in the prime minister in Libya, which had an impact on the bureaucracy moving forward. Ali Zeidan is out. There's a new prime minister who was just sworn in, I believe Sunday, earlier this week. And we're expecting that the progress we achieved is now going to continue and move forward. We're hopeful that before the next earnings call, we have another check in our hands, significantly bigger than the ones we've received to date. But, as always, we have very little ability to predict exactly when funds are going to be transferred to us, so. We're hopeful it's going to be very shortly. We're also hopeful that we can begin to put in place the contracts that we've negotiated with the government and they can get back to work.

Gotcha. Okay, thanks.

Thanks, Chase.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Gerry Sweeney from Boenning & Scattergood.

Yeah, good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Gerry.

Just a quick follow-up on the SG&A side, you mentioned that you are starting to see a lag between being awarded the work and the start of that work. Are you saying that was partly responsible for some of that ramp-up in staff, and the work didn't begin as quickly, so you had a little bit of excess staff on hand, and you're going to anticipate this going forward?

That was primarily the case in the Middle East Claims Group and the U.S. Project Management Group, yes.

Okay, got it. And then just taking a look at forward growth, so obviously you had multiple quarters of large projects, your 12-month backlog's at a record, and the all-time backlog took a little tick downwards. But as you look out to the future, the Middle East has been great. I think, David, I've spoken to you about where the next opportunities of growth are. Maybe can you update us as to what you're looking at? I think previously you were looking in the U.S., but maybe give us some details of some of the opportunities you see in the U.S., especially after you rework your credit agreement.

Yeah, you're specifically talking about organic growth?

Yes.

Okay.

Or organic or acquisitions, as a matter of fact.

Okay. I'm happy to answer both. We certainly expect to continue to see strong organic growth in the Middle East. Certainly, the growth has been stronger on a percentage basis in Africa and Asia-Pacific just because they're working off of much smaller denominators, but those regions have become key contributors to our growth and to our earnings. Asia-Pacific, in particular, has had a very strong turnaround, and we're seeing a lot of growth and improved profitability there.

In the U.S., as I said, it was flat in the first quarter versus a year ago, but we have expectations that over the balance of this year it's going to begin to ramp up. They've had some key wins that we're in the process of getting signed and getting staffed on, and we've had some delays, not just in starting the work but also in announcing it. We have a lot of big wins to announce. Anyone tracking the press releases since the last call hasn't seen many of them. So we've certainly had a lot more wins than we've announced to date, and those will be getting announced shortly.

On the acquisitions side, our focus continues to be primarily on the U.S. market and secondarily on the European market.

Europe, that's a little bit – how do I say this – you've sort of downplayed Europe in the past. Obviously, you got a little bit of growth there for the first time. What are you looking at in Europe, and have you changed your mind on that market?

No, I think Europe continues to struggle, but there are a lot of firms there, and the opportunities to acquire firms on a relatively cheap basis there because of that market continue to be significant. So we're taking a look. I can't tell you we're going to acquire any firms in Europe, but we're certainly looking at some.

So some of those acquisitions would not only be a geographic expansion but potentially also expertise expansion?

Yes. Correct.

Okay, got it. All right, that's it from my end. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Pete Enderlin from MAZ Partners.

Yes, hi. Thank you. David, looking at the question of head count and SG&A expenses and so on, maybe just to take a little broader view of that in the project management business, your revenues from 2009 to 2013 increased 42%, and the number of professionals increased 85%, so does that indicate that there's a lack of operating leverage? Obviously, you have financial leverage, but does it mean that every time you add business, you have to add a commensurate number of people, and therefore you really don't have operating leverage?

Yeah, I've got to tell you, Pete, I don't know necessarily agree with the numbers you just threw out...

I thought I got them right out of your annual report.

There may be a differential in what dates you're using, because...

2013 versus 2009.

We didn't grow by 40% and add 80% new staff. Those numbers typically run in tangent. In fact, staffing usually is a little lower than the actual growth in dollars in our consulting fee revenue. But, no, we think there's significant leverage in continued growth. For right now, one of the things that we're focused on is the size of our offices, because offices carry a certain level of overhead, and if we can grow the offices, keeping in mind that project management is primarily a field service, it doesn't require a lot of overhead growth to add new projects in a particular region, I think we can bring a lot more profitability out of the individual offices in the individual regions. We're also seeing leverage in our corporate costs as those continue to drop year-over-year, and we can manage a much bigger business with, at the same time, adding very little corporate expense.

Yeah. Okay, thanks. Now, obviously it wasn't a great quarter for wins, contract wins, but is there anything you can take away from not winning the big Oman rail contract – which, on the last call, you mentioned if you had gotten, it would have been your largest contract ever? Is it because of a lack of expertise in a certain area, or was it just that there were so many people competing for the same business that it was a tough win?

It certainly would be a nice project to win. We did not win in. It tells you – I think the lesson learned is we have a lot of great competition, and they have great people in their companies as well, and you don't win everything you chase. I think our average in project management is about 20% to 25% wins, so you're going to lose 75% to 80% of the projects you chase, unfortunately. It's just a matter of which ones you win and which ones you don't.

Right. On the refinancing, would that likely involve any strategic changes, or are we basically just talking about changing terms with an existing structure?

No, it wouldn't involve any strategic change in the business at all.

Okay.

I think what's driving it is that we had significantly better operating performance last year, so when you look at us on a trailing 12-month basis, we had $41 million of EBITDA last year, following up on $16 million of EBITDA in 2012, which is a vastly different enterprise to go out to the markets and seek debt financing.

That, combined with our growth last year and the beginning of our collection of the Libyan receivables, means that when you're looking at lending money to Hill, the way Tennenbaum was 20 months ago, it's a much different situation today, and we're able to get – I think, because it's reflected in the deal that we're currently negotiating – much closer to market rates for commercial loans than what we were facing 20 months ago, which was going to hedge funds, and then paying a much steeper price.

And I said that we should be able to open and close the deal that's currently on the table, knock our interest expense down by two-thirds, so from $22 million to $23 million a year down to probably $7 million or $8 million a year in interest cost. And that's a significant savings that's going to drop right to our bottom line, because that's not a number that has to be tax-affected because we don't pay taxes in the U.S. So that, call it, $14 million to $15 million right to the bottom line is probably $0.35 a share going forward that we'll be able to add to our EPS.

Yeah. Now, you've made small acquisitions for stock when the stock was $3 or $4 a share, and that was obviously because you had to at the time under the terms of the existing agreement. When that new agreement, the new financing is in place, which way would you lean in terms of acquisitions as far as cash versus stock goes?

We've done a couple acquisitions recently that were done for stock because we – first of all, we had to under our bank agreement, but also we would have probably anyway just to conserve our cash, given our balance sheet as it currently exists. Going forward, if we have the cash to do deals and not have to dilute our shareholders, then that would be our preference.

What kind of potential do you see for expanding in China and Australia, which are obviously significant markets, and you have small stakes there now?

I think both locations for us have really nowhere to go but up. We have a presence in China for both project management and claims. We have a claims operation in Australia. We see both of them expanding this year and continuing to grow. Obviously, China is a much, much bigger market for potential growth, and we have a very small base to grow from, so the opportunities for us as a company long-term are terrific.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you, Pete.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Walter Schenker from MAZ Partners.

I was going to beat SG&A. I withdraw my question. Thank you.

Okay.

Thank you, Walter.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [ph] Mark [indiscernible] (29:46), a private investor.

Good morning, David. How are you?

Good morning, [ph] Mark (29:52). Great.

Okay. You touched on Libya a little bit. I'd like to go back to the Middle East in general. With the unrest that's in the Middle East, are there any other projects that are in jeopardy or they'll be holding back, or is anything being held up because of the political unrest?

Yeah, it's a comment I hear constantly about the political unrest. There's actually very little of that, certainly, in the markets where we do business. And the largest markets in the Middle East that we're in are Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Oman, and Iraq, and they're all highly stable. So we don't have any projects that are being impacted by anything that we're seeing.

Obviously, Libya, just in getting back to normal, is going through a lot of challenges and is having some incidences there as they try to rebuild their country. But we're expecting that in the short-term future as we continue to collect on our receivable, that we're going to have new contracts to go back to work there, and that we will, and that'll be a profitable operation for us. It actually will become more stable over time, not less stable.

Okay.

The only other country I really hear anything about is Syria. That has certainly slowed down, but we have no operations in Syria at all.

Okay. On Libya, at the last meeting I think you said there was, what, $6 million that was collected. Has that increased since the last meeting?

Since the last call, we haven't collected any cash out of Libya. We had collected about $9.9 million to date, and we're expecting, given the current conversations that are happening between us and our client, that the next payment we receive, hopefully in the very near future, will be for more than that.

Is the financing that's in place – the potential financing, is that contingent upon Libyan collections?

No, it's not

Okay. Do you have any comment as to the recent increase, significant increase, in trading volume on Hill's stock on the market?

Yeah, our guess has been that once we began to collect the money from Libya, which we announced in the fall and then again earlier this year, in a significant way, given the financial turnaround in our performance last year, that the two biggest negatives about our stock – maybe these are the only two negatives about our stock – have been the Libyan receivable and our expensive debt, and that the market now expects us to be able to resolve both of those problems in the near future. And it's our plan to resolve both of those in the near future.

So, with those going away, I think the stock price, which was, from our perspective, very undervalued has obviously been on a good run. Based on yesterday's close, over the last 12 months, the stock is up 133%, and just from the beginning of this year, it's up almost 60%, which we think is very positive. The market obviously didn't like our earnings so far today, but we expect that the balance of this year is going to be a lot stronger.

If you take a look at how we did in March versus the prior two months, just to break down the numbers a little bit, we essentially lost $0.05 a share in January and February and made $0.05 a share just in March, to break even for the quarter. So we're trending in the right direction. A lot of the utilization has already improved itself. We're expecting the same in April. And if we can continue March's performance through the balance of the second quarter and the balance of the year, then we're going to have a great rest of 2014.

Has there been a significant increase in institutional interest in the company?

There certainly has been, yes. We've seen more interest by investors and stockholders. I'm going to be speaking at three conferences over the next 30 days, and I'll have a much better sense of interest and activity and attendance once we appear at those three conferences.

All right, thank you very much.

Thank you, [ph] Mark (34:15).

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up from Lee Jagoda from CJS Securities.

Hey, just a couple more for me.

Sure, Lee.

So, the losses that you incurred in January and February, were they a function of timing of revenue or costs or both?

They were primarily a function of low utilization in those months. I had the numbers. I didn't give them. I may as well give you and everybody else who's on the call the benefit of the numbers. In our Claims Group, utilization in January, February, and March, respectively, was 58%, 59%, and 64%, so a very strong upward trend there. In our Project Management Group, 82%, 83%, and 85% for the three months of the quarter, and already good numbers in PM, but obviously trending upward in a big way.

If I could ask for a little more color, could you give us the utilization in those three months a year ago, and then the headcounts in each of those months?

I can't give you the head count, but I can give you the utilization, if you give me one second. In Projects a year ago it was 83%, 85%, and 86% in January, February, and March, and in Claims it was 59%, 64%, and 65%, so similar trends last year.

Okay. And then, John, just a question on the interest expense in the quarter, it was lower by about $500,000 despite higher debt levels. Is there anything you can add there?

Yeah, so our interest rate with the revolver is based on a grid, and we had continuous improvement. And that grid is based on our consolidated leverage, and it continuously improved in each of the quarter, and at the end of the year it was at its lowest, so we had the benefit in the first quarter.

And how should that trend Q2, Q3, Q4 of this year?

Well, our agreement – the last amendment which was – well, the third amendment with the banking group had a clause in there that if we did not get the banking group out by March 31, 2014, there would be an additional 2%, so it's going to go up.

Yeah, we're now in the last year of our revolving credit agreement. It expires March 31 of next year.

Okay. And then, David, one more for you and I'm all done. Just the $18 million of backlog adjustment, can you provide a little color on what exactly that was?

It was no projects being cancelled, just adjustments in the backlog on three projects that were overestimated in our prior backlog report.

And that was on the project management side?

Yes.

They all three were in the U.S. Project Management Group, yes.

All right, thanks very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Conti from Sidoti & Company.

Hey, guys. I just have a few questions. On the project management side, how much did the Oman project contribute to that?

Contribute to revenue, or...

Yes, yes.

...operating profit, or what?

Yes, CFR.

Do you have that number, John?

No, I don't. I think it's around $3 million, $4 million a month.

Per month, so $12 million, $14 million?

It was probably about $10 million.

Yeah.

It was about 9% to 10% of our consulting fees for the PM Group for the quarter.

Okay, great. And just regarding the Riyadh Metro Project, can you break out how much revenue you guys brought in for this quarter and how much is left on that contract?

I'm looking at John. He's looking at me. I don't think either one of us has that number.

I think there is approximately $80 million, $81 million left on the project, but I don't have the specifics on the run rate.

Yeah. The Riyadh Metro is one of those projects that is ramping up slower than we had anticipated. So we're not, by any means, anywhere near what that project is going to generate once this goes to construction and it's fully staffed up.

Okay, good. And I just wanted to clarify, so you guys expect SG&A to, I guess, increase in absolute dollar value from this quarter. Did I get that right?

No.

Stay the same or slightly increase, but as a percent of consulting fees, continue to drop.

Okay, great. That's all I have.

Thank you, Mike.

Thank you. At this time, we have no further questions. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Richter for closing comments.

Thank you very much. We were very pleased with our company's growth in the first quarter of this year, so we know where our focus needs to be going forward, which is on the cost side. We're going to be focused on getting our SG&A costs down, and even more importantly, our interest expense down, and we look forward to reporting positive news on both fronts during our next earnings call, which will be in early August. Thank you all for your continuing interest in our company and for participating in our call this morning.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.