Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, Equity Group, Inc.
David L. Richter — President, Chief Operating Officer & Director, Hill International, Inc.
John Fanelli — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hill International, Inc.
Chase A. Jacobson — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Tahira Afzal — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Peter Enderlin — Portfolio Manager, MAZ Partners LP
Arnaud Ajdler — Non-Executive Chairman, Destination Maternity Corp.
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Hill International Reports Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President of The Equity Group Incorporated. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. You may begin.

Thank you, Latonya (0:30), and thank you, everyone. Good morning. Thanks for joining us today. Our speakers for today's call will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International, and John Fanelli, the company's Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that certain statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor created thereby. Except for historical information, the matters set forth herein, including but not limited to any projections of revenues, earnings, or other financial items; any statements concerning our plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations; and statements regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, and assumption, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the expectations, estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results, to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements are set forth in the Risk Factors section and elsewhere in the reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to David Richter. David, please go ahead.

Thank you. Devin. And good morning to everyone on today's earnings conference call. Yesterday we announced our financial results for the third quarter of 2014. We accomplished a lot during those 90 days, driving our revenues and backlog once again to records including delivering our eighth quarter in a row of record consulting fees.

We were also able to significantly de-lever our balance sheet by closing in August a $40 million equity follow-on offering and by closing in September a $165 million refinancing of our senior debt at much lower rates. We also announced – I'm sorry, more on all of that later, but right now let's jump into our quarterly financial performance.

Total revenue for the third quarter of 2014 was a record $161.5 million, a 10% increase from the third quarter of 2013. Consulting fee revenue for the third quarter was a record $145.3 million, a 12% increase from last year's third quarter. This growth in consulting fees consisted of 11% organic growth plus 1% growth as a result of our acquisition last year of Collaborative Partners in Boston, which has been performing better than our expectations.

Our gross profit in the third quarter rose to $62.6 million, up 15% from the third quarter of last year. Our gross margin as a percentage of consulting fees improved by 130 basis points to 43.1% in the third quarter versus last year.

Our SG&A expenses in the third quarter were $51.4 million, up 11% from the year-ago quarter, and our SG&A margin dropped slightly to 35.3%, a 20 basis point improvement year-over-year.

Hill's EBITDA for the third quarter was $13.4 million, up 26% from last year. EBITDA margin as a percentage of consulting fees was 9.2% in the third quarter, up 110 basis points from last quarter and our strongest performance in quite a while.

Operating profit in the third quarter was $11.3 million, up a strong 37% from last year's third quarter, and our operating margin in the third quarter was 7.8%, up 150 basis points from the third quarter of 2013.

As I mentioned earlier, we refinanced our senior debt at the end of the third quarter. As a result of this refinancing, Hill incurred one-time expenses of $10.8 million during the quarter due to the pay-off and early termination of our prior revolving credit facility with Bank of America and our prior second lien term loan with Tennenbaum Capital Partners.

As a result, Hill showed a net loss in the third quarter of negative $9 million, or negative $0.19 per diluted share, compared to net earnings during last year's third quarter of $2.6 million, or $0.06 per diluted share. Absent the one-time refinancing expenses I just mentioned, Hill would have had net earnings in the third quarter of $1.9 million, or $0.04 per diluted share.

Now looking at the third quarter performance of our two operating segments separately, total revenue at Hill's Project Management Group during the third quarter was $121.7 million, a 5% increase from the third quarter of 2013. Consulting fee revenue in the third quarter at the Projects Group was $107.0 million, a 7% increase from the year-earlier quarter. This growth was comprised of 6% organic growth and 2% growth from the acquisition of Collaborative Partners last year.

The Projects Group saw an 11% increase in gross profit to $41.3 million for the quarter, with gross margin on a percentage basis at 38.6%, up 110 basis points from last year. SG&A expenses at the Projects Group were up 9% in the third quarter to $28.3 million. As a percentage of consulting fees, our SG&A margin was 26.5%, up 30 basis points year-over-year.

Operating profit for the Projects Group was $13 million during the third quarter, a 15% increase from last year. Operating margin as a percent of consulting fees was 12.1%, an 80 basis point improvement versus a year ago.

At Hill's Construction Claims Group, total revenue during the third quarter was a record $39.7 million, a 26% increase from the third quarter of last year. Consulting fees for the Claims Group was also a record at $38.4 million, a 25% increase year-over-year. The Claims Group's growth in consulting fees was entirely organic.

The Claims Group saw its gross profit rise by 25% to $21.4 million but saw a slight drop in its gross margin as a percent of consulting fees to 55.7%, down just 20 basis points from last year. SG&A expenses for the Claims Group were up 21% to $16.1 million in the third quarter, but as a percentage of consulting fees they were down by 150 basis points to 42.0%.

As a result, third quarter operating profit for the Claims Group was $5.3 million, a strong 38% jump from the third quarter of last year. As a percent of consulting fees, this was a 130 basis point improvement from the year-earlier quarter, with operating margins at the Claims Group growing to 13.7% in the third quarter this year.

In addition to the SG&A incurred by our two operating segments, we also incurred SG&A expense in our corporate group. For the third quarter, our corporate SG&A expenses were $6.9 million, up just 1% from the year-earlier quarter. As a percentage of consulting fees, it was down to 4.8%, down 50 basis points from last year's third quarter. This is the first time our corporate overhead costs have been under our target of 5% and we think we can improve this number even further going forward.

This, combined with our Projects and Claims Groups showing operating margin in the third quarter of 12% and 14% respectively, much closer to their internal targets of 15%, means that we are getting very close to our stated operating margin goal for the entire company of 10%-plus. And we think our operational trends in the near term will be in our favor as we seek to achieve this goal and then maintain it consistently.

This will be helped by our big increase during the quarter in our backlog. At September 30, our company's total backlog was a record $1.073 billion, up more than 10% during the quarter. This backlog consisted of $1.026 billion from our Projects Group and $47 million from our Claims Group. 12-month backlog at the end of the third quarter was a record $457 million, up 13% during the quarter. This was broken down into $410 million from our Projects Group and $47 million from our Claims Group.

Hill had net bookings during the third quarter of $246 million, or a book-to-bill ratio of 170%, an outstanding sales quarter and I believe the best in our company's history. Some of the major new contracts we announced over the last three months since our last earnings call included a $51 million contract to manage construction at three theme parks in Dubai, a $16 million extension of our contract to provide PMO services to the Federal Transit Administration, a $7 million contract to act as project manager on two residential skyscrapers in India, a $4 million contract to oversee construction of a new FBI field office building in Puerto Rico, a $4 million contract to manage construction of a highway in Oman, a $3 million contract to manage construction of a new federal courts complex in Abu Dhabi, a $2 million contract to manage the construction of a major highway in Romania, a contract from New York City's Housing Recovery Office to manage the city's Build it Back Program in response to Superstorm Sandy – this is a very major contract for our New York City office, a contract to provide project control services for Dallas Area Rapid Transit, and numerous other contracts that we won during the quarter but have not yet announced but that had a major positive impact on our backlog during the third quarter.

During our last earnings call we gave guidance for 2014 consulting fees of between $580 million and $590 million, which we equated to approximately 13% to 15% growth for the year. Based on the consulting fees that we've achieved during the first nine months of the year, current market conditions and the current levels of backlog I just discussed, we are reaffirming that guidance.

During the third quarter, we closed on a debt refinancing with a group of new lenders led by Société Générale that provided us with a new senior debt financing in the amount of $165 million. That allowed us to replace both our prior Bank of America revolver and our second lien term loan from Tennenbaum Capital Partners.

The new financing included a $45 million revolver paying about 5% interest, down from the 8% we were paying Bank of America, and a $120 million term loan paying about 8%, down from the 20% we were paying Tennenbaum. This was a major step for us to get our interest expense down going forward and allow the company to keep more of our profits instead of paying them mostly to lenders.

The combined effect of this debt refinancing together with the $40 million equity offering that we closed in August means that we expect to be able to lower our interest expense, which had been running at a quarterly rate of almost $6 million, by more than half going forward. We also were able to significantly improve our borrowing capacity so we have adequate capital for our continued growth for the foreseeable future.

With that, John Fanelli, our CFO, and I are happy to take any of your questions.

Thank you. At this time, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chase Jacobson with William Blair. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Chase.

So, David, I think the thing that everybody wants to hear about is what – given the change in oil, even though your business isn't directly tied to it, a lot of the geopolitical issues going on. If you could just talk about how the awards in the Middle East have been trending in the third quarter, but I think more importantly what you've been seeing to-date in the fourth quarter and if you've seen any impact on the backlog conversion to revenue, which the guidance doesn't imply that you have, but just wondering if you could address that?

Yeah, I'd be happy to, because we get that question a lot.

Yeah.

Price of oil, the recent unrest in Northwest Iraq have had no material impact at all to our Middle East business. It continues to be one of the strongest in the company and is performing very well, bringing in work, growing its revenues. The decisions that get made over there regarding construction are not impacted by yesterday's price of oil. These are long-term decisions that are made over years and sometimes planned for a decade or longer. The projects that we're involved in are not going to be stopped or slowed or cancelled because the price of oil is down this week or next week.

Okay. So I mean it sounds like you're still confident and optimistic that that market is holding up and will continue to grow into next year?

Into the foreseeable future, absolutely. I get a lot of pessimism when I'm talking to people on Wall Street who keep expecting some bubble to pop and there's no bubble. I mean, it's just a section of the world that has a tremendous amount of wealth pouring in to it on a daily basis, that's true whether oil is $100 a barrel or $80 or even a lot less. And the markets that we operate in, which are the wealthiest, most stable countries like the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, we don't see anything changing at all anytime soon.

Okay. And as it relates to your margin targets, construction claims very strong this quarter, good corporate expense control. The SG&A as a percent of revenue is a little bit higher than I expected in Project Management. So just can you give us any highlights as to what's going on with the cost controls in Project Management given the strong growth that you're seeing in the backlog there? Should we see that continue to go lower as a percentage of sales as we go forward here?

Go lower, you mean the SG&A or the ...

Yes, yes.

As a percentage, right? Yeah, there is nothing wrong with the cost controls in Project Management. I think what you're seeing is there is a significant ramp-up occurring both domestically and in certain parts internationally, primarily the Middle East, because we're getting a lot of work and you can see that reflected in our backlog. And we're beginning to take on staff, and for some period of time when that happens you have relatively higher unapplied labor, which goes into SG&A, even though they're billable people. When they're not billable, that cost goes into our overhead and I think you're starting to see some of that.

Okay. And then, John, just a housekeeping on the tax rate. I know there's lots of moving pieces this quarter. What should we expect for the tax rate going forward?

I think going forward into 2015, as we mentioned the last quarter, with the lower interest rate we believe that the effective tax rate corporately will be in the mid- 40s%.

Okay. Got it. Thank you.

Yeah. Chase, with our debt coming down significantly and the quarterly interest expense coming down and our margins heading up, we're expecting a lot more stability in our tax rate going forward. Last couple of years it's bounced around significantly based upon where in the world we're earning money and the tax rates in those local jurisdictions, but I think you will see a lot more consistency over the next year or two in our tax rate.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning and congratulations, great quarter.

Thank you, Tahira.

Thank you.

I guess first question is, David, you gave us some nice breakdown as always of all your key awards in terms of scope and then some others you haven't disclosed the amount. It seems the theme parks in Dubai was the biggest award you've had in the quarter or would one of the undisclosed scope awards potentially be higher even than that?

The theme park project in Dubai at $51 million was our largest award that went into our backlog. But we have several significant awards in the tens of millions that haven't been announced yet either because we are waiting for signed contracts, board approval from our clients or our client's approval of the press release that we're hoping we will be able to get out very shortly. But that was just an outstanding quarter for us sales-wise. What was the number – $246 million of sales in one quarter is just – it's a terrific quarter, and our backlog being now back to a record closing in on $1.1 billion, it bodes very well for where our revenue's going to be heading next year.

Got it, and, David, on that, you implied fourth quarter revenue growth for consulting fee revenues is in the sort of mid-teens at this point and you've kind of said that in the past you were headed there. As you look at 2015 and the backlog and bidding visibility you have, how should we be looking at 2015 as you're modeling it out on the revenue side? Would 2014 fourth quarter growth rate be kind of sort of an aggressive target or how would you place that in perspective of what you could potentially do in 2015?

We've got a fairly narrow range now, since we only got one quarter to go, about what we're expecting. We're certainly expecting growth from third quarter to fourth quarter. We are ramping up on some of these projects and I expect that we'll be right there in probably in the middle of that range for the fourth quarter. We are at the very beginning of our budgeting process for 2015. Until we complete that process, even I don't know what we're projecting for next year. We will most likely do what we did the past two years, which is when we have our fourth quarter earnings call in early March, we will at that point be done our budget, we'll have February, January numbers done and potentially a good idea what February looks like. And we'll hopefully feel comfortable at that point in giving out guidance for our 2015 consulting fees. But that's four months away and until we get there I can't give you any sense of a percentage number or even a range that we expect to grow next year.

Got it. Okay. And if I look at your margin trajectory outside of the pretty impressive G&A initiatives you are taking and just look at the pure mix shift, it seems like you will potentially be generating more revenue from the Project Management side of the business, which has slightly lower margins. I assume those margins in themself will be improving on absorption of overhead. But as we put the mix shift together with the higher utilization in Project Management, do we directionally still see margins heading north? It seems so on your commentary, I just wanted to confirm.

The simple answer is yes. We continue to see margins heading north. Right now, when you look at the last couple of quarters, the Claims Group has been growing significantly faster than the Projects Group.

Right.

My guess is going forward you'll see more acquisitions on the Project Management side and those two businesses will sort of stay in that 75%-25% range that they've been in for several years. So I think the balance between the two sides of our company will remain. The Project Management Group has lower gross margins, but at the operating margin line they will typically, historically, deliver about the same operating margin, and it's typically been between the very low side, 5%, and in good times 15%. We're expecting that through growth, through the improving economy, through our focus on keeping our overhead costs down to the maximum extent that we can that we should be over 15%, at or over 15% consistently. And in the third quarter, they both got pretty close.

Yeah, they did. I've got a couple of other questions, David, but I'll just hop back in the queue.

No problem, Tahira.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Pete Enderlin with MAZ Partners. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, thank you. Congratulations on everything you accomplished during the quarter.

Thank you, Pete.

Looking at the overall SG&A as a percentage of revenues, it was up about in line with consulting fee revenues in the third quarter, which was considerable improvement from the first half of course when SG&A was up 23%, I think. So the question is when do we start to see leverage of revenues going up more than the SG&A expenses overall? I recognize that corporate SG&A is flat to down a little bit, but the overall picture still needs to generate some leverage and you haven't seen it yet.

I think we're beginning to see it actually quite a bit. Certainly we had 12% growth in consulting fees and 11% growth in SG&A, which is not our target. Our target for consulting fee is to grow much, much more quickly than SG&A. I think we're beginning to see, just over the last several quarters, a significant improvement in our operating margins as a result of that growth.

Yeah.

You're going to see a significant drop in our interest expense going forward, from $6 million a quarter down to under $3 million. And I think you're going to see EPS begin to grow significantly as a result of those two things.

And I don't think that we are at where our operating margins should be and can get to. I think we're going to see continued improvement going forward. One of our main targets was to get our corporate overhead under 5% and we've done that, and yet we still think we can get that number even below 4.8%.

So I know you can't really speak very specifically about 2015, but would you expect for next year that revenue growth would be higher than the overall SG&A number growth?

Absolutely, that's always our goal.

Is that going to require some greater attention to cost controls in the budgeting process in the fourth quarter and on into 2015 than you've had recently?

It's not the requirement, but it's not the [ph] require it (25:47), but I would expect that, especially in connection with me moving up to CEO, probably a little more focused on cutting costs to make sure we have a great first year. The whole company has a great 2015, and I think just continue to keep a close eye on our overhead, continue to grow the business as much as we can.

But we also see the business more than just the big picture, we also look at office by office, and we've had some significant wins lately in some smaller, underperforming offices that are going to help them do significantly better going forward. And as each office starts to win more work and get busier, that just bubbles up through the entire company, and you are going to see I think just better and better margins going forward.

It's not going to require us to do anything radical on the cost side. We just have to keep, as someone told me recently, keep blocking and tackling and the numbers will keep heading in the right direction.

David, can you give us some sense of the geographical composition of bookings in the third quarter? I mean, I presume a lot of them are in the Middle East, we know they are. But do you have an overall sort of rough breakdown of that?

I would say the best market for us during the quarter was the United States followed by the Middle East.

Okay. But if you look at your overall long-term backlog of $1 billion-plus, how does that roughly break down between the geographical areas?

You know, that's really not a number that we've been disclosing or really tracking internally. Certainly the areas where we have the greatest revenue are the areas with the greatest backlog.

And also could you...

And that's not by coincidence.

Yeah. Can you give us an update on the status of the Riyadh Metro project? I believe it was kind of slow getting off the ground, not from your standpoint but from the government's standpoint?

Yeah, that was a project we wanted to announce I believe in August or September of last year. It was slow ramping up initially. But keep in mind, sometimes we get hired at the beginning of construction and as soon as we get retained and we get a notice to proceed, we're on the job, our full staff sometimes, and Riyadh Metro is that case we're hired at the beginning of the design phase and design requires a lot less staff to provide oversight than the construct phase does. So that was slow to ramp up and we'll be probably in design for a couple more quarters, and once it begins construction we expect a big increase in our staff and our revenue on that project.

Right. Would you care to give any update on the potential for getting the Libyan receivable?

I don't have any update to give since the last earnings call. What we were advised recently was that there is a court case coming in the next week or two that will determine which of the two competing governments is the legitimate government of Libya going forward. And we're hoping that once that's been decided that there is some progress and stability in the country, although obviously there is also a risk for the opposite result. But hopefully once that case is decided and we're dealing with people that have the authority to continue to run the government going forward and we can start to get some more of our money out of that country.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot for taking the question.

Right now we don't have a lot of visibility as to timing, but we continue to maintain a dialogue with our client. Hopefully at some point in the near future we will start to see more money.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you, Pete.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Arnaud Ajdler with Engine Capital Management. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, David. How are you?

Hello, Arnaud.

Good morning, Arnaud.

Hi. So first, congratulations on a great quarter. My question was the following. So December 31 you will become CEO of the company, and I was wondering if you can maybe give us our top four, five strategic priority for the business going forward?

That's a good question. Working with – my dad's been our only CEO in our 39-year history, but I have been the Chief Operating Officer for the last 10-plus years. And the strategy that we've put together for the business is one that's been working, unlike some of the big conglomerates, the new AECOM-URS is probably the best example, who try to be everything to everybody. Our strategy has been to stay very focused on two services that we think we are world-class in – Project Management and Construction Claims consulting – and that strategy is going to continue. Our number one means of continuing to build our business has been and will continue to be organic growth. The cheapest work that we can bring in the door is the work we win, not the work we buy. We've been an acquisitive company in the past and my guess is you'll continue to see acquisitions be part of our strategy, but that's certainly secondary to organic growth and continuing to do good work for our clients and getting more work from those clients than from new clients.

As I said to one of the prior, I think it was Pete, that asked about overhead and SG&A, I'm going to try and have a little stronger focus on overhead costs and try and get those down, improving our margins and not just focusing on what our profits are, our accrual profits, but also our cash flow. We've got still a significant amount of debt, even though it's cheaper and even though it's lower than it was a couple of months ago. We've got a lot of debt that we want to pay down. We want to de-lever the business. And that's our top priority. We can only do that by selling more stock, which we have no intention of doing at this point of time, whereby improving our internal cash flow so we can use our profits to pay down that debt, that's our plan.

And the overall strategy for the company is not going to change, that's been the same for a long time. But hopefully we'll continue in an improving economy to do even better for our shareholders going forward.

Okay, great. I applaud this. I think if you guys can focus on improving margin, G&A, free cash flow and de-lever, I think that should do great things for the company and for the stock price. Second question, in the past you have talked about a 10% margin goal. Just so I am clear, is that a 10% EBIDTA margin, or is that a 10% EBIT margin?

The margin I've talked about with a target of 10% is the operating margin.

Okay, so it's not EBITDA, it's including depreciation.

Correct.

Okay. And so ...

Except that our EBITDA will have to be well north of 10%.

Exactly. So I guess as you think, and again I understand you are not giving guidance or anything like this at this point, but thinking about the growth profile of the company and assuming you can continue to grow at similar rates as it's growing today, as you think about 2015 and certainly as you think about 2016, do you think that these EBITDA – do you think this type of margin profile could be achievable say in 2016? And if that's the case, I guess that would be a big jump from – what has to happen I think to get to these type of margins?

Just for us to continue growing and continuing to focus on keeping our costs as low as possible. As I also said to Pete, if our consulting fees are growing by x and our SG&A margin is growing by less than x, then we'll continue to see improvement in our operating margins.

No, I agree...

We're one of the most profitable firms in our industry. If you look at a lot of the D& C companies that are out there, and we did a recent study, in 2013 we had the second highest operating margin in the construction industry among the major publically traded firms, second only to Jacobs. And that's with operating margin that frankly isn't anywhere near where we should be. I think it was 5.6% on total revenue and Jacobs was at 5.7%. This is not an industry of high margins but we should be able to do significantly better than the industry because we provide services that are higher margin than typical design and construction companies.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Arnaud.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Conti with Sidoti and Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Mike.

Yes. So a lot of my questions were answered already, but on the Claims side, that's four quarters in a row of 20% year-over-year growth. So what's driving that growth?

What's driving it is certainly the global construction market is coming back. We have built in our Claims practice the premier firm in the world in handling problems, disputes, other issues on major complex construction projects in the world. We're closing in on about 800 employees in that group and we're not aware of a competitor that has more than 300 employees. So we really are the dominant player in that whole end of the construction consulting segment, and I think you are starting to see the benefits of size, you're seeing the benefits of us being able to really put together a truly world-class A team. In that regard, you're seeing the benefit of us being truly global. We added operations in Africa and Latin America within the Claims practice a year ago and we are seeing a tremendous number of opportunities in Asia, which was an underperforming operation for many years but now is doing very well, and I expect that to continue.

So I mean you sound pretty optimistic just regarding the potential for the Claims Group. Are these growth rates sustainable as you look into 2015 and beyond?

I really have no idea. Because it's a consulting practice with short-term contracts, unlike the Project Management Group, which is long-term contracts, work can go up and down time to time just depending upon how busy the people are and how often the phone is ringing. Right now we see an improving environment. We see lots of opportunities for that business to continue adding staff and growing. But being able to see beyond the next quarter or two in that business is very difficult.

Sure. Sure. And lastly on the Claims, SG&A ticked down as a percentage from a year ago, but what plans or changes were implemented throughout the quarter? I know you've spoken in the past on some type of strategy to get the cost down.

Are you talking specifically in the Claims Group?

Yeah.

Just given the nature of that business, as I said, the revenue can go up and down and fluctuate quite a bit. It's a business that has to stay very much in tune with keeping its workforce and its workload in balance.

We've gone through areas where they were downsizing. We've gone through areas where they were upsizing in anticipation of growth which sometimes got a little bit delayed. But I'll tell you when you look at the numbers this year, it just looks like they are hitting it out of the park and I think that's very true.

Okay, great.

Otherwise, as I said before hopefully that will continue. I am sure like most businesses it will have its up and down quarters, but right now they're having just a fantastic 2014.

Great. That's all I have.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Tahira Afzal. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, David, some of my follow-ups have been answered but really a follow-up to that question that just was asked on the Claims side, not looking at it from the demand side but the supply side. Let's assume demand continues to be strong, do you see that there is enough opportunity for you to build staff to really accommodate it?

Yeah. We don't see any obstacle in the Claims side of our company to adding staff in response to more work.

Thanks, David. And then, David, two things that we were hoping would happen post all balance sheet clean up. Number one, there really has been improvement of the balance sheet and LC sort of conditionalities, et cetera. I would love to get a sense as you've gone out to clients whether that's being received incrementally well by clients, then it's opening more doors for you or larger project opportunities. And secondly, an update on the M&A activity going forward now that this is out of the way.

Yeah, I don't think that the refinancing has any impact on our clients or our ability to win work or anything else. We're a New York Stock Exchange company, our clients view us as blue chip and the expensive debt that we had in place didn't do anything to damage that. We've talked specifically about letters of credit, which is something else that with the new facility in place we're not just paying less interest, we're going to be in a position now to take hopefully in the next call it two quarters the letters of credit that we had historically been and are currently doing providing out of our U.S. revolver, where it's the most expensive and ties up our borrowing capacity, and be able to push those into local relationships with local banks. And these are primarily the Middle East but also some in Europe as well, where we can have a much cheaper facility solely focused on prime letters of credit, that's much cheaper for us to issue those LCs and also doesn't have any impact on our borrowing capacity.

We have a significant amount of those right now that were put in place one year, two years, three years ago with a much more tenuous senior banking relationship where we have high collateral requirements, in some cases 50%, in some cases 100%. And now we're going back to those banks or new banks to negotiate facilities where we might be able to provide 25% cash collateral for LCs at a much cheaper rate than we were paying before. So we are expecting the cost of our LCs will go down and certainly those are required now in the biggest projects, especially the Middle East, and also being able to free up a significant amount of cash that will come out of LC cash collateral accounts, probably to the tune of $10 million or more, that will help our cash flow going forward as well.

On the M&A side, we see lots of opportunities. Certainly we were constrained over the last couple of years. Our last two acquisitions were for stock because we couldn't do cash acquisitions under our then banking facility. We have the ability to do that now. We're looking at a handful of acquisitions, smaller companies that – call it niche or tuck-ins, but acquisitions that we feel fill a gap that we have or give us some geographic expansion so that we can add on to our what we think is extraordinary organic growth.

Got it. That is very helpful. And last question from me, David. We've heard your commentary on the Middle East and from the most recent channel checks and presentations that have been made on CapEx and spending in the Middle East, they seem to concur with what you're saying. But really in the U.S. you've talked about this market picking up again. We're seeing leading indicators also picking up. Would love to get an update on the different end markets and regions that you're seeing in the U.S. where things are improving.

Well, couple things. Our business has really changed in the last five years or six years, since the recession began. Much more of a focus – I'm talking about the U.S. market, much more of a focus by us and a lot more work won on the transportation and infrastructure side, less so on the building side, and our business has evolved more towards supporting that market.

Right.

It's a great market, it's large projects that are long term and require high levels of staffing and I think we're doing a better job than ever before of winning some of the biggest and best assignments in that category. As the buildings market begins to recover, as the economy continues to improve, I think that's going to bode very well for us and we'll see more and more activity on that front as well.

We have won a significant amount of work recently and this is some of the work that we haven't announced yet but will. In the New York region in response to Superstorm Sandy, one of those contracts that we have announced, some others that we haven't. That's a significant amount of work that has to be done for a lot of public agencies in that area. They're going to help us grow in the Northeast. And we're continuing to try to grow in areas where – and I think I alluded to this before, where we have some smaller offices, where we can either help them on the business development side, and some of our smaller offices have won some big assignments lately, that help improve their economics, or smaller acquisitions that can start to add to the critical mass that we need to really start to ramp up our operating margins.

All right. Thanks very much, David.

Thank you, Tahira.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (45:01), a private investor. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, David and John. Congratulations on a great quarter.

Good morning.

Good morning, thank you.

I have a quick question on the revenues. I was comparing your revenues back from 2009 to the projected revenues for 2014 versus your employee count at the end of the year. It looks like it's been heading in the wrong direction. It's been revenue per each employee at the end of 2009 was around $180,000 versus in 2014 we are trending to $130,000. Is there any focus or any effort to look into that number?

I've been asked that question before, and I think the response that we figured out was a couple-fold. One is you got to look at consulting fees, not total revenue, because our total revenue, the difference in pass-throughs, that delta has come down over time. So if you're using total revenue, that's the wrong number to be using. Also, the numbers that we report on employees is a yearend number. It's not an average over the course of the year, and that number can be misleading as well. And also, we had a significant amount of work, and this is far more than a rounding error, but we had a significant amount of work during that period of time in Iraq, where we had people that were essentially generating 300% of normal revenue because they were working 80-hour weeks. They were being paid for 80-hour weeks. We could bill for that, and then on top of that we were billing for a 50% markup because of the risks of operating in a more dangerous zone.

So we were seeing triple revenue from those employees. They were all very high-level, expensive employees. We had I think at the peak about 120 people on the ground in Iraq, and those numbers really skewed, if you're looking at the 2009-2010 period, that was the height of that work, and that skewed those old numbers higher than they otherwise would have been.

Okay. I have one last question is, are you guys still dealing with Hill Housing or HillStone, or did you guys totally walk away from those two segments?

No, that business has been closed.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. David Richter for closing comments.

Thank you very much. We were very pleased with our company's growth so far this year and our improvement in profitability. With our debt and equity refinancing successfully completed in the third quarter, we are now refocused on top-line growth and bottom-line improvements. Thank you all for your interest in our company and for your participation in our call this morning. We're looking forward to our next earnings call next March. Thank you.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a great day.