corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Hill International First Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference call is being recorded and that all


participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Devin Sullivan of The Equity Group. Please go


ahead sir.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group, Inc.


Thank you, Tina . And thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s call


will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International and John Fanelli,


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I’d like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call maybe


considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. And its Hill’s intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor


created thereby, except for historical information disclosed during this call. The matters set forth


herein including but not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any


statements concerning plans, strategies, and objectives future operations and any statements


regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on Hill’s current expectations, estimates, and


assumptions and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although, Hill believes that the


expectations, estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable,


actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking


statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance, and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements


include modification and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues, pertaining to


Hill’s business activities conducted on it’s own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other


parties, difficulties incurred in implementing its acquisition strategy, the need to retain key technical


and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much, Devin, and thank you to everyone else joining us this morning for our


quarterly earnings conference call. Yesterday, we announced our first quarter 2010 financial


results. To put it simply, we had a weak quarter to say the least. As we run through the numbers in


detail, we will also focus on the issues that impacted us positively and negatively.


For the first quarter of 2010, Hill’s total revenues grew to $104.5 million, a 0.5% increase from the


first quarter of last year. Consulting fee revenue for the first quarter declined slightly to $91.9


million, a decrease of 0.2% from the first quarter of 2009. This decrease in Hill’s consulting fee
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


revenue for the quarter was due to a 3.5% organic decline offset by 3.3% growth from the


acquisitions late last year of Boyken International and TRS Consultants.


Primary drivers of change in our consulting fee revenue year-over-year include increases of $4.9


million in our North African projects business, $3 million from our acquisitions of Boyken and TRS,


$1.5 million from our U.K. claims business, $1.2 million of an increase in Middle East claims and $1


million in our Southwest projects business. Those were offset by declines of $6.8 million in our


project management work in Iraq, $2 million from our Dubai projects business, $1.9 million in our


European projects group, and $1 million of decline in Asia Pacific claims.


Operating profit for the first quarter of 2010, dropped to $2.7 million, a 37.8% decrease from the


first quarter of 2009. Our operating margin, as a percentage of consulting fee revenue, dropped to


just 2.9% from 4.7% in the quarter a year ago. This was driven by a slight decrease in our gross


margin, 42.6% to 42.2% combined with a slight increase in our SG&A percentage from 39.1% to


40.2%.


While our corporate overhead continues to drop, as a percentage of consulting fee revenue, from


7.7 a year ago to 7.2% this quarter, the SG&A of our operating groups increased from 31.4% to


33.0%. This was primarily the result of the acquisitions late last year of Boyken and TRS which had


a high unemployed labor and indirect labor in the first quarter as well as having caused higher


amortization expense for Hill in the first quarter.


We were also impacted by the loss of a significant amount of high margin work in Iraq, as I


mentioned earlier. We received an income tax benefit of nearly 500, 000 in the first quarter. And as


a result, our net earnings in the first quarter were $2.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share based on


40.9 million diluted shares outstanding, down 44.2% from 4.4 million or $0.11 per diluted share


based on 41.1 million diluted shares for the first quarter of 2009.


Included in that diluted share count for the first quarter, were one million shares issued in April of


this year in connection with our management team’s earn-out, which was tied to the going public


merger between Hill and Arpeggio back in 2006. The earn-out is now complete and there will be no


more earn-out shares issued and resulting in dilution in the future.


We also look at our financial performance sequentially meaning versus the immediately prior


quarter. From the fourth quarter of 2009 to the first quarter of 2010, Hill’s total revenues were down


5.3% and our consulting fees were down 1.8%. In the fourth quarter that was trending upward after


a difficult early 2009. So we obviously are disappointed to see a negative trend to begin 2010.


Our gross profit was only down 5.5% sequentially. But because of higher labor costs as we started


the new year with raises causing significant overhead increases combined with lower utilization, we


added costs of our two acquisitions, our operating profit was down 64.0% and our net earnings


were down 46.2% in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter despite only a slight drop in


consulting fees.


Looking at the performance of our two operating segments separately, we continue to see a very


positive trend in our Construction Claims business. Total revenue in the first quarter, for Hill’s


Construction Claims Group, increased to $25.4 million an increase of 9.6% over the first quarter of


‘09. Consulting fee revenue in the first quarter for the Claims Group increased $24.6 million, an


increase of 9.6% over the year earlier quarter an increase that was all organic. Operating profit for


the Claims Group in the first quarter was $4.2 million or 17.2% of CFR on jump of 81.6% from the


first quarter of 2009.


The first quarter was far more challenging for our project management business. Hill’s PM Group


had total revenues in the first quarter of $79.1 million, a decrease of 2.1% compared to the first


quarter of ‘09. Consulting fees for the Projects Group in the fourth quarter were also – in the first