corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Hill International 2009 First Quarter


Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and


that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Devin Sullivan of the Equity Group. Please go ahead, sir.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President


Thanks, Dennis. And thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s call


will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International; and John Fanelli,


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hill.


Before we get started, I will remind everyone that certain statements contained in today’s call may


be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995 and it is Hill’s intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor


created thereby.


Except for historical information contained during this call, the matters set forth herein including but


not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any statements concerning plans,


strategies and objectives for future operations and any statements regarding future economic


conditions or performance are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based


on current expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to certain risks and


uncertainties.


Hill believes that the expectations, estimates and assumptions reflected in the forward-looking


statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in


any of the forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance and achievements or industry results


to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements include


modifications and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues pertaining to


business activities that Hill conducts on its own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other


parties, difficulties incurred in implementing its acquisition strategy, the need to retain and recruit


key technical and management personnel, and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related


to backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Devin. And thank you everybody else for being on the call this morning and joining us


for our first quarter 2009 earnings review.


We are very pleased with our positive results for the first quarter of 2009, which included both


strong organic revenue growth and solid profitability. Hill’s total revenue for the first quarter rose
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


29% to $103.9 million. Our consulting fee revenue for the first quarter increased to $92.1 million, up


32% from the first quarter of 2008.


Of that consulting fee growth, 22% was organic and 10% was the result of acquisitions. Breaking


down our consulting fees by operating segment, 76% came from the Project Management Group


and 24% came from our Construction Claims Group. The percentage of consulting fees from


Project Management continues to grow as that side of our business continues to see faster organic


growth and larger acquisitions.


By geographic region, 21% of our consulting fees in the first quarter came from the Americas, 29%


were from Europe, 37% were from the Middle East, 10% were from North Africa, and 3% were from


Asia-Pacific. We now break down our consulting fees and operations between the Middle East and


North Africa, depend how much growth we’ve had the latter region over the course of the last year.


Hill’s operating profit for the first quarter of 2009 was $4.3 million, down from 5.5 million in the first


quarter of 2008. Net earnings attributable to Hill for the first quarter were $4.4 million or $0.11 per


diluted share compared to 6.8 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the same period last year.


Shares outstanding were essentially the same for both quarters at 41.1 million diluted shares.


As some of you may have noted that I used slightly different terminology, specifically net earnings


attributable to Hill as opposed to simply net earnings. That is because effective January 1st of this


year, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160.


There is an explanatory footnote in our earnings release, but basically we are now required to


break out the amount of consolidated net earnings attributable to the parent and any non-controlling


interests, which were formally known as minority interest under the accounting language.


In Hill’s case, the non-controlling interests are primarily attributable to our Spanish subsidiary


Gerens, although we also have joint ventures in some other smaller subsidiaries that have minority


shareholders.


Hill’s operating profits for the first quarter of 2009 included about $2.2 million of unfavorable items


not included in the 2008 first quarter. These include a $980,000 adverse impact from currency


devaluations in the British pound and the Euro, which negatively affected our earnings per share by


approximately $0.02, an $860,000 increase in bad debt expense related primarily to our Middle


East and European regions, equal to about $0.01 per share, and $330,000 of legal and accounting


expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition that we discontinued in the first quarter, which


impacted earnings per share by approximately a penny.


Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2009 were positively impacted by a tax credit of $1.5


million or $0.04 per diluted share, although this was less than in the first quarter of 2008, when Hill


realized the benefit of a tax credit of $2.5 million or then $0.06 per diluted share.


Hill’s SG&A expenses for the first quarter were $36.3 million, up 32% from the first quarter of 2008,


but down 11% sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2008. That equates to 39.4% of our consulting


fees for the first quarter, slightly above our anticipated range for the year of 36 to 38%, and this was


due in part to the unfavorable items I previously mentioned and in part to higher unapplied labor for


the quarter.


As I discussed in the last earnings call, however, we took out approximately $5 million in annual


overhead costs during the first quarter. This was on top of approximately $2.5 million in annual


overhead cost that we removed in the third quarter of 2008. We expect the affect of our first quarter


cost cutting will positively impact our earnings beginning in the second quarter of 2009. All of the