corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Devin Sullivan
 
– Senior Vice President, Equity Group, Inc.


David L. Richter
 
– President & Chief Operating Officer


John Fanelli
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President


Other Participants


Arnold Ursaner
 
– Founder & President, CJS Securities, Inc.


David Gold CFA
 
– Senior Equity Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC


William Sutherland MBA
 
– Director of Research-Business Services, Boenning & Scattergood


Securities


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Hill International First Quarter 2011 Financial Results


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Devin Sullivan of The Equity Group. Thank you, Mr.


Sullivan, you may begin.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President


Thank you, Jackie. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. Our speakers on


this morning’s call will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International;


and John Fanelli, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements contained during this call


may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. And it is Hill’s intent that any such statements be protected by the


Safe Harbor created thereby, except for historical information the matters set forth herein, including,


but not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any statements concerning


plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations and any statements regarding future


economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and


are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although Hill believes that the expectations,


estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results


could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance, and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements


include modifications and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues pertaining


to business activities conducted on Hill’s own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other parties,


difficulties incurred in implementing the company’s acquisition strategy, the need to retain and


recruit key technical and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and cancellations


related to backlog. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


forward-looking statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. Hill does not intend and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking


statement.


Having said that, I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating


Officer of Hill International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President & Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Devin, and good morning to everyone joining us this morning for our quarterly earnings


conference call. Yesterday, we announced our financial results – I am sorry, Friday after the market


closed, we announced our financial results for the first quarter of 2011. Needless to say, the first


quarter was an extremely disappointing one for our company as a perfect storm of issues


negatively impacted our financial performance and led to the first money losing quarter ever for Hill


as a public company.


This morning, we will discuss in detail the various reasons for this loss, and what we have done and


are dong to address these issues so that we can improve our performance as much and as quickly


as possible.


For the first quarter of 2011, Hill’s total revenue grew to $123 million, an 18% increase from the first


quarter of 2010. Consulting fee revenue for the first quarter rose to $94.3 million, up 3% from last


year’s quarter. This was due to an 8% organic decline offset by 11% growth from the four


acquisitions we made since last year’s first quarter.


Our gross margin was down slightly from a year ago by 90 basis points to 41.3% for the first


quarter, but our SG&A, as a percentage of consulting fee revenue, was significantly higher in the


first quarter at 47% versus 40.2% for the year earlier quarter. As a result, Hill had an operating loss


for the first quarter of this year of $5.3 million versus an operating profit of $2.7 million for the first


quarter of 2010.


Our net loss for the first quarter was $5.6 million, or a loss of $0.15 per diluted share based on the


38.3 million diluted shares outstanding. This result was driven by a variety of negative factors that


impacted us in the first quarter, including a loss of high-margin low overhead work in Iraq since the


first quarter of last year.


Iraq contributed $2.3 million of operating profit to us in the first quarter 2010, but 0% in the first


quarter of this year since the work ramped up in the fourth quarter of last year. And we had a loss


of high-margin low overhead work in Libya during the first quarter as a result of civil unrest in that


country.


Our Libyan operations saw a decline in operating profit of $1.4 million versus what was made in the


first quarter of 2010. We had a major downturn during the first quarter in our international


construction claims business. We saw that operation go from a $4.2 million operating profit in the


first quarter of last year to a $400,000 operating loss in the first quarter of 2011. This is despite the


addition of a high-margin operation in Australia, which we acquired last year.


In the first quarter of 2010 number, however, included an unusual $2 million contingency fee that


was not repeated in the first quarter of this year. Also in the first quarter 2011, performance was


impacted by the settlement of a major claim that was being worked on in our U.K. operation. The


result of that settlement was 12 billable professionals were put on the bench for several months


during the first quarter and we lost $1.4 million in anticipated revenue with just about no decrease in


our labor costs related to that claim.