corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Hill International 2009 Second Quarter


Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and


that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Devin Sullivan. Please go ahead, sir.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Christy. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s call


will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International, and John Fanelli,


Hill’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call


may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe


Harbor created thereby. Except for historical information discussed during this presentation, the


matters set forth herein including but not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial


items, any statements concerning plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations, and any


statements regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and assumptions


and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.


Although Hill believes that the expectations, estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-


looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or


assumed in any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results,


performance, and achievements or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections


contained in the forward-looking statements include modifications and termination of client


contracts; control and operational issues pertaining to business activities that Hill conducts on its


own behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other parties; difficulties Hill may incur in implementing


its acquisition strategy; the need to retain and recruit key technical and management personnel;


and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


Thanks again for joining us this morning. I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter,


President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Devin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining our CFO, John Fanelli,


and I this morning for our second quarter 2009 earnings conference call. We are extremely pleased


with our strong results for the second quarter of 2009, driven by solid organic growth, improved


overhead efficiencies, and higher profits in the middle of what is certainly the most severe global


economic contraction in our company’s history.


Despite that, we are seeing signs that the economy’s recovering, and we have high expectations


for both our markets and our own performance for the second half of 2009 and heading into 2001.


For the second quarter, Hill’s total revenue rose 8% to $104.3 million. Our consulting fee revenue


was up 12% to $91.5 million versus the earlier quarter.
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Of that consulting fee growth, 9% was organic and a little less than 3% was acquisition related.


Breaking down our consulting fees by operating segment, 78% for the quarter came from the


Project Management Group and 22% came from the Construction Claims Group. The percentage


of consulting fees from PM continues to grow as that side of our business continues to see stronger


organic growth and larger acquisitions.


By geographic region for the quarter, 20% of our consulting fees came from the Americas, 30%


came from Europe, 35% were from the Middle East, 14% were from North Africa, and 1% was from


Asia Pacific. Overall, Hill’s operating profit for the second quarter was $6.5 million, up 15% from the


second quarter of 2008, driven by a combination of organic growth and consulting fees and our


recent overhead cost-cutting efforts.


Our SG&A expense for the second quarter as a percentage of CFR, consulting fee revenue, was


38.3%, which is down 60 basis points from the second quarter of 2008 and down 110 basis points


sequentially from the first quarter of 2009. Over the past four quarters, we have cut nearly $10


million in overhead expense from our business, and this began to have a significant positive effect


on our operating profit in the second quarter. We expect this will have even a more pronounced


impact positively on our earnings in the third and fourth quarters of this year.


As a percentage of consulting fees, our operating margin was 7.1%, up 20 basis points from a year


earlier, but more significantly, up 240 basis points from the first quarter of 2009. Net earnings


attributable to Hill were up 24% this quarter to $4.7 million, equivalent to $0.12 per diluted share


based upon 40.3 million diluted shares outstanding.


Hill’s total backlog at the end of the second quarter increased sequentially to $611 million, up from


598 million at the end of the first quarter. Our 12-month backlog at the end of the second quarter


remained strong at 279 million, up $9 million from $270 million at the end of the first quarter.


Our net new work during the quarter, which is essentially our increase in total backlog less the


consulting fees we’ve generated during the quarter, was $105 million. That is our fourth best sales


quarter in the Company’s history, and given the difficult economic environment, I think, was a real


major achievement by our operational and business development teams.


Looking at our two operating segments separately, our Project Management Group achieved total


revenues of $83.8 million, up 14% from the second quarter of 2008. Consulting fees for the Projects


Group rose at a faster rate, up 21% to $71.6 million in the second quarter of this year. That growth


consisted of 19% organic growth and 2% growth from our acquisition last year of Euromost.


Operating profit for the Projects Group in the second quarter rose 35% to $12.1 million for the


quarter. That equates to 16.9% of consulting fee revenue, up 180 basis points in the same period


last year, and up 380 basis points from the first quarter of 2009. This level of operating profit gets


us back into our historical range of 15 to 20%, which we are very pleased with, but we also expect


that there is significant room for continuing improvement in the second half of this year.


The strongest areas for our Projects Group in the second quarter continue to be the Middle East,


primarily in Abu Dhabi and Qatar, as well as North Africa. In Dubai, we continue to downsize our


workforce there as work continues to drop and shift those resources to elsewhere in the Middle


East, where we are seeing growth. We made a management change at the beginning of this


quarter in our U.S. Project Management operation with the appointments of Tom Spearing and


Vince D’Ambrosio to head up the operation and its business development efforts, respectively.


We have already seen a significant difference in just a few months, with sales up and costs down,


and we expect this region to continue to improve in the second half of this year. We saw,


unfortunately, significantly different results from our Construction Claims Group for the quarter, with