corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Hill International 2009 Fourth Quarter


Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and


that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Devin Sullivan of The Equity Group.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group Inc.


Thank you, Christy . And thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s


call will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International and John


Fanelli, company Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I’d like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call maybe


considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. And it’s our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe Harbor


created thereby, except for historical information. The matters set forth during this call including but


not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial items, any statements concerning plans,


and strategies, and objectives for future operations and any statements regarding future economic


conditions or performance are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and assumptions


and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although, Hill believes that the expectations,


estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results


could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance, and achievements or industry


results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements


include modifications and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues pertaining


to business activities conducted on Hill’s behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other parties,


difficulties incurred in implementing acquisition strategies, the need to retain and recruit key


technical and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to


backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much, Devin, and thank you to everyone else joining us this morning for our


quarterly earnings conference call. Yesterday, we announced both our full-year 2009 and fourth


quarter financial results. On today’s call, we’re going to primarily focus on the fourth quarter


numbers. During Q&A, we can obviously answer any questions that anyone may have regarding


the numbers for the full year.


We had strong performance in 2009, especially given the economic headwinds we faced. We


began to see these headwinds lessen quite a bit over the course of the year and that was borne out


by our very strong finish in the fourth quarter.
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the fourth quarter of 2009, Hill’s total revenues grew to $110.3 million, an increase of 5.4% from


the fourth quarter of 2008. Consulting fee revenue for the fourth quarter declined slightly to $93.6


million, a decrease of 1.6 million from the prior year’s quarter.


Operating profit for the fourth quarter nearly doubled to $7.5 million, an increase of 98.6% from the


fourth quarter 2008. Our operating margin as a percentage of consulting fees doubled in the fourth


quarter to 8.0% from 4.0% from a year ago. This was driven by a big decline in our SG&A expense


from 42.5% in the fourth quarter of ‘08 to 36.7% in the fourth quarter of ‘09. As a result of that lower


overhead expense as well as a lower effective income tax rate, Hill’s net earnings for the fourth


quarter rose sharply to $4.6 million or $0.12 per diluted share based on 39.6 million diluted shares


outstanding. That was up 146.2% from 1.9 million or 5% – $0.05 per diluted share based on 40.7


million diluted shares outstanding in the fourth quarter of 2008.


We also look at our financial performance sequentially, meaning versus the immediately prior


quarter. From the third quarter to the fourth quarter of ‘09, Hill’s total revenues were up 6.9%.


Consulting fees were up 8.0%.


The fourth quarter was our best quarter of the year for both total revenues and consulting fees. And


we are very pleased to say a positive trend in our topline numbers as 2009 came to a close. Our


operating profit was down 8.2% and our net earnings were down 21.8% in the fourth quarter versus


the third quarter despite the above increase in consulting fees. That was primarily the result of


exceptionally strong profits out of our Iraq operation in the second and third quarters, which were


not repeated in the fourth quarter.


Hill’s total backlog at the end of 2009 increased to $620 million, up 3.9% from 597 million at the end


of the third quarter. Twelve-month backlog at the end of 2009 increased to 282 million, up 2.2%


from 276 million at the end of the third quarter. All in all from our perspective, a very solid quarter


and as I said earlier, a very strong finish to the year.


Looking at the performance of our two operating segments separately, our Project Management


Group had total revenues for the fourth quarter of $86.4 million, an increase of 4.7% compared to


the fourth quarter of 2008. Consulting fees for the Projects group in the fourth quarter however


were down to $70.2 million, a decrease of 4.9% from the prior-year quarter. Operating profits of the


Projects group in the fourth quarter was $10.0 million, equivalent to 14.3% of consulting fees, a


drop of 8.6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.


In our Construction Claims Group, total revenue for the fourth quarter increased to $23.9 million, an


increase of 8.3% over the fourth quarter of 2008. Consulting fee revenue in the fourth quarter for


the Claims Group increased to $23.4 million, an increase of 9.7% over the year-earlier quarter and


operating profit for Claims Group was $2.9 million in the fourth quarter, equivalent to 12.6% of


consulting fee revenue, a jump of 120.6% from the fourth quarter of 2008.


As we’ve discussed on prior conference culls, the Claims Group saw a very challenging, a very


difficult first half to last year with significant delays in new assignments impacting both revenues


and its profits for the first two quarters.


We saw a significant turnaround beginning of June of last year with new work beginning to be


awarded and notices to proceed starting to come in on previously awarded work. The numbers in


the second half of the year bore this out.


In the second half of ‘09, consulting fees for Claims Group were 44.8 million, up a modest 5.9%


from the first half and driving a strong 40.5% increase in operating profit for the same period to 4.8


million or 10.8% of consulting fees. With the fourth quarter being the Claims Group’s best quarter of


the year profit wise, we are expecting this positive trend will continue into 2010.