corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Hill International’s Third Quarter 2008


Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, I would like to inform you that this conference is


being recorded and that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.


I will now turn the conference over to Devin Sullivan. Please go ahead, sir.


Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President, The Equity Group Inc.


Thank you, Regina, and thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s


call will be David Richter, Hill’s President and Chief Operating Officer, and John Fanelli, Senior Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call


may fall within the definition of forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. Any such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, overall economic


and market conditions, competitors’ and client’s actions and other conditions which could cause


actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, including those risks identified in Hill’s


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Accordingly, such statements should be considered in light of these risks. Any prediction by Hill is


only a statement of management’s belief at the time the prediction is made. There can be no


assurance that any prediction once made will continue thereafter to reflect management’s belief,


and Hill does not undertake to uptake publicly its predictions, whether as a result of new


information, future events or otherwise.


I’d now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill. Go


ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much Devin, and good morning to everyone on the call. Thank you for joining us to


discuss our record third quarter 2008 results. These results mirror the – essentially the preliminary


third quarter results that we issued late last week. Issuing preliminary results was an unusual step


for us and one we do not plan to repeat. But we felt it was important to keep our investors as up-to-


date as possible, given the unprecedented volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets,


including specifically with respect to our stock. Over the past two months, our stock went from an


all-time high of nearly $20 a share to today, a recent level of close to $5 a share.


We believe that this has been based mostly on the financial market conditions. As you will hear


shortly our revenues continue to grow and quickly. Our backlog is at an all-time high and continues


to grow. And we achieved for the quarter, record operating profit. While we will have some issues to


address as regards to the softening demand in certain areas of our business because of the overall


economic conditions, we see other areas of business benefiting during this time and we continue to


be very confident regarding our future, both in the short term and the long term.


Getting to our financial performance in the third quarter, Hill saw a total revenue increase nearly


36% to $98.1 million. Our consulting fees revenues for the third quarter rose nearly 70% at $87.3


million and that growth was comprised of 43% organic growth and 27% growth related to


acquisition. So we generated now five consecutive quarters of increasing organic growth rate, with


respect to our consulting fees, beginning with the third quarter of 2007, organic growth in our
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


consulting fees increased by respectively 24, 28, 36, 40 and now over 43% for the most recent


quarter.


Hill’s ability to consistently generate strong organic revenue growth is an important metric for our


business. We aren’t simply buying growth through acquisitions, we are earning it quarter after


quarter. During the third quarter of 2008, we announced contracts with an aggregate value


[inaudible] and this is just a public announcement of approximately $118 million, including work in


Abu Dhabi, Libya, Egypt, our first project in India, work in Virginia and Pennsylvania and the United


States and a new project across the Caribbean.


During just the first five weeks of the fourth quarter, we have publicly announced contracts with a


value of more than $115 million including additional work in Iraq, work in Libya and the Dominican


Republic and new work in Qatar. If you look at our two operating segments separately, our PM


Group saw an 85% increase in consulting fees for the third quarter, at $64.8 million, which was the


result of 47% organic growth, which occurred primarily in the Middle East and North Africa,


combined with 38% growth from the three acquisitions of project management firms that we did in


2008, Shreeves, Gerens and Euromost.


During the third quarter, our consulting fees in the Private Management Group was derived from


the following geographic areas in order; 47% from the Middle East and North Africa, 29% from


Europe, and 24% from North America. Our Construction Claims Group had consulting fee revenue


in the third quarter of 22.5 million, up 37% from the third quarter of 2007, 34% of this growth was


organic, primarily due to increased activity in Europe and the Middle East, with 3% attributable to


our acquisition of PCI Group during the third quarter.


During the quarter, consulting fees in the Claims Group came from the following areas: 53% from


Europe, 20% from North America, 19% from the Middle East and 9% from Asia-Pacific. Hill’s


overall gross profit during the quarter increased 56% to $38.3 million. Gross profit margin as a


percentage of consulting fees, decreased to 43.9% from 47.8% a year ago. This decline was


primarily attributable to the changing mix of our business, specifically a greater percentage of our


revenue is coming from the Project Management Group, which has a significantly lower gross profit


margin than the Construction Claims Group, as well as some slightly lower gross margins from the


businesses that we have acquired over the past year.


In addition we are achieving slightly lower gross margins on work that we are doing in the Middle


East with several of our higher margin projects, including Palm Island was completed in the first half


of this year.


Moving to SG&A, expenses grew slower than our consulting fees, during the quarter, increasing


60% to $32.6 million, in the third quarter. As a result our SG&A as a percent of consulting fees


declined to 37.4% from 39.5% a year ago. This was also a sequential drop from the second quarter


of ‘08, where we had SG&A expense of 38.9% of consulting fees.


Hill’s operating profit for the third quarter rose 41% to a record $7.2 million, which worked out to be


8.3% of our consulting fees, up from 5.1 million or 10% of consulting fees a year ago. The quarter


over quarter decline on a percentage basis is due primarily to our recent acquisitions which have


had during the third quarter lower operating profits than the rest of Hills Group


Operating profit margin at the Project Management Group for the third quarter declined to 16.7%,


from 20.4% in last year’s third quarter due as I said before to lower margins from our recent PM


acquisition. Our Construction Claims grew to higher margins in the third quarter, increasing to


11.2% from 10.8% a year ago.


The company’s provision for income tax in the third quarter was 26.0%, up from 21.8% a year ago,


due primarily to the shift of profit generated through higher tax jurisdiction.