corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Hill International 2009 Third Quarter


Conference Call. At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and


that all participants are currently in a listen-only mode. I will now turn the conference over to Gerard


Lobo with The Equity Group. Please go ahead, Mr. Lobo.


Gerrard Lobo, Senior Account Executive, The Equity Group


Thank you, Tina and thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Our speakers on today’s call


will be David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill International and John Fanelli,


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started I would like to remind everyone that statements made during today’s call


maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. And it is our intent that any such statements be protected by the Safe


Harbor created thereby, except for historical information discussed during this presentation. The


matters set forth herein including but not limited to any projections of earnings or other financial


items, any statements concerning our plans, strategies, and objectives for future operations and


any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance are forward-looking


statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and assumptions


and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although, Hill believes that the expectations,


estimates, and assumptions reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results


could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements.


Important factors that could cause actual results, performance and achievements or industry results


to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements include


modifications and termination of client contracts, control and operational issues pertaining to


business activities that Hill conducts and so on behalf or pursuant to joint ventures with other


parties, difficulties Hill may incur in implementing acquisition strategy, the need to retain and recruit


key technical and management personnel and unexpected adjustments and cancellations related to


backlog.


Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking


statements are set forth in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hill does


not intend and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


I would now like to turn the call over to David Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill


International. Please go ahead, David.


David L. Richter, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you very much, Gerrard and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our


third quarter 2009 earnings conference call. As usual I am joined this morning by John Fanelli, Hill’s


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


We are extremely pleased with our strong earnings per share performance for the third quarter of


2009 driven by improving performance within our Construction Claims Group, a very strong


performance from our PM operations in the U.S. and in Iraq. Our cost control efforts over the past


year and a decrease in our diluted share count as a result of our share repurchase program over


the past year.
corrected transcript


Hill International, Inc.
 
HIL
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the third quarter of 2009, Hill’s total revenue rose 5.2% to $103.2 million. Our consulting fee


revenue declined slightly by 0.7% to 86.7 million for the quarter. That percentage decrease was


comprised of a 1.5% decrease on organic growth offset by 0.8% growth from acquisitions. The


decrease in consulting fee revenue was unfavorably impacted by the strengthening of the U.S.


dollar versus other currencies, principally the British pound and the euro. Excluding the effects of


the foreign currency exchange rate, Hill’s consulting fee revenue during the third quarter would


have increased 2.4% versus the third quarter of 2008.


Looking at our consulting fees by operating segment, 75.3% of these fees were generated within


our Project Management Group, and 24.7 were derived from the Construction Claims Group. By


geographic region for the third quarter our fee breakdown is as follows. 20.5% from the Americans,


28.4% from Europe, 35.7% from the Middle East, 13.6% from North Africa and 1.8% from Asia-


Pacific.


We continue to focus on cost control and we have taken out nearly $10 million in overhead costs


over the past year and improving the performance of our individual operating units. As a result,


Hill’s SG&A expense for the third quarter, as a percentage of consulting fee revenue, was down to


36.4%, an improvement of 100 basis points from the third quarter of 2008, and 190 basis points


sequentially from the second quarter of this year.


This is at the bottom of our guided range of 36 to 38% for the year. As a result of these efforts, Hill’s


operating profit for the third quarter was $8.2 million, up 12.7% from a third quarter of 2008. As a


percentage of consulting fees the operating margin was 9.4%, up 110 basis points from the year


earlier, but more significantly up 230 basis points from the second quarter of this year, and up 470


basis points from the first quarter of 2009.


Hill’s net earnings were up 12% this quarter to 5.8 million, equivalent to $0.15 per diluted share,


based upon 39.5 million diluted shares outstanding. This is $0.03 better than our analyst consensus


estimate of $0.12 for the quarter. Our total backlog at the end of the third quarter was $597 million.


While this is down slightly from 611 million at the end of the second quarter, that is largely the result


of the cancellation of one large project in the Middle East, which had a negative impact on our


backlog of $34 million.


Without that cancellation, our backlog would have been up sequentially, as we added


approximately $107 million of new work during the third quarter, net of that one canceled project.


This is one of our best quarters historically for new sales, on top of an excellent sales quarter in the


second quarter.


Looking at our two operating segments individually. Our Project Management Group generated


total revenues of $81.1 million, up 9% from the third quarter of 2008. Consulting fees for the


Project’s Group rose 0.7% to 65.3 million in the third quarter of this year, and all of that growth was


organic, primarily from North Africa, which showed an 86% increase through several large new


contracts in that region, and from the Middle East, which saw an 8.7% improvement in consulting


fees versus the same period last year.


Sequentially, our Project Management Group saw an 8.9% decrease in consulting fee revenue


from the second quarter to the third quarter. This was the result of a significant drop in consulting


fees in our European region, which accounted for about two-thirds of the decrease. This was


somewhat the result of currency exchange rates, as I discussed before, but primarily the result of


the poor economic conditions in the countries where we do business in Europe. We don’t expect


that trend to continue, and we are forecasting flat revenues in that region for the fourth quarter of


this year.


Operating profit for the Project Management Group in the third quarter rose 12% to $12.1 million,


due primarily to a significant increase in equities and earnings of affiliates which is principally from