raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to the Ibis Technology Second Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the


President of Ibis Technology, Mr. Martin Reid. Please go ahead, sir.


Martin J. Reid, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome to Ibis Technology second quarter 2005 conference call. I am Martin Reid,


President and Chief Executive Officer. With me today is Bill Schmidt, our Chief Financial Officer.


During this call, Bill will review the company’s financial results for the second quarter of 2005 as


reported in the press release issued earlier today. Then, I will review some of the quarter’s


operational highlights and make a few comments about the SOI market and our business outlook.


Finally, we will open up the call for as many questions as time permits. Bill?


William J. Schmidt, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks and good afternoon everyone. Before we begin, I would like to note that statements made


during this call will include forward-looking statements, including statements concerning our future


financial and operating performance, our expectations regarding future orders for i2000 implanters,


attaining implanter improvements to the degree and in the timeframe necessary to meet customer


expectations, our ability to generate sufficient cash from operation or obtain additional financing to


continue as a going concern, the shipment, installation and final customer acceptance of our


implanters, the timing of our orders and the recognition of revenue on implanter sales, demand


SIMOX-SOI wafers and the company’s i2000 implanters, the capabilities of the i2000 implanter and


its ability to meet the needs of the semiconductor industry, the potential cost benefits of SIMOX and


Ibis’s SIMOX technology, industry interest in SOI and SIMOX and other trends in the


semiconductor industry.


These forward-looking statements are not promises or guarantees, but are subject risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described or implied in


the forward-looking statements. Such factors are described in the company’s Annual Report on


SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and in the press release issued


earlier today regarding the company’s second quarter 2005 results.


Statements made during this quarter are current as of today only and the company undertakes no


obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements unless required by law. A


copy of our earnings release can be found on the Ibis website at www.ibis.com or you may request


a copy by calling 978-777-4247.


Okay, on to results for the quarter. Wafer product sales this quarter as well as wafer revenue


reported in previous quarters are reported net of associated costs as a loss from discontinued


operations on our income statement reflecting the company’s decision to discontinue the wafer


business in July 2004 as previously announced. Current quarter and all previously reported


quarterly and year-to-date financial information described on the income statement has been


adjusted and reported accordingly.


Total revenues for the second quarter were 198,000 compared to total revenues of 167,000 in the


preceding quarter and 203,000 for the second quarter of last year. Revenues for the quarter were


primarily composed of license revenue, equipment service revenue and revenue from spare parts.
raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As you know, we do not recognize revenue from the sale of our implanters until we achieve final


customer acceptance that the equipment upon installation at the customer site.


Gross margin for the quarter was negative 23,000 compared to negative 0.1 million in the prior


quarter and 0.2 million in the prior year’s second quarter. The improved gross margin was primarily


reflects higher manufacturing overhead absorption associated with the installation of the SUMCO


equipment in the second quarter as well as higher margin on spare parts and higher license


revenue.


Additionally, the movements in the single location at 32 Cherry Hill Drive is complete and will


represent significant cost reduction on an infrastructure from the 2005 third quarter and forward.


Operating expenses for the quarter were approximately 2.6 million, compared to 2.6 million in the


previous quarter and 1.9 million in the second quarter of last year. Compared to the 2004 second


quarter, G&A is up slightly due to increased legal and accounting fees partially offset by a reduction


in insurance cost.


Selling and marketing remains flat, and R&D although reduced from the preceding quarter, was


higher during the same period in last year. The primary increase is attributable to ongoing R&D


expense previously recorded as a cost of sales in the wafer business when we were producing


wafers for sale.


As we had discussed last quarter, our intention is to continue working with our customers to further


develop and refine the SIMOX-SOI process, as well as improve the capabilities throughput of our


equipment. While we eliminated a significant portion of the cost associated with the wafer


operation, this remaining effort is now classified as research and development.


Loss from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2005 was 2.6 million, or a negative 24


cents per share with a nominal loss of 57,000 from discontinued operations recorded during the


quarter. This compares with the loss from continuing operations of 2.7 million or a loss of 25 cents


per share before a nominal gain from discontinued operations of 42,000 in the preceding quarter.


And a loss from continuing operation [indiscernible] 2.1 million or a negative 20 cents per share


before a loss from discontinued operations of 1.3 million or 12 cents per share in the second


quarter of the preceding year. Net loss for the second quarter of 2005 was 2.6 million, or a loss of


25 cents per share. Net loss from the preceding quarter was 2.7 million or a loss of 25 cents per


share and net loss from the second quarter of 2004 was 3.4 million or 32 cents per share.


For the first six months of 2005, total revenues were 365,000. This compares to 411,000 for the


first six months of last year. Loss from continuing operations for the first six months of 2005 was


5.3 million, or a loss of 50 cents per share compared to a loss from continuing operations on the


first six months in the prior year of 4.1 million or a loss of 39 cents per share. Net loss for the first


six months of 2005 was 5.3 million or a loss of 50 cents per share. This compares to a net loss of


6.8 million or a loss 54 cents per share, including a loss from discontinued operations of 2.7 million


or 25 cents per share for the same period last year.


We ended the quarter with about 8 million in cash. In June, we announced the shipment of the


SUMCO tool as a result of attaining factory acceptance from the customer. With the remittence of


the final acceptance payment of 1.2 million upon attainment of the specified performance criteria


currently expected by year-end. We believe we will have sufficient cash on hand to support current


operations at current levels through at least the first quarter of 2006. We expect that any down-


payment and subsequent progress payments associated with any new order this year typical to the


semiconductor equipment industry could extend that time well into 2006.


We caution that our expectations are based on current operating plans and general sales outlook,


each of which may change rapidly. Further the timing of final acceptance of the SUMCO tool, the