raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Ibis Technology First


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to


turn the call over to the President of Ibis Technology, Mr. Martin Reid. Please go ahead sir.


Martin Reid, Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome to the Ibis Technology First Quarter 2005 Conference Call. I am Martin Reid,


President and Chief Executive Officer. With me today is Bill Schmidt, our Chief Financial Officer.


During this call, Bill will review the company’s financial results for the first quarter of 2005 as


reported in the press release, issued earlier today. Then, I will review some of the quarter’s


operational highlights and make a few comments [indiscernible] by the market in our business


outlook. Finally, we will open up the call for as many questions as time permits. Bill.


William Schmidt, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Clerk Trading Activity


Thanks and good afternoon everyone. Before we begin, I would like to note that statements made


during this call will include forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future


financial and operating performance, our expectations regarding future orders for i2000 implanters,


attaining implanter improvements to the degree and in the timeframe necessary to meet customer


expectations, our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations or transitional financing to


continue as a going concern.


The shipment, installation and final customer acceptance of our implanters, the timing of orders and


the recognition of revenue on implanter sales, demand for SIMOX SOI wafers and the company’s


i2000 implanters, the capability of the i2000 implanter and it's ability to meet the needs of the


semiconductor industry, the potential cost benefits of SIMOX and Ibis’s SIMOX technology, industry


interest in SOI and SIMOX and other trends in the semiconductor industry.


These forward-looking statements are not promises or guarantees, but are subject to risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described or applied in


the forward-looking statements. Such factors are described in the company’s annual report on


SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and in the press release issued


earlier today regarding the company’s first quarter 2005 results.


Statements made during this call are current as of today only and the company undertakes no


obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements unless required by law. A


copy of our earnings release can be found on the Ibis website at www.ibis.com or you may request


a copy by calling 978-777-4247.


Okay, onto the results for the quarter. Wafer product sales this quarter as well as wafer revenue


reported in previous quarters are reported net of associating costs that the loss from discontinued


operations [Audio Gap] is on our income statement, reflecting the company’s decision to


discontinue the wafer business in July 2004 as previously announced. Current quarter and while


previously reported quarterly and year-to-date financial information described on the income


statement has been adjusted and reported accordingly.


Total revenues for the quarter were 0.2 million compared to the total revenues of 0.3 million in the


preceding quarter and 0.2 million for the first quarter of last year. Revenues for the quarter were


primarily composed of license revenue, equipment service revenue and revenue from spare parts.
raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As you know, we do not recognize revenue from the sale of our implanters until we achieve final


customer acceptance of the equipment upon installation at the customer’s site.


Gross margin for the quarter was a negative 0.1 million compared to negative 0.1 million of both


prior quarter [Audio Gap] and the prior year first quarter. The negative gross margin primarily


reflects negative manufacturing variance and unabsorbed overhead associated with low volume in


the preparation and movement to a single location. This is expected to be completed by June and


will represent significant cost reduction on infrastructure from the 2005 third quarter forward.


Operating expenses for the quarter were approximately 2.6 million compared to 2.6 million in the


previous quarter and 2 million in the first quarter of last year. Compared to the 2004 first quarter,


G&A is down slightly due to decreased legal and insurance costs and was offset by slightly higher


selling and marketing costs reflecting an increase in consulting costs from our Japanese service


group. The primary increase is attributable to ongoing R&D expense, previously recorded as cost


of sales in the wafer business, while we are producing products for sale.


As we had discussed last quarter, our intention is to continue working with our customers to further


develop and refine the SIMOX SOI process, as well as improve the capabilities and throughput of


our equipment. While we eliminated a significant portion of the cost associated with the wafer


operation. This remaining effort is now classified as research and development. What’s from


continuing operations for the quarter, first quarter of 2005 was 2.7 million or a negative 25 cents per


share with nominal gain realized from discontinued operations recording during the quarter.


This compares with the loss from continuing operations of 2.7 billion or a loss of 24 cents per share


before a gain from discontinued operations of 0.2 million or 2 cents per share in the preceding


quarter. And it was from continuing operations of 2.1 million or a negative 20 cents per share


before it was from discontinued operations of 1.4 million or 13 cents per share in the fourth quarter


of the preceding year.


Net loss for the first quarter of 2005 was 2.7 million or a loss of 25 cents per share, net loss for the


preceding quarter was 2.4 million or 24 cents per share. And a net loss from the first quarter of


2004 was 3.5 million or 33 cents per share.


We ended the quarter with about 5.6 million in cash, as [indiscernible] we invoice SUMCO for 4.8


million or 80% of the present order value, which is payable in 30 days as a result of obtaining


factory acceptance from the customer. With the remains of the final acceptance payment of 1.2


million upon a payment of specified performance criteria currently planned for the end of this year.


We believe, we have sufficient cash on hand to support operations at current levels through the first


quarter of 2006.


We question that our expectations are based on our current operating plan and general sales


outlook, each of which may change rapidly. We intend to continue to invest in our research,


development and manufacturing capabilities. In addition, changes in technology or sales growth


beyond currently established capabilities, they require further investments.


Finally, as we have seen again this quarter, it is important to mention that a significant revenue


event, meaning implanter sales are going to be ecstatic with the sales recognition of revenue


planned for just one tool this year. And at least two of the upcoming quarters license will record no


we are nominal amounts of revenue although with the discontinuance of the wafer business and the


consolidation of our operations, we believe, we will have a record less of an operating loss, and


substantially less cash outlay than we previously incurred with the wafer manufacturing operation.


That completes the financial overview and I would like to turn the call over to Martin.