raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Ibis Technology Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the


President of Ibis Technology Mr. Martin Reid. Please go ahead sir.


Martin Reid, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome to Ibis Technology’s fourth quarter and fiscal year 2004 conference call. I


am Martin Reid, President and Chief Executive Officer. With me today is Gerry Cameron, our Chief


Operating Officer; and Bill Schmidt, our Chief Financial Officer.


During this call Bill will review the company’s financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year


as reported in a press release issued earlier today. Then Gerry and I will review some of the year’s


operational highlights and make a few comments about the SOI markets and our business outlook.


Finally, we will open up the call to as many questions as time permits. Bill?


William Schmidt, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer


Thanks and good afternoon everyone. Before we begin, I would like to note that statements made


during this call will include forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future


financial and operating performance, our expectations regarding future orders for i2000 Implanter,


our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain additional financing to continue as a


going concern, the shipment, installation and final customer acceptance of implanters, the timing of


orders and the recognition of revenue on Implanter sales, demand for SIMOX-SOI wafers in the


company’s i2000 Implanters, the capabilities of the i2000 Implanter and its ability to meet the needs


of the semiconductor industry, the potential cost of benefits of SIMOX and Ibis’s SIMOX


Technology, the ability of IT manufacturers to achieve acceptable final production yield, expansion


of Ibis’s Japanese support and service organization, the companies marketing and sales strategy,


industry interest in SOI and SIMOX and other trends in the semiconductor industry. These forward-


looking statements are not promises or guarantees but are subject to risks and uncertainties that


could cause actual results to differ materially from those described or implied in the forward-looking


statements. Such factors are described in the company’s annual report on SEC Form 10-K for the


fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and in the press release issued earlier today regarding the


company’s fourth quarter 2004 results. Statements made during this call are current as of today


only and the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking


statements unless required by law. A copy of our earnings release can be found on the IBIS


website at www.ibis.com or you may request a copy by calling 978-777-4247. Now on with results


for the quarter.


Wafer product sales this quarter as well as wafer revenue reported in previous quarters are


reported net of associated costs, as well as from discontinued operations on our income statement


reflecting the company’s decision to discontinue the wafer business in late July as previously


announced. Current quarter and all previously reported quarterly and year-to-date financial


information described on the income statement has been adjusted and reported accordingly.


Total revenues for the fourth quarter were 0.3 million, which is primarily composed of equipment


service revenue and revenue from spare parts. This compares to total revenues of 7.2 million in


the preceding quarter, which related to the sale and customer acceptance of an Implanter in that


quarter and compares to revenues of 0.2 million for the fourth quarter of last year. On the same


basis, the overall gross margin in Q4 was a negative 31% reflecting variances associated with
raw transcript


Ibis Technology Corp.
 
IBIS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


unabsorbed manufacturing overhead compared to a positive 49% in Q3 and negative 44% in the


prior year quarter. The lower margin in Q4 relative to Q3 is primarily attributable to the implanter


equipment recognized last quarter with gross margins in the 51% range.


Operating expenses for the quarter were approximately 2.6 million compared to 2.1 million in the


fourth quarter of last year. G&A is down at approximately 0.2 million due to a decrease in legal and


insurance costs. Field service costs increased by approximately 0.1 million and were primarily


associated with establishment of the service group. The primary increases attributable to ongoing


R&D expense previously recorded as a cost of sales in the wafer business while we are producing


products for sale. As we have discussed in previous quarters, our intention is to continue working


with our customers to further develop and refine the SIMOX-SOI process as well as improve the


capabilities and throughput of our equipment. While we eliminated a significant portion of the costs


associated with the wafer operation, this costs associated with the wafer operation, this remaining


effort must now be classified as research and development.


Loss from continuing operations for the 2004 fourth quarter was a negative $2.6 million, or a


negative 24 cents per share before a gain from discontinued operations of $0.2 million, or 2 cents


per share compared to income from continuing operations for the third quarter of $1.1 million, or


positive 10 cents per share before less of discontinued operations of $2.8 million, or 26 cents per


share. This compares with a loss from continuing operations of $2.2 million, or a loss of 21 cents


per share before a loss from discontinued operations of $13 million, or a loss of $1.25 per share in


the fourth quarter of the preceding year. Loss from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of


the preceding year included an impairment charge of 11.1 million related to the 200 millimeter and


smaller production assets.


Net loss for the 2004 fourth quarter was $2.4 million, or a loss of 22 cents per share. Net loss from


the preceding quarter was $1.7 million, or 16 cents per share and net loss from the fourth quarter


2003 was $15.2 million, or $1.46 per share, including the aforementioned impairment charge. For


fiscal year of 2004, total revenues were 7.9 million. This compares with 9.4 million for the fiscal


year of 2003. Loss from continuing operations for the fiscal year of 2004 was $5.6 million, or a loss


of 53 cents per share compared to a loss from continuing operations for fiscal year of 2003 is $3.8


million, or a loss of 40 cents per share. Net loss for fiscal 2004 was $10.9 million, or a loss of a


$1.02 per share, including the loss from discontinued operations of $5.3 million, or 49 cents per


share. This compares to a net loss of $21.5 million, or a loss of $2.21 per share for fiscal year


2003, including loss from discontinued operations of $17.6 million, or $1.81 per share.


We ended the quarter with about 7.7 million in cash. We believe we will have sufficient cash on-


hand, including the SUMCO order we recently announced to support operations at current level


through the first quarter of 2006. We currently plan to ship that unit during the second quarter with


installation and customer acceptance taking place during the second half of 2005. We will receive


the majority of the cash associated with this order upon shipment, the remaining 20% on customer


acceptance. We caution that our expectations are based on current operating plans and general


sales outlook each of which may change rapidly. We intend to continue to invest in our research,


development and manufacturing capability. Changes in technology or sales growth beyond current


estimated capabilities may require further investment.


Finally, it’s important to mention again that significant revenue events during 2005 are going to be


sporadic with the sale and recognition on relatively few tools each of significant value. In one or


more of the upcoming quarters, Ibis will report no or nominal amounts of revenue. And, in those


quarters, we will likely record an operating and a net loss.


Martin will provide detail on the outlook for SOI during 2005 and 2006 as we continue up the


semiconductor technology curve.


That completes the financial overview, and I would like to turn the call over to Martin.