Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mohammed Akoojee — Acting Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Marius Swanepoel — Chief Executive Officer Imperial Logistics, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Nick Webster — Equity Research Analyst, HSBC Securities (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd.
Roy D. Campbell — Analyst, RMB Morgan Stanley (Pty) Ltd.
Kgosi Rahube — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets (Pty) Ltd.
Rowan Goeller — Analyst, Macquarie Equities South Africa (Pty) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Investment Analysts Society, we would once again like to thank the Imperial Chairman, the board, the executive for hosting us once again in the presentation of Imperial's results for the year ended 30th June, 2018.

Imperial is a company that's started very humble beginnings in the late 1940s. It was listed in 1987, today commands a market capitalization in excess of ZAR 40 billion. It has two major pillars as we all know that stands on, Motus, the motor vehicle franchise and distributors and then Logistics. It's a company that is represented in 33 countries of this world, mainly Africa and Europe. And am I correct in saying the employees over 48,000 people. So, it's a company that stands tall in our society as an enterprise, I think, that we're all very proud of and of its achievements. So, thank you once again, Mohammed and the board and the executives for inviting us today and as we review the results. Thank you.

Good morning, everybody, and thank you for attending our results. A special welcome to our Chairman and members of our board this morning. If you look at the agenda for today, the focus is on the results, but I will cover some of the matters relating to the announcement we made on the 21st of June with regards to the separation and give the market an update on where we are there.

Before we get into the detail of the results, I think it's important to see these results in the context of what's going on in the group over the last four years, and I think some of the performance measures many face, some of the successes we've had in terms of the rationalization and restructuring we went through. If you look at the overall results, it was the solid results, and we've had an improvement in all our key financial metrics. The results were underpinned by a very good performance in our motor division and I'll get into the detail of what underpinned that. And we had good market share gains in our South African vehicle business.

The logistics business performed satisfactorily in mixed trading conditions. Our cash flow generation was a key feature of these results and our free cash flow was up 17%. And as I said, I'll give an update on the proposed unbundling of Motus, but we've made significant progress in that regard. If you look at the group highlights, our revenue was up 11%, operating profit up 6%. And if you exclude the businesses that we sold, we're actually up 13% and 7% in terms of those metrics. Our headline earnings per share was up 27%, that excludes Regent which was in the base last year and wasn't in this year. Our EPS was up 38%, largely driven by the profit on sale of properties and a reduction in the forex losses year-on-year.

And our gearing ratio is at debt to equity ratio of 50%, significant improvement from 74% last year and 84% in the first half. So, as we said, we've got a lot of work to do when we reported the last time to the market in terms of getting our balance sheets in the right shape for the unbundling, and I'm glad to report we've achieved that and exceeded our expectations in that regard.

We've declared a final dividend of ZAR 3.87 up 17% on the second half dividend which is in line with our guidance of 45% of HEPS. Our return on invested capital was nicely up from 11.3% close to 13% and above our target of WACC plus 3%, and our return on equity improved nicely. And there's a nice graph later on that shows that the trend on our ROIC and ROE [indiscernible] (00:04:31).

This is an important strategic initiative in terms of growing our operations outside South Africa, and that's driven by our strong market share position in South Africa. And you can see that trend continues to show a positive line over the last four years that has grown by 14% and 13% on operating profit, and we made good progress in that regard.

In terms of the environment that we had to operate under, it was challenging market conditions to say the least. I think in South Africa, we saw a sharp contraction in the economy in the second half and that all impacted both the logistics business here in South Africa and the motor business negatively. We did see consumer affordability remaining under pressure, and that resulted in depressed volumes and competitive pressures in logistics.

And although the NAAMSA numbers increased by 2%, we did see a shift in the market in terms of people trading down from luxury vehicles into smaller entry level type vehicles. And that played in our hands as you'll see later on where we've had market share gains in our Hyundai, Kia, and Renault brands which is our vehicle import subdivision.

In the rest of Africa, market conditions were patchy. There were some improvements in terms of economic growth in a lot of the markets that we operate in, but in terms of our performance, we did have a political instability in Kenya that impacted our business there. Namibia had very difficult conditions. And in our Imres business, we did see increased competition and subdued demand from aid and relief markets. And then we've also had the rand-dollar exchange rate which impacted our revenue results, and that the rand strengthened on average by 5% during the year.

Economic conditions in Europe were a bit better, although we did see some specific factors affecting us, the major one being the low water levels that we reported on in the first half. Unfortunately, that has continued with the hot weather conditions in Europe. So, that is something that's affecting us now in this first half of 2019.

We have seen economic conditions in the UK toughening up as is evidenced in our performance of Palletways and in our vehicle businesses there. The Australian vehicle market still showing growth, although margins on the new vehicle side remain under pressure, something that hasn't impacted these results but is an emerging issue that is, that will certainly affect both the logistics and the motor business is the new EU emission regulation and the process for approval which will lead to lower production of vehicles in Europe in H1 and negatively impact sales of vehicles that are manufactured in Europe.

So, in that context, we – you look at the results of the two divisions, revenue up in logistics 3%, operating profit up 3%. There was a lot of activity in the logistics business, in terms of businesses held for sale, you would have seen disposals we've made. So if you look at the like-for-like performance, if you exclude that, our operating profit was actually up 5% and the revenue was up 8%. Motors didn't have that and came in with a very good performance of 9% operating profit growth in a very, very tough environment specifically in South Africa.

If we get into the detail of the performance of the Imperial Logistics division, some of the positives. Our business in West Africa, Eco Health, performed well. That's our pharmaceutical distribution business where we get to about 50,000 points of sale. And even though the economic conditions in that market were tough with our strong marketing position there and being pharmaceuticals, we had a good performance coming out from our Eco Health business and as well as our FMCG or CPG distribution business in Mozambique.

The acquisition of Surgipharm added to this performance, and as I said even though with the political instability, didn't perform as well as we'd have liked but still a very good performance. The international shipping and automotive segments in Logistics International had a very good year. And generally, our international logistics business as well had a good year. In rands, it was up operating profit 12%, if you exclude the businesses held for sale. But there were also some headwinds. In South Africa, we had lower volumes largely led by a weaker economy and that led to also contract renewals being at lower margins where the market becoming quite competitive.

Imres' performance in the Africa regions business wasn't as good as we'd have liked. But that business is still performing in terms of its return metrics, as well as its cash flow generation, but year-on-year, the performance was disappointing. We did have a loss of a large public healthcare contract in African Regions. But that contract that we've had has given us an incredible footprint and we've been able to grow into the commercial side of our logistics business in the healthcare side. And with our growth on the distributorship side where we act as a route to market partner with principles, the impact of that did affect the performance, but it wasn't an awful down situation despite losing that contract.

As I said, if you exclude the businesses held for sale, the results were better than the 3% revenue growth and 3% operating profit growth. The net debt to equity of this division is now at 50% and that was at 122% last year. And that improved significantly due to the sale of non-core underperforming businesses. And we've also recapitalized the Africa regions business that where a lot of acquisition activity took place and we funded that through debt.

So we had to get that balance sheet right, ahead of the unbundling. And at a 50% net debt to equity and with that business now far more asset right in terms of its CapEx requirements, we're quite comfortable that that's a very good starting point in terms of it being on its own and has got significant headroom to deliver on its strategic initiatives and growth going forward.

The major acquisition done in this division was Surgipharm. Strategically that acquisition fits in perfectly with what we've done in Africa. It's a pharmaceutical distributor in Kenya and it's exactly what we do in Nigeria but now in another market, and there's massive opportunities in terms of taking principles from Kenya into Nigeria and vice versa. And it's a business that is in the top three in terms of its market positioning in that market, and it's a good entry point for us to access the East African market through Kenya. So we're very pleased with that acquisition.

Disposals, the big one was Schirm where we announced it at our interims and the money came in in January, ZAR 2 billion. We sold some properties and there were smaller disposals that took place during the year as well.

So if we get more specific in terms of the performances within the subdivisions, as I said, South Africa largely [ph] laid back (00:12:40) the tougher economy, even though our revenue was down 1%, we managed to show some operating profit growth and that certainly didn't come from help from the economy but rather things that we did in the business in terms of getting our margins better from 5.6% to 5.8%. A third of this division's profits come from South Africa. And even though it was a difficult year, you can see our return on invested capital was at a total rate of close to 14% which is the 3% above WACC.

African Regions, as I said, wasn't as good as we would have liked. As you know, we target a growth on our operating profit of low double digit. We didn't achieve that this year. And the main reason was the underperformance in Imres as I mentioned but still very good margins and very good returns on capital of 17.5%. And you see that the effect of the capitalization or recapitalization, the debt-to-equity now in this division or subdivision is 23%.

International was up 4% and 3% respectively on revenue and operating profit, but if you take out the Schirm business, actually it goes up 12% on operating profit in rand, so a very credible and great performance from our logistics business in Europe largely. And as I said, the international shipping business in South America performed well. Again improving returns, we got the returns on invested capital also at above our hurdle rate of WACC plus 2% in that market. And again a very good balance sheet in terms of debt-to-equity at 56%.

So if you look at this business, two-thirds of its operating profit comes out of South Africa and about 68% of its revenue is also generated out of South Africa. And we see good opportunities of growing this business because of its diversification and its regional presence in attractive markets like Africa and the specialist capabilities it has in Europe and in specific industry with good growth opportunities that we can take advantage of, and we'll talk a bit about that later on.

If we move on then to our motor division, I believe the motor division had a very good year this year and it was across the board in terms of all four divisions [ph] serving (00:15:13) good revenue and operating profit performance. The results were underpinned by very good performance in our SA retail business, you'd have seen that business year-on-year, just on the SA side was up 18%, and our margins got to 3.2% and that was largely on the back of our gain in market share in our importer brands in South Africa, as I said, we benefited to some extent on the market trading down.

We've had the right product at the right price and we've made it count in the six months certainly. We've also seen some of the benefits of the consolidation of these two businesses coming together where we got out of nine dealerships and starting to leverage or cross-pollinate in terms of best practice between the vehicle retail business and the importer business that was run separately before. Certainly, those benefits starting to come through and that's evidenced in the margins that you would have seen in South Africa improving.

The acquisitions of Pentagon and SWT did contribute positively. And I'm pleased to report that Pentagon actually didn't have a very bad six months despite the market in the UK being under pressure. It actually recovered quite nicely in the second half and is performing now satisfactorily. And SWT is performing to expectation.

Motus has always had a good balance sheet and had been a strong cash flow generator for the group. So its debt to equity ratio at June was also at 50%. And it did increase marginally, but at between 46% and 50%, there's not much of a difference. This year, it did benefit from the proceeds we see from the disposal of the non-strategic properties, but a lot of that capital was used to recapitalize the logistics business.

Two very important points in terms of the current environment that this business is operating in. We've obviously seen the currency weaken dramatically since these results have been put together. But I think importantly, one is to look at the vehicle value chain that this business commands in terms of its positioning in the market. And that's evidenced in these numbers, and I'll talk about that later when we talk about the investment proposition of Motus. But between 70% and 80% of this business is operating profit is not vulnerable to new vehicle sales, and that's quite important.

And on the next slide, you will see the benefits of having an integrated value chain and how it gives you resilience in difficult markets and that is quite important. We've got very good cover levels. At the end of July, our cover extends to February at ZAR 12.89 to the dollar and ZAR 15.60. So despite the currency weakness, we do have very good cover levels and time to react to the current rand weakness if it sustains for a long period of time. And then remember you do [ph] sit with (00:18:25) stock. So if you take our forward cover plus, the stock we would have in our network virtually three quarters of our 2019 financial year is secured at good exchange rates.

From an acquisition's point of view, this division also acquired Pentagon which fits in with our commercial vehicle business as we reported in at the interim stage and that business performed satisfactorily. SWT complements our network in Australia where we were mainly in Sydney, but now we've got a foothold in Melbourne through this acquisition and it's performing to expectation.

We also acquired 60% of a business called Arco which is a distributor of motor vehicle engine parts and thus fits in with our strategy where we'd like to shorten the supply chain in terms of the product for our route-to-market business in Africa. So that is quite a nice add-on to aftermarket parts business. And we disposed of properties totaling ZAR 1.3 billion and the biggest one there being the one in Australia that we disposed of.

Again, yeah, if we go into the subdivisions and we look at the performance in a bit more detail, vehicle import very strong performance and that was led by our market share gains, our importer brands, we gain market share by 1%. Very good margin in the second half, recovering nicely from the 3% margin in H1 to close to the margins we had in the second half of last year.

The vehicle retail and rental business, as I said, was a star performer in the numbers and very strong performance out of South Africa and decent performances from the UK and Australia. And even though the returns on capital of that business has gone down, it is largely due to the new acquisitions we've made there and not having the full-year benefit of them coming through the numbers. So there is a bit of a drag on the returns. But important point to make and I should have said it at the start, is that when looking at the returns on capital of this division, we have given you guys the numbers to analyze the businesses by subdivision. But this is a vertically integrated model and you should look at the returns on capital in total. And it doesn't tell the full story when you look at it individually.

The aftermarket parts business had a good performance. Operating profit up 10%, margin went up and our return on invested capital in that division is up to 18.3% is a very good performance. And the acquisition of Arco assisted us in terms of performance in that division.

Motor-related financial services and this is a very important part of our value chain in terms of us selling motor-related financial products. And with the VAPS business that we kept post the disposal of Regent, we're certainly seeing a lot more traction of selling of products outside of our dealer network. To put that into context, if you look at the way the profits of this business comes through the numbers, there's normally a two-to-three month lag in terms of it contributing based on the products it sells on the back of a sale of a car. And when you go back in time, this business should actually be bottoming out, but it's actually showing growth. And it's through the initiatives that we've employed in this business in selling more and more out of the automotive dealer network in Imperial and accessing new channels and innovation.

There was also ZAR 46 million once-off in the base in operating profit. So if you adjust for that, this business actually showed operating profit growth of 13% and excellent returns on capital of 69%. But without the importer business, we wouldn't be able to generate the kind of profits we make out of this division. So that's why I say it's quite important to think about these returns across the division rather than individually. But we've given you the detail on the numbers. A bit different to the logistics business in terms of geographic spread, much more South African in terms of its contribution of operating profit, 86% comes from South Africa and from a revenue point of view, more 31%.

And that's because the margins in our foreign businesses are not as high as South Africa. But this business as we said previously, will look at selected opportunities to grow in the markets out of South Africa, but it will largely remain a South African business leveraging off its positioning in this market and providing a route to market to OEMs and leveraging off the capabilities we have across the value chain.

So in summary, if you just look at the three key metrics of margin, return on capital and weighted average cost of capital, margins and logistics despite the difficult environment, we managed to hold our margins. Motus went down slightly and that is largely a vehicle mix issue as I said. Remember we do sell also a lot of luxury vehicles in our motor retail business, and we've seen a shift in the market, and the margins on the smaller entry level vehicles are not as high, so that did impact us. And then Pentagon and SWT are low margin businesses that came through.

So from a group point of view, our margins were slightly down but very respectable at 5%. And the good thing is that our returns on invested capital across both divisions improved in logistics case to 12.2%, Motus to 13% and the group close to 13% as well. Our weighted average cost of capital went up. And that's a function of the de-gearing and logistics, specifically, there we capitalized that business and it's weighted average cost of capital went up.

Maybe getting more into the detail of the income statement and balance sheet. And when we add the numbers together, what do they look like? So if we look at revenue, as I said, up 11%, ZAR 129 billion. 60% comes from the motor business, 40% from logistics this year. Not much change from last year, about the same. And operating profit ZAR 6.4 billion, 44% comes from logistics, 56% from Motus, again not materially different from the prior year. And as a group, our operating profit was up 6%.

Below the line, there were moving parts, so I think it's important we discuss some of these. Amortization of intangibles decreased largely due to the sale of Schirm and also the acquisitions we've made. There's a run-off in terms of the intangibles when you have to recognize some of those on your balance sheet and those are running off. So, we're seeing the benefit coming through in our earnings per share. And headline earnings per share, we had a big increase in our profit on disposal of properties largely due to the sale of Australian property.

And then on the impairments line, we had a once-off impairment on the sale of Jurgens that impacted that number going up from ZAR 157 million to ZAR 273 million and that is included in headline earnings per share performance. If we exclude that which is a once-off, our headline earnings per share was up 33%. Our foreign exchange losses decreased from ZAR 619 million, down to ZAR 93 million, and that base was largely due to the effect of the unwinding of uneconomical and excess of cover we had in the prior year, which we did say was a once-off and wouldn't repeat itself. And we had some exchange losses in Africa but materially down in the prior year largely due to the strong rand.

In Motus, the losses are largely driven by a very small portion of our hedging being in derivative instruments. It's about 8% to 10% of our total hedging portfolio we have to mark-to-market, but it's a small number every year. But the big number in the base was the unwinding of the uneconomical hedges which was in the prior year. So, before finance cost, our profits were up 29%.

Our net finance cost dropped from ZAR 1.7 billion down to ZAR 1.4 billion due to our average debt levels and improved cash flow. And if you look at our net profit for the year, it was up 49% after taking into account interest. And then from a – attributable to minorities, debt went up because last year included a very negative performance from Renault and TATA which improved this year. And then we've also had acquisitions of Surgipharm, Itumele and SWT. So that's why that line has gone from a ZAR 36 million debit to a ZAR 135 million credit. So all in all, up 26% after interest minorities and associates.

If we move to the balance sheet, doesn't look like a lot has changed on the balance sheet in terms of percentages, but they were offset. The big impact on the balance sheet was the disposals of Schirm and the properties and then the currency effect in terms of its impact on our PPE as well as on our goodwill. Our vehicles for hire was flat on last year, and that was a conscious decision to not put more CapEx into our vehicles for hire through the importers and that was obviously something that we did tell the market will also slow down once we got to a point in terms of getting the vehicles for hire in the import business to a point.

So overall, the total assets haven't moved much but as I said, with the disposals, with the acquisitions and the currency, we ended off the year with a total asset base of ZAR 140.3 billion from ZAR 41.6 billion. Our shareholders' equity was up from ZAR 20 billion to ZAR 23.1 billion and that was largely due to the currency effect. So the effect of the currency, weakened currency, resulted in our foreign currency translation reserve increasing by ZAR 538 million. We also had an increase in our hedging reserve and that's the mark-to-market of the FECs that sit in our importers and that gave us ZAR 184 million in equity. There was also ZAR 223 million injected from our partners in the Renault business and we paid dividends of ZAR 1.5 billion.

You see our net interest bearing borrowings dropped 23%. And the reasons listed the good cash flow generation ZAR 6.8 billion versus ZAR 5.9 billion. We disposed of businesses that gave us cash of ZAR 2.1 billion. We sold properties that gave us ZAR 1.7 billion. But we also invested in new acquisitions of ZAR 1.2 billion.

If you look at the CapEx excluding the properties – because I think you've got to look at the property disposals as a once-off, we can't continue doing that. But what is comforting is that without the properties, our CapEx as a group was ZAR 2.5 billion and that's in line with our depreciation, and we believe that's sustainable on the basis that our logistics business is not as capital – as hungry as it used to be. The new businesses we've added, yes, we paid goodwill for them, but they don't need new CapEx to grow. And that there is a number that we're quite proud of in terms of the future of the companies in terms of the cash flow generation.

If you get more into the detail of the cash flow, you can see our cash from operating before any CapEx was up 16%. Our CapEx as I see it in the rental assets was down 37% and that led to a cash inflow of 37%. We did benefit from a good working capital management in the motor division, but also there was a reduction in inventory and improves supply credit terms and Motus which we don't think is sustainable, and we expect our working capital to normalize in H1 2019.

And interest reduced due to lower debt levels. If you look at the rest of the cash flow, and the key line to focus here is the free cash flow from total operations and that's free cash after maintenance CapEx that was up, to ZAR 5 billion from ZAR 4.3 billion and a very good cash flow to headline earnings ratio of 1.6 times. And I think I've covered what contributed to our decrease in net borrowings on the previous slide. So this is more just detail on the makeup.

Our net debt-to-equity, you can see as has come down to 50%. This includes the preference shares as debt. We did announce that we are going to buy back the preference shares a week or so ago. And we've treated them as debt because they will be replaced by debt. Previously, we included them in equity. Our gearing now is below our target of 60% to 80% and we had our lowest debt levels in five years. So I think from a balance sheet point of view, the group is in excellent shape, and the hard work in terms of the strategic initiatives we undertook as a management team certainly has starting coming through in terms of the balance sheet. Net debt-to-EBITDA 1.3 times logistics but more than Motus but very, very good debt metrics in terms of the numbers.

If we look at the group's liquidity, we've got about ZAR 14 billion of unutilized funding facilities. We've got about half of our debt that's fixed and our cost of debt is a group after taxes about 5%, it's 4.8%. And we've got 80% of our debt in the long term. And based on our last ratings by Moody's, we were unchanged at Baa3 and Aa1.

So every time we put up this slide, [indiscernible] (00:33:31) not a nice slide to put up because it showed a declining trend and fortunately that trend is starting to turn and we hope that's a sustainable trend [indiscernible] (00:33:41) going forward. And I think we have over the last four years improved the quality of this business with the businesses we got out of and the businesses we added. And we've got now a very nice platform to continue with this momentum in terms of improving returns on capital and returns on equity.

And we did know that this was going to be something that would decline. When you go through a massive portfolio rationalization as we have, you can't expect your returns on capital to go up because you are making strategic decisions to get rid of businesses like a region for example, which had very high returns but for the right strategic reasons we exited it. So this was something that we would have expected in a group that has gone through the shift but that is now largely done. And 2018 sets the pace hopefully for an improving trend going forward.

I think then that deals with the results and the numbers on the income statement, the cash flow, the balance sheet. And I'd like to spend some time just discussing our separation that we announced on the 21st of June because this is something that is keeping us pretty busy at the moment in terms of the proposed unbundling. And before I get into where we are and what the progress is, I think it's important we take one step back and look at how we got to this point and the rationale for why we are – we have announced the intention to unbundle.

So Imperial started out as a single motor dealership and over the years evolved into one of the country's largest diversified conglomerates or companies. And that came through a focus on growth, growth, growth but with strong entrepreneurial culture and appropriate and sound governance and financial control. That was an important part of the company's evolution because the growth initiatives gave us the scale we have today in the markets we have.

So if you look at our South African business and look at the scale we have in the motor industry and in the logistics industry, that was a function of a favorable business model that was focused on growth. The disadvantage of it was that over time, we got into businesses that didn't fit in with each other. And you will remember we went through an initial restructuring in 2008 where there was the unbundling of Eqstra. And we got into industries and into businesses that didn't fit in today with the core business of the [indiscernible] (00:36:34) logistics and the motor business.

And I've listed some of the areas we got into that we're no more in, capital equipment and leasing, the aviation business, the chemical manufacturing business of Schirm that we recently got out of, the property cleanup and then getting out of the non-motor related part of Regent. Importantly, in that time or pre-2014, we started expanding into Africa. And when we started in 2010, we had virtually no revenue coming out of Africa. Today, we've got a ZAR 10 billion revenue business there. So during this time from, call it, 2010 to 2018, we certainly have established a very strong presence on the continent and that happened as an initiative prior to 2014.

And then from 2014, we as an executive wanted to unlock the intrinsic value in the group, and we realized that we needed to transform and develop Imperial in terms of the – its next evolution. And while we never want to lose the entrepreneurial creativity and capital management disciplines of the past, we had to clarify and get structured to certain things and that was strategy as well as organization structure that we work hard on from, call it, 2014 to now.

And the focus that we employed in getting the value creation was strategic clarity which involved the major portfolio rationalization. We needed to get managerial focus and we did a massive organization restructure, and we wanted to improve our disclosure to you as our investors and to the market. So, that was the three key initiatives that we focused on in terms of this value creation or unlock of intrinsic value that we wanted to do in that time.

And if you look at the portfolio rationalization, if you look at what we've done, we've got out of 55 businesses and 90 properties that we're generating ZAR 14.4 billion of revenue and ZAR 1.1 billion of operating profit and they employed capital of ZAR 7 billion in the group. At the same time of exiting those businesses, we also identified areas of strategic growth particularly in Africa and growing our logistics business and our Motus business where we employed ZAR 5.7 billion of capital in new businesses but that are in line with the strategy in terms of growth, enhance our returns and our cash flow. And in that time, as I said from 2010, we grew our logistics, African Regions business into a ZAR 10 billion business over that time.

So the rationalization of the portfolio and the clarification of their strategy then resulted in these two self-sufficient divisions operating from exclusively in those markets. But the group was still kept together by the balance sheet and that was the important step that we had to implement or the step to overcome in terms of getting these businesses from a capital point of view to be self-sufficient. Because once the portfolio was clean and the strategy was clear and the management structures were in place, the capital structures had to be put in place. And I'm pleased to say we've now done that.

So if you look at the work – in terms of organization structure, this has been ongoing. And since 1 July, 2016, the Imperial Logistics business has been managed as one division. So this is nothing new. It has been managed under one leadership, one CEO. And from 1 January, 2017, that's how the Motus business has also been managed in terms of one CEO and one executive management team.

In doing that, there were appropriate executive management changes that took place over that time. And there was a transition in terms of younger people coming through and people retiring, that also had to be dealt with through this organization structure. And through all of that, the Imperial head office function, in terms of its influence on the group got less and less and we also devolved a lot other functions than into the divisions over this period. And from 1 July, actually the group's EXCO was disbanded and its authorities were devolved to divisional boards, where a lot of non-executive directors are members of.

And the third element of that strategy or that plan was to improve our disclosure. And we even now show the returns on invested capital and weighted average cost of capital by subdivision. And that was, so that the market could understand these businesses from a capital point of view, understand the returns more intricately and appropriately value these businesses.

So those were the three key initiatives that led us then to a decision on whether we unbundle Motus because what was clear from this process of portfolio rationalization, organization structure is that there were no operational synergies that exist between Imperial Logistics and Motus. And the only key function the head office provided was the balance sheet strength of the group.

As I showed earlier on, one business is two-thirds out of South Africa, in a completely different industry, with a different focus and a different strategy. One business is a very interesting vertically-integrated model in South Africa. And the priorities of the businesses are different. So when we got the balance sheets to be at the right level, the question was, do these businesses need to be together under a group company. And as we announced on 21st of June, we as a board resolved it and proceed with the steps to implement the unbundling.

And this was not a decision to unlock value on day one. We see this as a long-term benefit that shareholders will get, as this business is focused on the key strategic initiatives and as we hold the management teams of these two businesses accountable separately to the debt and equity markets. Through this, we also will provide shareholders with opportunity to participate directly in Imperial Logistics and/or Motus.

So, that was the path, call it, in terms of getting to a point to making a decision on the unbundling of Motus. And that leads me then in terms of where are we with the process and what are some of the timelines that are in place to deliver on this. I've stressed this a few times but the balance sheet was important and we did not want to leave these two companies with suboptimal capital structures that affect their strategies and their initiatives of growth. We gave a range of 55% to 65%. Both these businesses are at 50%, so I think we can tick that box.

Our negotiation with the funders because we had to create separate facilities in lines of funding for these businesses separately that is on track and in process, and we hope to finish that process end of September, early October. And in terms of the initial commitments and we're getting in terms of our facilities, we're quite positive there won't be an issue there. And even on the offshore side, we've basically underwritten our offshore facilities in terms of the logistics business.

So, in terms of the balance sheet and in terms of securing the right levels of liquidity and funding, we are well on track in terms of delivering on that prior to the unbundling. We did redeem our bonds. Post the unbundling, we don't see a need for either businesses to access the bond market because there's sufficient liquidity in the banking market, and it doesn't make sense to have suboptimal bond programs in these companies. And anyway the bond program was not a massive part of our funding in Imperial today, before the unbundling.

We announced the offer to acquire the preference shares and that was really on the back of neatening up the capital structure. It's about ZAR 400 million of funding out of a group requirement of ZAR 30 billion. So it really becomes small in our lives and we saw this unbundling as a good opportunity to clean up our capital structure. And we've proposed a buyback of those preference shares which was announced on the 13th of August. We hope that process will be completed in the month of October.

In terms of the legal structures needed to be put in place so that we could have Motus reported and in place separately from the logistics business. That has been now completed. That was done by the end of June. So those structures are in place and the businesses from a legal point of view are ready to be unbundled.

We are in the process of getting through the JSE and the regulatory processes and that is going on and it's going well. And from Ukhamba point of view, we've also got to replicate some of the structures that Imperial has with Ukhamba. It's shares, deferred shares, deferred ordinary shares that Imperial has issued to Ukhamba when we set up the [indiscernible] (00:46:46) deal many years ago. And we've got to replicate that to make sure that Ukhamba is a shareholder and each shareholders are not prejudice through this.

And we continue – actively engage with our key stakeholders, and we haven't had major pushback from our shareholders since the time we actually announced the intention to unbundling which was about a year ago. In terms of the next steps, as I said, we're going now through the process of the JSE and getting the separate listing and the documentation done and the necessarily regulatory approvals around that. The shareholders' meeting for the preference shares is set up for the 14th of September.

As I said we hope to conclude the debt syndication process by the end of September and have our general meeting of shareholders to approve the transaction on the 30th of October. And if all that is in place, Imperial Holdings would be renamed Imperial Logistics because the entity that's being unbundled is Motus. And we anticipate that this will all be completed by the end of October.

So are these businesses positioned after October? So I've put in two slides that you'll see a lot more of as we build up through the unbundling. But the Imperial Logistics business is a business certainly with scale. It's in the top 25 global logistics companies and if we exclude freight forwarding, it's in the top 15. So, certainly both businesses, in fact, are businesses that from an international point of view have got scale, so we are not separating two businesses that are subscale certainly from a positioning point of view.

We see the logistics businesses as a integrated logistics service provider that operates in regional markets and those being South Africa where we are market leader. We are in very specific industries in Africa in pharma and FMCG, and there, our model is unique where we act as a distributor of pharmaceutical products and for consumer packaged good principles in that market.

Just to give you an idea, we get to over 700 points of distribution in Ghana. We get to over 600 in Kenya, and in Nigeria, we get to about 50,000 points of distribution. So certainly a very good footprint in terms of our current positioning. And then we've got very specialized capabilities in Europe, specific industries like the chemical industry and the automotive industry. And one of the major evolutions or changes in this business has been its ability to generate cash. And we believe that is a very important investment proposition and an attraction going forward because its CapEx requirements will be not a lot more than its depreciation, which is a function of the businesses we've exited and the businesses we've added.

This business will be largely positioned as non – call it largely outside of South Africa in terms of its profit contribution. And it's got a good track record of delivering on growth. One of the best examples of that is our growth into Africa where we started out as virtually having no revenue there and now having a very successful footprint in attractive markets there with the turnover of ZAR 10 billion. And a excellent management team that have been with the business for many years.

So those are – I'm not going to go through each one, but those are some of the key highlights, investment highlights, or investment propositions of our logistics business, and as I said certainly in attractive industries, in attractive areas of the supply chain and certainly in very attractive regions. And the quality of the business from a contract point of view is also very good. There is no client in this business that generates more than 5% of the revenue. So very broad, diversified client base, industry base and a very strong capability in terms of service offering across the various industries that we focus on.

A good example of our positioning in the pharma market is our Africa business where we can virtually source and procure product from markets in China, India and then get those products into markets like Nigeria and then actually have the route to market then to sell those products into those markets. And if you look at that whole value chain, there's not many companies that can deliver that in the pharmaceutical industry and that is an example of how our capabilities are able to position us very strongly in terms of the clients we serve and the industries we serve.

Motus will be positioned as it is. It's a unique fully integrated business model in terms of its service offering to the automotive market in South Africa. And part of the performance in these results is that resilience in terms of the financial services, in terms of the aftermarket parts, in terms of the parts and services that we provide particularly for our importer brands where we sell into those dealerships. So certainly in terms of a positioning point of view, strategically perfectly coherent in terms of its positioning in the market. It has expanded selectively in international markets like the UK and Australia but that is to complement what we have there. And as I said, we always see this business as largely a South African business.

And very importantly, despite being in a cyclical industry exposed to new car sales and currencies, we've demonstrated over the years our ability to generate annuity income streams, sustainable cash flow and that was evidenced, I believe, in these set of numbers and in the last couple of years as well. And I had a slide where I said about 70% – 70% to 80% of those businesses profit is not linked to car sales.

Again, a business of scale, this business will have close to ZAR 80 billion of turnover and certainly even from an international point of view, if you look at international peer groups, it's certainly up there in terms of size, and a very experienced management team with deep industry knowledge as you know.

So that brings me to the prospects. Very difficult environment, but we do still expect both Imperial Logistics and Motus to deliver solid operating results in 2019. We believe that the base is nicely set in terms of the capital structures with minimal impact on the funding cost to enable both these divisions to fund its growth and strategic aspirations and continue paying good dividends. We certainly think that both these businesses can play still the 45% of HEPS as a guide. And our outlook for 2019 is for growth in revenue and operating profit as well as growth in headline earnings per share for both businesses subject to any once-off cost relating to the unbundling.

That brings me to the end of our presentation but before I end, I just like to say a few words of appreciation because this could be the last financial reporting year for Imperial in its current form. Firstly, I'd like to thank my fellow executives. Two of them are here with me supporting me on the stage. One is not, he's recovering well and his recovery is on track to be back in January as we've announced. So I'd like to thank them for their support during this year. And I'd like to also extend gratitude to the over 48,000 people who do not only deal with difficult external circumstances but also with the unprecedented rate of change that this organization has gone through in the last three or four years. And certainly, the restructuring that we embarked on four years ago was probably amongst the most complex and ambitious in South Africa.

I'd also like to thank our previous leaders and CEOs, management, colleagues and co-directors for the invaluable guidance over the years and counsel during a 70-year history of one of South Africa's most extraordinary companies. I just think it's appropriate to thank the past. They've set the fantastic base for us to go forward and a legacy, so thank you to all of you. And finally, thank you to our owners and funders for your support through the years and we look forward to engaging with you more. Thank you very much.

Questions. We'll start the floor.

Thank you. Mr. Akoojee, your last slide referred to any once-off costs relating to the proposed unbundling. And I suspect that my questions from your cash flow statement may have something to do with that, in that these costs have already been incurred. There's an item hedging of shares scheme. Now, hedging of course is simply an insurance premium against [indiscernible] (00:56:52) certainly been taking place. Since the cost was ZAR 362 million, I have to ask what was the risk amount that you were ensuring against and what was the nature of that.

And immediately below that item, there are two other items, a negative ZAR 684 million and a positive ZAR 223 million being relating to non-controlling interest in the first case and capital raised from non-controlling interest. May I ask you to give us the full background if you would do that item.

Okay. So, that cost on the cash flow has got nothing to do with unbundling. Most of the unbundling costs are success based and will only be good if we successfully implement the transaction. That cost relate to the hedging of our share scheme. So, we take out hedges when we issue share appreciation rights and DBPs and that's been a practice of the group over the years. And with us fully hedging now the share schemes, the 2017 allocation, we've had to write out the check to protect it. So, it's not against any risk we see other than that. When we issue a share option to employee, we take out an equivalent hedge to hedge against that. So it's a risk management too.

Are you able to put a number to the risk value? What was the amount that you were hedging against?

Well, it would be our 2017 allocation which is in our financial statements. So that is purely for hedging of the share scheme. And the other two amounts, so the amount relating to the ZAR 223 million was a capital contribution made by Renault into our subsidiary Renault. And the ZAR 600 million was the minority buyout of Eco Health of ZAR 580 million and then we bought out minorities in the business called Resolve of another ZAR 90 million, so that relates to that.

Thank you.

I just have a question on logistics, the Africa business. This large public healthcare contract that was lost, what is the reason for that? And is there any intangibles or goodwill associated with it?

Marius.

So the contract – we are subcontractor for paper on that contract that we've lost. We've actually lost the contract already three years ago. But the real effect only happened this year, so it was quite a long like tail on the contract to the end. You know that we were still servicing on the contract. So there was no goodwill or anything associated. We were just like acting as a subcontractor. So we were not directly holding the contract. We're holding it through another service provider.

Just one more question on logistics. What's happening with the new BEE scheme...

Okay.

...in the SA business, any update?

Yeah. So we're still busy with the BEE scheme. We're still on track and we still hope to announce within the next month the deal on the BEE scheme. So we're still on track.

Okay. Thank you. [ph]

Good morning. (01:00:36) It's Nick Webster at HSBC. A couple of more sort of strategic related questions, one on each division I guess. On logistics Africa, each sort of six months are clearly sort of different challenges with some of the different businesses you've bought there whether they're sort of political, economical. Where do you take it from here?

There's obviously sort of growth strategy around that has been acquisitively driven. Is it going to be still more that way? You obviously alluded to Surgipharm on a more sort of organic basis, pushing product through that business into other regions. How do you see the balance of that over the next couple of years in terms of your activities?

And so on the African side, we still believe that organically low double-digit growth should happen in that business. So, if you look at the Nigerian business, definitely, we would see that type of growth coming out of that. We also believe that on the East African side, going into the Rwandas and Ugandas, we can definitely also achieve low double digit. We're definitely seeing that there was a downturn on the [indiscernible] (01:01:48) side of the business in Bristol, a good business, still making good returns. But we believe from the procurement and the sourcing side of that business, there's a lot of opportunities coming up for us on that side. So I'm also comfortable that we will see that type of growth.

You must also remember that's just on the pharmaceutical side. We've also done by taking our many solutions business into Africa. [indiscernible] (01:02:11) South Africa is massive opportunities for us there, and currently, that is growing well. And if we see that in future, that can really grow [ph] higher than – on the (01:02:22) low double digits. So, the opportunities in Africa on the pharmaceutical and as we call it the CPG, the consumer packed goods side, there's definitely good opportunities and it's not only acquisitive, it's definitely organic with then the benefit of some acquisitions that can happen but definitely on the organic side low double digits.

And do you intend with the European piece to – you obviously exited a number of operations there and have these persistent issues with water levels and things and operations. Do you think that's more of a target for sort of larger deals, if you like sort of complement your existing businesses?

And so we've mentioned in the past that the international freight management is a opportunity on the international side. If we look at our business, that's definitely the area that we can developed on, on the international freight management side, so that's definitely a large opportunity for us. And if you look at the shipping business, as you mentioned, yes, we had first half, last year, low water levels. We had normalized water levels in the second half. And that's why we had very good results in the international business.

We again now see this drought and the high temperatures and low water levels there. So still trying to understand [ph] these are the trend (01:03:44) going forward. We believe at this point in time, hopefully not. But again, [ph] our American (01:03:51) business did really well last year for the full year.

So, yes, automotive is doing very well, and we see some of the massive opportunities going into Eastern Europe on the automotive side. So yeah, there's definitely – seem that our international business will definitely grow with acquisitions and opportunities [indiscernible] (01:04:12) in future.

And then just on the Motus side, I'm just sort of wondering around the rationale for the overseas acquisitions you've done because you sort of alluded to it's going to remain very much an [ph] assay-focused (01:04:26) business. You said that they complement that, I don't really see how they complement that. Clearly, very competitive, mature markets. Are they just there as sort of standalone businesses, now you made your little bolt-ons or something to? I'm not really sure how they complement the domestic business and really where you're kind of going for that. And in hindsight, are they deals you should have done? They just seem odd in a sort of standalone context, yet you say this is going to be an [ph] asset-focused (01:05:00) business that has become – essentially going to become sort of like you say, yield, dividend, sort of annuity income stream play.

Yeah. I'll let [indiscernible] (01:05:11) give you his view, but I think what I mean by that [ph] wasn't the complement in (01:05:14) South African business. I think it complements what we have in the UK. For example, in our commercial vehicle business, there is a customer base there that requires passenger cars. Now, we sell these customers commercial vehicles. We understand how to sell passenger cars very well, and in fact, we've taken one of our top people from our South African business to go into the UK and exploit the opportunities there because we do see that we can take some of our learnings from South Africa and exploit it in that market, certainly on the used car side. [indiscernible] (01:05:47), there's opportunities there we can exploit, there's opportunities on the financial services side we can exploit. So it complements what we have there. And we also see gaps that we have in the businesses we buy and where we can leverage our skillset. [indiscernible] (01:06:01), if you want to...

Yeah. So we would like to continue with our selective growth strategy there as well. I think we have got a platform in both those markets that we play, and the one is Australia, which is a very fragmented market and there's certainly some gains to be made in that particular market. And to really get the benefit of the synergies, we would probably want to expand slightly more in that market. And similarly on the UK market as Mohammed just explained, we already had the footprint there and to actually complement what we had. It probably also made sense to just attach slightly more of the passenger side to that market.

They're both competitive and they're both developed markets, that's true. But if you can get the right formula down which we believe in the tough environment that we know that we operate in, we would be able to still make good margins in those markets. The other point we just [indiscernible] (01:06:56) not always that clear is also around the fact that they are as developed markets much more exposed to new technologies. And in that sense, we would also take those learnings back into South Africa and how those technologies may affect our developing countries.

And just a very quick technical one on what you're budgeting in terms of potential loss of sales with the EU emissions legislation for 2019?

I don't think we would be able to comment on that yet [indiscernible] (01:07:29) [indiscernible]

(01:07:30), we don't – we haven't done that. Can we take other questions? Sorry. Maybe one more from the floor and then...

Roy Campbell from RMB Morgan Stanley. You touched on it earlier Marius. So just in terms of – the low water levels are becoming a more regular impact on your earnings. I know that you are selling some of the barges that you have. Maybe you can comment on where you are in that and also just the viability of that business going forward if this does become a trend? And then, secondly just in the Motus division, if you could just give us some color about your agreement with Renault and how that mitigates the risk of sort of currency spikes that we're seeing right now?

And then the third question is that you've had quite a good performance from the car rental business. If you could just explain, is that off the low base, is it good used car sales, is it the underlying market or is it market share gains? Thank you.

So Roy on the shipping side, we differentiate between the dry bulk and the liquid side. So the dry bulk side, yes, we become more asset light. So most of those resources are being sold off and [indiscernible] (01:08:48) logistics business. So, our risk for low water levels on that is definitely reduced. So, we're only taking a margin with almost no invested capital there.

On the liquid bulks, that's strategic for us because we believe we differentiate ourselves in that market. And we're still investing in that area. Remember the water levels is over with last year and now this year, so the trend, I'm still not sure that it's like a 5 or a 10-year trend. And we've seen normalized water levels in second half.

So also remember we do get compensated from – compensation from our customers on low water levels and especially we make sure that all new context because that wasn't in the past like that. It's also [ph] written up (01:09:39) like that. So, if there's low water level, get compensated especially on the liquid side. So, our process on dry bulks been finished and we're still expanding on our liquid bulk side of that fleet [indiscernible] (01:09:53).

Your question on Renault?

So, on the Renault, we have a unique proposition there where you – obviously because the Renault France have got a 40% shareholding in the Renault South African business, we have a new opportunity there to also share a little bit in the up and downs of our currencies. So, it is a definitely [indiscernible] (01:10:16) as opposed to our other importer businesses and in that particular case, there is a differentiating on the pricing of vehicles. That's how we mitigate that.

On the car rental side, we've never presented car rental numbers and results on its own as a segment. But we have certainly seen good volumes on the last to last year specifically in the tourism side. And that's where we've seen most of the growth in there.

Is it questions on the...

Hi. It's Kgosi Rahube from Citigroup. Just a quick question in terms of logistics in South Africa. You spoke about some contract renewals. [ph] Can I get a sense (01:10:58) of how big are those contracts? And also going into FY 2019, what sort of contracts would be obviously facing some renewals in the future?

Yeah. So on the South African side, we go through cycles of renewals. So there's not specific ones who are coming up that will specifically influence our revenue. What we mean by the renewals is that in this competitive market, you see if you renew a contract that you [indiscernible] (01:11:28) margins because of the competition there. So there is some renewals that we're busy with but it's an ongoing thing. It's not that I can take you off the ZAR 15 billion Renault on the [indiscernible] (01:11:43) ZAR 3 billion or ZAR 4 billion, not at all. It's just ongoing pressure that [ph] we are (01:11:48) on the renewals.

We do renew most of our existing contracts. We've got a very high rate of renewals. So we're not on the pressure there. Where we did lose contracts, the contracts was not lost because of performance, it was more because of corporate activities where competition bought the business and they put it into [indiscernible] (01:12:11) the businesses, corporate businesses. And that was mainly only places where we lost contracts.

Can we check if there are any questions on the conference call?

There are currently no questions on the conference.

Thank you. There are no questions on the webcast?

Any last questions?

Good morning. It's Rowan calling from [indiscernible] (01:12:43) Macquarie. Just a question on Motus. If you look at your operating profit, there's a fairly large elimination of just over ZAR 220 million, that's almost double what you had last year. And if you look at the proportion of that number to the whole operating profit, it's just under 10%. Can you just explain the interplay between the divisions that make that large elimination arise in your operating profit, please?

Obviously we have a large amount of vehicles being sold from our importer into our retail and rental part of the business, that's where the bulk of our inter-companies would come from. And if you maybe just review the prior year, if you see, there's a large increase, just maybe make sure that we've also taken eliminations that could have been [indiscernible] (01:13:28) into account. Year-on-year, it would be...

But the other thing is we moved the financial services operating profit in that column from operating profit to against the interest line because in the division [ph] it says (01:13:43) operating income, the interest that we earn in the funds. So, there's a reallocation between – so, if you look at the segment report, there's a negative on the interest line. So, it's a reallocation out of the [indiscernible] (01:13:55) said. So, those are the two main parts of that elimination.

Okay. Thank you very much.