Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter R. du Toit — Investment Counsel, Rezco Collective Investment Ltd.
Mark James Lamberti — Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Osman Suluman Arbee — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Marius Swanepoel — Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Rowan Goeller — Analyst, Macquarie First South Securities (Pty) Ltd.
Joel Chimhanda — Principal, JC Capital
Peter Zaldivar — Investment Analysts Society

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mark Lamberti, members of the board, the executives of Imperial Group, the Investment Analysts Society, who at the outset, would like to thank you for hosting us here today as we review the year ended for the Imperial Group, the year ended June 2014.

The Imperial Group is a testimony to private enterprise. It started in 1947. As a child, I recall it at the bottom end of, I think, Commissioner Street as Barney's Super Service Station. It was listed then in 1987, and it is today a company with a market capitalization of over ZAR 40 billion, employs 50,000 people, and it's the top 50 company in South Africa, focused, as it says there, leaders in mobility, all aspects of communication in terms motoring. And so, sir, we thank you once again for hosting us, and we look forward to reviewing the past and getting an insight into the future.

Thank you.

Thank you, Peter. Thank you very much, Peter, and good afternoon, everybody. I'd like to extend a warm gratitude to the Investment Analysts Society for us being here, for being with us today. And I'd like to particularly welcome our chairman, our non-executive members of our board, our executives, my colleagues, and in particular, I'd like to welcome our colleagues from Germany who are out here. Thank you for coming up. You run a fantastic business, and it's proud to represent all of you here.

Just for those of you who are unaware, on my right, I have Osman Arbee, our Chief Financial Officer; and to his right, Mohammed Akoojee, who is our Director of Strategy and Investor Relations.

We are – besides looking for the control, we are delighted with these results. They reflect a performance which we believe was flawless in every controllable respect. But as some of you have seen, we were rather punished by the record movement of the rand during 2013 and coming into 2014, and we'll talk about that at some length.

The way we'd like to go through this presentation is to give you the highlights and then present the context in which we are operating, go through an operational review. I hand over to Osman for the financial review and to talk about the acquisitions. And then I'll come back briefly at the end to talk about our strategy and our outlook.

Getting right into it then. The top-line numbers have been seen by most of you, I would imagine, ZAR 103 billion sales. We've broken the ZAR 100 billion mark for the first time, and I guess this is a milestone in any company's history.

Our operating profit which is the number we focus on most is up 2%, another record result. But the – with the diluted core EPS – again, at an EPS level the number we focus on are unchanged. Our diluted HEPS by virtue of some one-off adjustments, which Osman will talk about at length, is down 7%. We've held the dividend, and we still have a return on equity of 19%.

Of that growth, the revenue growth, ZAR 5.2 billion of it was attributable to acquisitions, 5% of the growth. And by acquisitions, we define them as businesses not owned on the July 1, 2012. In other words, a full year in both years.

We had good operating growth from our four divisions. Our Logistics Africa up 38%; Logistics International up 4.5%, but translated in rand to 27% up; our Vehicle Retail, Rental & Aftermarket Parts division up 16%; and our Financial Services up 14%. All of those operating profit. The rand weakness, and we'll talk about this more, drove the Vehicle Import Distribution & Dealerships business profit down ZAR 710 million or 32% down, and that of course impacted the group's results.

Our foreign operations are now – they grew 30% to ZAR 1.6 billion and this growth trend is reflected over the last four years, and these graphs capture the strategy that was put in place so ably by Hubert Brody and the team to try and decouple us from some of the cyclicality of new car sales in South Africa. So you can see here that the profit growth trend in revenue and operating profit outside of South Africa has grown. Foreign operating profit is now 27% of the group and the Africa, excluding South Africa, operating profit grew 32% and is now about ZAR 523 million of our operating profit. We have good plans in place to grow that further.

Our non-vehicle operations are now 54% of operating profit and that's reflected in these charts, where you can see the compound annual growth of revenue and of operating profit up substantially – can we do something about that? Thank you. And the positive growth in revenue and operating profit on businesses not dependent on new vehicle sales. I'll keep stressing that point because it's not the motor business per se or in general; it's new vehicle sales that create the cyclicality. This represents 54% of group operating profit now, and includes – it includes service and parts which are not as cyclical as new car sales, so therefore, this looks somewhat better than the 54%.

We've sharpened our strategic and organizational focus, and the presentation of these results marks the first major look in that direction. As you're aware, we're in three major lines of business; in Logistics, Vehicles and Financial Services. The rough contribution is 39%, 57% and 4% at the revenue level. And at the operating profit level roughly 35%, 48% and 17%. These figures will differ, those percentages will differ slightly because of some intergroup numbers, but the 54% is the one that we look at.

And in these results, what we've tried to do and will be presenting going forward is to manage and report on five divisions based on these strategic drivers, on the management expertise involved, on the business models, on the intra-divisional value creation, and into a much lesser extent on the geography in those three major lines of business.

And so today, we have and we'll continue to report in this way by what we'll call Logistics Africa which is – which includes South Africa, which is about 21% of group revenue and 20% of group profit. Our International Logistics business, Logistics International where we have leading positions and inland shipping and terminal operations and so on in Europe mainly, that's about 18% of group revenue and 15% of profit.

Our Vehicle Import, Distribution & Dealership business, we are calling this as somewhat lengthy name and I apologize for some of you may be having to change your spreadsheets with the restructuring and perhaps clarity that we're hoping to bring here. But this, in our mind, is a very different business to our Vehicle Retail business. Obviously, the import dimension thereof making that difference. Vehicle Import, and Distribution and Dealerships gives us about 25% of group revenue and 24% of group operating profit, whereas the Vehicle Retail business gives us 32%, now our largest division in revenue and 24% of group operating profit. So the first is where we are, an exclusive importer of about 18 automotive and industrial brands, magnificent business that's been built almost from scratch over the last 14 years, and it covers virtually all aspects of the motor value chain.

On the Vehicle Retail, Rental & Aftermarket business, we've got the major dealerships. We represent virtually every original equipment manufacturer in the country. We've also got vehicle rental in the pre-owned outlets and a commercial vehicle business in the UK. Lastly, we disclosed the numbers for aftermarket parts and rental once more in these results so that you can close out the full year. But henceforth, those numbers will be within this division.

And then, finally, Financial Services where we are, at the moment, mainly motor-related and insurance and financial products and services business. I'll show you later how we believe that founding or, should I say, developing this business based on other strengths within Imperial and mainly our motor dealerships and affiliation with the South African Motorist will develop a defensible Financial Services business over time. So that's how we will talk about these results.

Moving on to the context, I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about the South African environment. It's well known to all of you. And at the moment, let's say, that it's soft. I'm a little bit annoyed when people get excited that we haven't drifted into recession with a 0.6% growth rate. The growth is just simply not there at the moment and I won't talk that much about it. And the reason is not just because I'm not an economist, but also because I don't think that this is a major determinant of our results in the short term. And at the moment, most people buy motor vehicles are middle to upper income who are less affected by some of the effects in the economy.

There is obviously pressure on volumes going through our Logistics business, but we'll come to that. But suffice to say that the environment is generally low consumer and commercial demand and in all of our businesses, we face competitive situation.

Important to recognize the heritage that our current management team, most particularly myself, have inherited. What we have is a significant asset base and significant market positions in Logistics, Vehicles, and motor-related Financial Services. We also have an extraordinary legacy of leadership, an extraordinary legacy of entrepreneurship and financial control. I think Bill Lynch, who was so fondly known to many of us, imbued this organization with a DNA of entrepreneurship that is going to do nothing other than flourish. And at the same time, over the last eight or so years, Hubert Brody, developed financial disciplines most, particularly a fanaticism around return on invested capital, which again is in the DNA of the business. I support both of those and endorse them and will do my utmost to preserve them.

And a big part of the heritage, of course, also was this drive to decouple Imperial's performance from cyclical or rand-induced vehicle import volatility which reflects itself in these numbers this year. So, that's the kind of context that I think we operate in.

Going through the operations, Logistics Africa today, 23% of our revenue and 38% of our operating profit. Our focus is on three regional hubs in the SADC region, East Africa, and West Africa. We have two almost contrasting things which is a very developed market and infrastructure in South Africa with sophisticated supply chains and formal routes to market. And in Africa, we have undeveloped logistics where we, as Imperial, can play a part in helping international and local manufacturers get route – get their products to the point of sale in the rest of Africa.

What we have is we are a provider of logistics across the entire supply chain. We have access to 7,500 vehicles, important to note that we don't own all of them, and about 1 million square meters of warehousing. We are – and these consumer-focused distributorships in 10 African countries, which favor – and we favor consumer over industrial or put differently capital-light logistics in Africa.

The opportunities for this business are cost reduction and focus on core activities by customers leads them to outsource to us. So, my very good friend, Whitey was in the newspaper a few days ago saying that he can't get his goods from South African manufacturers into Africa. We do play a small part in that, we hope to play a bigger one. You can officially regard that as an advertisement.

The other market opportunity comes from the skill shortage within organizations regarding specialization and complexity associated with integrated supply chain management. And also the notion of intermodal logistics, the link between various things, rail and road and so on, and of course the route to market solutions for our principals who are wanting access to the African continents. So that, in a nutshell, is the markets that we are targeting, our assets and what we see as the opportunities.

Being more precise, in Southern Africa, we have FMCG distribution, sales and marketing. We are expanding our facilities. We have transport operations cross-border, load consolidations, et cetera, and we manage the key corridors in the SADC.

In East Africa, particularly through Imperial Health Sciences, warehousing and distribution and consumer health and pharma, we are – I was fortunate or asked to turn the sods on a new facility that we are expanding in Nairobi for a temperature-controlled warehouse for pharmaceuticals, which will be open during the course of next year. And in Tanzania and Malawi, FMCG distribution. And then in West Africa, Imperial Health Sciences, pharma, logistics MDS, and Osman will comment on a bit later, Ecohealth, which we acquired in the past year. So, a nice African footprint, growing and expanding both in reach and depth.

I've been asked whether some of the developments in Africa deter us from this – our plans to grow into Africa whether terrorist or if you want to call it political activism and/or things like Ebola worry us. Well, of course, they worry us but they – we don't see them as long-term issues and what we are just conscious of is that in Africa, we need to be very clear about what a risk-adjusted return is.

To talk about in South Africa and just dwell for a moment on the breadth of what we offer, it's freight and transport, it's warehousing and storage, distribution and fulfillment, demand management, and integration services. I'm not sure if all of you are aware of it, but we probably got one of the biggest consulting businesses in South Africa in logistics. We are – we take a large percentage of the industrial engineers who come out of the Tukkies and the Stellenbosch, and we've got some really smart people helping our clients develop solutions in logistics and at the same time, opening the door to a different relationship with those clients in other services that we can offer. So we are a leading logistics provider.

This is the kind of setting that we get to in African markets. Those of you who have ever been into Africa and seen these markets close to or within the major cities, you will know that that, for want of a better term, that last mile is controlled very formally by informal traders. So the – let's call it the first wholesaler sells to the second one. We sell to the retailer. The prices are well controlled and the issue is not what is dealt within last mile. The real issue is how to get your goods to a warehouse to supply the first, let's call it, local wholesaler and that's what we do. And we have major international pharmaceutical companies, GlaxoSmithKline and so on, and major South African companies in the liquor business and in FMCG helping us to do that, or should I say we are helping them to do it and getting those goods to market to the point of sale.

And so the mantra that we kind of lived by in our Africa distribution business is get me there, sell my product and establish my brand. And we have deep relationships with our principals and we are achieving market-leading positions in pharmaceutical and consumer product distribution in Africa other than South Africa.

These are some of our clients. World leaders, many of them. And just to emphasize that the growth trend in our logistics business outside of South Africa has shown almost a 50% profit growth in the last year to ZAR 334 million and contributed 26% to Logistics Africa's operating profit, or 5% of the group. So this is a serious growth vector for us. We are cognizant at all times of the various risks of dealing in Africa. We think that one mitigates that obviously by good management, making sure that when one does acquire, you pay the right price. And our formula has generally been to keep the vendor in place as a partner for at least three to four years with profit warranties in many cases. But the most important thing is helping us to learn about the market and the business through a partner rather than greenfielding on our own.

So these are the kinds of things we – this is the kind of formula we think is right for our development into Africa. The biggest issue obviously being diversification, being in Malawi when they devalue the currency by 50% is not a nice thing. If you're in 12 or 14 countries, it's this painful.

The total Logistics Africa business, that's including South Africa, showed a very nice 23% of growth of revenue and a 38% operating profit, and our margins improved from 5.1% to 5.7%. And this was despite subdued and declining volumes in most sectors served in South Africa. So the strong growth has been really pleasing.

One of the things that we've spoken to many of you about over the time has been our Cold Chain business, which is a small business but it's been painful. I think we've sold those problems and you won't be hearing much about that in the future because we're almost so embarrassed by it that we've renamed it. It's now going to be called Cold Logistics and out of the way.

The newly acquired Ecohealth contributed positively for four months. We'll talk about that, and we continue to have an active acquisition pipeline.

In total, if you look at the longer term, this development of our Logistics Africa business, a compound growth rate of 17% over the last few years of revenue and about 17.3% of operating profit.

Moving on then to our logistics business in Europe, for those of you who ever get a chance to get to see parts of this business, I'm sure that Gerhard and his team will be pleased to show you around, but this a remarkable business unlike most logistics businesses that you're aware of. You're dealing obviously in Europe with a highly developed market and infrastructure. And we have some interesting assets. We have more than 700 inland vessels. They are either inshore or close to shore vessels like the one in that picture. But most of them are barges going up and down the rivers.

We have 2 million square meters of storage capacity, including 20 hazardous goods warehouses, where there are very, very strict criteria on everything from fire control to leakage and so on. We move about 100 million tons per year, but perhaps our biggest asset is world-class expertise in auto and chemical contract logistics, and established relationships with world leaders.

I was recently at the Wolfsburg Volkswagen plant, which you may or may not know, is a one single plant that the whole town of Wolfsburg is built around the plant. But this is one single plant that sells about 750,000 – that makes about 750,000 cars a year and they're targeting to make 1 million cars a year out of this one plant by 2017. And our role is to deliver to that plant just-in-sequence. I'm sure most of you have heard about just-in-time, nut just-in-sequence is – arises from the fact that on modern production lines, you don't produce the same car. They may have the same platform but you could have a two-door, a four-door, or a panel van coming off the same line. And our job is to make sure that the right rearview mirror or the right electrical harness, or whatever it is gets to exactly that point in the line at that time. And if we stop the Volkswagen line, we've got a big problem.

So this is extremely skilled high-tech work. And I mentioned that our capability there, I think, is one of the biggest barriers to entry. There are probably no more than five or six businesses in the world that could even tender for a contract like that.

Our market opportunities that the industries that we serve: automotive, steel, aluminum, paper and chemicals, but we are thinking about going out of – outside of that in the future. For example, to deliver parts to a motorcar business is not going to – or shall I say to deliver parts to an aviation, an aircraft manufacturer should not be that different from delivering parts to a motorcar business, and we're looking at those kinds of things.

We think that there are niches that are linked to the import and export growth of leading manufacturers in Europe and we'll follow them to new markets. And we'll build on our market leadership in inland shipping and all of the things that we currently do.

This is our base. It is mainly Germany. And moving outside of it, it's important to note that all of you are well aware that Europe has not recovered or is growing as fast as what's expected. But the latest developments in the Ukraine are putting a little tone of push into people there because Russia is a big export destination for Germany.

Mention must be made, of course, of us entry into the South American market. It was shared with you at the half-year numbers, a very interesting redeployment of some of our vessels from Europe into South America where we are caught in iron ore about 2,500 kilometers down the Río Paraná River. Not just expertise involved in doing that, but more importantly from a competitive standpoint, our – the newness and caliber and suitability of our vessels for going in low water, for going in the low bridges and for carrying big loads under those circumstances.

And our feelings about this – what started out as an interesting contract, our feelings about this are reflected in the fact that yesterday at the board meeting, we approved further CapEx to expand that fleet. So think about it as a nice interesting big contract with potential. We're not opening up a head office in South America or anything like that at this stage. Sorry, I skipped over the fact that we do have a little office in China trying to work through procurement.

So these are the four major divisions of our International Logistics business. Our inland shipping business, Panopa where we do that contract logistics with – in the automotive industry, Lehnkering where we do logistics for the chemical industry, again delivering to world-class plants like BASF and so on. And Neska our – the port business, we have inland terminal operations there and that gives us the spread of businesses in our International Logistics. The revenue there was very – virtually no growth in revenue, a slightly nicer growth in operating profit. But in euro terms, the business was steady. The reason was the fragile recovery of the European economy, and as I mentioned, depressed German activities.

Our inland shipping volumes declined and rates were under pressure. Any individual must again get hold of a barge and undercut prices so, one, scale is not necessarily always your friend there. And growth, we've achieved the growth through fleet optimization and increased efficiencies with Lehnkering performing well.

The volumes in the terminals have been a problem. Krefeld was underutilized and that's affected our accounts to some extent, which Osman will talk about our one-off adjustment there, and I'll discuss our South American business.

In rand, of course, the game changed and the translation effect gave us some nice numbers. Our 2014 average was ZAR 14.07 to the euro compared to our 2013 average of ZAR 11.43. So this is, to some extent, a currency hedge for our group.

The long-term growth or the longer-term growth of Logistics International looking backwards has been impressive at about 41% on the revenue line and 40.5% on the operating profit line. And so this slide shows Imperial's total position in logistics. That's South Africa, Africa and international, and here you can see a compound annual growth over the past few years of 26% of revenue and 25% of operating profit. And we will do our utmost to sustain higher-than-average growth rates in these businesses.

Moving on then to our Vehicle Import, Distribution & Dealership business. The marketplace here is, as is the case in most emerging markets, there is a relatively low penetration of vehicles in the South African population. Direct imported brands represent about 15% of the passenger car market in South Africa. And the passenger vehicle market generally tracks economic and consumption growth.

We estimate that for the current year, it will be about 4% to 5% down, roundabout 610,000 vehicles to be sold in the current year. It may fluctuate slightly on that in 2015, but I must hasten to add that that would probably be the fifth or sixth highest sales that we've had in the country ever. So this is not a collapsing scenario by any means.

What we have, we have exclusive – the business that many has built so ably over the years is an exclusive importer of 18 automotive industrial vehicle brands and it includes Hyundai, Kia, Renault, Mitsubishi and Crown forklifts. We distribute through 126 owned and 113 franchised dealerships. We have specifically – with regard to this target market, we continue to sell Lamborghinis and Bentleys as well.

The market opportunity going forward, this target market, I mean, in this room. Okay. The market opportunities are that the distribution platform offers us an ability to multi-franchise and add on. The notion of a multi-franchise is something that this group has evolved and the ability to capture revenue across the entire motor supply chain.

So, here, we have in terms of the – using the classic language, the barriers to entry here are huge. It's difficult for somebody to enter this market and build up a relationship with the manufacturers as a direct importer such that you are selling a level of cars that we are and have a business this size. So very defensible barriers. But the issue we'll come to in a moment is the susceptibility to the rand.

What you can see in this chart is the price increases on a quarter-by-quarter basis as reported by TransUnion. So this is the vehicle price increases, new and pre-owned. The lighter blues are the new. And you can see as well that the ratio of new car sales to used car sales interestingly has risen in the last few quarters and TransUnion, as I say, has pulled up these figures.

This is the real issue and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the greatest determinant or the biggest impact on the results that we're talking about today and will be on the next quarter. And this is just – if you look at the selling price increase since the beginning of 2012 – I'm sorry, since June 2012 until June 2014 and you look at what's happened to the euro and the dollar, that gap is clearly a gap that cannot be passed through to the market quickly.

So if you'll forgive me for, perhaps, explaining something that you already understand, I think I need to be thorough about this. If the rand moves as dramatically as it did during 2013, every car we order thereafter is at a substantially higher price. That only flows through to us once we've exhausted our inventory and exhausted the forward cover. And then those vehicles come in and with a 20%-plus movement in the rand, those – the cost of those vehicles is effectively 20% more to us. What we are required to do then is to put our prices, a thick 20% in order to make the same kind of margins and that's clearly impossible.

So one tries to put through these increases on a gradual and steady basis but notwithstanding that, what's affected is your competitiveness. Obviously, your margin and by – when the competitiveness is affected, your inventories are affected and of course, this all in what I call a quadruple whammy filters through to your bottom line.

And while the rand is steady, you're fine. This is not about absolute levels of the rand; it's about dramatic movements, which are difficult to filter through to the market. So, this slide, ladies and gentlemen, is at the nub of the – both the performance for this year and the somewhat bearish forecast on the first quarter of next year, where I just need to highlight that there's nothing of operational concern to us in either of those periods.

The positive thing is that coming out of that base of new car sales of exclusive products that we have access to, we built a car parc that is running substantially over the past few years, giving us a massive ability to sell parts and services and aftermarket value-added products.

So, in a – [ph] and not showing (33:02) the sales of that division, we're up 6%. The operating profit was down 32%, and the operating margin has dropped. We believe that you should be thinking about a sustainable operating margin for this division, much closer to the international benchmarks such as Inchcape where it's more around the, let's call it, 4.5% to 5.5% maybe touching six-occasionally-percent mark rather than some of the numbers that have been achieved in the past and really positive external circumstances.

I have to say that within this, Renault performed to expectations and we took the business over during the year, and Goscor had – we're going to say we took the business over. We moved from a minority to a control position, and Goscor had an excellent year despite declining forklift market.

Moving on then to our Vehicle Retail, Rental & Aftermarket Parts, our biggest revenue contributor this year. And as I've said, new vehicle sales in South Africa will slow slightly but be around the 600,000 mark. The commercial vehicle market achieved a post-2008 record of 30,000 units in the past year, and car rental, a relatively mature market, remains competitive and price sensitive and the growth has slowed in the last few years.

The Aftermarket Parts industry, which is in here, is mature but stable and underpinned by roundabout ZAR 11 million vehicle car parc. And our UK commercial market has been buoyed by the recovery in that economy. Pre-owned sales are moving nicely. That business we think about in three parts. I won't go through each of these parts in detail, but a very big presence we like to think that we are among the OEMs' favorite clients, if you want to call it that. That's our objective, to try and be a great outlet and retailer for the OEMs. We've got a fantastic market, leading Rental business there. And our Aftermarket Parts business, particularly through Midas, is a big business.

The business did extraordinarily well, a 7% growth of revenue and a 16% growth of operating profit. And our operating margins improved to 4.6% there, a fantastic performance from that division. The commercial vehicle sales in South Africa were up strongly, 8% volume growth; pre-owned vehicle sales improved; a satisfactory performance from car rental. We decided to run a slightly higher quality business, improving the returns by reducing the fleet size and getting the revenue per day up, and Aftermarket Parts business performed well. We have disclosed at the bottom of this slide, ladies and gentlemen, the operating profit and revenue for auto parts and car rental for the last time; henceforth, they'll be consolidated into that division's results.

So what I hope we've shown talking about the motor business here is that we have this, if you like, almost virtual cycle of being in vehicle import and distribution, being in vehicle retail, being in vehicle maintenance, being in car rental, aftermarket parts and finally in pre-owned vehicle sales and there's a great deal of I wouldn't call it interdependence initially, but certainly some logistic opportunities between these various parts of the businesses and they exist within the businesses and within the Financial Services on.

So, again, the Imperial Group numbers, this represents 46% of our operating profit, compound growth of our vehicle business up 16% in revenue and 10% in operating profit. We sell about 200,000 vehicles a year in total.

Financial Services, here we have some specialized motor-related financial services, products such as insurance and finance, and we have banking alliances with the major banks on financing, and maintenance plans and warranties play a big part. Our value proposition is centered on responsive engagement at all stages of the vehicle lifestyle, and it's our objective to try and entrench that more going forward. And our channels include Imperial and independent dealerships, banks, direct sales and niche intermediaries.

A very good performance from the business. Insurance underwriting was strong. A good performance from Regent. The investment returns were higher with the favorable equity markets, and our Rest of Africa business in the region continues to perform well.

The finance alliances continue to grow, and we believe that the impairment provisions are adequate and appropriate in that business. And there's been a good growth in funds held under our service, maintenance plans, warranties and roadside assistance through liquid capital. Also, Imperial Fleet Management is continuing to improve volumes, currently 7,000 vehicles under management there.

Financial Services, although revenue was down because we sold – we disposed a part of the business, the operating profit was up 14% and you can see the composition of the operating profit in terms of investment income underwriting and motor-related financial services and products giving us a net. And you can also see the net underwriting margin improved substantially. This, again, is the kind of cycle of our involvement with the client through delivery of the vehicle through sales, surveys and data hygiene through telesales, service and maintenance, after-sales service and customer relationship communication with a prime objective of retention.

I would suggest that most of you in this room wouldn't know whether a Mercedes dealership is owned by us or anyone else, and I think our objective is to say that to the extent that we can use Financial Services to strengthen the bond with clients and hopefully entice them to buy from us when they renew their purchase, that's part of the objective there. Our Financial Services for the group, again, the full-year trends and the operating growth profit compounded at about 12%.

I'm going to stop at this stage and hand over to Osman to talk to you about the financials.

Good afternoon, everyone. I'll go through the financial review and acquisitions. But I thought I'd just tell you that our CEO has been here for six months with us and he sounds like a good trucker, like a new car salesman, a used car salesman and he can rent out cars and he's in Financial Services. So, we indoctrinate our people quite well. You can see we've got him on size. Well done, Mark.

Okay. I'm going to go through the financial review. But in my – when I'm referring to numbers and things like that, I'll just cover some of the issue that Mark has covered because he's built up all the blocks in the five businesses that we've got, and I've got the group picture. And by talking about the group, I've got to talk sometimes to the divisions as well.

So, I'll turn over. Like you saw, we passed the ZAR 100 billion mark at 12% growth. Where did the growth come from? And we can see it's Logistics, 33%; Vehicles, 6%; and Financial Services, minus 2%, but we were not concerned with that because that was planned. There were certain non-performing books that we sold off and obviously that's what happened.

On the Logistics side, the growth came from new contract gains. We've got strong growth in the Rest of Africa that you saw acquisitions, weak currency, and the last year's number was impacted by strike that this year we didn't have. So, that's helped this number as well.

And the Vehicles, obviously, we had inflation with price increases. We had some growth in our parts and services book and we had some acquisitions there. There was a UK acquisition in there as well.

If I look at the revenue number, revenue was 2% up, we passed the ZAR 6 billion mark, and where did that growth come from? Logistics, 33%. The Vehicles were minus 14%, and you saw that in Mark's slides with the import and distribution business where the currency worked faster than the price increases could catch up to, so that was a big adjustment there.

And Financial Services, despite the lower turnover, we've got 14% improvement and that was through underwriting margins improving, our investment income improving, and some penetration into new markets.

But I think on this one, I just want to pause and just go through that – the circles we've got. You can see under Logistics Africa side, 15% last year of the group. Now it's 20% so going in the right direction with our strategy that we setup two-and-a-half years ago. The Logistics International, 12% to 15%. The Vehicle Import and Distribution from 36% to 24%, not a deliberate adjustment but that's reduced profit for the currency adjustments. And the Vehicle Retail business going from 22% to 24%, and Financial Services from 15% to 17%. So this slide proves for us that the strategy we set two-and-a-half years ago is going in the right direction.

That's just a recap on the margins, which you saw before. And at the bottom, we've got the return on invested capital. As far as margins are concerned, you can see all the margins are up except for [ph] vehicle and import. (43:00) And on the return on invested capital, we've had two divisions that were down – was the Logistics International. There, we've invested quite a bit of capital expenditure and the benefits of that capital expenditure will come through in 2015-2016. So that's brought the invested capital down. And in the import business, that's purely a function of that reduced profit. But overall, we're pleased with what we've achieved in our return on invested capital and the operating margin.

I'm not going through every line on the income statement; I'll just pull out some major changes. The amortization of intangibles, that growing about 32%. That's predominantly from the weaker currency. And additional amortization of the Ecohealth acquisition, where we acquired 68% of that business for four months, but you've got the four months' intangibles write-off in that number.

The other line that I'll focus on is the cost of ZAR 70 million with the charge for amending the conversion profile of the deferred ordinary shares for Ukhamba. As you know, Ukhamba is our BEE partner, and those shares will have converted over the next 15, 20 years. What we've done, we've shortened that conversion period. Last year, it was 12 years so we've got 11 years to go, but shortening that period meant that we have to compute the cost of that, and that was a ZAR 70 million adjustment. It's a once-off that won't repeat itself in the future.

The other once-off cost that we've got in there is the onerous contract that Mark talked about at Krefeld. We have to provide for that and that cost us ZAR 64 million, and there are actions in place that will either we'll get out of it or we'll get a reduction on our cost. So hopefully, we'll – this provision will be sufficient.

The exceptional items last year, we had ZAR 178 million that was a goodwill impairment that we took. This year, the ZAR 36 million is profit on sale of the Tourism business that we've got there. The profit was higher than that, but it's masked by some goodwill write-off this year as well. But it's a positive ZAR 36 million compared to the minus ZAR 178 million last year.

Our financing costs have gone up by 24%. There's a couple of reasons for that. You'll see when I go through the cash flow, we've got more working capital with extra working capital. That's meant extra borrowings, and the currency conversion also works against us here. And what we've done for this year, we've gone for longer-term borrowings and 53% of our debt now has a fixed interest cover. So obviously, that came a little bit of a price. But we've got good cover on our interest as well.

And then obviously the income from associates was slightly down, and that's from Ukhamba having to impair some of its investments. And the tax rate at 27.2%, we're quite pleased. It's slightly down in last year, but it's something that we believe is sustainable. And the minorities declined because of the import busines' declining income.

I'm not going to go through all of these, Mark's been through them. I just want to talk about the diluted core. And while we're emphasizing that particular ratio this year, everyone talks about basic; we're talking of diluted. And the reason we're talking about the diluted is that with the Ukhamba share is converting and fixing the timeframe meant that those deferred ordinary shares are now in the denominator in both basic and core – basic and weighted average number of shares, last year, they were only in the diluted and not in the basic. So your basic this year is not comparable to the last year basic. Your diluted is comparable because the Ukhamba shares are in both those lines, in both the denominators. So that's the reason for that.

And the gap between the EPS and the HEPS is the three adjustments I've talked about, is the Ukhamba conversion, ZAR 70 million; the increase in the intangibles that we wrote off, that's an extra 32% this year. And then, the Krefeld onerous contract, ZAR 64 million write-off. That's the gap between the EPS – the core EPS and the diluted HEPS.

Looking at the balance sheet, the property, plant and equipment has gone up by 13% and that's our CapEx investments in the International Logistics and local logistics. We've got some property in – a property in our vehicle businesses. So that accounted for 13%.

On the transport side, we've – on the transport fleet, we've grew that by 15%. Again, it's new ships and the barges we bought in our international businesses, and the transport fleet that increased in South Africa as well.

Goodwill and intangibles going up 30%. That was the Ecohealth acquisition and the Renault acquisition. The Renault acquisition was – we were 49%; we went to 60%, 11% acquisition. But the Ecohealth was a big number at – we bought 68% of that business. And that moved the goodwill and intangible number.

The investments and the loans, the reduction of 14%. That was the Regent business. It is investment portfolio, sold some of the investments and converted that into shorter-term cash. Net working capital, 41% up. That was a big jump for us. Obviously, the vehicles cost us 25% more than they cost us last year. The Ecohealth brought with it some working capital into that number, and the Renault acquisition was an associate last year; it's a subsidiary now and that brought in about ZAR 1 billion into our working capital as well.

Looking at our shareholders' interest, we were impacted obviously by – the benefit was the gains on our foreign currency by ZAR 521 million. We paid a healthy dividend of ZAR 1.9 billion. We did some share buybacks. There was a reduction in the rand hedge accounting reserve because obviously, the currency is not stabilized. We don't have a big gap between spot and forward covers, so that's not released itself.

And we have a put option. Under Ecohealth deal, we have an option to buy the minorities out over the next five years. And that option, its cost, we have to book that entry, and it's an accounting entry that we're not comfortable with, but that's a reality. It's a debit to your shareholders' equity and it's a credit to your liabilities. It's a check that you may write out in five years, maybe in four years, but you're going to raise the entry now. And that's one of the big debits that we've taken to our shareholders' equity.

And then we look at our interest-bearing borrowings. Obviously, that going up by 38% was the acquisitions. And obviously, you saw what happened to the working capital and the capital expenditure and this translation of currencies and debt as well.

The working capital, we've made the profit. How did we use our cash in our cash flow statement? Obviously, you can see the cash generated by operations has declined from ZAR 7.1 billion to ZAR 5.7 billion, and that was predominantly the working capital movements. Our working capital moved by 79%.

We spent more money on our interest, but it was buffered by the tax so that line flat with our cash, and the cash flow from our operating activities declined from ZAR 4.1 billion to ZAR 2.9 billion and that was from the reduced cash flow from our operations.

Looking at our investing activities. You can see the capital expenditures grew by 29%. The bulk of that was expansion capital and there was some in the replacement capital as well. And the movements on the investment loans and financial instruments, we've talked about that. That was the Regent swapping of the investments to shorter term cash.

Okay. So that's the full-blown cash flow, and you can see our free cash flow last year was at 102%, meaning that the profit that we generated together with the replacement was 102% but with the low profit this year and the working capital, that brought us down to 55% on our free cash flow.

Talking a bit about our gearing. Despite all the capital expenditure, the acquisitions, we managed to hold our debt-to-equity at 63% compared to last year's 50%. In terms of our funding, we raised three bonds for ZAR 3 billion, and we raised additional facilities of ZAR 1.5 billion to repay an existing bond.

And then the other thing that we did for the first time this year and we were the first list of company to register a Domestic Treasury Management company. It was the first for the [ph] South (53:03). It's a facility – the facility that we have in our treasury now that can raise ZAR 2 billion a year to make foreign acquisitions and hold your money in dollars, pounds or euros. So it's effectively – having a treasury in South Africa that's allowed to hold your money in offshore currency. It's [ph] steps (53:25) in South Africa and all those good things that allows you to hold foreign investments in South Africa.

We've talked about why we needed a higher debt, but we have sufficient facilities. We have unutilized facilities of ZAR 6.7 billion, that gives us sufficient capacity for new acquisitions, for the new CapEx we want to do, and to fund the future growth of this group.

Our return on equity, you can see it's come down slightly. Generally, that will happen in a business where it goes through cycles of higher capital expenditure, higher working capital, but the benefits of these will come in our 2015, 2016 year. And the ROE of this, too, is impacted by the lower returns and the expansion that we've done.

The return on invested capital, we prefer the kind of benchmark we've set – management that is weighted average cost of capital plus 4% through the cycle. So, we were nearly there this year but through – during the cycles, you'll find us dropping to 3% and getting back up to 5% at times. So the guideline for the 4% is through the cycle guideline.

The acquisitions we've done this year, we've done Ecohealth, which Mark has talked about. It was a Nigerian pharmaceutical business that we acquired the 68% share in, cost us $100 million. But with very extensive distribution network for pharmaceutical products and it complements the business that we have in MDS and Imperial Health Sciences. So, all in all, it's worked out quite nicely, fitting to the strategy and it gives us a nice hedge as well. And it gives us an opportunity to trade in markets that enjoy better growth than our market or some of the European markets.

The other acquisition was 11% acquisition. It was quite a game-changer because it was an associate that became a subsidiary, but obviously, the big advantage we have is that we can – it could create good downstream opportunities for the rest of our motor value chain, and you saw all the links in our motor chain.

This was an acquisition that was done after June, so this will impact the 2015 results. Pharmed, it's a pharmaceutical wholesaler. We paid ZAR 148 million for, based in Durban and Johannesburg, and again, it's another bow that we add to the logistics business, which helps us with distributing not only fuel and chemicals and food products, but now in the distribution of pharmaceutical products as well.

Okay. That's it from my side. Mark is going to talk about strategy.

Thank you, Osman. Just a few comments, the first one is that I think we are in a slightly different environment going forward. Some have called this the VUCCA environment, which is an acronym for volatile, uncertain, complex, chaotic and ambiguous. And I think both that and the size and complexity of Imperial demands absolute strategic clarity at two levels. I think it will be obvious to you that our client-facing businesses have to have clear strategies as to how they compete and when in their given markets.

But as importantly, I think that we as a group need to be very clear about what holdings, what Imperial Holdings adds as a holding company. And I think that we are working on being perhaps more expensive and precise as to the particular value-add that we add as a parent and how we create that value for Imperial. And also to recognize whether we have the skills in the holding company to add value to the divisions as they require.

I'm not going to go into the specific strategies, but let me just assure all of you that the two major things that Imperial has done over the years, as I said earlier, are entrenched and they are going to be our priorities. That is to build the group through sensible accretive acquisitions through divestments when the [ph] Street reemerges, (57:44) through driving the performance of the subsidiaries through a good governance structure. And secondly, by allocating capital in a sensible disciplined way and managing working capital. So, those two are a given.

The two further things that we will be working on perhaps a little more than we did in the past is calling the subsidiaries to account on their strategic focus and their competitiveness. And then also putting a huge amount of investment and time or when I say huge amount of investment relative to the past, but not in terms of something that will move the needle from the point of view of the results. But a huge amount of investment into executive development.

We are focusing on the top 80 people in the company in a small way. My appointment is a bit of an indictment, and I think we have to develop a stream or a pipeline of top executives. We've got some fantastic people with huge capability, huge technical skills, huge knowledge of their businesses and to help those people get to the next level of leadership and executive development is important.

We want to also – this is not strategic, but just a focus – to sharpen our executive attention and increase our returns on capital and effort by disposing of underperforming, subscale or strategically misaligned assets. For all of you, return on equity is the ROE. For me, it's return on effort. I think the allocation of executive effort appropriately across the business and proportionately is one of the important priorities that we have to look at.

And then finally, improve productivity and reduce cost by eliminating complexity. I think that Imperial is a complex business. This never happens quickly. Eliminating complexity is not a one-off. But I think we can simplify organization structures, reporting lines, legal structures, minorities, boards, accounting and reporting without any compromise to governance or control. So those are just some of the things we're thinking about.

The capital allocation for growth remains as always that we will be generally speaking, taking cash flow from the motor vehicle, from the motor value chain to fund growth in Logistics over time. But I must say I must hasten to add that that doesn't mean that we're going to shortchange Vehicles or Financial Services if they are good by organic or acquisitive growth opportunities that can increase returns.

So finally, the outlook. I was told by a number of people that Imperial has not been specific with guidance in the past. This is a particularly difficult year to give guidance on, and I can't add much to the paragraphs that you've seen in the – what's been put out there already, which is that we are very confident about our strategic position and operating practices, and we believe we can create value in the long term. If I look top-down from strategy to business models, to structures, to people, to our day-to-day business performance, all of those things get a big tick. But when the rand moves 20% on you, it changes the game. And on that basis and on that basis alone, I must stress, that we expect earnings in the first half of the coming – of the current financial year to decline on the prior period. But if the rand stays where it is and that currency movement flows through the system, we expect the second half to write itself such that for the full year, we'll have earnings more or less in line with the current year.

So I'd like to thank you for your time. I know that we may have gone a few minutes over our allocated quota, but I thank you for your time. And I believe we take a few questions or – Peter?

Yes.

Yes. So thank you very much. Thank you. Can I call for questions? Any comments?

It's Rowan Goeller from Macquarie First South Securities. Mr. Lamberti, I've got three questions for you, please. The first is you said that you picked up a historical strategy to decouple the more volatile businesses which are exposed to the currencies and they stopped the distribution business from the rest of the business. The distribution business though still is a quarter of your profits. Can you please give us your interpretation of what decoupling means now that you've had a close look at the whole business?

Second question on the logistics in the Rest of Africa, have you picked up new customers apart from the customers you've inherited through your acquisitions? And then last question, the risk-adjusted return that you'd like to see in Africa, what is that and when do you think you'll get there? Thank you.

Yes. We don't, in any way, want to decouple the business. What I'm saying is that we want to decouple the impact of rand volatility on one part of our business from – decouple that from having an impact on the whole group. I mean, your point exactly, we cannot allow a quarter of our business to affect the results of the whole group to the extent that it does at the moment. And so, we are thinking through how to do that. Already, huge work has been done over the years.

For example, the business that many has built in Aftermarket Parts and value-added products is huge today, it produces ZAR 0.5 million – ZAR 0.5 billion out of liquid capital. So, we've been doing this all along in saying that the actual impact on the sale of a new car, and that's what I'm talking about specifically. If you narrow down all of the things in our group and think about how relatively, or should I say, disproportionately the rand impact on the sale of new cars affects our whole group, I think that that's something that we have to – we're obliged as management to do our utmost to try and avoid that.

And if that means building non-new car sale-related motor businesses or building our strength in logistics or having a bigger foreign presence, which is in itself a hedge, all of those things need to be done. So, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that we're going to isolate or decouple the business. The business is an integral part of the Imperial offering and it will always be that way.

With regard to your second question, I would ask – perhaps Marius can answer it specifically. But the answer is, yes, we have seen growth in our businesses in Africa, organic, real organic growth coming from us taking on new principles more than new customers per se because our customers [ph] there, on a downstream, are – were (01:04:37) distributing. So, I think it's the new principles.

Marius, I can't see where you are. Would you like to add to that? [Inaudible]

(01:04:44)

Okay. And your last point was?

What was the risk-adjusted return?

Yes. Look, it varies. I think that what I'm saying there is that when we are conscious that there is more environmental risk or more operational risk or any kind of risk going in and assessing an acquisition will mean that our normal hurdle rate will have to be pushed out before we feel comfortable with that acquisition. You can't say ROIC plus 4% in a stable European environment with a business that's as mature and sophisticated as that is, you cannot use that to gain into a brand new business in an African country.

So I can't be specific but what I was trying to highlight is that there's a huge consciousness when we acquire those businesses and when we manage them that something more is required.

Okay. My name is Joel from JC Capital. I think my question is for the CFO and yourself. It's a follow-on question to what has just been asked with regards to decoupling or whatever my colleague was just referring to. I'm not very sure from when I look at that – your exchange rate impact on the prices. If you look at these numbers, I think the better analysis would be to create June 2012 at zero base and to the inflation adjusted price increase because if you just do this nominally, there's the inflation impact which is not really reflected. There is the growth in the GDP, which is not necessarily reflected.

And if the question is really with regards to exchange rate for the CFO, you either are going to realize exchange rate gains or losses in the ordinary course of business or you pick up translation at the end of the year. So, I'm not quite sure in terms of your capitals, capital management or capital structure whether you've taken a view to realize the exchange rate gains or losses through the working capital cycle because your working capital cycle to me suggest that either you are not managing the working capital cycle as well as you used to. There is an element of it increasing because of the additional investment in CapEx.

So, I think my question is what is your policy or strategy on exchange rate versus translation? And what would be the adjusted pricing to cover both inflation interest rate and GDP growth instead of the nominal numbers that are reflected on page 32?

I think it's common course that most retailers don't care whether they get growth in volume or inflation. The problem with us, and I'll talk about the operational side and ask Osman to talk about the translation issues. The problem with us is not about absolute numbers; it's about the distinct, relative difference between our behavior as a direct importer compared to the competitive products that are coming on to the showroom floors through the OEMs who have different duty structures and have a great deal of, let's call it, benefit from their own export activities.

So, the first call is not a financial one; it's a competitive marketplace one. And I'm saying a direct importer is at a distinctive disadvantage relative to an OEM who is exporting and gets duty benefits. So that's the real issue. We can't do a simple arithmetic. We can't take an arithmetic decision to make that price adjustment. We've got to be in line with the market, and that puts the pressure on our margins, puts the pressure on our volumes, puts the pressure on the value of stock that we hold. I mean, Osman referred to the fact that our stockholding has gone up ZAR 1 billion with exactly the same number of cars and it puts the pressure ultimately on our margins.

So perhaps, if you want to just talk about how we take it through.

Yeah. Firstly, you asked a question on hedging. Yes, we do hedge. We have a policy in the group that any order that's committed with some [ph] one size and order (01:09:48) for a vehicle, you take cover and you hedge that way. Now, generally, that works up to between three and four months. It varies from time to time. But the guideline in the group is we take cover for all committed orders and we cover that forward.

I think you asked a question on working capital. Working capital has got two elements in it. Firstly, the ZAR 1 billion of Renault that wasn't there last year is there this year. So that's pumped up the working capital because it's an associate, and now it's subsidiary.

As far as the rest of the import and distribution is concerned, our vehicles, our forklifts, all that, they're costing us 25% more than they cost us a year ago. So even if we have the same number of forklifts and cars, they're sitting in 25% higher now because that's the cost base that the cars lended us or that forklifts cost us because when [ph] we are buying (01:10:45) for ZAR 9, we're paying ZAR 10.70 at the moment. So our working capital has gone up because of acquisitions, which is the Renault and Ecohealth, and then the currency, 25%. Weaker currency is now built into that working capital of that's why it is.

The other point that was Mark was making that we're not in a supermarket or at a spare store when the currency goes from ZAR 1 to ZAR 1.10, you just pass that on to the consumer and it's automatic because in the motor business, you've got competitors that don't do that automatically. Each of our cars is benchmarked against other cars of that same engine capacity, size, and that's how the pricing works.

We don't have a [ph] car plan ability (01:11:36) because currency has gone up 30%, let's puts our car prices by 20%. It doesn't work like that. We don't have the same pricing power that some of our retail competitors or we have in our parts businesses and things like that because everyone gets impacted equally and the price goes up accordingly. Hopefully, we've answered the question.

Thank you. Any other questions?

Are there any questions from the conference call?

No. Currently, there are no questions on the conference line.

Thank you. Peter?

Well, on behalf of [ph] IAS, (01:12:13) we'd like to thank Imperial for this [inaudible] (01:12:16).

Thank you very much.