Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Mohammed Akoojee — Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
George de Beer — Group Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hi, everybody, and welcome to our Annual Results Presentation for the 30th of June 2021. Hope you're all well and keeping safe.

If I then go through the agenda for this morning, I'll do an overview and go through the operating performance. George will take us through the financial review and the detail of the numbers. I'll then recap on the strategy and look at the prospects.

So, if you look at our results over the last two years and the massive transformational changes we've made, I believe we've certainly unlocked a lot of value for shareholders, and I'll unpack that as I go through the presentation. Our purpose is now very clear. We want to connect Africa and the world and improve people's lives with access to quality products and services. And that is the purpose that underpins our strategy of Gateway to Africa and One Imperial as you know.

In terms of the key numbers, very pleasing and excellent set of numbers all in the right direction from a revenue perspective, operating profit perspective, headline earnings and core EPS perspective. And I think for me it's important we grew the business, we maintain a very strong balance sheet and we generated cash, very importantly.

So, if you look at some of the other key dials, our return on capital has returned above its WACC, pleasingly 1.3% above WACC. Our target is to get to WACC plus 3%, but we certainly have improved significantly from 2019 to get to that hurdle rate, but pleasingly up to 9%.

We've got significant capacity on our balance sheet, ZAR 14.4 billion of available facilities and cash. Our net debt to EBITDA was at 1.3 times, well within our banking covenants of 3.25 times, which was obviously helped by the proceeds from the disposal of shipping.

And two very important indicators in my mind is our contract renewal rate and new business revenue because that indicates our relevance in our markets, plus the relevance to our clients. So, 88%, I think that's been the highest it's been in the last two, three years, and then very strong new business revenue growth of ZAR 5.9 billion per annum.

We're not declaring a dividend. As you would have read in the DP World scheme documents and announcement, we haven't declared a dividend. So, the interim cash dividend of ZAR 0.83 per share was paid during the period.

If I then move on to the detail, as I said, we grew our top line. We converted revenue growth into excellent profit growth with our margins going up to 4.5%. We generated very good cash flow and we maintain a strong balance sheet, which demonstrate the resilience and sustainability of our business. We also managed and removed a lot of costs. We removed costs of about ZAR 200 million across our Logistics Africa business.

In terms of the three divisions, all showed excellent performance. Market Access showed top line growth of 30% and operating profit growth of 13%. I'll get to what impacted in our decline in margin there. But in Logistics Africa, we improved our margin and the hard work we've done in our Logistics Africa business in terms of restructuring, rationalizing that business certainly coming through in terms of operating profit growth. Sort of subdued top line growth and it's largely due to the South African economy and the impact of COVID-19, particularly in alcohol and tobacco. Our Logistics International business recovered better than the other two. As you would recall, it was the most impacted, but very strong top line growth of 10% and a massive recovery in operating profit. And I'll get into what were the underlying drivers of that in the divisional review.

And very importantly, I believe we've, again in financial year 2021, recorded significant progress against our Gateway to Africa and One Imperial strategy, which all means we've unlocked value and we certainly have delivered on what we wanted to do post-unbundling of Motus when we became a focused logistics business.

In terms of some of the positives and negatives that impacted our performance, let's start on the positive side. As I said, we had a good recovery in volumes in most of our key markets. Certain markets were still under pressure, particularly South Africa on the alcohol and the tobacco side. We closed both the sale of the European and South American shipping businesses and got ZAR 4.7 billion in from the disposals of those two businesses. And as I said, we kept our contracts at a very strong renewal rate. We added new business. We've got a good pipeline of new business that continues into this financial year or into the 2022 financial year. And we've removed quite a lot of costs.

Very importantly, as part of selling more of an integrated solution to our clients, we've implemented new commercial structures which I believe is a significant contributor to our new business gains and our renewal rates. The new acquisitions we made in the prior year certainly made a very positive contribution and our integration of those acquisitions has gone according to plan. And we certainly are achieving the objectives we had in terms of cross-selling, upselling across those businesses within Imperial. So, I'm very pleased with how that has gone. We have disposed also of the loss-making Pharmed business. And then our balance sheet management and working capital was a key takeaway from these results which resulted in very good cash flow generation.

On the negative side, I think you're all aware of the various COVID-19 impacts. We saw two times – well, three times during this period an impact of COVID-19 lockdown, July, August, then early January I would say. And then towards the end of our financial year, we went back into lockdown and that impacted particularly our alcohol, tobacco, and automotive sector – industry. We are a big player in automotive sector in Europe and there has been a global shortage of semiconductors in that industry and that obviously impacted volume in our business in that region.

Although there was good recovery from an economic point of view, from a logistics perspective, because of the imbalance of container flows due to COVID-19, we still had the impact of high supply chain costs which impacted our businesses like Imres, as well as businesses like Palletways because of high supply chain costs, people not importing product, et cetera. The impact of Brexit and the shortage of drivers certainly impacted us and that came through to some degree in the margin in the second half for our European business. And we also had to deal with a very volatile period from a currency perspective, particularly on the African continent.

If you look at our revenue trend and operating profit and total assets from the time we effectively became a focused logistics business, very positive trends, showing good growth in revenue, holding our operating profit performance despite COVID. And then, very importantly, as you all recall, we wanted to make Imperial a lot more asset light or asset right, as I say, and grown revenue, held operating profit despite COVID, but reduced our asset base which ultimately leads to good cash flow in return. So, very pleased with that over the last three reporting periods.

In terms of our industries, very well diversified with a bias towards consumer and healthcare, as you all know, particularly in our African markets. And that has stood us in good stead in my mind, I think, because consumer and healthcare are such a big part of our African businesses. And because they're more resilient and defensive, it certainly allows us to be more resilient.

But then we also have got big exposure to other sectors like the automotive sector in Europe, the industrial and commodities sector which was actually quite strong during this period, particularly on the commodity side. And as I said, we saw good recovery in the automotive sector during this period, although the second half, we did see the semiconductor issue hurting our volume in Europe. But very well diversified across key industries.

In terms of the operating performance and delving more into the detail, if we start with Market Access, as I said, strong top line growth, margins a bit down from last year, and that's mainly due to Imres where we had to deal with high supply chain costs due to lack of freight capacity as I explained earlier on. We had normalization of margins in our pharmaceutical business in West Africa. And we also had to deal with a difficult economic environment in Mozambique where we're quite exposed to the alcohol and tobacco industry. As you know, those are two main sectors in Mozambique. And because of lockdown, our volumes there were impacted. But very good return on capital from this business, 14.1%, and almost at WACC plus 3% in terms of achieving its hurdle rate. But certainly, that was a very good performance despite some of the headwinds as I said we had to face.

An excellent performance from Logistics Africa, which is largely our South African business, but also we have businesses in Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria. And we do quite a lot of cross-border logistics that this business is exposed to. Subdued top line growth, as I said, three periods of lockdown that impacted this business particularly in South Africa. But despite that, showed 31% growth in operating profit and a very pleasing margin performance to get to above 6%, to get to 6.2%. Again there, returns of capital, we achieved the hurdle rate of WACC plus 3% in this business, so excellent despite the impact of COVID.

Our Logistics International business, as I said, was the most impacted during COVID and a strong recovery in revenue, operating profit and margin. Returns on capital not where they should be, largely due to the overhang of cost as a result of us exiting big parts of that business, but there's a plan in place to address that.

If you look at the trend of our three major capabilities in terms of the logistics supply chain, market access certainly has been the fastest growing part of our business over the last three years, but freight has held its own, that's largely our road freight business in South Africa and cross-border, and contract logistics has also performed reasonably well and recovered well particularly in the last financial year. So, the margins are down from 2019 but, as I say, I'm quite pleased with the trend from last year which means we're heading in the right direction.

In terms of the Market Access business, it contributes 29% of group revenue and 35% of operating profit. I've largely covered what has impacted this business but just to make the point again, we had again a very good contract gain rate in this division. We added ZAR 1.7 billion of new business, and our Multi Market Aggregation business continues growing from strength to strength. This is where we use our key hubs across East, West and Southern Africa to sell a multi-market solution for our principals and we continue building a very good pipeline of new business based on that capability. And then, through the P&G contract that I mentioned six months ago when we reported last that became effective 1 January, and that's our entry into the consumer market access space in Nigeria, very exciting development for us as we expand our healthcare footprint into consumer.

I've covered the negatives, so I'm not going to go through that. In terms of the margin, we would like this business to get back to, call it, around the 5.5%, 6% margin. And while it'll be lower than the historical averages because consumer now is a much bigger part of this business as we've expanded in areas like Ghana, in areas like Nigeria into the consumer sector, but still very good returns on capital, which is also important.

In terms of Logistics Africa, I think a key feature of this business' performance was again new business gains. We added ZAR 2 billion of new business in this period and retained about 80% of our existing business, highly competitive market. So, very pleasing to have been able to do that.

LLP is a particular area of focus for us. This is where we combine our control tower technology, our supply chain technology to be able to sell more an end-to-end solution for our clients using technology. And that has really gained traction. We've added new business there of ZAR 1.3 billion. And combining this 4PL capability with our freight and contract logistics business is a really powerful proposition for the market. And we've seen the benefits of that in this period. So, very pleased with how we're selling as One Imperial within our Logistics Africa business.

We took out a lot of cost. As I said, there was a big focus on cost this year and that certainly paid dividends in terms of improved margins and operating profit despite a subdued top line.

Europe, certainly, we've seen Europe recovering the most. As I said, we've seen the production being ramped up in the automotive sector and the chemical sector. And that momentum was unfortunately stopped, I would say, in the last quarter of our financial year due to the supply chain issues around container volumes, as well as the semiconductor issue, as I said earlier on.

Palletways had an excellent performance this year and actually benefited from the impacts of COVID-19 because Palletways provides palletized consolidation service between one to four pallet positions, and there was good growth in that area of the freight market because people are ordering less online, et cetera, and Palletways certainly benefited from that.

We also added a lot of new contracts here, ZAR 2.2 billion. And we took out, as you would recall, costs in this business in 2019 which I think has also played a meaningful contribution to the performance this year as our top line has recovered.

Unfortunately, as I said, the automotive sector had good momentum. But we had issues in the last quarter in terms of volume and automotive plants stopping production. We had high labor costs due to that largely because we couldn't flex our cost base effectively enough. And then, also the impact of imports and exports into the UK impacted us, and this is largely, as I said, due to higher freight costs, where people are just holding back in terms of importation because they don't want to pay the higher freight costs, and then shortage of drivers due to Brexit because a lot of Eastern European drivers have left that market and it increased the cost of drivers. But I'm quite happy that we've got the business above the June 2019 performance at €30 million. That's the performance in rand, so certainly helped by the weaker currency. The average was ZAR 18.35 versus ZAR 17.32 of last year.

So, that's an overview of the operational performance by business, and I'll hand over to George to do the financial review in detail. Thank you.

Thank you, Mohammed, and good morning, everyone.

Definitely maintaining a sound financial position was a key priority for us during this financial year, safeguarding and preserving our balance sheet, and managing our debt levels to remain well with our bank covenants, managing our liquidity and preserving cash flows. Definitely impact or positive impact of the proactive measures to reduce fixed overhead cost, especially in Logistics Africa. Excellent working capital management at an average of 2.8% of revenue compared to 5.1% in the prior year.

CapEx management well below our depreciation, excluding leases; overall CapEx spend of ZAR 734 million. If we exclude the investment that we've made in One Imperial finance, operating CapEx was around about ZAR 500 million which is roughly about 50% of our depreciation. We also generated very strong operating and free cash flows despite the impact of COVID-19.

Proceeds from our shipping disposals of ZAR 4.7 billion was used to reduce our existing debt in the short term. But it does provide us with capacity to pursue our strategic objectives of investing in our strategic acquisitions, most notably the recently announced Deep Catch Namibia, as well as J&J.

And it does – we do have sufficient headroom against our maximum EBITDA of 3.25 times being at 1.3 times and ensuring that we have a resilient balance sheet in a tough, especially COVID-19 environment.

Just to confirm that in these set of results, the European shipping business was disclosed as a discontinued operation and the South American shipping and Pharmed was disclosed as held for sale part of continuing operations.

If we then just look at the group performance against our medium-term guidance, it's a very pleasing score card in my mind. Revenue up 13% and operating profit, 60%. It does come off the back of a COVID environment that was more harsh than prior year. Cash conversion on continuing CapEx of 86%, well above our target conversion ratio of 70% to 75%. Our debt capacity is between ZAR 5 billion to ZAR 6 billion. Net debt to EBITDA, as mentioned, at 1.3 times, well below the 2.5 times as our internal target post acquisitions. Very pleasingly, as Mohammed has mentioned, our ROIC, again, above WACC, 1.3% above WACC. Yes, it's not at 3% yet, but I think we are definitely trending in the right directions.

Dividends, we did declare interim dividends of ZAR 0.83. And, again, as Mohammed has mentioned, in terms of the scheme documents, no final dividend has been declared. And as I've mentioned, net working capital at 2.8%, well below our target or interim or medium-term guidance of 4% to 5%.

Just, overall, looking at the impact of COVID in our business, obviously, much less than the prior year, especially on operating profit that was just the way we continued to manage our cost base. But I think what is important is if we adjust the F 2020 and F 2021 with these estimates, revenue could have increased by 9% and operating profit at 7% with an estimated margin of 5% for the group.

Just looking at overall group P&L, as we mentioned, revenue, EBITDA and operating profit, so very solid growth of 13%, 22% and 60%, respectively, on the back of strong recovery compared to the prior year in all divisions. We did have some impairments to property owned and right of use assets due to a very weak property rental market in South Africa.

On the foreign exchange gain line, we did have a gain of ZAR 364 million that arose on the capital reductions on foreign subsidiaries. Unfortunately, that was offset by some forex losses on monetary items most notably in the African – on the African continent.

The acquisition costs mainly relates to the new acquisitions, J&J, Deep Catch, as well as some acquisitions in both Logistics Africa, as well as Market Access. And there was some profit on termination of some leases in various businesses in Logistics Africa.

Just looking at note 6 in terms of goodwill, associates and loss on disposal of businesses, the main items including these are ZAR 40 million impairment on the Axis Group goodwill. But very importantly, including this, a loss on disposal of the South American shipping business to the value of ZAR 395 million. But I think we have to look at this in the context of the overall shipping disposal. The net gain on the European shipping business was ZAR 589 million, net of the South American shipping loss of ZAR 395 million give us an overall gain of ZAR 194 million for the group on the disposal of the overall asset.

Just looking at our net finance cost, it's down compared to the prior year, most notably due to the reduction in net debt arising from those disposals. Income from associates down compared to prior year and most notably saw underperformance in the international business. And just we've got the tax line, we did increase significantly, but there were some deferred tax assets that were not raised on some loss-making entities, as well as some tax losses carry-forward in our international business. Looking forward, our estimated average tax rate is around about 31%, of which about 3% to 3.5% is related to some withholding taxes that we have due to some dividends and management fees that we extract out of various territories. And as I mentioned, the net profit of ZAR 593 million for European shipping as discontinued operations, ZAR 4 million of that was trading result for the month of July.

If we just spend a minute on the reconciliation between earnings and headline earnings, some big ticket items added back, most notably the impairments on properties, plant, and equipment, as well as right-of-use assets to the value of ZAR 127 million. We did have an impairment of some intangible assets, most notably MDaaS of ZAR 35 million. The goodwill of ZAR 40 million impaired in the Axis Group. The loss on disposal of subsidiaries, total value of ZAR 520 million, as well as a foreign exchange gain, that was a one-off item, reclassified to profit or loss added back of ZAR 364 million. Overall tax impact of the above items, ZAR 77 million. And then the net headline earnings adjustment on discontinued operations of ZAR 589 million. It gives an overall total headline earnings from continuing operations of ZAR 617 million, which is a pleasing result compared to the prior year.

Then as we disclosed in our interim results, we have reintroduced our core earnings per share calculations as we believe this is a better measurement of the group's performance. The big item adjusted on this calculation is the amortization of intangible assets, as well as some other ones-off capital items or items of capital nature, the put option liability re-measurements, some contingent considerations, as well as the tax impact of the above items and the non-controlling interest share of these re-measurements, they'll get to very good results of ZAR 4.48 per share compared to ZAR 1.42 in the prior year.

Spending some time on the balance sheet, as Mohammed has mentioned, our total asset base has reduced by close to 29%. A large part of that is due to the foreign currency translation reserve, most notably the impact on our goodwill of reduction of ZAR 832 million. And there was some impairments of ZAR 75 million and amortization, and that was offset by CapEx, most notably the ZAR 234 million that we did invest in One Imperial finance. Our transport fleet did reduce significantly most notably due to the sale of the South American shipping fleet of ZAR 1.3 billion, also currency movements of ZAR 497 million, depreciation and recoupments of ZAR 418 million offset by CapEx of ZAR 142 million.

Let's look at our net working capital, the increase is mainly due to some – the final settlements of the CPG provisions during the financial year of ZAR 467 million, as well as the normalization in trading results across all our divisions. But overall, exceptionally well managed in all the business units. And then lastly, we've completed a sale of European shipping which also took out assets to the value of ZAR 2.8 billion.

Just looking at our net debt, a very pleasing result from where we were the prior year most notably assisted by the cash inflows of the disposals of ZAR 4.6 billion, but also the cash inflows from operations before working capital movement of ZAR 4.9 billion. We did have to reinvest in our working capital just over ZAR 1 billion. We did service our finance cost of over ZAR 700 million, paid out taxes ZAR 519 million. As I mentioned, net CapEx of ZAR 733 million that also does include ZAR 32 million that was part of the European shipping business for the one month. We did repurchase some ordinary shares in H1 of ZAR 101 million to HRC schemes. Dividend spend of ZAR 279 million, both to Imperial shareholders as well as our partners of non-controlling interests. And then, we did buy out some non-controlling stakes to the value of ZAR 122 million. The leases of ZAR 1.8 billion including the final amount paid for CPG of ZAR 100 million and European shipping also at ZAR 22 million impact on that line item. And then finally, the currency adjustments and net disposal of debt to the value of ZAR 757 million.

Just looking at our equity, overall, a comprehensive loss of ZAR 41 million, but that is post an FCTR overall debit of ZAR 1.3 billion to the equity line, which sort of then sets off against the earnings rates for the year. The transaction with non-controlling interest of ZAR 250 million. The ordinary dividend paid to Imperial shareholders of ZAR 157 million, and as I mentioned, shares repurchased net of share-based equity charges of ZAR 65 million.

Looking at cash flow from operating activities, increased by ZAR 372 million on the operating profit line, which is well up from the prior year. Net working capital movement was largely settlement, as I've mentioned, on the provision of CPG, as well as the growth in our top line. And then, lastly, our net cash from operating activities, it does include cash outflow from CPG to the value of ZAR 367 million, and cash inflow from European shipping business of ZAR 211 million.

As I've mentioned, I think the CapEx line was very well-managed. Here, you can see it's close to half of the prior year, and that it was due to significant replacements that was done in the 2020 financial years, and a lot of fleet optimization in Logistics Africa, especially in South Africa. And the prior year did include CapEx related to the discontinued shipping business of ZAR 357 million.

Then just quickly looking at the disposals, associates and businesses, as we've mentioned before, the main items was ZAR 3.4 billion for the European shipping business and ZAR 1.3 billion cash inflow from the South American shipping business. We've invested ZAR 76 million in associate, Kiara Health, to bolster our Market Access business in South Africa. We did repay our lease obligations of ZAR 1.8 billion, as mentioned. ZAR 100 million of that does relate to the CPG exit, and that has not been concluded. And then just the cash flows in the non-controlling interest was – comprises of the buyouts in Eco Health at 31%, Palletways, just over 1% and the last 25% remaining in CB Enterprises in Namibia.

And I think for me a key slide in today's deck, obviously, our leverage, you can see coming from the prior year 2.8% (sic) [2.8 times] (00:29:55) down to 1.3 times, a very notable result in my view. Yes, it was assisted by the disposals of some assets, but also the way we manage our CapEx and working capital and generating cash flows. The group's liquidity remains strong. We've got ZAR 14.4 billion of unutilized banking facilities of which ZAR 12.6 billion is committed facilities. 54% of the debt is long term in nature, 36% is at fixed rates, and still, all our debt requirements is accommodated in the banking market. As I said, our net debt to EBITDA of 1.3 times, that does put us very well within our banking covenants of 3.25 times and interest covenant at 6.6 times, well above our covenant of 3 times.

Then lastly, I would just like to take this opportunity to thank the finance teams, [indiscernible] (00:30:50) and their respective teams at the head office, [indiscernible] (00:30:55) and his teams for excellent work done getting the results out in time during a very difficult period, as well as the treasury team and Willem as well as the tax team [indiscernible] (00:31:03) spectacular work done during this financial year assisting businesses and it all culminates in this set of results. And just lastly to our external auditors, Deloitte, managing to deliver a quality audit during a very difficult period especially in the month of July with other risks, but still managing to get to today and making sure that we get to a very good set of results. Thank you very much.

And with that, I will hand back to Mohammed.

Thanks, George.

Going to the strategy. These are the six pillars of our business strategy. I think if I just take one step back when we became a focused logistics business after the unbundling of our Motus business, what did we want to achieve from a strategic perspective? We wanted to move away from a portfolio of regional businesses that had deep capability, that had a great geographic presence and that had scale. But we wanted to combine that into a unique end-to-end integrated model. And that is what we coined at the time One Imperial in terms of becoming more integrated from a logistics and market access perspective and not operate in silos anymore, and really leverage our capabilities across the supply chain and become really end-to-end service provider to our clients. We've made massive progress on that. And the restructuring that that required from a organizational design perspective, from a culture perspective has been a long road. But it's been very pleasing to see how we have evolved into becoming more One Imperial offering end-to-end solutions.

I think the other major thrust of our strategy was to focus on Africa. As you all know, that is where our competitive advantage lies. And through that we decided to focus the business on expanding our Africa footprint in terms of both our Logistics Africa and Market Access business. And you can see how the portfolio has evolved towards that. Yes, these results don't include the J&J and Deep Catch acquisition, but that certainly are two very important acquisitions in terms of delivering on this very important strategy of Gateway to Africa.

So, those were the two major strategic thrusts in terms of redefining what Imperial was going to be post unbundling of our Motus interests.

And then underpinning that, we recognized investing in our people, investing in digital and data, and defining our purposes in organization was going to be very important to underpin that. And there again we've made massive progress. In my mind, we've spent a lot of time in terms of defining our culture, defining a set of leadership attributes that are needed to evolve from a portfolio of businesses to a more integrated model. And again, there I'm quite pleased with where we are. The organization is moving into a more integrated model every day.

And then digital was – it's very important as part of our solutions, as part of improving Imperial from an efficiency perspective but also from extracting new revenues out of the supply chain. And we've made massive progress in terms of e-commerce, e-commerce fulfillment. We're adding things like Internet portals in our business to allow our customers to order online et cetera. So, there has been massive progress on that front as well.

And last but not least, our ESG journey is certainly heading in the right direction. And there's a slide later where I'll explain the strategy on one slide in terms of how we as a business are adding value not only from a profit perspective, but also from a people and planet perspective and massive progress in that direction. And all of this needed to be set up from a structure perspective, a focus perspective and required investment and a lot of hard work. And I'm quite pleased with where we are today.

From an international footprint, I always said that, yes, we have got great expertise, scale, and capability within Africa, but our strategy was not only to do in-country or in-region logistics and market access, we need to connect Africa with the world. And part of that still remains in terms of how we connect our networks internationally in terms of leveraging our scale and capability on the African continent. So, that were the key strategic thrusts that underpin the future of Imperial back in 2019.

This slide just demonstrates why it made sense in my mind to focus the business to a One Imperial model. This is the supply chain or typical supply chain from inbound logistics operations, outbound, I'm not going to go into too much detail here. But the key point is Imperial touches a product particularly in the consumer and healthcare sector virtually from the start of the supply chain on the left right through to the end consumer in areas like consumer and healthcare. And combining that all in one solution for our clients was a major strategic change and shift in terms of how the organization looked at selling. And, as I said, testimony to the performance in terms of our new business volumes, our retention of our new clients because this creates the stickiness that's required.

The right-hand side is the market access demand generation piece of our supply chain or capability and that I always said was the unique part of Imperial which then we have used successfully in Africa to move back into the supply chain to then add areas of warehousing and freight management. So, the right-hand side has been a key growth driver in my mind in terms of us expanding on the continent, but adding these other services as we moved along the supply chain.

That's our footprint today on the continent. You can see in all the major markets in Sub-Saharan Africa, we have a physical presence. And it's across now market access healthcare, market access consumer, logistics freight, as well as contract logistics, very few gaps now in terms of us having capability across Imperial's supply chain to be able to service our clients there and growing. The J&J acquisition will certainly strengthen our road freight and contract logistics capability in terms of a very key corridor into Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique. And we currently do take product into those areas but through more of the North South corridor. And I think complementing that is a great strategic shift. And then, Deep Catch will expand our category expansion in terms of not only being in FMCG but moving into other categories. Nigeria for me is going to be a very exciting area of growth as we expand from healthcare into consumer.

So, just in terms of this year what have we done from a strategic perspective, as I said, I think it's been fantastic. Our financial performance was excellent. But this for me was also very well managed and achieved great results in terms of our acquisitions and expansion of the business. But at the same time, we also exited underperforming businesses or businesses that were not fitting in with the strategy of One Imperial and Gateway to Africa.

We concluded a BE deal that gives us in my mind a further edge in the South African market in terms of moving our BE to effective BE of 51% and 30% women ownership. So, very excited about the prospects of what that could mean.

And then, as I said, underpinning our strategy of Gateway to Africa and One Imperial, it was very important to focus on digital and IT. We created an innovation fund where we've now got nine portfolio companies that are operating in areas of, I would call, the new type of logistics and great progress on that front.

We've become – as I said, we've defined our path as a transformational organization and we completed our organizational redesign and implemented a new structure. And there was a big focus on people through this period of change in terms of the transformation. And we recently did a survey around how people are feeling about the improvement in the culture and whether they feel plugged in to how they can add value to Imperial. And there were very positive feedback – was very positive feedback from that. And again, as I said, we've approved and implemented a comprehensive ESG strategy with benefits.

This is a slide I always show in terms of what we're trying to achieve from a digital perspective. It is about protecting Imperial, but also about repositioning Imperial in terms of leveraging technology into becoming more digital. So, on the distributorship side, that is market access, it is about trade enablement, mobile commerce, fintech integration. All those areas of evolution or areas of digital will add to us evolving to becoming more of a business that's digital. Contract logistics, similar focus around e-commerce. From a road freight perspective, you would have read about Project Blue Fleet where we've put in our platform where we can manage our fleet in-house, and that is at massive benefits. And also, on the LLP side I spoke about earlier on, we're really seeing good momentum in terms of selling control tower technology, supply chain control tower services, et cetera.

And I think Imperial with the scale and the capability it has by aiding these very important digital initiatives, it will just take our business to the next level. But with that, we also want to align with best practice and improve Imperial. And there's a number of initiatives around how we can improve internally in terms of getting better systems and being more aligned as One Imperial through that.

This is I would say our ESG strategy on a slide. Being a clear business of purpose is we've defined that as I said earlier on and playing a very important role in the movement of goods in the key markets we operate in. We have focused the business on those areas as you see up on the slide there. So from an environment perspective, we want to reduce emissions, we want to improve our fuel efficiency and increase our waste recycling. And we've listed some of the initiatives we're doing around that.

The data-driven insights we're getting out of Project Blue Fleet are having a massive improvement in terms of our fuel efficiency, fleet optimization and driver management as I said. And then, we are exploring alternative areas of energy for our trucks. We're looking at CNG, LNG, hydrogen, and also waste management is getting a focus. So very clear focus around our role as a major logistics player in terms of the environment.

From a social perspective, it's both on our workforce. We're looking at improving diversity and inclusion. Zero harm to our people. And as I said, during the last two years, we've certainly made great progress in terms of our people and culture strategy. And that shows in our gender diversity. It shows in our employment equity numbers, et cetera. And we also want to implement safety risk prevention strategies and take that further.

And then also from a community perspective, we have responsibility to our partners. We have a big subcontractor base that relies on Imperial in terms of volume, so we want to step that up a notch a bit. We're moving towards centralized or center-led procurement, which will allow us to be able to leverage this better in terms of how we spend our money in terms of adding value to the communities in which we operate. And then governance is obviously another key pillar of our ESG strategy in terms of integrating that as part of our governance processes. And we've also, as listed there, made good progress.

So, this is now in my mind a clear strategy. We've got clear initiatives in terms of how we want to achieve moving towards zero harm to people and the environment, and we've got key performance measures now in place to be able to track this. And you'll see the detail of that in our Sustainability Report that will come out soon.

We also need an economic – socioeconomic impact assessment. And this certainly surprised me in terms of the value Imperial is adding to the communities in which we operate. And we looked at two big markets on the African continent, our biggest markets being South Africa and Nigeria. And the combined impact of what we do as Imperial was over ZAR 200 billion in terms of value. There were five key themes that came through the assessment, our people and how we're adding value as a big employer of people in these markets. Gateway to Africa is a big theme for us in terms of servicing our clients there. And that was a big theme. And then beyond that, how are we growing on it with other service providers and governments in our business.

We looked at Go Digital and Go Green strategy in terms of how that's adding value. Small at the moment, but as I said, very clear initiatives around how that can be bigger as part of value-add in terms of Imperial making a difference. And then certainly, contributing to the development of our communities, healthcare and education, safety being key CSR initiatives that we invest in as a big road user, a big provider of pharmaceutical products. And quite interestingly, our alignment just on this first assessment was within SDGs or Sustainability Development Goals as per the UN, which certainly in my mind sets a very good starting point for us as we embark on this very important strategy and initiative going forward. So, very pleasing to see how Imperial, other than just making money for our shareholders, plays such a meaningful role in terms of the societies we and communities we operate in.

This is just a slide just to recap on the DP World transaction. You all would have seen it. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this. This is all in the public domain. But just to say that the transaction is in progress and is still subject to a shareholder and regulatory approval. And we expect still to conclude this by February and, as I said in the interim, we're continuing with our daily business activities as usual. The shareholder meeting is set for the 17th of September, so that's next week, Friday. So, that's just an update on that or just a brief summary of the DP World offer which we've all seen.

In terms of our guidance for FY 2022, certainly, COVID is still around. I know we have to show numbers excluding the impact of COVID, but it's still with us. We see massive impacts on our business as COVID-19 lockdown restrictions affect us. As we sit here today, we are being impacted. Semiconductors still an issue in terms of availability, which is impacting our automotive business. July was obviously a difficult month in South Africa due to the social unrest, but that seems to have settled down a bit.

And despite the negative impacts due to the environment and the uncertainty, we expect growth in revenue, operating profit, continuing headline earnings per share and core EPS for financial year 2022. And we still expect to generate very good cash flow in terms of our expectation of 70% to 75%, which is something that we focus a lot on.

Our balance sheet is very strong as at these results. We've obviously utilized some of that capacity. If the transactions with Deep Catch and J&J go through, which are both subject to also regulatory approval, that will obviously increase our gearing. And you know the values of those deals, which will obviously be utilized to grow the business. We've got a strong pipeline of new business. And as I said, we are focused on converting that into good organic growth into 2022. And we continue to deliver on our strategic objectives.

So, from my side, I'd also like to thank our board for their guidance and support during this period. I'd like to thank my colleagues, my fellow executives, you all know who you are, so I'm not going to name them. But you have been a pillar of strength not only to me but to all our colleagues at Imperial. And I really think this was clearly an effort in my mind to deliver a great set of numbers but also continue on our path of transformation and deliver on the many, many things that I took you through. So, really, thank you to each and every employee of Imperial if you're on the line and please pass on my thanks to the people. But it was really an incredible effort to achieve all we have and still produce great results for 2021.

Thank you very much and we'll take questions.

Thanks, Mohammed, and good morning, everyone. Just one question so far on the webcast from [ph] Brian Smith from BW Smith (00:50:10). The lack of a dividend effectively reduces the proposed takeover price as this leaves cash in the group for the benefits of the potential new shareholder as does the share buybacks. What is management's view thereof of the low suggested takeover price?

Well, the offer price is, as stated, it's ZAR 66, with – and if any dividend was to be paid, it would be deducted. It's normally done that way. In terms of a dividend versus the ZAR 66, that actually is, in my mind, a tax benefit, George.

Yeah. Because there's no withholding tax on the dividend.

Because there's no withholding tax on the dividend. But the offer price is clear in terms of what the premium is without a dividend.

And then just a follow-up from Zaid Paruk from Aeon Investment. The first question is, will a dividend be considered if the DP World transaction prolongs longer than anticipated? And the second question is, do you anticipate any significant pushback with the approval by the regulatory authorities?

Yeah. So as we said in previous statements and as stated in these results, we look at out dividend at a point in time when we report and we look at obviously a number of factors including what acquisitions on the table and make a dividend decision on that. We don't have a dividend policy per se. So it's difficult to say with – we didn't pay a dividend, clearly, because of the DP World deal. But if that wasn't there, then we would have followed the same practice and acted accordingly.

Yeah. Look, we don't anticipate any issues from a regulatory perspective, but – and we must follow the process. So, yeah, it's difficult to predict how regulatory approvals are going to go, but we're positive.

The next question is from [indiscernible] (00:52:22). Are the EV/EBITDA ratio was previously quoted to the market for the sale of the shipping businesses and acquisitions of Deep Catch and J&J inclusive of IFRS 16? How does this compare to the current EV/EBITDA multiple DP World is paying for Imperial?

So, say that again.

Yes. I think what [indiscernible] (00:52:44) the multiples that includes IFRS 16, so that's just also part of the question.

And in the second question, Mohammed, how does this compare to the current EV/EBITDA multiple DP World is paying for Imperial?

We've disclosed the multiple, so you must – you can calculate that. I'm not going to comment on that. But the multiple that DP will just pay, you can work it out. You can work out what multiple will be paid for Deep Catch, and you can work out what multiple will be paid for J&J. So, all that information is available.

And then, a question from [indiscernible] (00:53:22). When is it anticipated that Imperial will be delisted from the JSE if all the conditions of the DP World transaction are fulfilled and the transaction is approved by shareholders?

Yeah. As we said, we expect it to be done by February. It's obviously quite a fluid process once all CPs have been met. So, that's the key date that will determine when we get delisted. But at this stage, we expect it to be done by February.

And with that, there's no further questions from the webcast or the conference call.

Yeah, just to make the point on about the question regarding the dividend and the offer price, remember, our board followed a very professional process around the valuation of Imperial and would have considered all of that in the context of recommending the offer to shareholders. So, when our board – independent board came up with a recommendation for that, the question you're raising around the dividend would have been factored in. So, it's not something that wouldn't have been factored in in terms of recommending it to shareholders, for example. Just to make that point. The ZAR 66 was analyzed and looked at by an independent expert through our independent board, et cetera. And all those factors that is raised around the dividend would have been factored in in coming to the conclusion. Thank you.

That's it. We can then...

Okay. Thank you, everybody. And thanks for the opportunity and the time. Have a great day. Cheers.