Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark James Lamberti — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Mohammed Akoojee — Group Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Osman Suluman Arbee — Chief Executive Officer Motus, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Marius Swanepoel — Chief Executive Officer Imperial Logistics, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Rowan Goeller — Analyst, Macquarie Equities South Africa (Pty) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Investment Analyst Society, we'd like to thank Mr. Mark Lamberti, members of the executive and of the board for once again hosting us in presenting the results for the six-month period ending December 2017.

Imperial is a company that's now, I think by my calculations, 72 years old. It's a company that is involved in logistics, the distribution and the franchising of motor vehicles. It operates under 33 countries of the world and it employs 49,000 people. The company is now part of the top 40 in terms of market capitalization on the JSE, and as a company that stands testimony on starting from very humble beginnings to what it is today. It's a testimony to entrepreneurship in South Africa, and is a company that's one of the pillars of our society.

So sir, thank you very much for inviting us and for this presentation.

Thank you very much, [ph] Peter (00:01:16). Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome. I'd like to welcome our chairman and our directors who are here. Welcome, everybody, who is on the webcast, my colleagues. I know that these days many of our colleagues throughout the company watch this webcast and I'd like to welcome them and thank them. And at the risk of being [ph] superstitious (00:01:37), I'd like to welcome the people who are more important than all of you, and that's my daughter and my son-in-law.

I always say to people that financial performance is a [indiscernible] (00:01:48) indicator. It is preceded by operating performance which is preceded by human performance, and I think what you're starting to see in these results is the consequence of four years of well-focused human performance starting to come through. And I think you can see that these four years in terms of an environment have been somewhat difficult, but we're pleased with our progress.

I think by way of the big numbers and the overview, some of you may have read these numbers already. Our group revenue is up 11%, our operating profit up 5%, our HEPS up 16%, our earnings per share up 9%. We've done a lot of work on the balance sheet, and the net debt to equity ratio is at 80%. But if you include the disposal for which we received the cash already, down to 71%. The interim dividend is at ZAR 0.0323, 45% of HEPS.

From our perspective, all key financial metrics improved in mixed trading conditions. We had a record first half revenue and an increase in operating profit. It was driven by higher vehicle sales in motors, driven by the acquisitions and by a very good performance from Imperial Logistics mainly in South Africa. Our foreign revenue and operating profit increased by 20% and 4%, respectively.

We've achieved significant progress on the capital structure, as I mentioned, and we believe that our capital structure for the two businesses to be able to thrive independently will be in place by June 2018. All of this, of course, is a consequence of us being in the advanced stages of a fairly comprehensive organization renewal. This is the growth in foreign numbers. As you can see, compounded growth up 15% over three years of revenue and 11% compounded growth of operating profit in foreign operations over the last three years.

The context was mixed in South Africa which is still the source of some 54% of our revenue and 65% of our operating profit. Right up until the end of the half year the mood was somber. We had high employment, struggling in state-owned enterprises and pressure on government finances which all eroded consumer and business confidence. We believe that new political leadership will be less corrupt, more accountable and will bring with it improved confidence and growth, but that never featured in the half year.

The rand-dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10% because of positive emerging market sentiment and a weakening dollar. And we saw depressed volumes and competitive pressures in logistics and a highly competitive vehicle market with NAAMSA, national vehicle unit sales increasing by 5%. We performed ahead of that over the half year.

In African regions, it was mixed. We had firming commodity prices and gradually strengthening domestic demand. The cost of currency and the access to currency in Nigeria improved. We had some hesitant investment in consumer purchasing in Kenya because of the elections and the disruptive political situation there. Namibia entered its fifth successive quarter of recession, and we saw some increased competition and subdued demand from the key aid and relief markets which plays into [indiscernible] (00:05:37) of success.

In the Eurozone, everything in the Eurozone improved. We saw economic growth in the passenger vehicle market in the United Kingdom, however, depressed by Brexit uncertainties. The Australian market was steady but the margins on new vehicles were under pressure, and I'll talk about that. And conditions in Imperial's remaining jurisdictions were stable. I think it's kind of obvious but important to state that our sectoral diversity and our management interventions often result in low correlation between the economies, the jurisdictions in which we trade and our own performance.

Moving on to our strategy, the transformation of Imperial, and we speak about this in the SENS and in the published results, the transformation and development of Imperial has been directed at value creation through three things over the last few years: strategic clarity, which has come from rationalizing the portfolio, managerial focus which has come from having a cleaner organizational structure, and hopefully a greater shareholder insight which is coming from the disclosure that we have tried to provide you with.

We're comfortable that our progress on all of these three counts has exceeded our expectations at this stage. The divisions are now managed and reported on separately. As I think I may have mentioned to you before, we now have non-executive directors on those boards and we have decreased in functional support and associated costs from the holding company. We are devolving functions from Imperial Holdings into the divisions.

The restructuring has enhanced a number of things. It's enhanced our management focus, our capital allocation, the interdivisional collaboration and the elimination and complexity and duplication of costs within the divisions. All of that is starting to have an effect, not just on the results but more importantly for the moment on the focus and the capabilities being brought to bear on the right assets within our group and our management challenge which is being mitigated by this restructuring. Our organization structure and management of the divisions will continually be refined. It never ends, and – but they will always be working towards being as fully independent and possibly publicly traded entities.

We work on the balance sheet and as I mentioned previously, our objective is to have these two balance sheets completely independent and poised to be able to secure and support the strategies of those two divisions independently, and we expect this to be in place by June 2018. Of course the key strategic question is whether the long-term fortunes of Imperial Logistics and Motors will be enhanced by separate listings. As you all know, there are two things that will drive this. The first will be the ability of those divisions to access and the accountable to debt and equity markets, and the second is whether you as investors will attribute additional combined value to direct investments in either the divisions, and work is in place to determine that at the moment.

We have already told you that the unbundling of motors will be the most effective path to separate listings, but the decision on whether or not we do will be taken in late June or early July following due consultation with relevant stakeholders, some of which has already started.

We've always had these capital allocation objectives. The first one is to release capital and sharpen our executive focus by disposing of non-core strategically misaligned or underperforming or low return on effort assets. Over the first half year, we got rid of some non-strategic properties for proceeds of ZAR 606 million. We disposed of our Laabs in Europe for €2 million and some smaller interest in Imperial Logistics amounting to approximately ZAR 55 million. We did also dispose of Schirm, the contract manufacturing chemical logistics business for €134 million. The transaction was concluded on the 17th of January, and we received payment on the 30th.

We've also disposed of non-strategic – what is in progress is the disposal of non-strategic properties, 27 properties at a carrying value of about ZAR 543 million. We are trying to dispose of transport holdings in Botswana for ZAR 200 million, and the disposal of 30% in Imperial Logistics South Africa to BBBEE partner. This is progressing steadily. We expect to close this transaction by the end of this financial year, June 2018, at which time Imperial Logistics South Africa – and I'm going to stress this, Imperial Logistics South Africa will become a 51% blackout enterprise which is beneficial to its relationship with its clients, and of course, we believe, the greater good of our country. There will always be refinements to our portfolio so this is not the end of it, but I think I can safely say that the major disposals are behind us at this stage.

Our second capital allocation objective was to invest in South Africa to maintain the quality of our assets, and we invested about ZAR 1.3 billion in CapEx. Our third objective is to invest in Africa. We acquired 70% of Surgipharm for $35 million. This is exactly in line with our strategy of having a bigger pharmaceutical distribution footprint in Africa, and it provides an excellent platform for growth into other East African markets.

We are now present in Southern Africa, East Africa and West Africa, becoming increasingly more important to our major principals, people like GSK, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, et cetera. The business performed below expectation because of the political uncertainty, but we have every confidence in its future based on its record and the business that it's in.

Our fourth capital objective is to invest capital to grow our business beyond the continent. We did two smallish acquisitions in the motor business. Pentagon Motor Holdings in the UK, unfortunately, that acquisition coincided with the convergence of three things which set back to the UK vehicle market temporarily. And that was a decline in UK passenger vehicle sales coming out of Brexit uncertainty, a sharp falloff in the sale of diesel vehicles and Vauxhall changing ownership from General Motors to the PSA Group.

The PSA Group have now got their arms around the business, are starting to liaise with dealers in a much more, let's call it, market development manner and we see H2 has been promising. We bought 75% of the SWT group in Australia for AUD 24 million, and that performed in line with expectations and complements our footprint in Australia. We did spend as well ZAR 312 million CapEx on operations in Europe and the UK.

Finally, we continue to invest in human capital and in IT. About ZAR 235 million went into those two areas. In human capital, the enterprise architecture project is completed and we're implementing all of those recommendations at the divisional level now. And we will continue to invest in HR technology which is having a kind of a work-centric approach using core data. Getting the core data consistent across the group has been a big challenge, but we have that now and that'll enable us to take decisions on people in an analytic and informed manner. That's now been rolled out to the second and third tiers of our management.

From the IT side, major implementations during the half year. Logistics South Africa and Africa are implementing SAP, Soloplan and IFM, MDS, CRM and financial services shows accounting systems. And Logistics International also working with SAP, Soloplan and some next generation infrastructure solutions.

We continue to explore the use of technology in our logistics businesses. Some [indiscernible] (00:14:14) market leading initiatives including using block chain to track the supply or the flow of goods along the supply chain. We're using augmented reality and some indoor navigation in our warehouses in Europe using IT for fleet management and control, driver monitoring, warehouse picking systems, distribution, market segmentation, et cetera.

I think we are very alive to the impact of technology on our businesses. In logistics, of course, we see the impacts of e-commerce, block chain, the – all completely different kind of performance centers that you're seeing these days. And on the vehicle side, we see the three major issues of electric cars, ride sharing and autonomous vehicles converging to change that business over the next while. At the same time, there remains massive investment and commitment to the current global fleet of cars, and we expect that change to be faster in some areas than others, and we believe that our presence in developed markets like the UK and Australia will make sure that we are in line with the changes that happen in the industry.

Just to recap, we haven't mentioned it in the slide presentation but to-date we have disposed of 45 businesses. Two have been concluded, so it's actually 47 businesses. We have disposed of 52 properties, another 27 are in progress. And we've now acquired 19 companies. So the change to the Imperial portfolio is fundamental. This isn't the business it was before. To the extent that it looked like a conglomerate, it is no longer. It's now a very focused two-division business focused exclusively on logistics and on motor vehicles.

I'm going to go through an operations review which has got a huge amount of detail in it, and I'm not going to, for a moment, waste your time or mine on going line-by-line but just highlight some of the more important items in the operations review. As you can see, the business today is these two divisions. Logistics has a half-year revenue of ZAR 27 billion, motor is ZAR 39 billion. Logistics, an operating profit of ZAR 1.4 billion, and Motors, an operating profit of ZAR 1.7 billion. You can see the compounded growth rates there and you can see that today, logistics is about 45% of our group's operating profit contribution and with the remainder being from motors.

Again, a huge amount of detail on this slide. I'm going to focus on the bottom sections, and you can see that our South African business accounts for 33% of our revenue and 39% of our operating profit; our African business, 21% and 29%.; d our international business 46% and 32%. For the first time we are giving you the return on invested capitals in each of our subdivisions, and you can see there that our South Africa business delivers a return on invested capital of about 13.8%, our African business return on invested capital of 20.6%, and our European business, a return on investment capital of 8.3%. And you can see the debt to equity ratio is there.

Clearly, Imperial Logistics has a very stretched balance sheet, and that's what we've been working on although almost of these have come down considerably. I mean, you can see Africa has come down 150% to 130% debt-to-equity, international from 161% to 86%. So a huge progress on the balance sheet but still fairly high gearing in some of those divisions relative to the strategic ambitions of the business.

Some of the performance highlights that the growth in revenue was supported by group performance from Logistics South Africa, a very solid performance from our Nigerian business, and CIC in Namibia also supported by the disposal and closure of some underperforming businesses, and solid results from the international shipping and automotive segments in Logistics International.

The businesses held – if you exclude businesses held for sale, our revenue and operating profit increased by 7% and 5%, respectively. The net debt to equity ratio at 91% if you include the Schirm proceed is way down from the 167% and that's due to the sale of non-core underperforming assets, very disciplined working capital and capital management and capital expenditure, and the recapitalization of our African regions. So despite the improvement in gearing, the current level is not optimal and further improvement of the balance sheet is necessary, as I said, for the execution of that division's strategy.

Going into some of the sub-divisions, Logistics South Africa, the good results came from fuel and gas, from commodities, from managed solutions and from some of the transport and distribution operations, and from a full six-month contribution from Itumele Bus Lines, and significantly reduced losses from Imperial Cold Logistics and the disposal and closure of some smaller underperforming businesses. Our consumer logistics business underperformed due to lower sales volumes in the healthcare and retail logistics businesses. As I say, the ROIC improved significantly due to the increased profitability and the sale of non-strategic properties. And excluding businesses held for sale, revenue and operating profit increased by 4% and 3% in Logistics South Africa.

In African regions, strong performance from Ecohealth in Nigeria, the acquisition of Surgipharm added to this, a good result from the FMCG route-to-market business, solid performance from our Managed Solutions business. I've spoken about this before, but we are now moving as fast and expeditiously as we can into our Managed Solutions business where we don't own the assets, but I think at the moment we are managing something north of 2,500 vehicles which are not ours but where we manage the process and agglomerate providers of transport services or owners of transport services, I should say, and align them with users. And so we are almost an intermediary managing the supply and the demand with a business that doesn't burden our balance sheet. And we've disposed of certain unprofitable transport entities in the prior period.

Imres underperformed, that's our aid business, and that was due to increased competition, subdued demand from some key aid and relief markets, and longer order to sales conversion times in some of our key markets.

The ROIC declined from 22% to 20.6% due to the increased investment in Ecohealth. We pushed up our investment in our Nigerian business from 68% to 87%, and also higher working capital in the region. Again, excluding the businesses held for sale, revenue and operating property increased by 12% and 3%, respectively.

In International, the revenue and operating profit increased by 7% and 3%, respectively. These results were supported by strong performance from international and liquid bulk shipping. South American business is doing well at the moment. It's at full capacity in strong market with optimal water levels. So we are currently using seven push boats with 84 barges and certainly to justify the capital that was put into that venture.

We're also seeing strong performances from the automotive contract logistics businesses. On the other hand, dry bulk shipping was quiet because of low water levels on the Rhine and reduced profitability from the chemical manufacturing business. I have to say that when we were at the head office which is on the Rhine a few weeks ago, you couldn't walk down to the boats because the River Rhine was so high. So this is a variable that we deal with.

Low volumes from key customers in some of the key retail and industrial operations were always not as expected. Palletways performed well on the top line but some increased costs in the UK and Italy were required to stimulate growth. And the ROIC declined marginally to 8.3% from 8.6%.

In euros, you can see the performance there and you can see that the average rand-euro rate was ZAR 15.79, compared to ZAR 15.31. And we continue to hedge our currencies in our group portfolios.

Looking at logistics in total then, you can see the compounded growth over three years for both of the businesses. And at the moment, important to note that 69% of our revenue of our logistics business is now foreign and 62% of our operating profit is foreign. And the group revenue 5% up for the period to 41% and operating profit up 7% to 45% for the group.

Moving on into Motus, again just to focus on the contribution from the sub-divisions. But here – although we've given you the numbers, I would caution you against attributing too much importance to the ROICs by sub-division because this is such an integrated business. Those of you who understand the Motus business well will know that the relationship between imports, retail, and financial services is – it's a very, almost co-dependent kind of relationship between these divisions, and therefore the ROICs by division do not really reflect the importance or the importance of these businesses on an absolute basis, but you can see their movements over time.

For the moment, our Vehicle Imports business is about 21% of Motus' revenues, 70% is operating profit. The Retail business is still the major contributor at 69% and 46% of operating profit. After Market Parts, a smallish contributor, 7% and 11%, and Financial Services small in revenue but a very big operating profit contributor.

And I think that again those of you that know the business know that the Motor Related Financial Services business is very integrated with our Import business and to a slight lesser extent with our Retail business. So, please read those numbers in that context.

Looking at the divisions, the overall performance of the division, all four sub-divisions were strong. The results were supported by competitive vehicle pricing, a gain in market share, strong improvement in our RSA entry level and smaller SUV sales and stable interest rates, which improved affordability, and the acquisitions of Pentagon and SWT.

Excluding the businesses held for sale, Motus achieved revenue and operating profit increases of 18% and 4%, respectively. And the debt-to-equity ratio at 62% compares to the same period in 2017 of 78%. And this was despite the acquisitions.

There was a very disciplined working capital management in that business, and we received some proceeds from the disposal of non-strategic properties and reduced the capital expenditure in vehicles for hire.

Important to stress as we have before, that 70% of the operating profit of Motus is not vulnerable to immediate new vehicle sales. We derive roughly 50% of other profits on any vehicle sale subsequent to the sale through Financial Services, Parts, Service, and so on. But there's an element of annuity income in the car park that pushes that number up to 77% of our operating profit not being susceptible to immediate new vehicle sale. Obviously, over time, if new vehicle sales are depressed, that number declines. But this is the number at present.

Looking at what happened to national and new vehicle sales, new passenger vehicle sales trend to track GDP growth. The calendar 2018 forecast for us is a 2% growth. We think it'll go at about 2% as does NAAMSA, 2% to 4%. NAAMSA total market for that period was about plus 5%, and we grew ahead of that.

Our new passenger vehicle sales was 66,000, about 25% up, and our commercial vehicle sales about 7,078, about 8% up. Pre-owned also up from 34,000 to 38,000; commercial vehicle is down slightly, 2% down. Our direct imported brands represent about 15% of passenger vehicle sales in South Africa, up from 14%.

You can see the various brands there. Obviously in our column there, we're talking about Hyundai, Kia, and Renault mainly. And our total market share in South Africa, including vehicles sold through our retail dealerships, is about 19.9%. Our market share of direct imports, as I said, increased from 14% to 15%, and we had the third-largest share of the total market relative to Toyota and Volkswagen. In South Africa, we sold 55,000 new vehicles and 33,000 pre-owned.

Import and distribution did well, a 10% increase in new vehicle sales. Hyundai was up 5%, Kia up 27%, and Renault up 38%, and the vehicle mix is aligned to market demand. Clearly, at the moment, there is some down trading in the South African retail vehicle market, and we are in the sweet spot with those vehicles.

Our importer market share increased to 15% from 14%. And in terms of forward cover, our Hyundai and Kia forward cover extends to August 2018 at this stage at average rates of ZAR 13.50 to the dollar and ZAR 15.70 to the euro.

And we have new trading arrangements with Renault which have rendered forward cover redundant. We are now working with them on the basis of compensating payments for currency movements, and we believe that this is an interesting way of looking at it going forward.

The African distributorships performed below expectations due to weak consumer demand and the capital deployed in these operations has been reduced, and the ROIC increased to 9.4%, a significant reduction in working capital, lower investment in vehicles, and the sale of some non-strategic properties.

You can see looking at the gap between U.S.-based cost, dollar-based cost and the selling price that the margin has opened up substantially from 2016, it had opened through 2017 calendar, and at the moment 48% of our imports are in dollars and 32% in euros.

The Retail and Rental division performed well in revenue. What we see in there is the revenue and operating profit increasing due to unit volumes and the dealerships of importer brands in South Africa resulting from the higher sales of smaller lower-margin vehicles and smaller SUVs.

The good performance from parts and aftersales management continued, solid result from UK Commercials, in fact a very good performance from our UK Commercials business, and the inclusion of Pentagon for the first time which enhanced revenue but reduced margins.

Nine underperforming dealerships were closed and our passenger and light commercial vehicle in South Africa experienced a 6% increase in new vehicle sales. The revenue and operating profit of the UK business increased by 84% and 23%, as I said, because of the passenger segment being under pressure due to Brexit, reduction of the diesel vehicles in Vauxhall, changing from GM to the PSA group. And our Australian operations increased by 12% but operating profit declined by 8% when -the real issue being that in last year, there were two new Ford models that were exceptionally successful, the Mustang being the most important of those.

The new acquisition performed in-line with expectations and our car rental increased its revenue and operating profit by 16% and 9%, respectively. ROIC reduced because of the short period of time that we had the acquisitions but the capital has been invested.

Important just to note that the market in South Africa is clearly moving from the higher levels, so the Mercedes, Audi, BMWs are under pressure, but as I said, we are in the sweet spot with Kia, Hyundai, and Renault. And we're also doing well with pre-owned because of that.

After Market Parts grew revenue and operating profit. Beekmans did well as Alert Engine Parts. Midas was flat, depressed by the market contraction and increased pricing pressure, and our ROIC decreased to 19.4% due to increased working capital and investment in a warehouse facility included in the investment capital.

The slide doesn't quite do justice to our financial services. There's a huge amount of innovation taking place in this division, but revenue and operating profit increased due to a higher profitability in our demo sales, strong growth in the loan book, and margins were under pressure because of the increased sales of monthly versus longer-term maintenance and service plans.

Again, the prior period includes a once-off income of ZAR 46 million, which is included in the VAPS business which depressed the operating profit growth here. As I say, we continue to focus on the innovation and growing fleet management business, and the ROIC increased to 59.6% due to higher profitability.

Looking at Motus in total, you can see the compound growth there and 31% of the revenue of this business is foreign and 13% of the operating profit is foreign. And I have skimmed over this quickly because there's a lot of detail in the slides and we can discuss that when we meet with you shortly.

I'm going to hand over to Mohammed to take you through the financial review.

Thanks, Mark. Good morning, everybody. A lot of this has been covered by Mark in the divisional sections, but I will just recap. Just to note, the revenue and the slide that follow is all based in continuing operations and a restatement for the prior year for continuing operations of ZAR 36 million and a restatement of ZAR 40 million so that's in these numbers.

So if we recap where the revenue growth came from in Logistics, a very good performance from South Africa and then the acquisitions of Surgipharm and the solid performance Ecohealth in Africa regions underpinned that performance. International shipping and automotive in our International Logistics business did well, and then we also benefited from the currency which weakened about 5% in euros.

Motus had a strong revenue growth of 16% due to the increase in unit sales mainly in our imported brands where we gain market share from 14% to 15%, and then the acquisitions also contributed to the revenue growth.

If we look at operating profitability, Logistics' operating profit was better than the revenue growth due to again a very good performance from our South African business and for the same reasons I mentioned earlier on. And then we also disposed and closed underperforming businesses in the prior and current period that assisted our margins in this division.

Notice the growth in operating profit was lower than revenue growth largely due to the sales mix in favor of lower-margin entry-level vehicles. And then in the UK, as Mark mentioned, the contribution from the Pentagon and SWT acquisitions came at reduced margins, and that diluted the operating profit growth.

If you look at the return on invested capital and margins and weighted average cost of capital for the group, you can see our group margin reduced slightly mainly due to the reasons I mentioned earlier where Motus's operating margin reduced. Logistics slightly improved. Return on invested capital, logistics improved mainly due to the good performance in South Africa where returns on invested capital improved from about 10% of the 13%. In Motus, returns came down largely due to the investments we've made in that business, but with those profits coming through, those returns should start looking better.

The group return on invested capital increased from 12% to 12.2%, and it was better than the divisional one largely due to the reduced debt at the center where we repaid debt through the disposals of businesses like Regent. So our invested capital as a group reduced. Our WACC is pretty much stable year-on-year. Please remember this is a 12-month rolling number and it's an average.

If we get to below the operating profit line on the income statement, what were the key items that impacted PBT. Amortization of intangibles reduced as the tangible assets on businesses we acquired have been fully amortized. We had impairments of goodwill and other assets of ZAR 114 million, the major item there being the impairments of held-for-sale assets of ZAR 72 million, which includes an impairment for Schirm of ZAR 46 million.

Forex losses decreased from ZAR 84 million to ZAR 37 million. In African regions, we had a ZAR 39 million forex loss against ZAR 153 million last year. Remember last year we had a much weaker lira, and that had an impact in the prior year. And this year we had a much smaller loss.

In Motus, we had a forex loss due to the strengthening of the rand because we have to mark-to-market some of our forex instruments, and that resulted in a loss of ZAR 52 million against a gain last year. Interest came down 9% due to the lower debt levels we carried during the period. And income from associates also dropped due to the sale of Mix in the prior period, and the underperformance MDS in Nigeria. Our effective tax rate was in-line with the prior period at 30%.

Minorities increased from the prior year due to a better performance from Renault and Ecohealth, and then the recent acquisitions of Surgipharm, SWT, and Itumele Bus Lines also contributed. Those were new acquisitions that were not in for the full period last year and new ones that were done this year.

If we move to the balance sheet, quite a lot of bullets there, but I'll highlight the key ones. Our property, plant, and equipment decreased by 7% mainly due to the movement of property, plant, and equipment into assets held for sale. That move was about ZAR 1.5 billion out of property, plant, and equipment into assets held for sale.

Vehicles for hire increased but that's in-line with fleeting ahead of the peak season in the end of December. And then our goodwill line also decreased due to also a move out of the goodwill line and intangible line into assets held for sale of [ph] ZAR 700 billion (39:33). But that was offset by the acquisitions which contributed about ZAR 950 million to that line.

Investment in associates increased. We did the acquisition of a business called Arco in the After Market Parts business, and then there was a reclassification of dividends out of receivables into investments which contributed to that, and removed some of our short-term cash into long-term cash in our Financial Services business.

Other assets increased mainly due to the increase in deferred tax asset. We had an FEC – when we mark-to-market our FECs, we had a loss that went through equity. The other side of that is you have to raise the deferred tax asset relating to that loss that went to equity.

Our net working capital, as was mentioned earlier by Mark, we had a very good performance in our working capital. Year-on-year, our net working capital improved by 20% and was in line with our June number, despite having ZAR 500 million of working capital in the ZAR 8.8 billion this year coming from acquisitions. So very good performance on that.

Main reasons other than a very good, disciplined working capital management, we had an FEC liability that sits in this line because we had mark-to-market losses on our FECs. And then, we had more favorable credit terms from our suppliers in Motus.

Assets held for sale comprise of Schirm, which at balance sheet of 31 December, wasn't sold. It got sold in January, Transport Holding (sic) [Transport Holdings] (00:41:07), and we've got properties of about ZAR 580 million that we're holding for disposal.

If we look at equity, our equity was impacted by the strengthening rand by about ZAR 500 million and that came through the mark-to-market of the hedging reserve of ZAR 200 million. And then, we also had the conversion of our foreign operations into rand, which resulted in a FCTR loss of ZAR 324 million.

We paid dividends of ZAR 762 million and we did a buyback of ZAR 113 million to hedge the scheme and it was done in an average price of ZAR 212. This was partially offset these negatives that impacted – our equity negatively was partially offset by capital raise from a non-controlling interest in Renault of about ZAR 250 million.

Our interest-bearing borrowings went up from June from ZAR 14.6 billion to ZAR 16.8 billion. So that was in line with our expectation, but you can see well down on the ZAR 20.7 billion we had in the prior period, we had acquisitions of ZAR 1.1 billion. We had CapEx of ZAR 1.4 billion since June and we also acquired the minority interest of Eco Health of ZAR 627 million and Resolve. So those all impacted our debt from June to December. And then, we had also property disposals and sale of businesses of ZAR 693 million and the rand strength which reduced our debt.

We come to the cash flow a bit. Pleasing performance on the cash flow compared to the prior year. You can see that our cash flow from operating activities before any CapEx was up from ZAR 468 million to ZAR 2.7 billion. And after CapEx on rental assets, we had a positive cash flow of ZAR 1.5 billion compared to an outflow last year of ZAR 900 million.

That was largely due to the points I mentioned earlier on working capital. We had lower interest. And then also the CapEx in our rental business was reduced from ZAR 1.4 billion to ZAR 1.2 billion.

So, where do we spend the cash? We generated ZAR 1.5 billion. We bought businesses for net outflow of ZAR 1 billion. We had CapEx of ZAR 265 million in non-rental assets. We invested in an associate I mentioned earlier of ZAR 204 million, and then there were movements in loans and other financial instruments mainly relating to the point I mentioned earlier where we move cash from short-term cash into long-term cash. We paid dividends.

And then other financing activities was well up on the prior period, but this number includes the acquisition of Eco Health of ZAR 600 million, and we did a hedging and share buybacks relating to the share scheme of ZAR 470 million, all adding up to an increase in net debt from June of ZAR 2.2 billion.

Our free cash generation was – free cash conversion ratio improved to 0.9 times from negative 0.3 versus a ratio – reduces operating cash flow was maintenance CapEx, which was ZAR 1.3 billion, in line with our depreciation for the six months. So, solid cash flow performance.

If you look at the gearing, our gearing, as was said earlier, was – has come down from close to 100% debt-to-equity. It's down to 80%, but on those graph I showed what the trend looks like if you include the Schirm proceeds. So, we're down to 71%, in line with our target gearing of 60% to 80% and in this calculation, we include the preference shares as equity.

I'm not going to go through the reasons for the debt-to-equity reducing; I think I've covered that earlier on. But in terms of our liquidity and solvency in terms of our debt, we've got ZAR 11 billion of unutilized funding. We've got a very good mix of fixed and floating. 41% of our debt is fixed fix and 75% of our debt is in the long term. And we recently got reaffirmed a national scale credit rating by Moody's at Baa3 and Aa1 on a national basis.

The returns on equity have come down, as you would see, from 2014. But at least it's now moving in the right direction, and we improved from 12.1% to 12.5%. There is again a 12-month holding number, so we do include six months in the prior financial year.

And the ROIC/WACC is at our 3% above our cost of equity, if you look at just the margin between ROIC and WACC. And then again, it's turning in the right direction. And that is largely being due to the decrease in net debt as what's explained earlier in terms of asset exiting noncore businesses and properties. And then we did have high returns during the period.

I'll hand over to Mark for the prospects text.

Thank you, Mohammed. In addition to prospects, I'd like to say a few things at a personal level. I think the first is that we intend to demonstrate our support for the declared agenda of the new President. I'd say both personally and the corporation, we are very pleased with some of the things that have been said. It now reminds for us to see whether they were done, but I think we're all in a better place than we were a few months ago.

I'd like to thank the execs. Every top executive team spends generally more time on the future than the past, but our team over the last while has been deeply immersed, and I'd like to thank the gentlemen at the table here and those that report to them.

On too much more personal notes, I'd like to, first of all, acknowledge Manny de Canha. Manny is sitting here in the front row today for the first time without a tie on him. I've never seen him without a tie. And that's indicative of the fact that he retires at the end of January.

For those of you who don't know, Manny started off as a salesman with [indiscernible] (00:47:38) about 40 years ago, left South Africa for a while to live in Australia when he was scared by the Rubicon speech, and came back and managed to convince Bill Lynch that importing cars would be a good idea.

And the import division of our business that you see today, a business that has a national market share in the 13% area, is mainly a consequence of Manny's efforts and vision through the entrepreneurial, starting with nothing and a big vision. One of my favorite professors at Harvard always said that the definition of entrepreneurship is the pursuit of opportunities beyond the resources control. And Manny had no resources and he started out, and he's built a fantastic business. And I'd like to thank you, Manny, for what you've left Imperial with. Thank you for your contribution to our group.

Our near-term expectations for Imperial are unchanged. We anticipate good results for F2018, and we've been very specific about how we see the next six months will be. Our capital efficiency will continue to improve. Both Imperial Logistics and Motus will increase revenues and operating profit at a higher rate in the first half, and the Holdings will increase revenues and operating profit at a higher rate in the first half. And we will produce double-digit headline earnings growth per share substantially higher than the first half, off the low base of 2017.

The second fairly personal comment I'd like to make relates to the debacle that happened in corporate South Africa during December with one of our largest companies collapsing. And I'd like to just frame our position on this by telling you that in 1978 when I was 28 years old, I wrote a management credo of six principles that I thought would be the way I would like to run businesses in the future. And I just like to read to you the six of these, which is called, The Rights of Ownership.

And what it says is that equity owners in a capitalistic economy have clear inalienable rights at all times to exercise effective ownership over their own equity. Dilution of this fundamental right by management under any guise or virtue, whatsoever, is irrefutably undermines our corporate integrity and will not be tolerated even in the smallest way.

I emphasize this, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that Imperial is completely committed to good governance, completely committed to disclosure, and completely committed to transparency. Sometimes, you ask questions which are difficult for us to answer because they'll expose to us to our competitors, but we will do our utmost to do. And if those questions relate to issues that haven't been disclosed in our normal disclosure, we'll answer your question and publish it on the website as soon as we can.

So, I just wanted to stress that the issue of disclosure and transparency is part of the ethos of Imperial and we hope to make sure that we don't fall short of your expectations in helping you understand what you own.

So, with that, I'd like to say, yeah, we thank shareholders for their support and we'll continue to do what we say we're going to do. Thank you very much.

We will take questions. Any questions from the website – webcast, I should say?

Hello, guys. Interesting set of results. Just can you please help me out? Explain this to me, Mark. In your import, distribution business, you saw 10% more cars than you did first half last year at lower cost of sales but still ended up with lower margins. How's that possible?

Mainly because the gross margins, if you want to call it that, are compressed on those lower-level entry vehicles.

So, are you...

Although our cost was lower than was previously, the selling price was too, so we compressed the margin.

Looks like Osman wants to say something.

Can we get a mic here?

Thanks. [ph] Mohammed, you'll disappoint us if you'll answer the questions (00:52:12). So if you look at the Kia range of vehicles, in the six months, we got the Kia – the new Rio and the new Picanto. Those are lower-margin vehicles, high-volume vehicles and a lot of those vehicles went into the car rental pool as well. So you can see our volumes are up a bit and at lower margins. And like Mark said earlier that people are done buying to the small hatch and the small SUVs. The small hatch and – the volumes are good but had lower margins. And the smaller SUVs have a better margin, but the Kia range had a good entry into the entry-level vehicles.

The other side was in Renault, the entry-level, the Kwid, has been bringing very good values, but also bringing lower-margin vehicles. You buy a Kwid with insurance at ZAR 129,000. Low margin, but good volumes.

So if I understand this, is this trend going to continue to the second half or you expect that to change?

That is Kia's concern. It'll normalize, and Renault will normalize as well because the Kwid was sold last year in the second half as well. So, we should be able to normalize this trend in the second half.

So, last question. On the European Logistics business, again the performance was a little bit light. You spoke about higher water levels at rain. How did that affect your performance? And secondly, this business has been struggling for a while for the last couple of years and these numbers include the acquisitions from Palletways. Can you maybe give us a little bit of insights into why the underlying performance has been soft, if I may say?

Yeah. I think look into the detail of the complete realignment of their portfolio. We've sold a lot of things and bought a few things. I think the real issue is that we've been in some sectors that never enjoyed the European growth that we are seeing. So, in the end, water transport really never benefited from the general growth in the European economy.

Marius, do you want to add anything to that?

I think the high water level is only for the pretty small part of that six months. It was the low water levels that affected us, we believe, in the first six months. We only experienced high water level from them last December, and then we also saw that the steel industry has declined in Germany and we're still a player in that industry. You don't exit it just like overnight, but I think the rest of the business – automotive and South America on the shipping side did quite well. That's why we saw the [ph] drive (00:55:07) in the revenue there.

Yeah, two points to add. You'll see certainly better performance from Palletways in the second half. And what might be interesting to you, we don't actually disclose it in detail, but the organic growth in Europe is reasonable, better than the other two divisions of Logistics.

Morning, gentlemen. [indiscernible] (00:55:37) Just two questions from my side. One is in the SENS announcement, there was a comment about core earnings is no longer relevant to financial measure guides and discontinued. Can you just explain the rationale behind that, because from my understanding the post, that was a metric that a lot of our analysts believed to be fundamental?

And then secondly, looking after Logistics South Africa business as well as the African logistics business, can you just spread out the incremental ROIC on the businesses, excluding the held for sale business? Because it's difficult to see on an ongoing basis what exactly is happening to ROIC. Thanks.

The core earnings per share measure was put in a few years ago to largely normalize for the amortization of intangibles. And with those intangibles assets, as I referred to earlier in the presentation running off now, the gap between core earnings per share performance and HEPS performance is closing. So we don't see a need to have another earnings per share. HEPS is the accounting measure and we don't think it's any more relevant to disclose that.

The other thing is we've also moved away our dividend payout ratio away from core earnings per share, which is what we used to do, and we moved to HEPS. So HEPS is now the core measure and is the accepted accounting way. We did it at a point in time, but as I said, it's no longer needed.

Back on final question.

I'm sorry, what was the other... [indiscernible]

(00:57:1900:57:21)

Oh, yes. So the held for sale in Africa was very small. It was a tiny business. So, that business was a business is Botswana. So the number we've disclosed now is virtually the – a continuing number for Africa regions. Sorry, it wasn't big business. So you can see the numbers in the segment report.

I think the question is [ph] what it hasn't been affected there (00:57:46).

Well, also minimally. These are not big businesses that we disposed of, and we returned some more in the invested capital sum. So the numbers we've disclosed now, you can take as a sustainable ROICs and WACCs as well for South Africa and African region.

Anything from the webcast?

There are a couple of questions from the webcast. The first one comes from [indiscernible] (00:58:13). [indiscernible] (00:58:16) the changes to Renault. What are the amounts relating to the hedge broken? Was this treated as headline or abnormal or is this to come in the next half? Thanks.

I'm just understanding the question. So that was on the Renault hedges.

That's correct. It's – just running through the changes at Renault, and what is the amount relating to the hedge that was broken? Was it treated as headline or abnormal on the income statement and is this to come in the next half of the year?

Okay. No hedges were broken. What happened – we had hedges up to the end of September and middle of October. So we used those hedges to settle with creditors. And the shareholders, they took a decision not to take cover and that's effective from 1 October onwards, and that's the principles we follow. The shareholders have taken the decision [ph] – preview (00:59:15) that decision at 30 June 2018. So, there weren't any additional costs incurred in any hedges. I said that we don't have forward cover at the moment.

I'll just add to that. The hedges that we unwound in the previous financial year was taken to headline earnings in 30th of June. So we didn't – it was included in the headline earnings, just to clarify the second part.

Thanks, gentlemen. It's Rowan Goeller from Macquarie. Quick question on the working capital movements in Motus, on the import business, working capital declined to the benefit of your ROIC. It increased on the retail and rental.

Was there a link? Was there a shift of working capital, or were the individual businesses seeing just changes in their working capital irrespective of the shift? Because there was an adjustment I see in the way you report this. It looks like profitability moved from one to the other in those divisions relative to you reported previously.

As far as the importers are concerned, we had extended terms. I think Mohammed mentioned that. We had extended credit terms. So obviously, we paid debt only after the half year-end. Stocks were at a low level as well. The ships only came in in January instead of December, so we missed one shipment of stock that wasn't here. So that only came in in January.

On the retail side, our stock had gone up both in new and used. On the new side, in one of the brands, there was going to be a change in the way we earn our money and the way we place ourselves in the future. And we bought extra stock in one of the franchises and that's held us in good stead because we're selling those vehicles now in January and February at good margins. So we have that.

As far as the car rental business is concerned, we had a good run with international tourism and leisure business, so we stocked up cars for that particular season. And we had a good run in December and obviously January runs a bit late, but we had a good run in December in car rental. So, we all have good reasons why the working capital was low in the importer, high in the retailer, and the car rental had some costs as well to accommodate the high season demand.

We'll take one more question. Nick?

Thanks, Mark. So I'll just come back to the Palletways. Can you just elaborate on the additional cost you had to put in sort of – was that to drive the growth that you actually saw? And is that no additional, hence the confidence in the second half?

My answer is yes but, Marius?

We had costs that we incur sometimes with our – the third-parties with the members. And so we had additional cost to support the members in the first half and that was the only – part of that is normally also due to the [indiscernible] (01:02:21) for growth in more volumes that come through with it. And you will see that – the minute that you've got an increase in your rates that normally happens in January-February, you see a normalization then in net cost coming through.

We call them postcode costs.

And when you talk about the business in terms of when you get to the end of June, what in your view is the optimal level of gearing in Logistics? If you're suggesting it's sub-optimal now, where do you need to get to and how do you that?

Well, I think there's two parts to that. The one is what would be optimal if we were going to be a stable-state business growing at normal kind of rates? The other is whether we believe we need firepower to grow the business faster and perhaps through acquisitions.

Let's assume that one.

Say again?

Let's assume that one, the second one.

Great. If to assume that we need to be better geared than we are now, probably around 40% to 50%, but don't hold me to that number. We'll do what we can.

And that's just...

I mean, particularly in the case of Logistics, we think something is required there for that business to have real firepower going forward.

And then just finally on the UK sort of automotive part, what is your exposure to sort of diesel cars within the dealerships you've bought across the brands given the sort of emissions, sort of confusion in that space that's sort of permeating that market at the moment?

Well, both in our business and in Vauxhall, there was an overcapacity of diesels. Diesel sales in the UK came off 30% over the period. That's normalizing quite quickly. We weren't caught with too much stock, but petrol brands are coming through, and we think we're going to be fine for the second half.

So, not overly concerned. It's a step change. I think it's one of the step changes we can expect as the motor industry evolves over the next few years. And it's also interesting because in Germany, they still have strong support of diesel. So, this is almost a country response. But it's something that, as I say, both Vauxhall and ourselves are accord with. But it will be out of the system during this financial year.

Thank you. [ph]

Kwame, second line (01:04:48).

Sorry, Mark. The last one. You've got hedges in place at ZAR 13.50 just for the dollar. The rand is trading around ZAR 12 now.

Yeah.

Is this level – do you think you can trade yourself out of this level? And if that's not the case, do we see another FX loss coming through in the second half?

When we prepare these budgets, obviously we prepare it to a much higher rating, in fact, than the ZAR 13.50 as well. So we're looking positive as far as budget is concerned.

However, what is happening in the six months here is we've got to cover ZAR 13.50. We were pleasantly surprised that the Koreans have come to the party to assist us to make sure that we can write the stock out for the orders that we have at the current cover without any major changes to our margins. So, we've got assistance from our OEMs to help us through the next six months.

Just to confirm, no possible hedges being broken and no – we don't expect to see any costs from that front into the second half.

Now, you wouldn't see cost from broken hedges, but just remember, you always have either profit and loss at year-end or at half year-end when – depending on what the forward cover is and what the rate is at spot at that point in time. So you'll have that entry, but that's a normal entry that happens throughout. But, no, there wouldn't be any hedges that we break that we did last year this time.

Okay. And I think we're overtime. So, we'd like to thank you all very much for being us with this morning. I think we have some refreshments. Thank you, all. We look forward to seeing you in August. Thank you.