Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark James Lamberti — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Mohammed Valli Moosa — Non-Executive Director, Imperial Holdings Ltd.
Nick Webster — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mark Lamberti, the executive, the members of the board of Imperial Group, the Investment Analysts Society. Once again, I'd like to thank you for hosting us for the period, for the results and cheering in the results for the period ending June 2017. From small beginnings, great things come and I remember Barney, Super Service Station, I think it was the low end of [ph] JP Street (00:27). I'm not sure if they had one petrol pump or two petro pumps. But from that in the late 1940s today, we have a company that has got a market capitalization of ZAR 37 billion, is represented in 6 continents in 34 countries and employs over 49,000 people and a company that is focused on logistics and in the motor industry in terms of distribution and franchising.

Imperial is a company that makes an enormous contribution to our society. If you think of the magnitude of its footprint, both here, Europe, Africa and South Africa and the employment it offers, something to reflect on. It's a company that stands in our midst and is appreciated, not only by investors but the significant part it plays in South African society. So, sir, thank you. Thank you for hosting us and we share to you in the results and hopefully get an insight as to what the future holds.

Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Peter (01:49).

Thanks. Well, good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome. It's a pleasure to have you all with us. Just by way of pleasantries and introduction, is [ph] Roy Cocker (02:04) in the audience? He's not. I wanted to congratulate him on that marvelous award that he won a few days ago. I'd like to welcome you all in from the investment community. Those on the website, and of course, our chairman and directors who are in the front row here.

We are extremely pleased with these results. We think that they signal a huge amount of progress over the last year and many things that we've been working on and contemplating for the last three years are coming to fruition. So we present these results with some pride, but still with some humility today.

By way of overview, we generated ZAR 119 billion of sales. Our ongoing revenue that is from businesses that we will hold in future was up 5%, up 1% for group revenue. Operating profit up 2% to ZAR 6.5 billion and ongoing operating profit up 3% at about ZAR 6 billion. The HEPS, EPS and core EPS numbers are there. Our HEPS down 10% and we'll explain that in full shortly.

At the suggestion of many of you, we've reduced the dividend and we'll talk about that as well. We did achieve all of the strategic operational and financial objectives that we announced at the start of the year. I think that it is quite perhaps risky to go out with one year guidance a year out, but this is what we did a year ago, and we've – if you go back to those original documents, we've achieved exactly what we said we would.

Most importantly, all of our activities are now consolidated into two large increasingly self-sufficient divisions, which we call Imperial Logistics and Motus today. All of the divisional structures are in place and ahead of the original plans and we are reporting as you will see in the documents according to the new divisional structure. There's one element of that, that we're still working on and you should have it by the half year and that's the proper allocation of capital to the subdivisions, which will enable us to give you a better sense of the returns on those, but we're working on that.

We have, as I said, record revenue and profit supported by the Palletways acquisition, a great performance from Logistics South Africa and from motor related financial services. The currency movements resulted in some significant foreign exchange losses that depressed the headline earnings. We are very confident that that was a one-off and we'll explain that to you in a moment. And we have currency movements, which resulted in – sorry, we have a net debt-to-equity ratio, which came down from close to 100% at the half year, down to 71% now, and an appropriate capital structure and balance sheet largely in place. Our foreign revenue is unchanged and foreign operating profit up slightly 3%.

Here, you can see the foreign operations. 43% of the group at the revenue level, 37% of the group at the operating profit level, and of course, negatively impacted via the strengthening of the rand since 2017. We continue to focus on the growth of foreign operations for the most important reason for that being that we have very, very significant market shares in both logistics and in motor vehicles in South Africa. And therefore, the chances to expand will be limited either by the Competitions Commission or in the case of the motor business by the OEMs that don't like any single operator to have too big a share.

Our non-vehicle revenue and operating profit is up. We still talk about this because of the sensitivity of non-vehicle – of vehicle operations to currency and our non-vehicle revenue is 43% of group revenue today and operating profit 45% of group operating profit. And as I say, it's still an imperative to grow these revenues and profits, which are less susceptible to currency volatility in order to reduce our exposure to the exchange rate issues particularly around imported vehicles.

The context was of course interesting and changing. I'm not going to waste time talking about the politics that annoy us all every day. But in South Africa, which accounts for 57% of our revenue and 63% of our operating profit, there was of course low economic growth entering the technical recession in the third quarter of our year, rising unemployment, low business confidence, fragile consumer health, and of course, that contributed to a reduction in logistics volumes, a 7% decline in national new vehicle sales. That's over our financial year by using the NAAMSA definitions. So this is not NAAMSA figures, which are normally for the calendar year, and of course, a volatile rand and a slowing vehicle market, which resulted in the foreign exchange losses.

In our African regions, which is about 10% of our revenue and 13% of our operating profit, we continue to be very proud of the business that we booked there virtually in five years. It's a business that's heading towards making ZAR 1 billion operating profit, somewhere around about ZAR 11 billion in sales, but slowing GDP growth and rising inflation and interest costs depressed consumer demand in those countries, many of those countries.

We had currency volatility specifically the Naira, which devalued about 41% and the Metical, which devalued about 37% on average, which impacted our monetary items. But of course, the parallel rate, for those of you who look closely at it, of the Naira strengthened late in our second half and we obtained greater access to foreign currency in that period as well.

In the Eurozone, UK and Australia, we had 80-year low water levels on the Rhine. We had lower demand and pricing pressures on steel, energy commodities and construction sectors in Germany. We had a steady UK economy, supporting logistics and vehicles businesses. We felt no Brexit impact to-date. The Prime Minister's decision of course has changed the way people look at that situation. She certainly doesn't have the strong hand that she wanted to deal with the Brexit and we'll see how that pans out. But to-date, it hasn't affected us, and of course, the strengthening rand depressed the translation value of our foreign operations, but we'll indicate throughout this presentation what the growth was of these businesses, our foreign businesses in the local currencies.

In terms of strategy, these are the challenges that Imperial faces. Listed here not necessarily in order of importance, but certainly in the way we think about them. High market shares in logistics and vehicles in a structurally low growth. South Africa is an issue for us. Just to give you a sense of the currency impacts, we import about ZAR 14 billion, either in vehicles or parts. We have ZAR 8 billion of foreign debt. We trade in four major currencies being obviously the ZAR, the U.S. dollar, the euro, the pound and Aussie dollar, and we have about 17 secondary currencies. So, it's a tricky currency game and of course, the currency volatility affix our competitiveness and it affix our hedging. And over the longer term, weakening rand affects working capital, the same number of calls that we had in inventory last year is significantly more in rands this year, it affects our competiveness, if it moves sharply and it affects our acquisition currency.

Our Logistics business although every move we make is to make it less capital intensive, it is still a relatively capital intense business, trying to transform the organization and put great succession in place is challenged by a low-growth environment, it's always easier to deal with executive development issues in a fast-growth environment, and of course over the medium-term there are the impact of disruptive technologies and innovation on our logistics and vehicle sectors. I think much has been made of – and rightly so of the impact of electrification, ride-sharing et cetera. I would just caution you to think about the installed base of vehicles the fact that the capital employed in this industry by the OEMs is massive, and that even the most optimistic people believe that electric cost will only get to be something like a 20% by 2030, and that of course will be in the developed markets. So we note these things we are building our business to be resistant and accommodative of these major trends, but they don't worry us for the short-term.

To spend a little bit time on strategy because it's clear that this can easily be misinterpreted. The amount of effort we've applied to re-digging this portfolio was simply and solely directed at this point which is to try and make the subsidiaries of our business more competitive. And you may ask, well, how does what you might even call manic M&A help a business to be competitive. Well, quite clearly, we were trying to agglomerate our businesses into a logical agglomeration that facilitates value creation between the businesses. If one has an agglomeration of assets or businesses, between which there can be no sharing, collaboration, cost savings et cetera, then it doesn't make entire sense. And I think, this is a massive shift in the way we look at Imperial today from what we might have looked in a different time and place a few years ago.

So, the consequence of that is that today we disposed 42 businesses and 52 properties that were underperforming of low return on effort or strategically incompatible, we – these businesses generated revenues of ZAR 11.2 billion and operating profit of ZAR 982 million and employed ZAR 4.2 billion of capital at the time of sale and we've acquired 15 companies investing ZAR 5.4 billion generating a revenue of ZAR 13.7 billion and operating profit of ZAR 880 million in their first full year of operation.

This is a trade-off of returns that we were getting from businesses, that were not sustainable in our view, to which Imperial could not add value over the long-term in favor of by just by virtue of those numbers you can see that they're slightly lower return businesses but we see growth in them, we see opportunities to realize greater value through the things that I've mentioned.

So, this getting portfolio coherence was step one in this strategic journey. The second one, and I always use the comment that groups do not compete only subsidiaries do. And the second part concurrent I should say is that we've got all of our subsidiaries to start to be much much clearer, about their competitive position about the value proposition that they offer to clients, and what capabilities they are going to put together in order to be able to serve the competitors better over a long period of time.

So, these two things have marched in step together over the last few years. And I think, we are much closer, we are certainly, closer to having the portfolio we desire in the first instance, and we have businesses that are much more competitively aware than they were some years ago, in the second instance.

And what is our role in all of this now, as a holding company.

Well, the rationalization of the portfolio and the clarification of strategy have ended up with these two divisions in Imperial Logistics and Motus. They are now separately established and reported on. We have separate boards, both of those boards now include external directors and we have separate executive committees, separate reporting processes and they're looking more and more like two separate businesses with an increasing focus on having independent balance sheets during the course of this year.

We remain of course and obviously the entry point for providers of debt and equity and we as a holding company or the custodian of strategy, governance and succession, which we will be for some time. The restructuring has enhanced management focus. It's enhanced capital allocation. It's enhanced the intra-divisional collaboration and it has eliminated some complexities and some duplication and cost within the divisions. And obviously that there is further portfolio and competitive refinements inevitable, but we believe that these changes have irrevocably altered the fundamental trajectory and future of Imperial Group, which leads to the following point and that is that work is currently in process and it has been for a few weeks now and to determine the viability and the benefit to Imperial shareholders of listing Imperial Logistics and Motus separately. And following proper consultation with the relevant stakeholders, we're making a commitment to make an announcement in this regard before the start in next year.

Having said all of that, our investment thesis is unchanged and we made steady progress with each of the five capital allocation objectives and I'll go through those very briefly. The first one is that we will release capital and sharpen executive focus by disposing of non-core strategically misaligned or underperforming or lower return on effort businesses and in that during the current – past year, the Regent transaction Regent transaction was concluded, the small change to that transaction at the end that played right into our hands, because we never really wanted to get rid out of the VAPS business, but sort of the entire package would be a more compelling proposition for a buyer. In the event we've kept that and so this is absolutely fulfilled our strategic objective, which is for us to have a financial services business only and solely related to the motor vehicle business.

And there are non-strategic properties were sold, our minority stake in mix, we are not entered in the caravan business anymore, 51% control of 10 entities in the AMH group were sold, and in the other – two other smaller transactions here or three other smaller transactions, which you can look at. The disposal of these businesses in the current year, generated proceeds in excess of ZAR 3 billion.

There are other disposals, still in progress, we are looking at non-strategic properties, 21 properties with the carrying value of close to a ZAR 1 billion are held for sale. And we've commenced the transaction process to introduce the 30% BBBEE shareholder into Imperial Logistic South Africa, I must stress that it's just the South African portion of Imperial Logistics by virtue about of our existing black ownership through the group, that will result in Imperial Logistics South Africa becoming the 51% black owned enterprise.

And as I said briefly previously although most of the disposals have been concluded we'll continue to analyze this strategic and financial performance of businesses, and there will be refinements within the portfolio of both the visions over the medium-term.

Our second capital objective was to invest capital in South Africa to maintain the quality of our assets and our market leadership in logistics and motor vehicles, we acquired a stake in Sasfin Premier Logistics, we acquired we acquired 55% of the Itumele Bus Lines, and we acquired the remaining 10% minority stake in Midas and we have invested about ZAR 1.9 billion CapEx in South Africa.

Our third objective was that we will invest capital in Africa, an attempt to have African business be the size of our South African business, which we see as possible by 2020. We bode 70% of Surgipharm, this is a very important acquisition for us, because this gives us, we now have coverage in West Africa, East Africa and Southern Africa, and of course as we get more into those businesses and develop the – if you like the maturity of the leaders that are running them, which all becoming second generation leaders now. And in all of these businesses, we are very focused having both the business from a founder to say, who runs it when that founder is gone, and as we bring in those new managers, we're seeing abilities or should I say opportunities to talk about a continental footprint together with our – particularly with our pharmaceutical business in South Africa. So I think you can see that the kind of conversation that we now have with GSK, or with Pfizer or with AstraZeneca, with that kind of African footprint is a very different one. So Surgipharm kind of completed the block and we will work on the collaboration between the entities now going forward. Our Managed Logistics business was expanded in Nigeria and Ghana and we spent a small of amount of CapEx in Africa.

Our fourth objective was to grow our businesses beyond the continent, the big one of course was Palletways and Palletways itself acquired a business and at post year-end, we acquired Pentagon Motor Holdings for a cash consideration of ZAR 493 billion, we announced that a few days ago. What we haven't announced is a small acquisition that we've just done last week, which is a 75% of the SWT Group , 16 Australia dealerships for a cash consideration of ZAR 254 million. For two of those you can buy a media company within the finance.

Objective five was the development and sustainability of Imperial, which will be underpinned by investment in human capital and information systems. Our total CapEx on human capital and information systems was ZAR 371 million. Just to give you a sense of this, human capital has been a big investment in Chief People Officers in the divisions, a human capital practitioners, understanding enterprise architecture and human capital and we put in place – we are putting in place human capital and information systems and this is creating the foundations for an executive talent management which is now pretty much established using the data centric approach to executive development for skills and leadership capability for transformation and succession.

We've now extending – extended this to the second and third tiers of management and I think it's interesting to note that, 23 of the top 35 people in this business today are in different roles to what they were a year ago. Our information systems investment continues and there's been a major development of our online and social media capabilities. I would like you not to think about technology in terms of information systems alone, there are huge pools of technological expertise in this business ranging from taking inventory with drones as you see in that picture, right through to the kind of thing I experienced a few weeks ago in Nigeria, where we are using pretty sophisticated satellite, obviously GPS technologies to monitor and to segment markets at the point of sale in Nigerian pharmaceutical markets, I mean to be able to plot the path of a distributor, some of the services – servicing the outage that we distribute to and to be able to optimize the way they work and to understand what they're doing through technology is actually quite something else and of course we've got warehouse picking systems, driver monitoring and so on. We have cameras in our trucks, so that we can see how people are driving and so on, and so on. So, there is a lot of technology beyond obvious information systems.

And going through the operations then in, our two big divisions today are as I said Imperial Logistics and Motus, ZAR 50.7 billion and ZAR 2.8 billion operating profit from Imperial Logistics and ZAR 66 billion and ZAR 3.3 billion revenue and operating profit from Motus and you can see their contributions to the group there and their compound annual growth rate of operating profit.

Imperial Logistics today is run in three divisions and again at the bottom of the page that you can see their contributions to the group and above that, I am not going to read it, but you can see the language that we're using to describe the strategy of this business, we are moving more and more towards thinking about this business in terms of verticals rather than anything else and we'll define that more clearly by the next time we see you, but as you can see, we have deep expertise in transportation, warehousing, and distribution management and we are serving global and local market leaders in the – with supply chain and route-to-market solutions in chemicals, healthcare, automotive, and so on.

And the strategic objectives of that division are there, I'm not going to go through each of those, but the performance of course, the revenue and operating profit growth was supported by of our Palletways and Itumele acquisitions, a solid performance from Logistics South Africa and an excellent performance from EcoHealth in Nigeria. Excluding acquisitions and disposals the revenue and operating profit growth declined by 3% and 7% respectively partly due to the strengthening of the rand by 8% against the euro and 6% against the dollar.

Going through the subdivisions, South Africa had a strong support, strong performance, supported by good volumes in the commodities fuel and gas operations, and a solid performance from our managed logistics and resolve businesses. Again, for those of you who are not familiar with the Managed Logistics business, perhaps the easiest way to kind of understand this is it's kind of an Uber for trucks. And what we do is we match the supply and demand by using independent operators to use their balance sheet and their capital to own the trucks. We provide them with – let's call it a one-stop user of their trucks and we manage the demand to use those trucks on the other end, and we use pretty sophisticated technologies to do this. So a very interesting completely capital light business that's now moving into Africa, Resolve of course is our consulting business where we've got – I don't know over 200 engineers sitting at the Madrid and doing very complex statistical stuff on logistics.

The acquisition of Itumele Bus Lines included for eight months, performed in line with expectations and our consumer logistics business recorded revenue and operating profit growth, strong performance from Imperial Health Sciences and lower losses from Imperial Cold Logistics.

Our African regions business had performance depressed by the environment and the rising inflation and interest rates, and the rising inflation and interest rates, the revenue and operating profit declined by 15% and 3% respectively due to the weakening of the naira, which I've quoted, and subdued demand from Imres' key markets. The results were supported by an excellent performance from EcoHealth, which is today Nigeria's leading distributor of ethical pharmaceuticals. Expansion into the new markets and partnerships with new principals continues to deliver good results and in constant currency terms, revenue was down 3% and operating profit up 10%.

Our Logistics International business had a tough time with water on the Rhine, but a strong comeback particularly in the third quarter with our shipping business in South America, where we now have 8 barges – 84 – 7 push boats and 84 barges operating up and down the Rio Parana at full capacity and making a strong contribution in the last few months.

Our revenue and operating profit increased by 24% and 11% boosted by the acquisition of Palletways, which was in for the full months – for the full 12 months. In euros, the performance in rand terms was depressed by 8% stronger average rand euro exchange rate, and it remains an effective currency hedge and diversification of our portfolio and you can see the operating profit and revenue growth in euros was quite strong.

So, if you look at Imperial Logistics, in total, you can see the numbers over the recent years. What's quite interesting is that today we are the 27th largest 3PL logistics group in the world and we will continue to apply strict discipline looking for aggressive growth. But in a capital light direction, along the integrated supply channel route to Motus solutions for global and national market leaders. 67% of that business is already foreign.

Moving on to Motus, again, I won't go through the strategic objectives, but the performance declined due mainly to a slowing vehicle market and a higher cost of inventory in the vehicles import and distribution subdivision partially offset by a strong performance from financial services. Excluding acquisitions and disposals, revenue and operating profit increased by 2% and 3% respectively in this big division.

The four subdivisions that we're reporting on spelt out there, as you can see, we are exclusive importers of some very big brands, Hyundai. Kia and Renault being the biggest. We are in the retail and rental business, we represent 22 OEMs through 358 vehicle distributors and 94 pre-owned businesses and 244 franchise dealerships and 13 commercial vehicle dealerships, a big footprint. Most of that is in South Africa. 113 car rental outlets in South Africa and we have 58 commercial dealerships and 18 dealerships in the UK and Australia.

Our aftermarket parts business is best known to you through 700 Midas stores and Alert Engine Parts and the motor-related financial services is a manager and administrator of service and warranty products to about 480,000 vehicles at the moment.

The national vehicle sales picture looks like this, RSA new passenger and commercial vehicles roughly attract GDP growth as we know. In calendar 2017, the forecast is 520,000 vehicles, that's what we believe the number of vehicles will be sold. The NAAMSA total market in our financial 2017 was 544,000 vehicles which is 7% down and Imperial's total sales were as listed there setting roughly an 180,000 vehicles through those categories. The industry structure is unchanged and our direct imported brands are represent about 14% of the passenger vehicle market in South Africa.

The shares are shown there. Our market share was maintained compared to the prior year about 20% you add both together, there is a little overlap there. So that's not strictly the right number, but if you look at it that way, we've held the market share and our direct imports remain at 14% compared to the prior year and comprises the third largest share of the total South African vehicle market, surpassed only by as you can see there, the Toyota and Volkswagen. We sold 108,000 vehicles in the country of new vehicles at 65,000 pre-owned vehicles.

Going subdivisions, the import and distribution business had a difficult time. Revenue and operating profit declined due to the local vehicle sales volumes and an underperformance in Renault and Mohammed will talk to you about that in a moment. That was partially offset by solid performances from Hyundai and Kia, assistance from manufactures and a change in the vehicle mix.

Our Importer unit sales of passengers and light commercial vehicles decreased as I said by 7%. Our market share was maintained. Our forward cover on the U.S. dollar and Euro imports extends up to February at the moment. And if you think about that, you've got to say where we've got forward cover till February, we've got inventory that will probably last three months thereafter. So we're fairly confident about our full year numbers, absent any dramatic movement in volumes. So movements in currency are not going to affect us up until March-April next year.

Our African regions operations performed below expectations and we are pulling capital out of Africa at the moment and looking at whether there is a viable market for new business – for new vehicles. I think some of you will know that there is a substantial influx of pre-owned vehicles into Africa from the east and the west and not much control on that. And so, trying to maintain new vehicle – a new vehicle franchise in Africa is difficult and the volumes are small. So, we are declining our emphasis on that.

Very important, the Car parc is now at about 1.2 million vehicles and of course that provides and underpin to earnings by delivering good levels of aftermarket activity. If you look at the whole of motors today, about 53% of revenue and 78% of the operating profit is not vulnerable to vehicle sales. It comes from service, parts, the other parts of motors and to make a direct correlation between vehicle sales and the performance of this division would be an error. Here, you can see how the 2016 movement of the dollar and euro squeezed margins and how its win up again and at the bottom you will see that 41% of our imports were in U.S. dollars, 59% imports in euros. Many of you over the years have asked questions about the Korean Won or about the Japanese Yen , they don't apply. All of the things that we buy are in U.S. dollars or euros.

The Vehicle Retail and Rental business did very well, 1% up in revenue and 4% up in operating profit. That was assisted by price increases and cost containment. Across the year, 15 dealerships were closed in South Africa. We will continually review the viability of our dealerships, and take rapid action to close them when we think that either the market has shrunk or has moved on us, and having nice looking dealerships in the wrong place is not something that we consider worthwhile.

Passenger, LCVs and commercial vehicles experienced a 6% in decline. And our total pre-owned retail unit sales increased by 4%, as consumers traded down. I must also highlight ladies and gentlemen, that there is also trading down in the market away from luxury vehicles, to be frank, we are not a 100% sure, whether that's a function of the economy, where people are trading down or a function of more realism coming into the South African market. When I joined this business 42 months ago, one of the first things many said to me or taught me was that South Africa has a disproportionate level of upscale luxury vehicles in the national fleet, and I think as the South African consumer becomes more realistic about that there is some trading down. We'll see how that pans out when the market lifts up again. But for the moment, people are certainly becoming more comfortable driving smaller cars or trading down to pre-owned cars and both of those suit us to some extent as a group.

The revenue and operating profit in the UK commercial business increased by 12% and 13% respectively in pounds sterling, that's a stunning growth in the hard currency, where you have, there was no acquisitions in all of that. And but of course, the 20% stronger rand, reduced the rand denominated results.

Our car rental business is coming back strongly, with increased revenue and operating profit by 11% or 10% respectively and it grew market share and Australian operations returned strong performance of a low base with the revenue and operating profit growth of 11% and 22% respectively in Aussie dollars.

Our Aftermarket Parts business grew revenue and operating profit with some price increases change in the sales mix and a good performance from Alert. We relocated into a major warehouse facility and that set us back a little in Motus but that's coming back and as I mentioned the Jurgens & Prestige Safari business as we sold.

Our motor related financial service business had a very good year, grew operating profit and revenue despite declining new vehicle sales which supports my earlier comment and we got higher profitability in demo sales and rental income due to higher business volumes and an increase in sales by vehicle importers.

The profitability of the maintenance funds increased and our book growth and returns from the alliances increased. This business will now include the VAPS business and it's very important for you to understand how we see this business. We see financial services as if you like the glue that's going to hold our customer to us, when most of you go and buy Mercedes or Toyota or whatever, you don't know who actually owns that dealership and our objective is to using data about our customers to engender our loyalty through and if you like stickiness through loyalty programs based on data about how that customer behaves across our group and give them enticements to come back to our group whether they buy an entry level Kia for their child or trading up from a let's say from a BMW to Mercedes, don't get offended any BMW.

So that's an important part of what Motor Related Financial Services are about. Motus in total, as you can see 57% and 55% of revenue and operating profit for the year, slow growth of profits hammered mainly by the 2015 and 2016 numbers which you're all familiar with. And we believe that in its current structure Motus will enhance its predecessors record of high cash generation, high returns and high dividends through greater value to clients and a more disciplined management of capital operations and currency. The job that Osman has done since October has been phenomenal in bringing these businesses together, rationalizing the efficiency of the structures and then they are focusing on capital operations and currency and we'll see more of that going forward. 24% of that business is foreign in revenue and 12% in operating profit for now. We don't see that the foreign operating profit going way beyond about 20%, but we'll see how we go there.

I'm going to handover to Mohammed to talk to you about the financial stuff.

Thanks, Mark. Good morning, everybody. So before I get into the results, there has been a couple of restatements with regards to the Regent transaction which has resulted in us restating 2016 as well as our segment report. That's in the notes to the financial pack in front of you and also on the website. But if there's any questions after that, you can contact me and we can clarify that. I'm not going to cover the detail of that in this presentation, but it's well disclosed in there.

So, if you look at our revenue as a group, we were up 1% and where do that come from, logistics was up 6% and as Mark said, that was assisted by the acquisition of Logistics and a very good performance from our South African business.

Two-thirds of this business is out of South Africa and currency impacts deeply dampen on the revenue performance. Motus, we had price increases as well as a very good performance from our motor related financial services, but with volumes under pressure, and the currency impacts from our UK and Australian business, their revenue was impacted, so that was down 3%.

If we look at our operating profit, again, logistics up 9% and that was from the acquisition, good performance from South Africa, our margins in the African regions business went up nicely. And on the motors side we had again, a very good performance in our motor related financial services business, and offset by the same factors that I mentioned earlier.

As a group if you exclude acquisitions and disposals, from this year and the prior year, we were flat on revenue and down about 1% on operating profit. If you look at the margins in the business, we had a better margin growth or increasing margins in our logistics business where margins went from 7% to 8% and in our South Africa business where we had some margin growth in the margin, motors' margin was flat but an improving trend in our vehicle import business in the second half, which is good. And as a group, we were slightly up from 5.4% to 5.5%.

Our returns on invested capital, was slightly down across both, logistics motors and the group, and but still above our cost of capital, as a group you are about 3% above our cost of capital.

If you look at the detail of the income statement as you've heard from Mark, it was a busy year, in terms of disposals and acquisitions we've done and that has impacted this side of the income amortization of intangibles were up mainly, due to the acquisitions of Palletways and Itumele that was up 19%. We had – we sold about ZAR 900 million worth of properties and that resulted in a profit of ZAR 212 million, and the impairment on our goodwill was much lower this year that last year, we impaired Renault last year of about ZAR 249 million and they didn't recur, so we were down on that number compared to last year.

On the profit and sale of businesses, we had a profit last year in the sale of Neska and this year's number was a loss of ZAR 151, which include a loss of ZAR 62 for Regent. But I think, the accounting doesn't reflect the financial transaction we've done on that and I just want to explain that. So, if you look at the business we've retained, the price that was adjusted for the Regent transaction was ZAR 650 million, but we retained ZAR 100 million of profit and that's disclosed in the restatement.

So, the business we kept, there was a price reduction of ZAR 650 million, we retained ZAR 100 million of profit. And the NAV relating to that business was about ZAR 160 million. So, you can see that the proportionate price decrease, and the profits we kept versus the NAV reduction wasn't in proportion and that resulted in a loss of ZAR 60 million.

The foreign exchange losses a significant number ZAR 690 million, it comes from two areas. The – when we reported our December numbers, we showed that we had cover at over 15 to the $1 and we had cover on the euro of 16, and at that time it was excessive as well as uneconomical. And those hedges were effectively un-wound and the impact of that was we removed the loss, which was reported in the December accounts from the statement of comprehensive income into the income statement.

We see that last year is one-off as Mark said, because it was mainly in one area in Renault, where we didn't manage our ordering maybe, as well as we did in Kia and Hyundai, where the number wasn't significant.

I think, and then the other area was about ZAR 200 million in the African Regions business where you've got to mark-to-market your monitory items, your creditors et cetera. And there again, the accounting doesn't allow you to revalue the stock, which -which comes through later with the leg effect.

So, we had to take through a ZAR 200 million mark-to-market on our monitory items. In terms of our Ford cover, we covered up to February as Mark says, seven months on a rolling basis at a very good rates to about $1,375 to the dollar and above €1,473 to the euro, so we've got cover extending quite far out and at good levels.

I think, that was one of the reasons also why we didn't want to distort the operating profit with the foreign exchange loss. Because what the current cover we have we wanted to highlight what that impact had on our results for this year and not unpack the operating profit because we don't see that as a recurring number going forward.

If you go through to the finance cost that was up, we had high debt levels during the year, which came down nicely in the second half, as you'll see from the balance sheet just now.

And our income from associates went down, we saw a mix during the year, and that realized cash of about ZAR 500 million, our tax rate went up to about 30% to 30.1% and that was mainly due to provisions last year we released, which we didn't need at that time.

The minorities declined because we had losses in certain businesses like Renault, and then we also acquired minorities that lowered the minority share of profits. If you look at the balance sheet, the major items, here probably plant and equipment reduced by 11% and that was largely due to the sale of properties, as well as another ZAR 1 billion of properties which we want to sell in the coming year, vehicle for higher increased 14% that was driven by two factors mainly, car price increases were up about 10%, 12% and that impacts the cost of your vehicles for higher and we sold cars through the importers more than last year in the car – to car rental companies. Goodwill and intangibles rose through to the acquisition of Palletways and Itumele, but then we also amortized some of that and the rand trend helped by about ZAR 900 million on that line.

If you look at our net working capital, there is decreased – improved by 9% and decreased by ZAR 800 million from the prior year and if you look at the working capital at the end of December, that's gone from ZAR 11.2 billion to ZAR 9.8 billion. So very good performance of working capital in the second half and that's in an environment where we had slowing demand. So, job well done to the divisions for managing their working capital, you can see our net working capital turn improved. And as I mentioned, our assets classified for sale are largely properties that we intend selling in the current financial year. There has been a big decrease in the assets classified for sale and that's because we're now in a concluded transactions like Regent Imperial Express, LTEs and a number of subsidiaries that we disposed off in the current financial year.

If you look at our equity, here the rand also influenced that number. We had the rand strengthening which resulted in foreign currency translation reserve and reduced by ZAR 659 million and then with the current hedges in place, we had a benefit of ZAR 159 million because we had to mark-to-market those FECs the financial year end. And, as I said, we've got the coverage quite good rate. Very pleasing was the reduction in our debt that was down 9% from ZAR 16.5 billion to ZAR 15 billion That number was close to ZAR 20 billion at the December, when we reported in February, our December numbers. So, a lot of work and effort has gone in bringing that number down and that has come from the closing of the transactions like Regent, the sale of properties. We did have lower CapEx, which I'll talk into the cash flow, and then as I mentioned very good working capital.

If you go to the cash flow, similar trend coming through from the balance sheet into the cash flow. Net working capital had a inflow of ZAR 688 million. Just remember, this number excludes any foreign exchange adjustments or acquisitions that the cash flow doesn't take that into account. So, if you try and work back to that number from the balance sheet, you won't get there, but that's the true working capital release we got. And then, we invested roughly ZAR 1.7 billion into our car rental fleet.

So, as a business, we generated about ZAR 4.2 billion of cash for this financial year. Where we did spend the cash? If you look at the investing activities, we acquired Palletways, but we also sold Regent. So, that was a net outflow about ZAR 1.7 billion. We had CapEx, which was down 36% on the prior year. And that was – that's not only from the proceeds on the properties. I think the group is also becoming a lot less capital intensive and they are starting to show in terms of the CapEx we're spending and acquisitions like the ones we've done in Palletways we will have that number going forward.

Our net movement in associates as I mentioned, we sold Mix during the period and that was an inflow of about ZAR 500 million. So, after investing in the business, after the CapEx investments we've made and paying a dividend of ZAR 1.7 billion, we ended up with a cash position of ZAR 400 million and that resulted in a free cash flow going up from ZAR 2.5 billion to ZAR 4.3 billion and our free cash flow going up from 0.85 times to 1.6 times.

If you look at our gearing, it just graphically shows how the gearing has done half on half from 2014 and I'm very pleased that we've got our net debt to equity well within our range of 60% to 80% and 71% and I've mentioned what has driven that. If you look at our net debt to EBITDA at 1.7 times, that's flat on last year. We've got a good liquidity. We've got about ZAR 12 billion of unutilized facilities. A good mix of debt, 45% of our debt is fixed and we've got good long-term funding and 71% of our debt is in the longer term which is healthy and just to reaffirm, our international scale credit rating is still investment grade and we were recently upgraded on our national scale rating.

If you look at returns – returns on equity and returns on invested capital, that is not a slide that I'm proud of. I think it's taken down from 21% down to 13% and some of the trend in return on invested capital of the WACC. I think that's a function of the environment we've had. We've had very challenging trading conditions and then internally we've done massive portfolio refinements and we aim to improve on this ratio going forward, but despite the downward trend, you can see that our margin above WACC is still around 3%, which is in this, considering what we've done and the environment that's still a good position to be in. Thank you. I will end with the Mark to close on the prospects.

Thank you, Mohammed. One of the things, you would pick up in the verbiage is of course that we are targeting a 45% of HIPS dividend payout in future. We've never announced a dividend policy, but this is what we're targeting. Of course, it will always be subject to conditions, but that's what we are focusing on going forward and you will pick that up in the verbiage of the report.

I think that it's only appropriate that I try and draw your attention for the final time to the magnitude of the changes and the restructuring that's happening in this business over the last few years. And particularly, I'd like to thank my colleagues to my right here for a seamless transition to happen the way it has, with people at this level is attributed to their ability and their leadership. I'd like to thank them. I'd like to thank the executives in our group. Many of them, watch the websites. I thank them. I'd like to thank the 136 accountants that we have. We've got 136 CAs in our group, and they have been very busy over the last while, 40% of those are women, and I'd like to pay tribute to them in women's months. And also to say that the only people that worked harder than the CAs were the CFAs, who have been busy.

Looking forward, I think that we don't see any reason for conditions to become less challenging. Our socioeconomic – our sociopolitical and economic outlook is fragile, and internationally some of the geopolitics is quite interesting. We believe that the impact of this external environment is not going to help us, but despite this, we anticipate solid operating and financial results in the year to June 2018, subject to stable currencies in the economies in which we operate and South Africa retain its investment grade. If those two things hold, we're very confident of our numbers going forward. So we expect three things, the self sufficiency and effectiveness of both divisions to be further entrenched with balance sheet efficiency and independence of priority.

We expect Imperial Logistics and Motus to grow revenues and operating profit from continuing operations. Those of you who've got used to guidance at the subdivision level, we introduced that at the half year, last year and again coming up to the half year, when you've got a better feet of the year, we'll get into that detail, but most importantly, Imperial Holdings' continuing operations will increase revenues and operating profits with the double-digit growth in HEPS in the current year with some strength in the second half.

Thank you very much. And I'll stand for questions.

Yes, sir.

Thank you, Mr. Lamberti. Mr. Lamberti, you informed us that there were acquisitions to the value of ZAR 5.4 billion in acquiring 15 companies. Now, without any specific information, I'm having some difficulty relating that to the value given to the intangible assets, particularly under the column, Logistics International in the segmental information, where the increase in intangibles is, plus/minus ZAR 2.5 billion. I cannot relate ZAR 2.5 billion increase in intangibles to the amount paid for the acquisitions. Could you clarify if they are related in some way and what accounts for the high intangibles under that section?

They are totally unrelated in terms of the fact that the first figure I quoted was over a period of three years. The figure you're looking at is for one year.

Correct.

So would you like to just answer the question on the one year.

So, that would relate to the Palletways acquisition, so if you look at our Palletways acquisition, we paid ZAR 3 billion for it. There was goodwill of ZAR 1.9 billion and there was an intangible asset of ZAR 1.2 billion. All right.

May I have another question?

Go ahead.

Okay. I'm relating this now to the 1% increase in revenue I noted trade and other payables, and provisions have gone up for the holdings approximately 8%, why is the increase so much more than the increase in revenue?

You must remember this, there is a number of factors is that drive that it would our revenues impacted by currency, which has a major effect on our revenue this year because of the rand strength against the euro and the dollar. And our trade payables we normally order cars, now during this period for our – for the period to sell to the car rental companies. So that they did go up, so you would see a major increase in our inventory.

And then please finally, Mr. Lamberti, an explanation if you would please with reference to Logistics International segment for the massive decrease in networking capital from ZAR 560 million to ZAR 134 million and at the same time the massive increase in net debt of approximately ZAR 1.5 billion?

So, the reduction in the working capital would also have currency effects, because we got an international business. And then this year, we factored about €30 million of date of show because of to take advantage of the short-term interest rates. So, our working capital was reduced by that. And the increase in the debt is largely due to the acquisition of Palletways. But remember, it won't increase by the full amount because the debt then gets translated into rands, which is about ZAR 1 billion benefit.

Thank you.

Other questions, Nick.

Thanks, Mark. It's Nick Webster, HSBC. Can I just talk about some of the M&A activity and there is obviously headlines about chemical business and part of that in Germany and that seems off the table, is that strategical price, could you just put any color on that for us?

Nick, I will give you the same answer that I gave to Bloomberg. We don't speculate and we don't comment on speculation on M&A activity and I will go not further than that.

Okay. On Palletways, you talked about expanding into the European market a bit more, and you sort of say that's on track, what does that look like over the next 12 months?

The expansion into Poland is on track, that's relatively small. The expansion into German – Germany is bigger, with a much bigger potential for the short-term that's incurring start-up losses. But, we believe that we should see some traction into that business going into next financial year, this year being just a building process, but the German market is different from success we're finding that is different from our success in Italy, Spain and obviously the UK. So we are in a learning mode there, and we believe that the collaboration with our German colleagues there will give us an advantage. But for the moment, that business will not be producing returns.

Do you see that as primarily an organic expansion or release?

Yes, yes.

Any small bolt-on deals.

Yes, yes.

And I guess within most of the acquisitions we've seen of late have been logistics until recently with these two automotive in the UK and Australia, is that a sort of shift in emphasis or they were just the timing that we've seen of late?

Are you saying all the automotive acquisitions or shift?

Yeah, in terms of vehicle [indiscernible] (59:43).

No. I think that – what we've been saying we would do outside of the continent is consistent. We've said that the growth outside of the continent would emphasize logistics, but we were open to the right acquisitions outside of the continent. I think it's very important for people to understand that to the extent that in the past Imperial perceived the acquisition of standalone businesses as a means of growing, we don't anymore unless those acquisitions can somehow have their value enhanced by existing assets which is the case in the UK and Australia unless there is a layer of value that Imperial can add to those acquisitions beyond just a one-off lift arising from the acquisition. We don't regard that as really sound strategic acquisitions. So, very – when you see these things happening, understand that we will have sought through are we able to enhance those businesses by virtue of either Imperial's ability or relationships between them and other assets in the same jurisdiction.

And then just finally Mohammed, could you give us any guidance on CapEx for the year ahead given the significant decline we saw this year?

Yeah, I would say, between ZAR 2 billion to ZAR 2.5 billion CapEx, net CapEx. [ph]

Ian Croshanks in Today's Relations (01:01:22). You were talking about having forward cover on imports, extending up to March 2018. And I see here on page 35 of the document is a forward cover in the U.S. dollar and euro imports extends up to February 2017?

I think it's a typo.

Typo, it's 2018.

It should be 2018?

2018, absolutely.

Okay. Thank you.

Sorry, sorry.

Anymore, are there any questions from the webcast?

Can we just check if there are any questions on the conference call first.

No questions on the conference call currently.

Okay. The first question from the webcast comes from Brent Madel from Ren Capital. With unconfirmed media reports that Imperial unsuccessfully tried to sell [ph] shen (01:02:15), could you indicate the what the future strategy of [ph] link ring (01:02:18) is?

I've given that answer already.

Okay. Then no further questions.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention this morning. We look forward to seeing you in due course. There will be further announcements around about our AGM. Thank you very much.