Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mohammed Akoojee — Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
George de Beer — Chief Financial Officer, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
Nick Webster — Equity Research Analyst, HSBC Securities (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

On behalf of the Investments – Analyst Society, at the outset, we would like to thank the Imperial Logistics for inviting us this morning to share results of the group for the period ending 31st of December 2018. We appreciate the opportunity to share in the company and its results and to get insights into the future. As we all know, Imperial Logistics is a company that is based in 5 continents, it has – in 38 countries, and it is logistics and supply-chain management. So, it's a different paradigm for us as a company and as a group. It's a different profile to what this company was about 20 or 30 years ago in terms of what has been achieved and what it is today and where it stands today.

So Mohamed – Mr. Mohammed Akoojee, thank you very much and for George de Beer for being here and to share the results, and for the executive and the chairman and members of the board that are with us today, once again, thank you very much.

Good morning, everybody, and welcome to our first results as Imperial Logistics.

I think it's going to be a lot easier to get through the results with half the business, but let's see. I'd like to make a special welcome to our Chairman, Phumzile and members of the board that are here. I see Graham here, and my executive, and Marius Swanepoel, my predecessor as well is here. So welcome everybody.

That's the agenda for today. So if we just look at the results, just a big picture, these numbers exclude Motors. Remember Motors was included for four months in terms of our statutory accounts that you will – that George will go through later, and as these numbers also exclude businesses held for sale that we sold last year. So, if you look at our performance operationally, satisfactory performance considering some of the headwinds we had to face, particularly in South Africa and in our business in Europe, and I'll get into the detail of that later. So, flat on the operating profit line in terms of performance, but then we did get below-the-line benefits of lower interest and lower amortization of intangibles that resulted in a 24% headline earnings per share growth, and George will cover the detail of that later on as well.

EPS is up more because last year we sold a number of businesses where we made losses on, that didn't recur this year. Our balance sheet in very good shape at 52% debt to equity, and we've paid all – yeah paid a dividend – going to pay a dividend of 45% of headline earnings per share. Returns on capital, nicely up from last year, and weighted average cost of capital also went up. It's still not where it should be. You know, we target to get of WACC plus 3%, but I'm confident we will get there, but a nice trend developing both on ROIC and ROE, and as I said, our balance sheet in good shape and we will hear about that a bit later.

So, our logistics business in Africa had a fantastic result. You know, that was an growth performance of top line of 16% and I'll touch a bit more on what were the key drivers behind that later. Disappointing performance in our consumer pack goods business in South Africa, we also seen volumes across manufacturing and consumer particularly under pressure in our other businesses in transport and warehousing as well. Volumes were anyway down between 8% to 10% and that definitely has a major impact on that business, because you've got quite a high fixed cost base.

So the economy didn't help us there and you know, we obviously saw the negative effects of that flowing to our numbers in South Africa. In our international business, the WLTP issue had a major impact on our automotive logistics business, where the OEMs that we serve in that market cut production dramatically and that hasn't yet recovered to where it should be. And then, we also had a difficult environment in the UK with Brexit, but also some detail on Palletways, which I'll get into later on, that impacted our performance in the first half.

We focused on concluding rationalization of our portfolios and reducing costs. That hasn't yet been completed, it will be done in the second half, and this is significant. We're taking out about 10% of our overhead costs in the South African business. If you look at the numbers in our European business, close to 20% of our overhead costs, this is fixed overhead costs that lie in that business, and we'll see the benefits of that coming through in 2020. But obviously, take some pain in the second half in terms of implementing those action plans. Very encouragingly, our renewal rate remains very good, which means our clients are happy with us. We are over 90%. We've got a good pipeline of new opportunities and we've also had some very good contract gains in this period. We've actually landed ZAR 4 billion of annualized revenue across the group.

So, that is encouraging for me. That means we are relevant to our customers, we are adding value to them, that's why they're keeping us and we're winning new business, but we obviously were faced with some challenges from the economy and as I mentioned, in the automotive sector.

Before we get into the results, I just want to maybe set the scene, just on what is Imperial today and what is our strategy going forward and then getting to the numbers. So I won't be long on this, but I think it's a good place to start. If you look at our business, and this is a good slide to have it all on one page, we're in three markets. Our international business is characterized by the special industries we're involved in. We are specialized in the chemicals industry and also in the automotive industry. Just to give you a sense, we are involved in the manufacturing of up to 2.3 million vehicles in terms of the logistics and synchronization management that we serve in that market.

We're also are a big player in the chemicals industry where we are the largest chemicals provider in Europe, where we move about 10 tons of the product, and have 23 specialized warehouses from which we operate. So, really in the automotive and chemical industry, we are a leading player in that market and also we've become the – a very significant player in the express palletised distribution area. With the Palletways acquisition, we move about 10 million pallets across Europe through about 450 members. So those are the three main areas in terms of where we play in our international business, and with the capabilities we have in automotive, in chemicals and in express palletised distribution, which is a growth market.

So if you look at logistics as an industry, the area of fastest growth is the group [ph] reach (00:07:35) network that play in the one- to four-pellet loads and we are in that and there's good growth opportunities in that, and we'd like to expand that business, as well as our capabilities in automotive, not only in new markets, but there's a lot in automotive that we don't do. We work a lot for OEMs there, but we're not in aftermarket parts in a big way, nor are we providing supply chain solutions for the tier 1 and tier 2 suppliers into that OEM market. And we can play there because we've got the capability. So, while the results don't reflect that, and we'll get into the detail of it, our strategy is aligned with the growth opportunities that lie in those markets.

In Africa, really we have a competitive differentiation in terms of where we play. We offer route-to-market services for multinationals in consumer pack goods and in pharmaceuticals, where we actually take the product to market and do the last mile.

So just to give you a sense, in Nigeria we get to 50,000 points of delivery; in Ghana, 800; in Kenya, 600; and why that's critical because that's where the consumption happens and if you can provide that route-to-market for the client base or the principal base we serve, we become very sticky with our principles. The opportunities to grow this business are immense. Nigeria spends about $2 billion on pharmaceuticals and they've got 200 million people. South Africa, we spend about $4 billion and we've got 50 million people. So that gives you a sense of the size of the prize. 75% of the innovative drugs that are sold in Nigeria go through our network. So we've got a very, very strong position in one of the biggest markets in the world and I'm very excited by that.

We have that same position, not maybe to the scale of the Nigerian business, but in Kenya, where they also spend about $1 billion on pharmaceuticals, and they have about 50 million people. But still, if you look at how much South Africa spends, which is a more developed market in Africa, there's a lot of growth in that space.

We want to expand our [indiscernible] (00:09:50) offering into consumer pack goods. We're strong in SADEC, but we would like to expand that in West Africa and East Africa, and when we entered Africa, we're always set to go in as a distributor and then in time, add our capabilities in South Africa, for the needs of the market as it formalizes, is a clear strategy of ours, and I'm glad to say, we've started doing that. We've started a managed solutions offering in Nigeria, in Kenya and in Mozambique, so, I'm really excited about the future of our Africa business.

In South Africa, which is our home market, and it's now actually only 35% of our operating profit now comes from South Africa. We are an end-to-end player in terms of capabilities. We have the scale, we've got the assets, we've got a blue-chip company base, and there's growth opportunities here as well, even though the current economy is under pressure and we're feeling the effects of that. We spend about ZAR 400 billion on logistics in South Africa. Half of that is outsourced to players like us, and the other half is still done in-house by players. So, there's a big market out there where we can keep chipping away at, in terms of winning new work, and I showed you on the slide earlier on, we are successful at doing that.

So, that's the business in terms of the regions we play in. The industries we play in, on the right side, are also quite diverse, if you look at our capabilities in consumer, mining, chemicals, healthcare, automotive. So we are very broad logistics player across those industries and that's a good thing because that does give you diversification and then in terms of our capability, you can see we're not just a mover of goods. There's many other things we do. We offer route-to-market. We offer value-add logistics. We, for example, have got 12 control towers in 5 countries that we run. That's completely asset-light.

So, as the business has evolved, we started off as quite an asset-intensive business many years ago, and we've evolved to become a much more diversified business in terms of service offering, to be more asset-right, which is what we want to be, as well as in the industries we've grown in. You can see in Africa about half the business is in healthcare from a revenue point of view, and about 40% is in consumer pack goods. So those are the industries we're focusing on there and then, in our business in international, as I said, automotive and chemicals are the key markets there.

You look at our business from a asset-right point of view in terms of what's the mix from asset and asset-light, South Africa we are about 30%. Africa region is a completely asset-light model, and international has got to 60%. A big part of that is Palletways, but that was a lot different three, four, five years ago, as you will remember.

What's our aspirations? With those assets and the platforms we have in those regions and the industries we're involved in, we certainly have aspirations to be bigger than we are. Imperial Logistics today is the 25th largest logistics company, but if you take out [ph] ANC (00:13:18), which we don't play in, we're not in freight forwarding, we're actually in the top-15 in the world, in terms of size, and I think if you look at the potential we have in Africa, the potential we have with our business in international and just the positioning we have in the South African market, we can aspire to be certainly a Tier 1 player in terms of providing services to our customers in time and that's focused around growing our business sustainably, making sure that we get the right returns on capital, and making sure that we're competitive by investing in our people and innovation. That's a big area of focus for us.

So, we are very conscious about disruption in technology and there's some very interesting investments we are making around this area, because I believe that's what's going to make us even more competitive and differentiate us going forward. That's underpinned by our five corporate strategies. I won't go into detail on this, but it's really about our clients, making sure we invest correctly, making sure we provide flawless execution and then very importantly for me, offering a fully integrated model across those industries. And we have that in certain industries, but we can build on that. And through that, you create the stickiness that's required to be able to hold on to our clients and to be able to be relevant to them.

If you look at our initiatives in the – in each region, in South Africa – I did cover it, I'm not going to go through every point on the slide, but that's going to be more an organic growth story rather than an acquisitive one. We want to leverage our scale and size and capabilities. We've just done a BE transaction as you all would have read, which also gives us a nice positioning in the market in some of the key sectors. So we're well-positioned in that space. Some of the progress we've made, I've spoken about the BE deal, we've got a good pipeline of new opportunities and we've gained some good contracts. As I said, we're still busy with this rationalization and consolidation.

Now, people may say, but we have – every year we hear about it. But that's what's needed when things are tough. We are keep – we keep having do this and I think by the time we get to the end of this financial year, we would have largely done the consolidation of our cold storage and ambient facilities, and as I said, it's not small, it's significant. We would, at the end of this, take out approximately 10% of our fixed overheads in our South African business. So I know – the outlook on – doesn't look great, but this is one of the reasons why. We have to do this in the next six months, so we see the benefits of it in the long run.

We also exit unprofitable contracts and as I said, part of this rationalization is to reduce fleet and overheads. We've reduced probably about 500 fleet over the last 6 to 12 months, and we've consolidated a number of our facilities in the CPG area. So that's what's needed in difficult times, but that's getting the business right you know for when the economy starts turning and we will then start seeing the benefits of this coming.

In Africa, I spoke a lot about the unique positioning we have in that market and how we expect to grow there. We've also come up with a very interesting model where we can provide a multinational with a multimarket solution in the smaller markets outside of Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa and we're close to signing our first client in that space. And there we would actually do more in the value chain; you know, take it right up to demand generation and registrations et cetera. So really an exciting area for growth for us.

In international, we're also taking out costs in that business, and as I said, we're probably taking about 20% of our overheads there. That's one of the things we want to achieve and will achieve by H2. We want to expand our capabilities as I mentioned, into new markets, because we do have deep skills in those industries that I've mentioned. And we've also become a lot more sales-focused in that organization. We've made some very good appointments around the CEO, around the Chief Commercial Officer, industry vertical heads that are going to drive what I'm mentioning.

Previously, we were very German-orientated in terms of looking at opportunities, but with the team we've now beefed up there, we are now going to take those capabilities into new markets. In order to deliver on that you need the right people, and I really believe that we've made very good progress in terms of getting the right mindset there and investment in terms of commercial and sales – sales capabilities.

So, back to the numbers then, you can see our progression of our business outside South Africa. This was a strategy when I joined the group in 2010 – 2009 that we started. Marius will remember that. And when we – when I joined Imperial, we made zero profit out of Africa. Today, it's the size of the South African business so that's just a bit of reflection in terms of how that has progressed over time.

We now make 70% of our revenue offshore or outside South Africa, and 65% of operating profit out of the country, and that was [ph] laid (00:19:00) by our size and scale in this market. At the time, we saw that for us to be able to grow faster than the market in South Africa, because of our positioning here, was in turn not going to be a good thing and we had to diversify out, and that's just some information to show.

So, just to – maybe before we get into the detail of the divisional performance, some of the things we've seen in our markets over the last six months, I'm not going to – everybody knows how tough South Africa has been. You've seen some of the results of companies that have operated in the same areas we operate in and it has been a difficult period that has impacted us. As I said, we've seen volumes on consumer, manufacturing, industrial, you know, anywhere down between 8% to 10%; that's an outline base, in terms of what – the volumes we've seen, and that creates, obviously, pressure from your clients, pressure from competitors in terms of pricing et cetera, and we have experienced that as well. So, difficult period, but I think with what we're doing in the business, by H2, 2019, we'll be well set then for the 2020 financial year.

Rest of Africa, things were a bit better there, particularly because we involved in more defensive industries, healthcare and consumer. We did however see conditions in Namibia, you know, quite tough. Kenya was not as good as we would have expected, but it is recovering and then, obviously, there's been general political uncertainty with all the elections in some of the markets we've performed. But I think that, sort of, summarizes that.

And then if you look at the European market and the UK market, now Europe as has been better and you would have expected our European business to perform better, but there were specific things that we experienced in our business that didn't allow us to benefit from the general positive environment in Europe, and that was the low water levels. It was the lowest in history and that affected our shipping business there because we had to use a lot more barges and ships to transport the same amount of volume. So, our revenue wasn't really impacted and that's why you would see our revenue actually went up in that business, but our cost base went up because we had to serve our clients there. We were compensated in certain areas, but still it impacted us.

And then the WLTP procedure, in terms of engine certification, impacted our business and we are a big player in the automotive space, largely in the OEM market as I explained, and that hurt our business. Without that, we would have actually shown growth in Europe, without the impact of the WLTP issue. So, volumes are recovering in the second half, but still not at optimal levels. So there's certain vehicle production in VW, for example, that you can't get because they're still getting out of that.

And then in the UK, we were obviously influenced by a very negative environment there in our business, Palletways. But Palletways is not only about the Brexit and the performance of that business has been – largely, we've been a victim of our own success there in terms of the growth and as I said, that business has grown a lot from a revenue point of view and continues to grow. And through that, the member network has become quite large and we've started to see now imbalances. So our cost base has gone up. So Brexit played a role, but the good thing is in the markets we serve, we serve – we've still seeing growth and that was what I made a point earlier on, that 1- to 4-pallet loads is a growing market, and that's even evident in the UK. You can go and see the stats. But we grew that business over time, quite aggressively, by taking on more pallets; through that we created imbalances and we had to now incur more costs to serve the same amount of pallets in the system and that impacted our performance in that business.

So if you look at the three divisions, this is a nice slide to summarize the results. I'm not going to spend too much time on it because there's a slide on each one that follows, but you can see there that the South African business is now 35% of our operating profit, Africa is now 35% – or African regions is 35% of our operating profit and our international business is 30% of our operating profit. Very good returns on capital in our Africa business, as well as a nice recovery in returns in our international business. So there we'd like to get to the WACC plus 2% in Europe, and we've achieved that and in Africa, WACC plus 3%, we've achieved that. And in South Africa, not where we should be, and we want to get those returns up and I think we will. We're on our way to doing that.

So then more go – delving down into the details in terms of the result, this was really about the decline in volume that we've seen in our client base which impacted our business because, as I said, in certain of our businesses we do have a high fixed cost base, and if you don't have the top-line and you don't have the volume, you know, that impacts your bottom line. That was offset by our transport and warehousing business in supply-chain management business, which, in the supply-chain management side, we're more of a 4PL player, providing more consulting and asset-light solutions to our client base there, and that was a lot more resilient, but to even get the results in the transport and warehousing business, it didn't come from the top line. It came from rationalization and running the business smarter.

So, not a pretty picture, not a pretty story, I'll be honest to admit that, but as I said, give us a bit of time on this one and we should start seeing a recovery coming through in 2020.

Africa regions had a very good six months, as I said, and an excellent performance. We had lots of new contract gains in this business, we've added lots of new principles in both the CPG business and in the healthcare sector, and this was all organic. So there was no acquisitive growth in these numbers and this was a very good performance. So – and we started also seeing our sourcing and procurement business, Imres, which went through a dip last period, but has come back nicely now, and the order book is actually at record levels, and we're actually expecting quite a good performance from our healthcare businesses both in Africa, and on the sourcing and procurement side continuing.

And then like I said, CPG, our businesses in Mozambique, and despite difficult conditions in [indiscernible] (00:26:16), we have performed well. So, we had a good six months here, and I think the returns and the results speak to that.

Our international business, as I alluded to earlier, had the headwinds that I mentioned and as a result, we did have top-line growth because we still did the work largely in the inland shipping area, and then Palletways had revenue growth, but our margins were impacted because our cost base went up, or our costs went up to service the clients in the shipping business. And then as I said, in Palletways we've had to incur a lot more cost to service the network that has grown to a point.

We have got solutions for that in place, so we are rationalizing the network in the UK. We are appointing additional members in areas where we had white spots, where we had to then incur cost to get product into, and we've also tinkered with the pricing model in that business to fix up this imbalance.

So, that has all been put in place, but it would take probably this half to get through that. But just to give people comfort, Palletways is performing below the expectations when we bought the business, but is still performing a bit better from the time we bought it. So, it's not making losses and it's not below the levels from the time Imperial acquired this business, but it hasn't grown to where we would have liked it to. So I'm just saying that it is something that we focused on, but we must always put that into context and in the Brexit environment, saying that for a company, I think, it shows the strength of their business and it's asset-light. That's the other thing about that business. It's a completely asset-light model. And as I said, our returns improved from 8.3% to 9.8% and that's going in the right direction, even though the profits were declining.

So, in rands, we benefited obviously with a currency, so this is the numbers in euros and we were down 10% in euros. But like I said, if you take out the once-off effect of WLTP because that production will eventually come through, we would have had growth in our European business. So that's a summary of the margins, the returns on capital and our weighted average cost of capital. As I said earlier on, the returns in international and Africa are in the right direction. South Africa needs a bit of work, which we know about, and we're actively fixing that, and then you will see our weighted average cost of capital has also gone up because we've capitalized the businesses adequately, [indiscernible] (00:29:07).

And those are our hurdle rates that we target in South Africa and Africa regions of WACC plus 3% and in our international business at WACC plus 2%.

So that's just the introduction to the results and a bit of the divisional performance, and a bit about the strategy and where we're taking the business. I'll hand over to George to take you through the detailed numbers.

Thank you, Mohammed. Good morning, all, and thank you for opportunity to present our six months results to 31 December. I think what is important to note is these results are for continuing operations only albeit the prior-year results does include certain businesses held for sale. On operating profit or trading profit, note we're down 4% year-on-year versus the prior-year period, and Mohammed has spoken about most of the impacts that we had across our businesses. The biggest impacts, obviously, the held for sale business, which is outside of the business currently as well as the impact in the CPG and the healthcare business in our South African environment and then we did feel the impact in our automotive business, the WLTP impact in the first half and also the performance of Palletways not where we wanted to be.

If you look at the all other items below the line of net operating profit, it's a very pleasing result. The amortization of intangibles decreased by 11% year-on-year largely due to certain intangible assets in Africa regions, which has not been fully amortized as well as the disposal of Schirm in the prior year. And we believe this trend barring new acquisitions should continue to decline in the future.

The impairments of goodwill and disposal of businesses in the prior year as part of the portfolio rationalization had some losses on the Schirm disposal, also on the disposal of certain business in Africa regions, which has not been repeated in this financial year. And then we also see a very good result on our forex losses. It's not a significant number. I think [ph] if so we can recall (00:31:16) in prior years, it was significantly large numbers that we had. But I think the [ph] ageing (00:31:21) strategy especially in our Africa regions business is paying off and we see that improved results coming through the P&L on the monetary items in foreign currencies. That also then gets to a full profit before financing costs, increased performance of 10% versus the prior period.

Big impact obviously on the interest cost line partly due to the – or a big part due to the capitalization of the logistics business year-on-year, but we also then have the once-off impacts on the redemption of the preference shares to the value of ZAR 62 million, also partly offset by certain costs on the bond redemptions of ZAR 14 million that was a ZAR 49 million benefit in HY1, which will not be repeated in HY2.

Our tax line also improved from 34.9% in the prior year to 30.9% in this six months, which is largely a result of certain gains that's not taxable [indiscernible] (00:32:24) preference shares and then in the prior year, we had impairment of goodwill and losses on disposals, which were not tax-deductible.

To note, the discontinued operations that was a trading results from Motus as discontinued operations. And then we also reported a gain on the unbundling of ZAR 4.2 billion through the P&L.

Just looking at our financial position at the end of December, I think it is important to note for everyone that 68% of our operating assets and 63% of our operating liabilities is outside of South Africa. So we will always have certain movement through our balance sheet that's directly related to purely translation impacts. You'll see that on all the notes throughout. But I think the important ones to talk about is our increase in our transport fleet, which has increased largely due to certain expansion capital in South Africa and certain contracts that we won, also increase in our specialized fleet in our international business and these were partially offset by depreciation and proceeds on sale of our [indiscernible] (00:33:32).

The investment in our associates decreased and the main impact of that was disposal of Gruber in our international business and [indiscernible] (00:33:42) round about ZAR 268 million. A big mover on our balance sheet is obviously working capital, which is largely driven by the inventory increase in our Africa regions business mainly in two areas. In our Nigerian economy, with the [ph] prelude (00:33:58) of the elections, we decided to stock up a little bit to ensure that we're adequately stocked in this period of elections, especially two months running up, also the one month post. And then in our sourcing and procurement business, we have got a very healthy pipeline of orders, which has increased nicely from the prior period and we have to stock up to be able to execute those orders.

Then if you look at our net interest-bearing borrowings from June onwards, we've moved up by 9% or ZAR 500 million. Larger impact on the movement is working capital that has increased from our June position. We had some increased capital expenditure on expansion contracts as well as a ZAR 911 million dividend paid to both Imperial shareholders as well as non-controlling shareholders. And both of these items are offset partially by the sale of Gruber of ZAR 226 million as well as the proceeds received from the BBEE transaction of ZAR 200 million.

Then looking to our equity, a substantial reduction of 49%. Major reason for that was unbundling of Motus to the value of ZAR 17 billion to the shareholders of Imperial. And we paid some dividends to minorities and our comprehensive income of ZAR 6.6 million (sic) [ZAR 6.6 billion] (00:35:13) as well as ZAR 200 million received on the BBEE transaction.

If we get to our cash flow from operating activities, I think what is important to note in these results is that it does include the Motus results for the four months. But if you look at continuing operations only, we generated cash from operations before CapEx of ZAR 763 million compared to prior period of ZAR 85 million and then we had the impact of working capital. But we do believe post the elections in Nigeria executing on the order book, bringing back the increased seasonal receivables in our international business, we should normalize this position largely by the financial year end. And then we also see the impact of the benefit of lower interest paid as well as lower taxes paid in total for the group.

So just looking at our CapEx ZAR 879 million compared to the prior year, as I said before, largely some replacement CapEx in our South African international business and some expected CapEx in both those areas. And then when you compare it between prior year, we had ZAR 600 million in total inflow on the property portfolio rationalization. We then see the impact of the Gruber inflows of capital into our business, but then also in Africa regions on Surgipharm we had to settle a shareholders loan of round about ZAR 120 million, which also happen in this period. And I think the other significant cash movers that we had to take this six months was obviously the settlement of the preference shares to the value of ZAR 373 million (sic) [ZAR 378 million] (00:36:52) and on unbundling we had to move ZAR 1 billion to Motus and then we also [ph] bought us (00:36:59) our non-controlling interest out of two businesses, Africa KWS ZAR 80 million and Eco Health we still [ph] had to (00:37:07) buy some – small minority stake in that business.

If we just look at this picture, it's a significant mover from 2016 for logistics only. In those periods, we still had lots of transaction debt on the logistics balance sheet, getting up to levels of 167% and then bringing it back from 2018 HY1, due to the recapitalization that we received from the parent company, thanks to Motus and also the disposal of Gruber roughly to the value of ZAR 2 billion got us to round about 50% and that's moved up slightly mainly due to working capital to round about 52% at the end of December.

What is important is also to note that we have ZAR 11 billion of unused facilities, lots of firepower and 54% of our debt portfolio is fixed, of 90% on long-term giving us a blended cost of debt of 6.1% pre-tax. And I think also brilliant work that was done in the unbundling process, we managed to satisfy all our debt requirements in the banking markets. So there was no requirements for any formal credit rating at this stage.

I think what is really important is to note our net to EBITDA, which is a key metrics for our funders, currently sitting at 1.7 times EBITDA for the 12 months rolling. Our debt covenants does allow us up to 3.25%. We're sort of double from our current limits, but we believe that between 2 times and 2.5 times is where we can easily get ourselves up for certain acquisitions, good contract guidance, giving us the quiet returns. So it allows us for a very good outlook if we are to find in the pipeline of acquisitions opportunities that will give us all those required metrics.

Just looking our return portfolio, also return on equity, it's a bit of a skewed picture. Excluding from Imperial Holdings, especially to 2016 financial year where there was a very large exceptional item on the disposal of [ph] Neska (00:39:23) really driving that number, but [indiscernible] (00:39:26) everyone, I think it's important to understand 10.1% in the prior financial year on Imperial Logistics going up to 11.7% in this financial year period, which really shows this business below the line adequately capitalized and also looking into the future if the financial and operational trading performance increases, we should see that trend continuing.

Looking at ROIC versus WACC, we did increase our WACC by 4%. As you see sort of really in the presentation, [indiscernible] (00:40:00) the result of increased operating profit performance, but really a reduction in our invested capital where we disposed some businesses in the portfolio that was not giving us the required returns disposing of properties in our portfolio and also replacing some of the owned assets with third-party assets, which does talk to our asset-right strategy or asset-light strategy and that will continue into the future. Obviously, WACC has increased significantly year-on-year versus the prior period and that's all related to the reduced gearing that we experience in this business. And having the gap of 2.4% at this stage, we believe that should be a bit more and we will be driving that performance to get it to an increased number [indiscernible] (00:40:47).

That's all from my side and I will hand back to Mohammed for the final section of the presentation. Thank you very much.

Thanks, George. Okay. So just in terms of our prospects for the next six months and then a summary of the year, for the second half, we do still expect our South Africa business to experience some challenging conditions and its performance will be below that of the prior period and, as I said, there are costs that are associated with the business rationalization and restructure that will come through here, but will not be repeated. We will have growth in our logistics Africa regions. And the pipeline, as I said, of new opportunities there, the Imres order book in good shape and there's also a good pipeline of acquisitions that we're looking at in the Africa regions that stands that business in good stead in terms of performance.

Our logistics international business is still being impacted by the WLTP issue we haven't seen that recover and, as I said earlier on, we are sorting out Palletways and we do need the six-month period to do that. So we do expect a weaker performance from Palletways. And then also the cost associated with the cost-cutting and restructure there and, as I said, it's significant. It's about 20% of our fixed overheads we want to take out, but it comes with once-off costs that are in operating profit and we're going to have to take that in the six months.

So we do then flowing that through to headline earnings per share performance that will negatively impact headline earnings, the weaker operational performance and then the once-off cost associated with the business restructure and rationalization. And then in this half, we got the full benefit of the recapitalization and once-off gain of the preference share, which we won't get in the second half. So your interest [indiscernible] (00:42:56) in the second half won't be as distorted as it was in the first half.

So, in summary then for the year to June 2019, we expect still to have higher revenue growth, have lower operating profit growth – performance in the prior year and then HEPS in line with the prior year. And, yeah, I think we're almost at the end of our portfolio rationalization and organizational restructure and this started many, many years ago and I believe we're now in the final throes of that and all the hard work over the last three years plus the new contract gains and the acquisitions we've made, we're confident that will be realized in the 2020 financial year.

Then just this is sort of a more longer-term guidance in terms of how we are measuring ourselves. And this was disclosed to the market when we did the unbundling of Motus. In terms of our growth, we want to grow at 2 times GDP plus inflation in South Africa and international and then our Africa regions business low double-digit. This is organic growth and we achieved 6% growth there. Our cash conversion, that's distorted. The H1 cash performance is not a reflection of the full year cash performance. So I think we normally have all our CapEx – most of our CapEx in the first half plus our working capital in the first half is not as good as the second half for seasonal factors, as George alluded to. So I think the 70% to 75% as a target is definitely achievable.

And then we do have debt capacity and headroom in our funding, George mentioned that. And then with the cash generation that we expect coming through from the business because it's become more asset-light, we will have good firepower to grow the business for any great acquisition opportunities that come about. Return on invested capital, I said earlier on WACC plus 3% for South Africa and Africa regions and WACC plus 2% for International and our dividend we're targeting to have 45% of headline earnings [indiscernible] (00:45:07). So that's just nice reference point to always check us against in terms of how we are achieving in terms of our medium-term guidance.

And then I'd like to end then with our key investment highlight in terms of Imperial as a investment proposition. As you can see, we have good positioning in the regional markets we operate in. We've got deep expertise in very attractive industries that I took you through earlier on. We do have competitive advantages in many of them, in the healthcare space in Africa – in South Africa with the scale and capabilities we have in Europe in certain of the markets we operate in. We really have a great client base. If you look at our clients list, there isn't a top blue chip client that isn't associated with Imperial.

And I think this asset-right business model is an evolving thing, as I showed you on the earlier slides, we've come from being very asset-intensive and we don't want to be completely asset-light because there are certain industries where owning the asset gives you a strategic advantage. So we will balance that up against returns. We've got a vision and a strategy, which I shared early on and, yeah, we also do have strong and committed leadership and platform and track record to grow the business. So that's in summary our highlight.

I'd like to thank you all, all our stakeholders and our funders and the investment community for your support. But then I'd like to make a special thank you and I'm sure you saw the announcement about Marius retirement as the CEO from 1 February. So, I'm 28 days in the job standing here, but I'm very excited and looking forward to it. But I'd like to thank Marius personally.

Marius has been a mentor to me over the many years that we worked together and I learned a hell of a lot from him. And it's a big thing that he's leaving. And there are so many memories building the Africa business with him and he's been in the business 29 years. Just to put it into context, I was 10-years-old when he started. So he's really been a stalwart at Imperial and we'll have many more opportunities to thank Marius for his valuable contribution to the group. But really from my side, Marius, thank you very much and you guys know him very well from all the years but, yeah, we really thank you for your contribution to Imperial and Marius is still around, though, [indiscernible] (00:47:51) June and beyond, so I look forward to still working with him in the last few months.

So thank you very much. I'll leave it at that. Any questions?

Thank you. It's Nick Webster from HSBC. I guess, as you said, Mohammed, the cost story has been going on for some time and you put a bit of sort of color on that that it's always sort of an ongoing process in the business of your nature and size, but these are quite big numbers, and it seems I would say certainly new news this morning in terms of the scale and what you're actually doing. Could you sort of quantify a little bit more for us in terms of potentially, I guess, the benefits or what the one-off costs you're thinking are and what the annualized benefits of those are? You talked about some site consolidation just in South Africa, maybe the 20% in Europe is a bigger number and a bigger issue, whether that's – how that's split between Palletways and the rest of the business. Is somebody else taking a look at this and then come up with new opportunities, new ideas because it seems a bit of a revelation this morning?

Yeah. So, you are right. I mean, we continuously look at in the operations where we can rationalize and take out excess fleet and that is an ongoing thing. But Europe specifically, this is head office overhead, a lot of it or some of it. Some of it is also in operation. I think, Nick, it comes down to also fresh [ph] pair of eyes (00:49:44). We've appointed a new CEO there and he has identified some obvious cost savings that maybe were not as obvious to us being in the business for a long time. So, yes, I do think it is new, but it's the right thing when you look at also the way the portfolio in Europe has changed. We've sold a lot of businesses as well. We haven't only bought Palletways, we've also sold quite a bit, we sold [ph] Neska (00:50:15), we sold Schirm [indiscernible] (00:50:16) businesses. And associated with sales of those businesses, we were not maybe as hard enough to take out some overheads in the business. And I think that some of it's coming through now in terms of us really having a fresh look at the business, there's a new CEO there, et cetera.

So, yeah, you may see it as a revelation, but I see it is the right thing to do and it does make sense if you look at the overheads relative to the size of the business and you look at the businesses we've exited, you would have expected the cost to come down, but they didn't, and now we're doing. In South Africa, there's also some of that, it's not only looking at the operational consolidation of warehousing and taking out fleet, but it's also overheads – there's overheads in the business that shouldn't be there. So, I don't know how to answer, it is material. I'm not going to give you a number, but I think I think I've given you a sense of the scale of it in terms of it. And I think in August, once we're through it, I'll be in a better shape then to give more guidance on that because we haven't yet fully implemented what I've mentioned. It's still happening in this half. So we'll give you those, we'll give you more appropriate guidance at the right time.

And then on Palletways, you said there was actually revenue growth. Could you quantify that in organic terms for us? And then maybe a bit more color on this sort of, what you call it, imbalances in particularly the pricing strategy, what it was and what you've changed?

Yeah. So Palletways revenue growth is about 8%. Is that right? Yeah. So that was the revenue growth. And like I said, that market is growing. Yeah, so what happened over time is that the model works on pallets coming into a network and then pallets going out of the network. And the members are incentivized to bring pallets into the network. And then there's a party that takes it out to another part in UK, for example. Now if 500 pallets are coming in and only 200 are coming from the South of England, for example, and 500 are coming in from the North of England, the transport that is going to take back the 500 to the South needs more trucks to do that because he's only brought in 200. So the cost then for him to service those 500 pallets are higher, so he needs to be somehow compensated for that. And we have obviously through what we call postcode cover costs have compensated a lot of that and we've now gone to the members and said, look, you're clearly benefiting from somebody else taking your loads into the South. You've got to compensate. So we've changed our thinking around how we manage this inter-member rates and that comes as a function of the growth in the network and then the size of the network. And as I said earlier on, we should have probably not taken 500 pallets, we should have only taken the 200 pallets, but we took it because it gave us the growth.

So that's what we're experiencing now. Now, we never experienced that in the first year of owning the business because this is now – Palletways is getting to a bigger and bigger business. But certainly the business model in terms of playing in that space is alive and well. We are seeing growth in that market. Palletways is – because of more online trading and people ordering online, the demand for that service is increasing in that market, and we see that in the revenue numbers. So we got to sort out managing the cost better. And like I say, we are looking at changing the pricing model as well as then supporting members with other members coming in. Now, when you fix up the pricing, you can then get other members to support maybe a member that was under pressure. So it's quite a lot of detail, we can go after the presentation into more detail if you want, but that is really some of the challenges we're experiencing. It's not a top-line issue. [indiscernible]

(00:54:23) ZAR 4 billion of new contract wins is a meaningful number. Could you allocate that across the three regions broadly for us? Obviously, it makes quite a difference in terms of forecasting next year.

Yeah. It's evenly split. I don't think it's – we don't give that detail, but we've won business in Africa, we've won good new automotive contracts in Europe and in South Africa. So I would say all three businesses have good new contract gains and renewals.

Thank you.

Do we have any questions on the conference call? [indiscernible]

(00:55:10)

Okay. Questions from the webcast from Damon Buss of Electus. He had two questions. The first one, why does the asset-right business model not deliver returns that are much higher than the medium-term guidance of WACC plus 3%? That's the first one. And his second question, in South Africa, what percentage of contracts are unprofitable and what is the average remaining duration of these contracts?

Yeah. So, the WACC plus 3% with an asset-right business, you should get there, we're not there and we want to get to WACC plus 3%. So I think with our model, we should get to the WACC plus 3%. It doesn't mean that with the way we're now thinking about asset-light to asset-right that we can't get there. So we are not achieving that because we haven't had good growth in our South African business. Our International business was under pressure and that's why we didn't get to WACC plus 3%. But we're confident with the model we have of being asset-right will get there. And the second question?

Second question around the contracts in South Africa, what percentage of the contracts are unprofitable and what's the average remaining duration of these contracts?

No, we don't give that level of detail on specific contracts, so I'm not going to answer that question.

Okay. And then two final questions, which are quite similar, due to the weaker conditions and expected outlook in Europe in Palletways in particular, could we expect impairment charges in the FY 2019 numbers, and could you provide us with some color around cash repatriation from Africa and if you've experienced any issues from any of the countries in this territory thus far?

Yeah. As I said, Palletways is still performing above the level when we bought it and even though it hasn't achieved our growth expectations, it still has performed better from the time we bought it. So I don't expect an impairment there. And the things that we are doing to Palletways will allow it to perform better. Like I said, it's not about the business model. For me, that was the issue I would have been a lot more concerned. So, no, we don't expect that. And then the...

Second question around...

Africa.

...any issues with repatriation of cash?

George, maybe you want to answer that one?

I'll answer that. So, yes, no, we've never had an issue of repatriating cash on any of the territories in which we operate. And typically where we have very high dividends out of those territories in the region of 70% plus.

Okay. Is that it? One last question. [indiscernible]

(00:57:56). You expressed a lot of positivity about the gains you're going to get from your reallocation of capital and the taking out of costs, which is very impressive. However, we've got also to look at the environment itself in which these changes are taking place. Obviously, there's a huge amount of uncertainty up until the election. After that, we've got your half year. Is it not possible that we may not see the significant improvements you're looking for because the uncertainty will prevail for some time, possibly even for the whole of the next year and I suggest your outlook may be a little more positive than reality?

Well, I'm saying taking out cost of a business is under your control. And yes, you're right, I mean, there may be economic conditions that are tougher. But I believe we have experienced a lot of it. We don't see in our South African business the economy getting worse. I mean, you can talk after – you can speak to him after that, but we don't see still continuing decline. We've sort of reached the base and it sort of has flattened out. And the issues in Europe have been largely in my view once-offs, the WLTP issue was once-off event, so that volume will come back. And then Palletways, like I said, we are confident that what we're putting into the business is also under our control. It's not dependent on the market growing. Like I said, it's got good top line growth. No, so I think we – a lot of the, call it, the 2020 performance is things that are under our control that we got to manage. And yes, the economy can always come from the side. But like I say, we haven't seen certainly from December in our trading things getting worse, no, not at all.

Even it stays where it is, that's why they are miserable.

Sorry.

Even if it stays where it is, it's not a positive outlook though?

Yes. We got to do what's right in our business. And I really think what we have got planned coming in the next six months will stand us in good stead for difficult economy.

Thank you very much. There's some drinks outside. And thank you for indulging us for an hour. Thank you.