Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mohammed Akoojee — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
George de Beer — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
Hakan Bicil — Chief Executive Officer, IMPERIAL Logistics International BV & Co. KG
Mike Brown — Chairman, Investment Analysts Society of South Africa
Ross D. Krige — Analyst, JPMorgan Equities South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Marc Ter Mors — Analyst, SBG Securities (Pty) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All right. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Mike Brown from the Investment Analysts Society. We've been hosted this morning by the Imperial Group for their Interim Results Six Months Ended 31st December. This is a group that does provide outsourced contract logistics, freight management and distribution services across the world. As we know there is something of a rand hedge because of their global companies they operate in and the revenue they're bringing globally. About a ZAR 10 billion company, been listed since 1987. And of course we'll hear today about the results with the – now that we have the discontinuation of Motus and some of the CPG businesses in Imperial.

So there's lots of talk about and I'd like on behalf of the society to thank Imperial for hosting us this morning. And we will always very much value these presentations for what is quite a substantial and complex group. And it does help us as analysts to get these presentations and to get a chance to network with management. So, on behalf of the society, I'd like to thank Imperial and to invite Mohammed Akoojee, the CEO to do the presentation.

Thank you, Mohammed.

Thank you, Mike. Good morning everybody and good morning to everybody on the webcast. A special welcome to Bridget, our Non-Executive Director. And we've also got our Exco here today in full force. So what I can't answer, I'm sure they will be able to answer. Let's get straight then into it. That's the agenda for this morning. As usual a brief overview, the operating context, I'll do a bit of the operations review and then I'll hand over to George to do the financials and I'll come back to the strategy and the prospects for the next six months.

So, if you look at last year, we unbundled Motus plus we discontinued CPG. The only relevant measure of our performance in these set of results is our continuing performance. And throughout the presentation, that's what I'm going to deal with. We will touch on CPG and you know where we are with that. But in terms of the business' performance and going forward, continuing operations is the way to understand these numbers. So, if you look at the key numbers, our revenue was flat. That is slightly misleading, because last year, we did have the inland waterways shipping business that had to deal with low water levels. So, we had increased revenue last year, but we also had increased subcontractor costs. And I'll get to the detail of that when I get to the divisions because there are some interesting underlying revenue trends that are coming. But we translate that into good operating revenue – operating profit growth. Our operating profit was up 9% and that's a function of effective cost management rationalization and a lot of the hard work that was done in 2019 coming through at ZAR 1.6 billion and that comes through to the margin. So, despite having a flat top line, our margins still went up from 5.9% to 6.4% which was quite pleasing. And that translated into headline earnings per share growth of 10% and 12% respectively. We'll be paying a dividend of 167,000 cents per share to our shareholders. That's up 15% from the previous half.

Our cash conversion was good. Our returns were slightly hampered by a poor second half last year. You'll remember we had a number of one source in our results in H2 last year, and this is a 12-month rolling ROIC, so I'd expect that to be better [indiscernible] (00:04:16) F 2020, for the full year.

Our net debt-to-EBITDA is up, George will go through the detail of that. But we did have obviously some cash outflows from CPG and the closure relating to that plus we had to spend some CapEx on the back of new contract gains which was quite good for us as you can see there. We won new business of ZAR 5.8 billion on an annualized basis for the six months and we've managed to hold onto 80% of our existing business.

Now that's very encouraging in the current environment that's highly competitive and where everybody is under pressure. It means we are relevant to our clients and out there winning new business. So that's a very important indication of the health of the business.

Just in terms of a brief overview, as I said, we had good performances across the three regions in terms of operating profit performance despite really challenging trading conditions. Throughout our businesses, we had to deal with various things particularly in South Africa, and I'll get to the detail of that. Volumes in our existing client base were well down particularly in the industrial sector, so sector like cement and steel. In our European business, we saw automotive volumes significantly down at 20 years lows and the chemical market was also depressed. So despite volumes in the existing business under pressure across South Africa and our European business, we still managed to generate a good profit growth.

As I said earlier on these results certainly benefited from the new contract gains and the cost cutting and rationalization we did in last year's financial year and we had a fantastic performance from our healthcare business in Africa regions. So, on the face of [indiscernible] (00:06:15) Africa business only showed about 7% operating profit growth, but our market access business where we act as a distributor for multinationals that was actually up 20% and I'll get to the detail of that later on.

I think these results demonstrate the strength of our South African business with CPG out to be able to grow top line and revenue in this market I believe is a fantastic performance for South Africa, and it shows the resilience of this business that its able to still deliver and still win new work and still generate profit in a very difficult economic climate. And now with CPG gone, I think that's becoming a lot more clear in a trend in our business.

The Africa regions business had to deal with mixed trading conditions across the markets. We had difficult conditions in markets like Namibia and Kenya, but then we were able to make that up by very good performances in West Africa and our Imres business which is our sourcing business on the healthcare side had a fantastic six months. Europe was hard as I said in terms of the automotive and chemical market, but with the great action plans we had there we were able to also win new business and show operating profit growth.

So, if you look at our revenue 70% is generated outside of South Africa and about 64% of our operating profit is also generated outside South Africa. So, we are beneficiaries of a weaker currency. In terms of balance sheet, despite our net-debt-to-EBITDA moving up to two times, it's still comfortable and we still got sufficient headroom in terms of our existing facilities and George will cover that in more detail. But you know we still can fund our organic and acquisitive growth going forward. Our net working capital is in line with the guidance we've given the market. And then as I said earlier on, we had to spend some CapEx this six months on the back of those new contract gains.

IFRS 16, George will go in detail. Bottom line, it had an impact of about ZAR 400 million negative on our equity and very little impact on the bottom line in terms of EPS. But George has got some good slides later on to cover that. I'm also very pleased on the progress we've made on our strategy. We've not exited CPG, it's done. We exited it in November. The closure cost that I reported to the market at the end of June last year unchanged, but we had to incur some cash outflow flowing from that. So we made the provision we had to provide for onerous leases and contracts et cetera, but then the cash flow had to flow in the six months and that impacted negatively on our cash flow. But we won't see that continuing in the second half. So we know – there will be no further trading losses to be incurred and no cash outflow for the CPG. So that's done.

On the positive side, we retained 1,800 of our staff in that business. And then there was some stuff that was transferred with the sale of our coal business. But very importantly, we kept 80% of our contracts on the ambient side. That is fantastic because we were able to convince the clients that stay with Imperial and move them into a new dedicated model where we came up with a solution for them and managed to retain those clients and keep that revenue which is a very – an upside from the closure of this, because when we head through this process, we were not really sure how that would turn out.

So, it turned out actually quite positively. We are on track in terms of selling our shipping business in Europe and Paraguay, and we're targeting to conclude that by the end of June. Obviously, subject to regulatory approvals, it could extended beyond that. So that remains on track. We've done four great acquisitions in the six month in our Africa regions business. All of them talked to our strategy of building a gateway into Africa.

The one expands our consumer footprint in West Africa. The other one expands our pharmaceutical footprint in Southern Africa. MDS expands our freight management capabilities in Nigeria. And the access group extends outsourcing and procurement capability into other industries where we're very strong in healthcare through Imres. But now we've expanded its sourcing and procurement capability in other industries. So, four great acquisitions that will make a meaningful impact going forward. We spent about ZAR 600 million on that, but that is not in these numbers that happened post-year and except for access group.

We continue looking for opportunities in the air/ocean space. I'll cover that later why that's so important for us. And we're busy with that. And then we've also started an innovation fund, where we are looking to invest in disruption in technology that allows our business to mitigate some of the risks that that bodes. And I've got more detail later on, on that, but it's quite an exciting development in our business. If you look at Imperial in terms of the capabilities that we have which is a very important slide, that's because this is how we make money. We offer these services to our clients and we've changed this. We've moved from a regional reporting more to a capability or service offering reporting, so that the market can understand how do we actually make money. So if you look at market access, this is where we take stock ownership of the product and actually sell the product on behalf of multinationals into Nigeria, into Ghana, and across many, many countries in Africa. And you can see how material that business has become in the mix. So it's about 22% of our revenue, but from a profit point of view, it's even bigger than now, our contract logistics business. So it's now about 30% of Imperial as profit is made out of acting as a distributor or market access partner for multinationals in FMCG and pharmaceuticals in Africa.

Our freight management business is, that's where we started out as a logistics company doing basic transport and that is obviously a very big business in South Africa as well as in Europe. And this is where we move the product on behalf of our clients, with a truck, with using somebody else's truck, with a ship, using somebody else's ship. We're not in an ocean in terms of some of our competitors and there is a capability that's missing, which is something we want to get into and that's a part of our strategy.

And then contract logistics also showed a good performance over the last three years. So there is the three-year trend of Imperial's performance without CPG, and if you consider the economy that we had to deal with in South Africa and Europe, I think the growth trend is for me, very interesting and exciting, and I think we want to build on from this.

Let's get to operating context, which I think you guys know probably a bit more about this than me and you all know it's very tough out there. So, yeah, so our business were all exposed to all the stuff you read in the newspaper, very depressed economies and trading conditions across all our markets were really challenging. I don't expect a recovery in the short-term. So, we expect over the next six months to still experience the headwinds of what we experienced in these set of results. There's some new challenges that always pop up in corona is now and on the horizon or not on the horizon, but is starting to impact. We haven't seen the impact of corona on our businesses in South Africa and in Africa, but we are starting to see some stock shortages of product in our chemical and automotive businesses in Europe, which is obviously impacting production plants where we are logistics provider. But at this stage, it's difficult to quantify that, but that is another challenge that we've got to deal with in these, in these six months potentially.

Yes, we did a lot of good work last year in terms of rationalization and cost cutting, and we would not have been able to deliver the set of numbers if we didn't do that. And the timing of that was perfect because we were entering into a very difficult time as I said in the last set of results that we reported and we acted quickly on that. And we won new business which supported some of the volume declines that we had across the business.

South Africa we saw exceptionally low volumes in our healthcare business and in our industrial side of the business where volumes like cement and steel and those type of products were significantly down. Consumer was not too bad, but it was still down, but not as much as some of those other sectors. And then we had also to deal with load-shedding because our clients were impacted by that and that impact on our volumes.

We're still seeing margin pressure on our contract renewals and this is a function of the market when there's a low growth market and the markets not growing, everybody is fighting for the same pie of business. So you've got to be very sharp on your pricing and your clients expect you to be because they also have got challenges in their business. So, we are seeing that on renewals, we are having to give away some margin, but fortunately in a portfolio like ours where we've got so many contracts and so many businesses, we're able to ride that quite well, and I'll show you the South African performance later in detail to demonstrate that and in Europe.

And in new business as I've said, we won about ZAR 2 billion of new business annualized in the South African business in the last six months and we got very good pipeline of new opportunities and that's a function of us benefiting also from a difficult market because what you see in difficult markets, clients want to take out cost from the supply chain, they want to outsource and focus on the core business and that creates opportunity in the market. And that's where we can renew business.

In Africa or rest of Africa, we had mixed trading conditions as I've said. We had some difficult conditions to deal with. In Namibia, the Zimbabwe economic pressures did hurt our cross-border business and then Kenya we had the market is becoming competitive and also the economic recovery there has not been as positive as we would have hoped and that has impacted our business. That's on the negatives. On the positives, we had a very good performance in our West Africa business on the healthcare side and Imres had a record order book during this period and delivered on that and had a fantastic result and that boosted our performance in the six months. As I said earlier on, the Eurozone and UK staff, all the data is out there for you to see what's going on in these sectors where we are a big player, in sectors like steel, chemical and automotive. And trading conditions in Germany continued to deteriorate in our sectors. So what has held up the economy there is the consumer market, but we don't play there. We're much more exposed to German industrial and manufacturing, and going to read the data on what's going on there. It's not good.

Brexit, although it's now been decided or it's done, there is still overhang in terms of how actually that's going to pan out, and that creates uncertainty which is depressing consumer demand and activity. And that's an ongoing risk to Palletways. But Palletways did have a very good performance in the six months, but largely due to management actions to sort out some of the imbalances that I mentioned that we were dealing with in the last [indiscernible] (00:18:41) results. But again, great new business gains, ZAR 2.2 billion of annualized revenue that we want there.

So, you can see the trend existing business under pressure from a margin point of view. Existing business under pressure from a volume point of view, and that is macro. But we're not doing – we're not sitting on our heels. We're going out there, winning new business to counter that and we're managing our businesses tightly so that we can generate the profits that we're generating.

This is a very nice overview of the South African, African regions and international performance. You can see our revenue in South Africa was up, so was operating profit. Our margins came down slightly, but it's for the reasons I've mentioned earlier on around contract renewals. Return on capital at 3% above WACC which is what we target to get to. Just remember, I said the return on capital for the group and particularly ILI is being depressed by a weak second half of last year, that's a 12-month rolling number.

Africa regions, there's a base issue where we reported Resolve had a contracted that it delivered out on in the previous half. If you take that out, the business grew double-digits. So I'm very comfortable that although we didn't meet our target of low-double digit growth for Africa, there was a ones-off that we reported last year that we didn't repeat because it's project work that is ad hoc work that's – it's not as annuity type business. So that did impact the year-on-year performance. So if we take that out, it's actually a double-digit growth and fantastic margins and also great returns on capital of 16%, it's the highest return on capital business.

And then in international, while revenue was down also because of base effects from the low water levels. And just to explain this maybe, so what happens is when there's low water levels, our revenue goes up because we've got to use more ships to transport the same amount of volume. But your costs also go up, so you don't make more money, your revenue just goes up and then your costs go up at the same rate. So if you take out the effect of that, we did have about 3% top line growth in Europe in a declining economy or declining market where we play, but then the benefits of all the cost cutting that we did translated into a fantastic 13% growth in our business. Our margins are in around 4.8%. I always said this business could get to around 4.5% margin and that's a very good margin for a developed market in the area we play in and good returns on capital. Obviously, our cost of capital is a lot lower and there, we target to get to WACC plus 2%, so certainly in line with our expectation.

This is a very important slide because it talks to the diversity of this business and it talks to some of the resilience that you've seen in these numbers. And I'll start with the industry first. So, if you look at our business in South Africa and I'll start there first, we have broad logistics business across many sectors. We play a key role in the SA economy across consumer, across healthcare, across industrial products, chemicals as well. We also – much more like in South Africa but we also play in the automotive space. So we're not exposed to one particular area, and that's why we're able to deliver results in difficult conditions because you represent a broader economy. And if mining is down or consumer is down, we're not only exposed to that. And that is a differentiator in Imperial.

If you go to the Africa regions business, you can see strong focus on healthcare and pharma, and that is because that's where we want to focus for now. Those are going to be sustainable fast-growing and defensive industries and you're seeing the resilience of that to grow the market access business 20% in a difficult Africa environment which talks to our strategy of focusing on those industries.

And then if you go to our international business, still in my view too exposed to the low growth decline in German manufacturing and that's why we're aligning that portfolio to diversify it away from those industries in export and then get into growth industries and leverage our expertise in these industries in Europe to support our trade flows and our supply chain into and out of Africa. So, the plan there is to change the mix in that business and because we've got such a strong Africa business in industries that we are not in, in Europe, we can leverage that. And that's why we want to get into air and ocean that could change that mix.

So you can see water from a regional point of view, from a industry point of view, and a client point of view, this is a very broad and diversified business. And then if you go to our capabilities, yes, we don't have air and ocean, but we have everything else from there. We're a strong player in freight management across all three markets, so we can get products of our clients to where they need to get to, using our assets or other people's assets. We're strong in contract logistics, not as strong in South African regions, but certainly, a very important capability in terms of our service offering in the South African and international markets where you can't just do freight management, you got to also offer warehousing and distribution services. So we can offer that. And then our key differentiator is our market access business. This is a key differentiator that Imperial's [indiscernible] (00:24:49) when we go and talk to a client. Because in addition to doing the movement of the goods through freight management, the contract logistics in terms of warehousing and supply chain management, we can also take the principles or the clients' products and take it to market, and we go to 50,000 points of sales in Nigeria. We go to over 4,000 points of sale in Kenya. So that combination of logistics and market access is a competitive advantage, because nobody's got that in Africa and hence, our strategy of gateway to Africa, which I'll come back to later on. And when we have air and ocean in that, we will just complement that entire service offering in terms of positioning Imperial as an end-to-end service provider to our clients.

Back to the numbers, there is the South African performance since December 15 to December 19 on revenue, and you can see without CPG how this business has performed on revenue in a declining economy. So this vindicates the decision to exit that business because that was dragging us down, and we can't give you another two years of operating profit. Unfortunately, the accountants say they were challenged because you have to go back and adjust for IFRS 16 and we could only go back to December 17. But still if you look at it over three years, December – okay, two years 2017, 2018, 2019 we've grown this business in a very difficult economy.

And I'm not going to go through the detail. I've covered a lot of the reasons for why South Africa delivered that result, but it's a very interesting trend to look at our business without CPG in there and it talks to our resilience.

If you go to the Africa regions business as I said there were base effects. There was also in the contract logistics side, remember we had a big contract there where we were distributing goods, warehousing product on the back of aid contract, on the back of global aid organizations. But that volume is gone now and that was in the base.

So if you take that out, the market access business, our core business which is what we want to grow in Africa was up 20% and that's a fantastic performance particularly on the healthcare side. So while that does look like flat revenue, they are moving parts to it that affect that. Like I said the contract logistics part of it was a big, big part of it. You can see it was over 6, it was close to ZAR 600 million of revenue. It's you know, down now to ZAR 300 million. And similarly on the managed – on the freight management side that was a big part.

But if you look at the trend of our market access business and that is where we want to grow, it's on the right path. Europe, there's a similar trend in that, holding our own in a difficult economic conditions in markets, but also if you compare what we've achieved now to 2017, we've actually shown growth and increasing margin through all the cost-cutting and good work that has been done by our team there.

Just on Palletways, so Palletways had a number of challenges you will recall from last year's result where we had net working balances within our members in certain areas because members were falling over because of a tough economy, to get our pricing right. I'm pleased to report back that it's all resulted in a very good year-over-year performance in Palletways. And you know, the business despite having a mediocre top line, but you would expect that in the economic conditions, it's operating in a very good operating profit growth in these results and that you can see in our freight management increase, but our shipping business also held its own and you know produced a very credible performance both Germany and for both Europe and Paraguay.

As I said if you exclude the impact of the low water levels, we actually had 3% growth in euro terms in this business, and that's just the result in rands. We don't have to go through that. The rand was pretty stable on average over the last six months, so we didn't get any benefit from that or any negative from that.

So if you look at the group and the divisional operating margins, I showed you the capability margins, this is now looking at the regions again. South Africa, a slight decline, but I believe those margins could get back to those – to around the 7.9%, because when you win new contracts, I think it's important to understand you don't just get those contract profitable on day one. It takes 6 to 12 months to get a contract going because there's CapEx to invest in, there are certain one-off costs initially to set up contracts. And even though we've moved contracts from CPG to our dedicated contracts business, there's still cost to be incurred. So while we've had good top line growth from those new business gains and the CPG business, that didn't translate into profit immediately, but it will come.

But volumes are under pressure, so you've got to keep remembering that. Good margin uptick in Africa region, that's largely on the back of a very good performance in our healthcare business and our margins in international were much, much better because we sorted out our Palletways problems, and we also took out a lot of cost in that business. And that translated into more than 0.5% margin uptick in our numbers. Returns on capital, they don't look fantastic relative to our WACC, but as I said, expect an improvement coming through into H2 because we still got the overhang of H2 of the previous year in these numbers.

And those are our target returns quite lastly for South Africa, African regions, and we almost hit those numbers, and also international WACC plus 2%. So despite the overhang from H2, we managed to get close to our target hurdle rates, and I expect to meet those come financially in 2020.

Okay. I'll hand over to George now to take you through IFRS 16 and all the exciting stuff. George, over to you.

Thanks, Mohammed. Good morning, everyone.

I think before I get into the results, I would like to spend a few minutes just with the [indiscernible] (00:31:48) elephant in the room of IFRS 16. A lot of effort has gone in to go through the full impact over the last 18 months where we had to adopt the fully retrospective approach effective 1 July this financial year. But what that will mean is we will have to restate our 2018 balance sheet as well as the movement for 2019 and the movement for 2020.

Going through process we have to evaluate more than 3,300 leases and that will be done in country, in local currencies, local interest rates. And so the amount of effort had been put in by all the financial teams globally and for I have to thank them. And the final landing where, as we indicated previously, the impact on the results or net earnings will be immaterial, but there was a lot of upticks that we'll have to deal with throughout the financials.

Obviously, we will exclude all the short-term leases less than 12 months as well as all immaterial assets. That's not about the radius of ZAR 100,000 translating into double currencies, which we'll be excluding. The impact on day one at June 2018 will mean a negative debt-to-equity of ZAR 400 million, largely resulting of interest in the prior periods as well as foreign currency translation reserves. And in raising asset of – to the value of ZAR 5.3 billion, the profile of that asset as noted previously is 65% of that is properties, 26% of that relates to transport fleet, 8% is warehousing equipment and 1% motor vehicles.

Obviously, the big change where in the previous on IAS 17, we had lease smoothing over the period of leases that had to be unwound as well, but that was not a big reversal in the prior year numbers. And then we had to raise the net tax asset of ZAR 115 million. The profit and loss impact – and I'll go through some of the key metrics on the next slide – is that we had to – get the lease rental expense of ZAR 936 million, is excluded from EBITDA, we raise the interest expense and the lease payments become part of financing activities.

If we look at the key metrics impacts that we see throughout our business, is the EBITDA increased by 46%, which is the reallocation of lease payments between depreciation of around ZAR 800 million, interest of ZAR 125 million and the lease payments become part of our operating cash flow, so out of our operating cash flows and interest financing cash flows. The net debt financing cash flows includes CPG, exit lease of ZAR 295 million, which was a ones-off in this period. The impact on our net debt is heavier, is a large lease portion, so that [indiscernible] (00:34:44) by 70%.

ROIC, negative impact of 17%, but then also reducing our WACC overall by 16%. And this is a game [indiscernible] (00:34:55) that we'll have to do going forward. I will, for the next few reporting periods, continuously have and give guidance in terms of the with and without until such stage, where we can converge. But I think it's also very important when we get to my debt slide, and that is for all our bank governance, IFRS 16 is excluded. And for that reason, I will continue to give the market guidance on both the with and without.

If we then get into to our profit and loss or income statement from continuing operations, I believe this is a very good set of results. These are very tough times in all economies in which we operate and achieving a 9% operating profit growth is really a good performance. And that was really largely assisted by the significant rationalization and cost cuttings that we had to do and taking some pence in the prior year, a strong performance from our healthcare business in Africa regions and also greatly assisted by the shipping business as well as the Palletways performance in the six months.

If we look at our payments of our goodwill and disposal of businesses, there's some small movements, so we had a small ZAR 6 million, I mean, payment of goodwill. There were some costs of ZAR 10 million associated with some of the disposals and then we had a recovery of ZAR 8 million on some debt that was previously paid. The amortization of intangibles as indicated previously, [indiscernible] (00:36:18) the costs are 11% down year-on-year.

But as we go through new acquisitions, that number, again, over time will increase, but over time being, the trend is downward movement. And then we had some cost associated with the acquisition of business in Africa regions to a value of ZAR 14 million. And then very importantly, I think our treasury management was excellent in the six months, resulting in a small forex gain of ZAR 18 million compared to a loss of ZAR 23 million in the prior period.

Looking at our net financing costs, increase year-on-year of 13%, but you will recall and that based on prior year, we had a ones-off gain of ZAR 63 million on the settlement of the preference shares, our tax rate increased by 21% of course that on P&L. And that was largely – or just not some of deferred tax assets in larger entities that we did not raise the deferred tax assets, and we also had some non-deductible expenses on the business acquisition disposal costs. The discontinuance of the CPG in the current period is ZAR 283 million. And that compares also the prior period the unbundling of Motus ZAR 5.2 billion as well as CPG restated and discontinued the product expense with a value of ZAR 80 million.

Just looking at our financial position, no material movement of property, plant and equipment. Transport fleet increased by the acquisition of new contracts, some buses that we had to acquire on the Lowveld Bus acquisition and supporting all our new contract gains, and we see same in our working capital. As Mohammed indicated, with these new contracts, we have to invest in working capital, we have to invest in CapEx. We just spent ZAR 480 million in the six months on expansion CapEx to support the new contracts and then we had our normal fleet replacement programs offset by depreciation this period.

We did dispose a small associate in South Africa in this period resulting in the movement in our investment in our associates. And then our net working capital increased by 54% from 30th of June. That's largely resulted to new contract gains or increased sales volumes in Africa regions and [indiscernible] (00:38:39) this is still in line with our guidance to the mark of 4% to 5% of 12 months of revenue on an average basis. But also, you'll recall seasonally year-on-year, December is normally a high working capital period and that typically reduces as we get to December.

If you look at our net interest bearing borrowings profile, our bank debt increased by 29%, largely supported by cash inflow from operations of ZAR 2.6 billion and then utilized cash in working capital of ZAR 1.1 billion. We paid our finance cost of ZAR 422 million, we paid our taxes, ZAR 261 million. We have a CapEx of ZAR 815 million, of which ZAR 478 million, as I said, was related to expense CapEx. We did some share buybacks to the value of ZAR 225 million, and we paid dividends of ZAR 282 million. I think very importantly under the lease obligations, the lease payments of ZAR 1.1 billion is resulting in that movement on the lease obligations.

Total equity, flat from June. We did recognize ZAR 458 million of comprehensive income, which was offset by dividends paid of ZAR 282 million and share repurchase of ZAR 158 million and our share-based equity charges and also some transaction we've acquired some minorities for ZAR 26 million out of equity.

Looking at cash flow for opening activities, cash generated by operations of ZAR 2.7 billion, negatively impacted of ones-off by the CPG discontinues where we had [indiscernible] (00:40:17) for another five months until we exited all operations. That's a negative of ZAR 307 million and it will not recur again. All business are now ceased, so there will be no further trading losses out of the CPG discontinuance.

Our net working capital, as I said, mainly supporting new contract gains as well as increased sales volumes in Africa regions resulting in higher stock levels, and for many, our working capital guidance between 4% and 5% of revenue on a 12-month rolling basis.

We're going to refer, there's a cash flow summary. Our capital expenditure, as I said, ZAR 815 million of which ZAR 478 million was expansion CapEx. We had some balance on the acquisition of the Axis Group, net of cost of ZAR 75 million. The repayment of these obligations, as you'll see now on the face of the cash flow statement, under financial activities ZAR 1.1 billion, and the other financial activities mainly comprises ZAR 80 million of which for which we use to buy the minorities in two of our businesses.

Very importantly, currently we're leveraged just in terms of the bank covenant of 3.25. End of December, we had 2 times, obviously, pushed out a little bit by ZAR 595 million that was the ones-off that we had to incur as outflow for CPG. It was one thing I think the provisions at year end. But the reality comes when you actually start writing the checks. And I think that process exceptionally well manage. The timing of it, exceptionally well managed. Some of those leases would have had a seven-year time horizon. So for management to manage this process, getting it done, this six months I think was a fantastic effort and it's a ones-off very clearly defined. I mean there should not be a repeat of that.

Our debt capacity remains between ZAR 3 billion and ZAR 5 billion, giving us significant headroom to grow the business on acquisitions, contract gains and it does come at [indiscernible] (00:42:22) well above the covenant of 3 times. I think it's important to note the group's liquidity remains exceptionally strong with ZAR 10.6 billion of unutilized bank facilities. 73% of the group debt in long term, 49% at fixed rates, and all our current debt requirements are serviced by the banking market.

So I think we performed against the medium-term guidance. Looking at revenue, opening profit, Mohammed did give a lot of color around it. Yes, we did not achieve in our revenue for various reasons, but operating profit in line with guidance. Our cash conversion, 72%, well in line with our guidance. Debt capacity, ZAR 3 billion to ZAR 5 billion. Our net debt-to-EBITDA at 2 times, still well below 2.5 times, that's our internal benchmark, not too stretch our balance sheet too far. So we have covenants of 3.25, ROIC of 10% versus a WACC of 8%.

Negatively impacted by the first – the first of this calendar year which had a lot of ones-off cost in there. Dividend we did by or declare a dividend of 45% of headline earnings in line with guidance and our net working capital of 4.9% of revenue in line with a 4% to 5% of revenue guidance. Thank you very much.

I'll give it back to Mohammed.

Thanks, George.

We move onto to strategy. And yes, George, we do want to grow the business. So if you look at our strategy. And we've been communicating this now for a few reporting periods. The big strategy is really to focus Imperial or position Imperial as a gateway to Africa. As I said early on, we've got a market access business that gives us a competitive advantage. And we want to position ourselves to our clients and our principals that if they want to get their product into Africa, there's only one company they should think of and that's Imperial.

And if you combine all freight management business, our contract logistics business and our market access business in terms of the service to our clients, we'll be able to offer an integrated solution to our clients into Africa. Now we're not there yet, that is where we want to get to. But we still got – we have a lot of these things. So we want to focus on those three capabilities. We want to focus on the five key industries that we're very strong in, healthcare and consumer, chemicals, industrial, automotive.

I think very importantly, this business has historically been managed as a portfolio of businesses within regions. And we're changing that, we're now saying let's leverage our capabilities across regions. And we have got deep capabilities and skills in certain sectors in Africa that we don't have in Europe and vice versa, but we've got deep knowledge, client relationships, et cetera in terms of how we can leverage that. And we're moving more into that and moving more towards being a client-driven organization where we talk to our clients as one Imperial.

We want to align our international portfolio and growth opportunities to support our trade flows and our supply chain into out of Africa. So yes, we're getting out of shipping because there is no link between shipping and our growth strategy for Africa, but there's absolutely opportunity for our growth – for growth in automotive, in chemicals, in industrial because those are sectors that will also be fast growing in Africa, and we've got a big business in Europe that has got client relationships, expertise and people, and we want to leverage that and, in time, expand our capabilities into Africa in terms of offering what I said an integrated logistics solution.

As I said earlier on, we are focusing on innovation and disruption and that is something that requires a focus today because of this intermediation, et cetera, and we've set up a fund now with a partner to focus on investing in some of these technologies and disruption so that we can mitigate the risk of that.

So we are embarking on a journey really, ladies and gentlemen, to transform Imperial from a regional portfolio of businesses to offer an integrated end-to-end services, which will position us with our plans well because what do our clients want? They want simplicity, they want flexibility, and they want visibility. And if you take out our capabilities in market access, logistics, freight management, we can really deliver on a real end-to-end solution for our clients into Africa.

Just, I mean, these are things that you will know, but just to reflect on how big is this opportunity is and what's the size that applies, and when I look at these numbers, it makes me excited about the opportunities we have as Imperial to grow our business.

On the continent, we've got countries like Nigeria. We've got countries like Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, look at the size of those populations. Those are big, big populations, similar to Pakistan, Vietnam, so in one continent, we've got a massive, massive base of people and that's why our focus on consumer in healthcare stands us in good stead in terms of taking advantage of the growth opportunities with those kind of populations, and we're very well positioned in some of these markets already like Nigeria, which is the number one market in terms of size.

We have a leading healthcare offering in that business. We've got a fantastic freight management and contract logistics business in MDS there, and we're building on our consumer platforms there as well. We've just invested in Ghana in terms of expanding our pharmaceutical footprint there.

So that's the size that applies, it's huge. And it's going to require massive amounts of logistics, expertise and what we do in terms of getting product there in consumer. And we play there already. So it's about building on that.

I'm not going to – this is a busy slide, but just to reiterate the point of the size it applies again, if you look at how much Africa spends on pharmaceuticals, that's a global pharma market across the world, $19 billion. Compare that to some of the other emerging markets and developed markets, it's a long, long way to go before Africa even gets close to those.

Nigeria spends $1 billion on pharmaceuticals as an economy. It's got 200 million people. South Africa spent $4 billion on pharmaceuticals and with 50 million people. And we take product, what did I say, the 50,000 points of sale and access to medicine, providing healthcare to that increasing consumer is a massive growth potential. So we've got a long road here in terms of taking advantage and Imperial is ideally positioned for that because that's our footprint. This is now a third of our business. It's no longer a small part of Imperial anymore. And in the areas in the light blue, that is where we've got a physical presence in terms of being able to offer a route to market to our clients across Southern Africa, East Africa, and West Africa. The areas in dark blue is where we would use subcontractors or we would use other people to distribute.

But once you've got the key hubs in East and West and Southern Africa covered, then you can cover the rest of the markets by using subcontractors or using other people to distribute the product. But once you get the principal in the main market, then we can offer them that solution as well, which is what we call supply – simplified solutions in healthcare. We started that, where we now have recently won a contract for MDS to not only – MSD, sorry, to not only distribute their product in Kenya, but we are distributing the product across Sub-Saharan Africa, either through our own network or through other people.

So what's the short-term focus in terms of delivering on that? So how are we going to get there? What are we going to do about that? So I've shown you the big picture strategy in terms of gateway to Africa. I've given you a sense of the size of the prize. So what are we going to do? So we're going to continue building on our existing and expanding to new capabilities. Like I just said, we've added now sourcing and procurement to other industries. We're very strong in the healthcare on that so that's expanding into a new capability that will help our market access business into and out of Africa.

We want to invest in existing geography. So in Ghana, we were in pharma. Now we're in consumer and we want to get into new geographies, so we will be looking at expanding our footprint into other geographies on the continent. That's in line with our capabilities, industries and client. And I think very importantly, we're going to invest as well in technology enablement and industry and capability expertise.

In terms of playing a role as a route to market partner. Your interaction with the front end or the retail channel is very critical and there are some interesting technologies that we can develop and advance in terms of making that more seamless and even taking our position to the next level in terms of integrating with it. So we're looking at investing in technology enablement in that business.

And then on our international business, at shipping, as I said, we'll be largely a contract logistics business with great capabilities and with great client relationships that we would like to leverage into Africa and really expand that business as well into new markets that support our trade flows and our supply chain into and out of Africa. Because remember, Africa still needs to get product from some way. It needs to be moved from Europe or from America or from Asia and that's why the European business is an important part of that strategy because we want to build an ocean capability out of it. We've got a big contract logistics business.

So a lot of product gets consolidated in Europe and then from there gets exported into Africa. So international is a key part of our strategy going forward in terms of our big plan to be the gateway to Africa for our clients. And then naturally, our people and innovation is going to be key enablers in terms of how we deliver on the strategy and were investing heavily in both.

So in this past six months, we've acquired four businesses in exactly the areas that I've mentioned, we spent about ZAR 600 million there. Our simplified solutions in healthcare is gaining traction. We've got a good pipeline of new opportunities there. We've landed our first client in terms of offering them a pan-Africa solution and now it's getting traction. Now we can go and show our clients how that model works and it's so critical.

And then we do want to get into new areas like demand generation. Light contract manufacturing is not what [indiscernible] (00:54:02) used to do, okay, in terms of chemicals. This is more contract packing, et cetera, more value-added services that support our gateway to Africa and market access business. And then certainly, brand partnerships services, we will also expand into. We've added sourcing and procurement to other industries. And very importantly, we are going to expand our market access capability in South Africa. It's because of our strong logistics networks in South Africa, we want to go to market and talk to our clients about outsourcing certain parts of the route to market to us leveraging off on our existing logistics network and warehousing network, plus our capability in terms of understanding how to do that.

So we will expand that business into South Africa as well. And then obviously, we want to leverage best practice across our business in our technology. So people think when you're distributing pharmaceutical products in Nigeria or East Africa, it's operating in a very basic way. It's very, very – we use technology massively in our business. We have data. We've got sales rep that walk around with iPads that's collecting data at the point of sale and their information is very valuable in terms of how we use that information to grow our business. And investment in those processes, practices and technology is critical because there isn't a player in Africa that can offer route to market across so many markets on the continent. Yes, there's local competitors in each market, but what Imperial offers that's different is we can offer a sub-Saharan solution as I showed you.

And then very importantly, strategically aligning our international portfolio, we're not there yet. Shipping should be out of the system by the end of June 2020, subject to the regulatory approvals. But then we're going to utilize that capital to expand our business there to align with our growth strategy for Africa and that priority is around air and ocean. As you can see, we're very, very strong on land-based freight management, getting into an ocean will unlock another level of growth and expertise for our business into Africa.

And then on innovation, as I said, we've established a partnership with Newtown. We've committed $20 million as Imperial to fund investments in potential startup that's relevant to our supply chain. So its dedicated focus on logistics supply chain market access in terms of us being able to source opportunities in that space and then invest in that and use it in the business. And we've had great activity over the last six months.

So that's a strategy. Obviously, part of our strategy is also to be socially responsible from a governance, environment and society in general. We can make – we have more work to do here. I think there's significant scope for improvement in this area of our business, and we're now focusing it.

Imperial is a logistics player in the market access business. We can make a massive difference to the environment in terms of improving it, and people's lives in general. If we do not deliver that medicine through that pharmacy at the right point in time or to that hospital, somebody's life is being impacted by that. And that's a critical role we play in every in people's lives. So if you look at us as a business in terms of transport, logistics and market access, we can improve people's lives. Our business is societally relevant, and we want to focus on five areas in terms of our ESG initiatives, that will be healthcare education, road safety, waste management and then skills and sport development is another area.

So we've already started this. But we want to take it to the next level. Some of the things we've done is we started a project called Unjani many, many years ago and we now have got 72 primary healthcare clinics across the country that are servicing about 1 million patients. So we want to expand this to get to 100. And this is really an important initiative as part of our healthcare strategy. Road safety is a big initiative, and we're doing a lot in this space. And then with Motus, we've established our 43rd library a few weeks ago there. So as I said, education, healthcare, road safety, a very important part of our societal relevance and a big part of what we're going to be investing in in terms of our future.

And then we've also done work in line with our children theme because you can see how the education is all to develop and look after the kids. We've also started an initiative in the SOS Children's Village in Hungary. We also, in partnership, opened up a hospital with Tulsi Chanrai Foundation. And this is a first of its kind in Nigeria, where people are able to see again. And I tell you the feeling or the emotion when you see somebody's eyesight returning is unbelievable. So we are certainly doing a lot, not only in South Africa as a logistics business, we are doing a lot in Europe. We are doing a lot in Africa and we will do more. We are looking at a project in Kenya now where we are going to be helping some kids there from a school point of view in terms of the UN. So definitely a big focus and theme of ours. We're becoming more targeted, and we're focusing on some of the areas where we can really make a difference as Imperial in terms of people's lives.

Looking forward to the next six months, as I said early on, we're not seeing the trading conditions getting any better. There's nothing that has happened in January and February that has changed the trend. In fact, there's more uncertainty in terms of global growth, particularly with the impact of corona and how that's going to impact supply chains. So it's uncertain as ever. And I don't expect that the market, certainly in the short term, to abate the pressures we're feeling. But we still expect to show growth this year in a single digit revenue growth for this financial year, low-double digit operating profit growth which will translate into low-double digit continuing HEPS and good free cash flow generation.

Our balance sheet remains in good shape, and we've got significant headroom in terms of capacity and liquidity to grow the business, both organically and acquisitively. So we're on track to deliver what we told the market six months ago. We're not changing our guidance, but I think the certain things we've done to the business and certainly with some of the new [indiscernible] (01:01:25) games there we will counter or could counter some of the negatives we're feeling in the economy and, therefore, have stayed with our guidance of a low-double digit growth.

The balance sheet, yes, did go up, but I'm not concerned by that because as George explained, we do have ones-off fixed it like the cash outflows from CPG. And normally, our balance sheet in H1 is stretched for seasonal reasons and our working capital in the first half because of December, most of our CapEx has been in the first half. So it is a seasonal thing that has happened previously, and I expect that some of that to come back in the second half certainly. And I think we've signaled that by paying still 45% of our headline earnings per share in a dividend.

Thank you for your attention. We'll take questions.

Hi Mohammed, congrats on a robust set of results in a difficult environment. Three questions from my side. The first one, just compared to the cost saving guidance of around ZAR 385 million that you gave last year, just wanted to know how much of that has been realized in this first half?

Second question, given that shipping, if all goes well, will be gone by the end of the year, how much did that contribute to group earnings in this half? And then lastly, historically, there's been some seasonality in the rest of Africa business. Can you just give some guidance in terms of what you expect that split to be in the second half and I guess in the context of the acquisitions that you've just concluded? Thanks.

Yeah. So the cost reductions we have realized, okay, so obviously that was a full year number that we gave you. So we should have realized half of that cost benefit in the first half. But, [ph] Michael (01:03:25), like I said, you can't just take last year's number and add the cost benefit. As I said, volumes in the existing business were significantly down. Plus we didn't retain 100% of our work. I gave you a number there, I said we retained 80%. So while we had good new business revenue, there was also some business we've lost, plus we had the economic pressures.

So the full benefit of the cost saving wouldn't be realized because of the macro factors that I mentioned. But if we didn't do that, then we could never have delivered this. So I think that's the important message is that, yes, we didn't realize the full benefit of it because some of that was eaten in terms of margins, we had to give up to renew contracts, tough economies, volume declines, et cetera. So just to take last year's number and add the cost savings is not realistic because there's pluses and minuses. But we would have realized all the cost savings we said, I mean that was done. So it wasn't that we didn't achieve those.

So your second question was?

Shipping performance.

Shipping?

Yeah.

Yeah, shipping was sort of flat year-on-year. We don't give individual numbers on businesses below in our division, so I'm not going to give you a number. But the shopping performance was good. It was sort of flat to slightly up year-on-year.

And the third question [indiscernible] (01:04:59).

Yeah, it's difficult now because like you said, we've got acquisitions coming in, but normally, our first half is better, [ph] Johan (01:05:07). First half is normally better than the second half, but obviously, we'll have – second half, we'll have the benefit of the acquisitions coming through. So I would think this year, it will be [indiscernible] (01:05:20) to a better second half. Yes? [indiscernible]

(01:05:30-01:05:38) on page 34, there's an item, contingencies of ZAR 394 million. There is an explanation on page 36 for ZAR 107 million of that figure that is now further referenced to the remaining ZAR 287 million contingency, could you please tell me...

George?

...why there is the additional contingency?

That would be largely supply guarantees that we give to clients.

Sorry, I didn't hear your answer.

Supply guarantees to clients and to banks.

Okay. Actually, there's a...

So when we sell a product on behalf of our clients, we've got to give [indiscernible] (01:06:20) so that would be in that number and that would be big.

Yes.

And Mr. Akoojee, given that interest bearing borrowings are up ZAR 1.1 billion, I'm still trying to grapple with that substantial number, given that revenue was flat, property, plant and equipment has remained virtually unchanged, inventories are virtually the same as at June, cash resources are down ZAR 480 million, and finally, trade and other payables are down ZAR 1.5 billion. Yeah, so what is that reason for that increase in interest bearing borrowings?

ZAR 600 million of that is CPG.

Correct, yes. It was that CPG except the cash flow impact of the discontinuance. We had a provision in 30 June. As you realize those provisions that's a cash outflow and there was some trading losses. So we funded to the tune of ZAR 600 million – ZAR 595 million. And then the investment in working capital on the new contract gains and the expansion CapEx. And then the rest of the investments would be – paid a dividend, we bought back shares of ZAR 225 million.

Bought back shares, paid a dividend. So that resulted in this expense...

But buying back shares is not interest-bearing.

Yes.

Well, it has an impact on your cash flow, on your overall debt position.

So ZAR 600 million of the ZAR 1.1 billion outflow was CPG, which is a ones-off in terms of closing that business. We raised the provision which is a non-cash flow item at the end of June. But now, we have to settle those obligations. So that comes into your cash flow in this half. And then the other half is easily explained through CapEx because we won new business. We had growth in working capital because we did have top line growth in South Africa, and we want new work in Europe. And then thirdly, as George mentioned, what was the last point you made, it was working capital and CapEx and buybacks.

We did buybacks and we paid a dividend.

Thank you, Mr. Akoojee.

But as I've said earlier on, that's a timing thing. We expect our debt levels now to get better because this six months we should generate better cash because we won't have the overhang of CPG, it's done, no longer coming in. So, that ZAR 600 million negative is not going to be in the second half. Then we're not going to spend the CapEx we did in the first half because we spend most of our CapEx in the first half. And normally, our working capital comes back in the second half. Normally, we have an outflow in the first half and then in the second half it comes right. So, I will expect our debt level subject to acquisitions and those things to come back nicely in the second half.

Thank you.

Hello. Thanks for the presentation. I just have two questions. The first is if the sale of the shipping concludes, maybe you can chat us through how you're thinking about prioritizing the proceeds of between buybacks, acquisitions and debt?

No. So, as I've said to you, we want to grow the business. So, obviously, initially, the proceeds will be used to repay debt because we do have debt, but that will give us significant headroom to grow the business. And we'd like to redeploy that capital into areas like air and ocean into our market access business in Africa and grow that. So I think the priority would be to use the capital for growing the business rather than doing share buybacks because there are good growth opportunities in Africa and certainly out of our air and ocean initiatives.

Okay. And then just on SA, can you give us a sense of what capacity utilization the fleets operating at?

We don't have excess capacity. I mean if we lose a contract or we have an issue, we deplete. So I wouldn't think there would be significant amount of excess capacity in our fleets. And then remember, we flex that by using the subcontractors...

Right.

...because we've got access to probably around 2,000 to 2,500 subcontracted vehicles. So we are able to utilize that to flex our capacity in terms of bringing in more subcontractors or utilizing our vehicles more et cetera. So that gives us the flexibility.

And you see first, I mean first half CapEx was higher. Do you have guidance for the full year?

George?

For full year, we should be – in terms of what – it depends on how you look at depreciation. We always guided that we should be in line with normalized depreciation excluding IFRS 16. So we will be in excess of that, because of the contract gains. We are 30% to 35% above the normal ZAR 1.1 billion of depreciation...

Okay.

...but including IFRS 16 depreciation, we were below that number.

Okay, thanks.

Thanks, guys. Ross Krige from JPMorgan.

Hi Ross.

Congrats on the resilient results.

Thank you.

Just in the cost restructuring incurred, I'm sorry, the cost incurred in restructuring. What was the split of that in H1 and H2 in FY 2019.

It was all in H2.

All in H2. Thanks. With the Resolve Africa one-off contract wins, will that be in the base or out of the base in H2 2020?

Sorry, say it again.

So you mentioned that the Resolve Africa that those contract, that one-off contract...

Yeah, it was only in H1 last year.

Okay.

It [ph] won't be in (01:12:29) H2.

Perfect. Thanks. And just one last question on South Africa, how do you see the competitive environment evolving? I mean clearly, it's very difficult, you guys have done well to cut your costs and be more competitive. Are you seeing competitors dropping off market or how is that changing?

Akoojee? [indiscernible]

(01:12:49) not necessarily dropping out of the market. Some of the smaller players do, but it's a [indiscernible] (01:12:59) in terms of rates and margins and whatever, very competitive you're right.

Marc, [indiscernible] (01:13:13) question?

It's Marc Ter Mors of SBG Securities. Can you explain a bit more your market access strategy for French speaking Africa. I believe your current operations distributed mainly in English-speaking Africa and there must be substantial opportunities in French-speaking countries.

Absolutely. And – yeah.

So, we've been trying to get it to the French market for quite some time now. We've made offer on two acquisitions. We [indiscernible] (01:13:50) but one by private equity and one by [indiscernible] (01:13:53) Chinese at the time. So it's still a strategic area for us to expand and we are in discussions with other players at the moment or even trying to go into that market from a bottom up greenfield pressure, we've done with Ghana before. So, very much focus first. We haven't got anything to announce yet, but a big focus for us into French and [indiscernible] (01:14:15) into North Africa as well.

Thanks, guys.

Webcast, is there's any questions?

Yes, there's three web questions on the webcast, two from Nick Webster at HSBC. The first one is can you remind me how Palletways specifically ties in with your gateway to Africa?

So, Palletways is a very – it's an asset light player that plays in the one to four pallet market consolidation – pallet consolidation market. And it plays a key role, I believe, in e-commerce, in terms of providing a service into the networks across Europe. Now, the Palletways business model in terms of providing that service, I believe we can utilize these in some of our markets in Africa, particularly South Africa. And the other thing about Palletways is that if we get in air and ocean business and you combine Palletways with air and ocean capability we have, we – not many air and ocean players have got that capability in the one to four pallet consolidation market. So, yes, it's not an Africa story in terms of us taking Palletways and doing that service in many of our markets. I believe in South Africa there could be opportunity to do that, and we're looking at that because there's a big market, I believe in South Africa, where we can play that role of a consolidator of one to four pallets. But I think the big growth driver, Palletways will be the value equal at air/ocean network.

Hakan, maybe you want to add on that. I think you should.

I think important is to mention that before our gateway to Africa strategy, Palletways will be the upstream and downstream element and will give us opportunities from a cost base to be a dominant player in the [indiscernible] (01:16:25) into Africa and out of Africa. I think Palletways is the exact right fit, the complementary element to our market access strategy and to have air and ocean to it. So, I'm quite bullish in the fit to our strategy.

Okay. The second question from [ph] Nick (01:16:46) also relating to the cost savings that we addressed earlier. Do you expect a similar run rate of cost savings to be realized in H2? You referred to a number of once-offs base effects that impacted top-line and certain businesses in this period. Can you remind us if there's anything similar in H2 to consider?

Yeah, so obviously, here, you can't cost – cut costs, too early as well, because we've just been through a massive cost cutting and our process is that we don't want to also cut ourselves to lean that when the market turns, that we don't – so no, there isn't a cost-cutting plan of the magnitude that we did in H2 last year. But it's always tough, so we're very cost-conscious in our business. We're always looking at ways to make ourselves more efficient, but not of the scale of the ZAR 400 million that we did in H2 last year. And once-offs, we had once-offs in H2 last year, but we're not expecting.

No.

Any once-offs in H2 this year, no.

And then, just a final question from the webcast from [indiscernible] (01:17:58), 36ONE Asset Management relating to the disposal of shipping. Are you able to give any guidance on what you expect for proceeds and why is it not a discontinued operation at this stage?

Yeah, so we're not giving any guidance of proceeds within a sales process, and obviously, we can't do that. That will just diminish our negotiation position. So we're not going to do that, but we can certainly tell you about discontinued operations, just in terms of how it should meet the criteria.

Yeah. I mean, obviously, there's certain criteria that needs to be made before you can classify it as discontinued. And a big portion of that relates to the final decision, related to the disposals. And we don't have that juncturally, and as Mohammed said, [indiscernible] (01:18:42) I think the process and as we go through final bidding offers, they will be – do the necessarily approvals and that will be the decision point to classify as discontinued.

No more questions?

Can we just check if there's any questions on the conference call?

Sorry. Yes.

There are no questions on the line.

Okay. Last but not the least, Nico is retiring, as you would have read in the announcement after 26 years of loyal service to Imperial, Nico. And I just like to thank Nico for his valuable contribution over that period. A lot of it I missed and a lot of it happened when I was a very young man. And under your stewardship, you've certainly guided the business in a great space for us to take to the next level. So I just like to bid farewell to Nico and congratulate him on a fantastic career at Imperial and wish him all the best.

And thank you, everybody.