Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Mohammed Akoojee — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
George de Beer — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Imperial Logistics Ltd.
Esha Mansingh — Chief Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations Officer, Imperial Logistics Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody, and welcome to our Annual Results Presentation for the 12 months ended 30th of June 2020. I'm afraid we'll have to do it over webcast again like we did the Investor Day. It would have been nice to see you all, but hope you're all keeping well and safe.

So, if we can just go through the agenda and what we'll be covering today, we'll be looking at an overview of the results. Obviously, COVID-19 has had a massive impact to the many economies we operate in and to our business, and we will discuss that in detail in terms of the impact of COVID-19. It's important we also understand what are some of the industry trends we see emanating from an event like COVID-19 which is a one-in-a-century kind of event. We'll get through to the operating performance. George will cover a lot of detail on the financials because there's quite a lot of moving parts, particularly on the income statement. I'll then cover the strategy and cover the prospects.

So, if we get into it, this is our purpose. As a focused business now looking at Africa, we want to connect Africa to the world and improve people's lives with access to quality products and services. As you all know, two-thirds of our business is in Africa where we play a key role in the logistics industry and in our market access services in terms of connecting Africa to the world and providing products and services to our people.

If you look at the key features, our revenue was up 5% on a continuing basis. Just to remind everybody, continuing excludes CPG and our European shipping business which are discontinued in these results. So, if you take those out, on a continuing basis, our revenue was up 5% to ZAR 46.4 billion.

Our EBITDA was down 11%. And you'll see that our continuing operating profit was down worse than that. And that's largely due to depreciation and the amortization of leases now where you straight line that expense. And we also had quite a lot of – we have quite a lot depreciation in our International business. And from a currency perspective, that increased our depreciation and amortization line and, therefore, we had a worse impact on continuing operating profit. George will cover that in more detail to break that down. And that was mainly the result of us going down 65% on continuing HEPS.

Our cash flow generation was very strong. We still had a free cash conversion of 72% despite operating in a very difficult environment for the last quarter. And our continuing free cash flow per share is about ZAR 6.91. Our balance sheet is in good shape. The proceeds of shipping came in on the 31st of July. And if you look at our net debt-to-EBITDA, including those proceeds at 30th of June, we would have been at 1.6 times, which is well within our covenants of 3.25 times.

So, overall, obviously, disappointing to show numbers going backwards, but we are operating in unprecedented times. I'm sure you've heard that many, many times, and that's probably the understatement of the year. But I believe what we could manage, which was our cash flow and our balance sheet, we've done really well in these results. We'll not be declaring a final dividend, and that's because our interim dividend is ZAR 1.67 a share which is more than our continuing HEPS, so we decided not to declare a final dividend. Our returns on capital were obviously impacted by the lower operating profit, and that's why that's below our weighted average cost of capital of 7.6%.

Our balance sheet, as I said, is in good shape, but so is our liquidity position. And the facilities we have with our banks, we have about ZAR 13 billion of available facilities post the European shipping proceeds. But if you look at also our contract renewal rate, that was in excess of 80%. And despite a very challenging year, we also managed to add new business of about ZAR 6 billion, which is up 11% on last year. And that's a very important indicator of our relevance to our clients and our ability to win new business and grow the business.

So, if you look at just more detail in terms of the overview, as I said, it is very uncertain times. It is very volatile times. We are living in a period where it was probably last seen 100 years ago. But despite that, I believe Imperial, even in these 12 months, have showed significant progress in terms of the strategy. As I said, we've increased our revenue. And up until probably February, we were on track in terms of delivering the guidance we provided to the market at our February results. Our revenue was up 4% in the first half. We had a good quarter up until COVID really hit our operations where our revenue was up 9%. And then thereafter, we see a slump in our revenue, down 7%.

I've discussed and shown the strong free cash flow position. You've seen how strong our balance sheet is, particularly after getting in the European shipping proceeds. And I think the excellent new business gains and contract renewals demonstrate our resilience and our sustainability as we get out of this difficult period, and I'll cover that later in terms of how we've seen trading conditions post June.

The impact of COVID, we lost revenue about ZAR 4 billion and that translated to lost operating profit of ZAR 1 billion and that was during the March to May period. And the impact of that lost revenue has a big impact on operating profit or bigger impact because of a high fixed cost base and that's largely in our Logistics business where we have about 50% of our costs are fixed in our Market Access business about 20% and as a group, 40% of our costs are fixed. But George got a nice slide later that shows the impact of that revenue drop on our operating profit.

We also had once-offs costs and impairments largely due to portfolio restructuring mainly in South Africa to reduce costs, but there were also impairments relating to goodwill. There were impairments relating to certain IT equipments, largely due to the impact of COVID and George will cover that later. A big impact in these results is the impact of translating our profits from our Logistics International business into rand. So, the first nine months, our average was about ZAR 16.50 to the euro and then the last quarter, we were converting at ZAR 19.77 as you can see there.

But in the last quarter, we had losses in Europe and those losses were translated at a much weaker exchange rate, which impacted our profit performance even more. So, that is a very important impact that we felt in these results as well. And I'll explain why we had losses in our International business. It was the business that was hardest hit by the impact of COVID. That was partially offset, as I said early on, by new contract gains and the acquisitions also came through nicely in terms of performance.

So, as I've been saying, we're simplifying this business and we've now got a business that are looking at positioning itself as a business that's focusing on two solutions, Market Access and Logistics. And we break that up into Market Access, Logistics Africa and Logistics International, so moving away from regions, more into capabilities, as we said, we want to move towards. The Market Access business delivered a very good result in my mind, growing revenue by 18% and operating profit was down only by 1%. Yes, acquisitions did contribute, but it was our best performing business through the lockdown period and I'll go through reasons of that a bit later.

Our Logistics Africa business largely in South Africa that was more impacted than the Market Access business and that was because the lockdown was far more severe in South Africa versus some of the other countries we operated in on the continent. And also, key sectors like tobacco and liquor where we do logistics in that sector, that was also closed for most of the period even when lockdown restrictions eased, as you know. And about 20% of our revenue in South Africa is generated in that industry, so that had a big impact.

And our Logistics International business was most impacted, as I said. We lost about €78 million of revenue on a high fixed cost base in that last quarter and that really hurt our performance. And that was because the automotive/industrial sectors are not essential services and they were basically shut. And 65% of the revenue we generate in our International business is generated in those industries. So, that's just how the three businesses were impacted on a relative basis.

If we move to our strategy and what we've done in this year in terms of strategic progress, I believe we've made significant progress on this front. We've grown the business as well. We haven't only sold businesses. We've executed acquisitions in Market Access and our Logistics Africa business with a value of ZAR 900 million and those acquisitions are performing in line with expectation. We also concluded the sale of our European shipping business at a very good multiple in difficult times of around a 15 times PAT multiple and we're very pleased with that outcome. And that shored up our balance sheet and gives us capacity for growth.

We also had to exit the CPG business during this financial year. While we discontinued it last year, we had to exit it this year and that was done very admirably in my mind in terms of saving 3,000 jobs. We also retained a lot of the revenue in that business in other parts of Imperial and we retained about ZAR 1.6 billion of revenue, which certainly helped us in a very difficult environment.

We've entered into agreement to sell Pharmed. Pharmed is an underperforming business. I mentioned it previously. It doesn't fit in with our strategy in the pharma space and it's really a low return on effort in terms of wholesaling in the South African market. And we've decided to exit it, but there will be no impairments or it's not a major business in Imperial or close to the size of a CPG. We've got about ZAR 200 million of capital in that business and we hope to get back our money through the deal we've done.

We have done some cost reduction in Logistics Africa. We'll see the benefit of that in 2021. And that was largely us just cutting our cloth in terms of anticipating a tougher market in the South African environment. And we will implement those hopefully by H1 2021 and see the benefits coming through.

We've progressed our innovation fund that we've set up in terms of looking at investments in things like digital distribution, digital freight forwarding, and point-of-care diagnostics are the areas we've invested in and those are all areas I believe that will help us grow in terms of our new world post-COVID. And those investments are certainly in the right direction in terms of us reshaping our focus from being a traditional logistics business, but becoming more of a logistics business for the future.

We've made great progress on our people and client value proposition aligned to our One Imperial approach. With our business now focused on market access and logistics, we can now offer end-to-end services and offer our services as One Imperial. We're also looking at changing our culture from being a portfolio of businesses to becoming a more integrated business and significant progress has been made in that regard.

We've made great appointments from a diversity perspective, but not only from a gender and talent perspective, but also from a skills perspective. The new appointments in my mind we've made in the group have really added for the dynamic to our team and that stands us in good stead as we progress in terms of taking the business forward.

We were very proudly rated the top company for students to work for and that's a great result for us. The first time we ever got an award like that and I think that stands testimony that people want to work for Imperial and it's an exciting organization to be involved with. And then we've made great progress also on our CSI and women empowerment initiatives. And I'm sure you've seen that on our social media platforms in terms of our activity in CSI and in terms of our initiatives around gender equality.

So, let's move then into the COVID-19 discussion and just to understand what impact that had in a bit more detail. As I said, the Market Access business, which is now nearly half of our operating profit, and that's largely because our Logistics International business only contributed 5%, but it was very resilient. And a big part of that was its exposure to healthcare and consumer. As you know, virtually, 100% of that business is involved in those sectors and that served us well.

We were impacted in areas like tobacco and liquor as well, where there was restrictions on selling that, particularly in markets like Mozambique and Namibia. And we have started seeing those volumes coming back. So, there has been a steady recovery in revenue as lockdowns have eased. And certainly, in July and August, we've seen some of that coming through.

In our Logistics Africa business, as I said, that business has recovered from, call it, April, May where the lockdown really impacted us particularly on tobacco and alcohol. Those restrictions have been lifted. And as we're going into now this – for the second half of August, we've certainly seen volumes there recover almost close to normal and that business should be now gaining momentum, provided lockdown restrictions don't [indiscernible] (15:36) again.

Our International business, as I said, was most impacted because of our exposure to the automotive and industrial sectors. That is also recovering well. In July and August, we've seen that OEMs have returned to production. They're still below pre-COVID levels, but at least we're out of the slump of March, April and May. And certainly from a performance in terms of July and August, we're seeing a nice recovery there.

Also, our business in the UK, Palletways, was hard hit by the pandemic and its exposure in Italy and Spain, but that is also coming through in this new financial year. So, that business, as I said, lost ZAR 78 million, and that's a significant amount. Nearly 10% of its revenue was impacted from an annual perspective in terms of what we lost in the peak of the lockdown.

As I said, restrictions are easing as we progress into our new financial year. We've seen a significant recovery in July and August, particularly in our South African business and in our business in Europe. We're very focused still on the safety of our people. As a logistics company and employing 25,000 people, you can imagine we've got trucks, warehouses, and lots of people that are moving around.

And as activity levels increase, the risk of infection obviously goes up. We've done an incredible job in my mind in terms of ensuring the safety of our people. We've spent a lot of money in terms of ensuring that our operations can run by spending money on PPE, sanitizers, et cetera. And through this period, we unfortunately had about 385 of our people that were tested positive out of 25,000 people. And regrettably, 11 of our colleagues did pass away, which is very, very sad.

So, this is a big focus area and a big part of our sustainability, as you can imagine. And the turnaround time in terms of how we get our facilities up and running again has improved massively, and we've played a big part in reducing those turnaround times to make sure we can still service our clients, but at the same time ensure the safety of our people.

As I said, we've continued to deliver sound financial position. We are focused on our cash flow generation, and those are reflected in these results. We're really focused on our balance sheet management. We didn't have to go and get any relaxation on covenants. Even if you take out the proceeds from the shipping disposal, we were still below our covenants of 3.25. So, a lot of credit must go to the teams around our strong capital management disciplines. And our cost management was also very good during a difficult period.

We also played our part as a major corporate in the many markets we operate in. As I said, we prioritized our staff safety, but we also, from a financial position, continued paying our people through this time. And that did come with a cost, but it was helping our people survive this difficult time. And the cost of paying our people when we could have put them on short-time pay was about ZAR 160 million.

We've achieved very high service levels for our people. We've had to put in some more capacity, and that's why keeping some of our staff that were not operational as backup was important because where we needed capacity, we could flex our staff accordingly, and that worked well for us in this period in terms of maintaining a high service level.

Our non-executive directors took a fee cut of 25% from April to June, so did our group EXCO. We contributed to various organizations like the Solidarity Fund, the Giving for Hope Foundation and Gift of the Givers, and we played a key role as a major logistics player across Africa and in our European business in terms of getting PPE and sanitizers to where it needed to get to and we did that very admirably in my mind.

We've also got our clinics that our primary healthcare clinics is a key initiative of ours where we had over 75,000 patients that were screened for COVID-19 through those clinics. And just out of interest, we have about a million patients now that go through those clinics in terms of us helping them with primary healthcare. It's not us helping them, we actually have got nurses that charge for primary healthcare services in those clinics. But we support the setting up of that throughout the initiative of healthcare that I've spoken about before.

So, that was the impact of COVID on our operations in the last four, five months. It's not gone. So, yes, trading is better, but our volumes are still impacted. And I believe COVID will be with us. Certainly, the negative impact from an economic perspective will still see that negative impact still affecting us from a trading perspective. But we also need to look beyond the short term and look at what are the opportunities for a company like Imperial that plays a critical role in Logistics and Market Access post-COVID and how are we positioning ourselves for that world.

I'm very positive about it. I think there will be lot of opportunity that comes out of some of the changes to our industry and the market dynamics. Supply chains will shorten. That's a major opportunity for us particularly with our Market Access and Logistics business where there will be more local manufacturing. We are already seeing clients wanting more visibility and resilience in terms of their supply chain.

And with technology, we can certainly make a difference and help them with that. There'll be more outsourced opportunities that flow from that. And one of the biggest lessons learned through the COVID-19 was that supply chains are not as resilient as we thought. And I think for the logistics industry, that's a big opportunity for us to up our game and focus on that and assist our clients with that.

The changing of consumer behavior, our focus on e-commerce, online consumer engagement which we are investing in will stand us in good stead because while in the developed world, I believe the business models work there and the service is great, I believe there is lot more improvement that can happen in Africa. And if you look at our Logistics business with our Market Access business, there's good opportunity for us in that space.

I also think the focus around planet and people will be greater on organizations like us, but we are an organization that makes a difference to people as you saw in our purpose, so we don't have to change our business model to be able to be seen as a company that makes a difference in terms of planet and people because what we do really makes a difference to people in terms of getting critical supplies to them. And we were one of very few industries and companies that were able to operate during the peak of the lockdown.

I think, very importantly, we've seen that our healthcare industries, particularly in the developing world on Africa, are still very emerging. There's a lot of investment required and with our value chain in healthcare where we make 21% of our revenue from sourcing right through to market access and with our mobile clinic initiatives, we have a really big role to play in that space. And I think through COVID-19, we've seen that our healthcare industry needs more capacity, needs more channels serviced and we are ideally positioned for that. So, those are just some of our anticipated responses to some of the, I believe, things that will change in a post-pandemic world.

And we look at the industries we operate in, very diversified industry base which stands us in good stead with a bias towards consumer and healthcare. More than 50% of our business is generated in that industry and that gives us some resilience as you saw. The only reason Market Access in South Africa performed better than our International business was that a big, big part of those businesses play a key role in consumer and pharma. But we do also have exposure to industries like automotive, industrial and the chemical sector, which were more impacted in terms of being non-essential.

Our Market Access business, as you can see on the right side of this slide, is virtually now 50/50 split between consumer and healthcare. We are strongly positioned in Sub-Saharan Africa as the leading distributor and we continue investing in that. Our Logistics Africa business, we've got scale. We are a diversified business in terms of offering services right from transport to providing control tower technology and do everything in between, which has supported us in this time because we've been resilient and I believe there'll be more opportunities for growth there.

Our International business is still being aligned to our strategy of Gateway to Africa. That is sort of the COVID impact on our business has resulted in us delaying some of the initiatives there. As you can imagine, we were focused on making sure we hold the business together focusing on our balance sheet, focusing on our cash flow, and that is still part of our strategy that is under review and we are exploring all options in terms of how we can change our portfolio there to align to our Gateway to Africa strategy.

This slide shows our revenue by industry in terms of performance and you can see how we were tracking for the first nine months, some very good growth in areas like consumer, healthcare, as well as in the automotive space because we were winning new contracts. And just to remind you, this is not what the industry was growing at. This is what our revenue did in these industries.

So, that shows you the strength of our business because you look at the automotive sector, you look at the consumer sector, even the healthcare sector, they have not been growing at these levels, which indicates our new business we've gained, plus we've gained market share in certain sectors. And you can see what impact the COVID period had on the industries, automotive 22% backwards, chemicals was also hit, but look at the industrial. So, you can clearly see consumer and healthcare were very resilient in this period, and that stood us in good stead particularly in our Market Access business.

But more detail on our industries. Healthcare is a key, key sector for us. 21% of our revenue is generated in this industry. We play across the value chain, transport warehousing in pharma, plus we do market access where we take ownership of the product and sell it into many, many markets across Africa. And that industry is still underpinned by very good growth fundamentals.

We are increasing our exposure to other product categories like generics, animal health and medical devices. We've now started market access services in South Africa where we were traditionally just a transport warehousing player in the healthcare space in South Africa. We've added now market access as a capability into our South African business. And we've also added new capabilities to our supply chain in terms of demand generation, contract manufacturing and brand partnerships, so very good progress in terms of our pharma strategy.

Same trend in our consumer business, very good growth; part of that growth was obviously the benefit we got from the CPG contracts we retained, but in a very tough consumer environment to be able to grow revenue in that sector by 16% really shows the quality of our business. And we're also expanding this business in the market access services space in South Africa.

So, in South Africa, we're very strong on our logistics, transport warehousing, supply chain management in these industries; healthcare and consumer. And in Africa, we are very strong in market access. So, we are now bringing those services into South Africa to be able to offer our clients and principals also that service in South Africa. And I'm glad to announce we've signed our first new principal in the space, so there's good progress happening there.

The automotive sector, 90% of our automotive revenue is generated in our European operation. It's been very difficult. Even before COVID we saw volumes in the automotive sector declining, but that was obviously hard hit by COVID. And OEMs only expect us to get to normalized levels, call it, by 2022, 2023. So, for the next two years, it's going to take a long time for those supply chains to be repaired. The automotive supply chain is a complex one. And when it gets impacted like it has, you can't just turn it on. And there's a long lead time to getting production going. There's a big overhang of stock in terms of supply, and I believe the sector will be tough. We did renew contracts, and that did assist us in terms of mitigating the impact.

Chemicals again was an – you saw the numbers. We had negative growth in this industry. But we've got a good pipeline of new business. We've got a good contract renewal rate. And I believe with a focus on green logistics and stricter regulatory compliance, that will create opportunities for us, because we can position that as a differentiator for us. Also, our exposure to agrochemicals provided great resilience to our performance. About 65% of our business in Europe is exposed to the agrochemicals market, which supported us during [ph] this time (30:30).

The industrial sector was deemed non-essential for most parts of our business, and it was severely impacted, as you saw on the numbers I showed earlier on. And we have the biggest exposure here again in our European business. And hopefully, as those lockdowns increase, we'll start seeing this sector coming back.

This is just the summary of our operating performance by division in terms of the Market Access, Logistics Africa and Logistics International performance. And I've covered most of this. You can see the performance from a revenue and operating profit perspective not as bad in Market Access relative to the other two businesses. And returns on capital, while they've dropped, are still very respectable at 12.1%. And in our Logistics Africa business, we actually got returns of 9%, which was above our WACC even during a very difficult time. And no surprise, our returns in Europe took a big dive from the prior year due to the big revenue impact and the high fixed cost base.

So, if you look at the results, just by capability in terms of market access, freight management, and contract logistics, just shows you which parts of our business was most impacted. And you can see market access was the biggest profit contributor with the most resilient margins in the group.

I've covered most of the impact of COVID on the numbers, and I'm not going to go through the detail in here just to say, we're seeing strong momentum in terms of new contract gains in our Market Access business. The acquisitions we've added in the second half are performing to expectation. And we had issues with alcohol and tobacco sales, but that is improving.

And our business in Imres, where we do sourcing and procurement of medical and kitting supplies, has got a very strong order book because of the demand for medical kits, et cetera, on the back of COVID. And we were not able to execute because of a lack of freight capacity and getting product out of India, but it still had a very good result and it's got a strong order book which bodes well into our 2021 financial year.

Our South African business remains very resilient and strong. We had new contract gains of about ZAR 2 billion in this division. And fuel, tobacco and alcohol, which are three very important sectors for us, were hard hit during the COVID period. Even though fuel we were able to operate because of a lack of activity, fuel volumes were materially down. So, we didn't see any uptick in volume there. That's coming right. Tobacco and alcohol has come back, as I said earlier on. And with the scale and the diversification in this business, I'm comfortable that as the economy recovers as we're seeing, we're in good shape to start delivering better performance.

Europe, more negatives than positives, but we did win new contracts worth about ZAR 2.5 billion in this business. You can see how the results were decimated by the loss of €78 million of revenue and the high fixed cost base. We also had low water levels in South America and there were restrictions on exports because of the COVID situation. We couldn't – our clients were impacted by that. So, really a perfect storm in our International business in terms of the sectors and industries we were exposed to, but as I said, July, August certainly starting to come back. And that's just the operating performance by division.

I'll hand over to George to deal with the financial review and more detail around the impact on the income statement, balance sheet and cash flow. George, over to you.

Thank you very much, Mohammed, and good morning, everyone. Obviously, as we headed into the pandemic, our key priority was to safeguard and preserve our balance sheet, ensuring that we manage our debt levels within our banking covenants, maintaining our liquidity, and preserving our cash flows. This was achieved by proactively managing and reducing our fixed overheads, placing a moratorium on all capital expenditure, optimizing our working capital, and continue to ensure that we generate good operating cash flows even during the worst months between April and May. And also, we will further reduce overhead costs in our Logistics African regions through further portfolio rationalization, consolidation in the upcoming months.

The proceeds that we received from European shipping disposal will be used in the short term to reduce our existing debt, but that will also provide us with capacity to pursue our strategic objective of enhancing our Africa growth vision. Our net debt-to-EBITDA post the receipt of the European shipping, [ph] cash prices (36:06) well below our guidance of 2.5 times at 1.6 times, and this will provide us sufficient balance sheet resilience through the remaining COVID-19 tough environment. And we will continue to explore growth opportunities, but we will be cautious in investing in new acquisitions in the current calendar year.

If we look at the impact that COVID-19 had on operating results during the period March when we saw the first lockdowns especially in our European operations which carried through into June, the estimated loss of revenue close to ZAR 3.9 billion, that was based on the management forecast in terms of inflation, currency based factors and increases, as well as the impact of foreign currency where notably in the prior year for the same period; the period now was translated at ZAR 16.18 to the euro, this year ZAR 19.43 which emphasized the losses that was generated especially in European operations as well as new contract gains.

If we look at the contribution to fixed overheads, you will note in South Africa and International, the logistics operations in the region of 50%; Africa Regions or Market Access 20%; the impact on contribution from revenue ZAR 1.6 billion; and the way we proactively managed our overhead reductions as well as getting government support, most notably in our International business and in South Africa, give us a net impact on HY2 operating profit of just over ZAR 1 billion between both EBITDA as well as operating profit.

Looking at IFRS 16, as we have guided previously and over the last two reporting periods, we had to restate the opening balances on 1 July 2018, where we recognized a lease obligation of ZAR 5.8 billion, and a right-of-use asset of ZAR 5.3 billion. Previous provisions for onerous leases, most notably the CPG provisions that was raised in prior year, has been reversed and that was being accounted for as asset impairments. The impact of lease smoothing, the old IAS 2017 was reversed to equity that was not a material amount, that was ZAR 23 million. And then we also had to raise net tax assets of ZAR 157 million, resulting from the timing differences arising from these leases. The net impact had a equity reduction of ZAR 417 million from an increase in total liability of ZAR 5.3 billion and an increase of total assets of ZAR 5.7 billion.

The impact on our profit and loss for 30 June 2020, where we had to reverse lease rental expenses from continuing operations of ZAR 1.8 billion from EBITDA, the right-of-use assets was amortized on a straight-line basis, obviously impacting operating profit as part of that fixed cost base. Operating profit and margin improved as interest of ZAR 254 million is now below the line as part of our [ph] interest book (39:15). And our PBT decreased by ZAR 164 million. But that also includes ZAR 140 million which relates to an impairment of a right-of-use asset in our European business. So, as guided previously, it's a minimal impact if we exclude the once-off impact of ZAR 140 million, so the impact is marginal on our headline earnings and profit from continuing operations.

Looking at some of the individual line items, as we also presented at half year, you can see all the line items that impacts on EBITDA and operating profit. But I think what is important to note is the impact on our net debt and the impact on our debt to equity from just over 100% up to 175%. The impact on ROIC and WACC, the gap remains the same, but it's a 1.2% impact on both. And from a operating cash flow and financing cash flow, [ph] just the action between (40:09) leases excluding and lease payments becoming part of our financing cash flows and that's the way we will present it going forward.

Looking at our P&L, obviously significantly impacted by COVID-19, as Mohammed has described, ultimately resulting in our revenue top line growth of 5%. The impact on EBITDA of COVID is down about – it's a drop year-on-year of 11%. Operating profit [ph] worsely (40:40) impacted, most notably a result of depreciation on both owned assets as well as leases that remained straight line [ph] that we couldn't reduce (40:48), so that down 40%. We had some impairments on properties or disposals and leases where we most notably took ZAR 140 million lease which, in old terms, would have been a onerous lease on a property in Germany.

Amortization on intangibles remains in line with expectations year-on-year. We did also have a significant remeasurement of our puts and contingent liabilities. On the put option side, we executed a final buyout of 10% in Imres, which resulted in a ZAR 53 million reversal of a excess provision. But then also on the Eco Health remaining put options, a further reduction, most notably due to a reduction in WACC rates and the potential impact of future cash flows due to COVID-19.

In line with the impairment of goodwill, we impaired goodwill to the value of ZAR 223 million. We again, as noted [ph] through remark in (41:51) prior year, follow a very rigid process when we're assessing the goodwill for any impairments, and due to most notably macro environment or COVID impacts where we had an increase in our WACC rates, decrease on terminal growth rates, and the obvious impact of future cash flows based on COVID-19 did result in the goodwill in three of our entities, impairment of ZAR 223 million.

On the foreign exchange gain line, we did have a gain of ZAR 160 million relating to a capital reduction out of some of our foreign subsidiaries which are set off by some ForEx losses on monetary items in African regions in our European business with a value of ZAR 57 million. But it is important to note that even during COVID-19 and during this very trying period, we did manage to continue with our hedging practice of hedging 50% of policy, hedging 50% of our trading exposure, but we also did realize now due to IFRS 16 that the rising of these foreign liabilities on leases, it's also now – will have impact and that is impact that we're managing and monitoring closely going forward where we will hedge 12 months rolling lease payments and some of the hedges on certain of these leases a full hedge as we continue.

Looking at our net finance cost, up 26% year-on-year, most notably impacted by the gain of ZAR 63 million on the preference shares – or the settlement of the preference shares in prior year not repeating as well as higher debt levels during the current year, most notably the residual debt out of CPG discontinuance has now been recycled into continuing operations. On our income from associate line, a reduction year-on-year of 44%, most notably due to the sale of the Gruber international investment we had in the prior year, but also by acquiring the additional 8% in MDS Logistics, moving that from an associate into a subsidiary and, therefore, having the negative impact on the associated line.

Our tax, even though it shows a 59% reduction year-on-year, our rate is very high, and the main impact on this was where we have certain legal entities that was underperforming and not making profits – or taxable profits in the current year. We did not raise deferred tax assets to the value of ZAR 78 million. And as those recover in the upcoming years, those will be reversed.

On our discontinuing operation line, most notably in this financial year, the runoff of CPG resulted in a ZAR 305 million loss, and the European shipping business is a loss ZAR 39 million, post some of the acquisition cost as well as disposal of some of the smaller entities in that business unit. And in the prior year, we also had Motus, a gain of ZAR 5.4 billion.

Looking at our financial position, it remains very strong. Obviously, a significant impact on all our assets and liabilities as a result of the devaluation of the rand against the major currencies at the end of March at around about 20% across all major currencies. The net impact on our foreign currency translation reserve recycled to equity was close to ZAR 1 billion.

Looking at our goodwill/intangible assets, it shows a 5% increase year-on-year, but there are quite a number of significant movements in that number, most notably acquisitions to the value of ZAR 855 million, there was a ForEx translation impact of ZAR 1.4 billion. We had impairments of ZAR 223 million. We recycled ZAR 1.1 billion of the goodwill/intangible assets due to assets out for sale that's part of the shipping disposal.

We had a normal amortization of intangibles of ZAR 393 million. There was impairment of certain IT assets to the value of ZAR 102 million and a net of disposal of ZAR 64 million for the year under review, resulting in a net position of ZAR 7.1 billion at 30th of June. Net working capital was managed extremely well, managing our credit risk, managing to reduce our receivables outstanding, extending our credit terms as far as possible with a very positive movement of 61% down year-on-year.

Our net interest bearing borrowings increased substantially year-on-year by 47%. A big portion of that is relating to our [ph] rand reported debt (46:39), ZAR 1.3 billion is a result of currency adjustments. We did note very good cash inflows from operations to the value of ZAR 4.5 billion, the decrease in working capital generated an additional ZAR 559 million, our finance cost and tax paid of ZAR 1.3 billion, the net acquisition disposals of ZAR 276 million investment.

Our CapEx amounted to ZAR 1.5 billion, but that includes the capital of European shipping of ZAR 357 million. And then we did also spend some additional capital in H1 to repurchase shares of ZAR 225 million. We paid dividends of ZAR 658 million, including minority share of dividends, and we also bought out some non-controlling interest in Imres, in Eco Health, and Palletways to the value of ZAR 277 million. The lease payments of ZAR 2 billion includes CPG of ZAR 222 million and the European shipping of ZAR 273 million.

Comprehensive income, really flat year-on-year, a result of comprehensive income of ZAR 683 million, which obviously includes just over ZAR 1 billion of foreign currency translation reserve, as well as transaction with non-controlling interest of ZAR 275 million. And that was offset by dividends paid of ZAR 658 million and share repurchase net of share-based equity charges of ZAR 188 million.

Our cash generated by operations before interest and taxes, down ZAR 703 million, most notably due to the reduction due to COVID-19. And the net working capital movement, as I indicated earlier, that was extremely well managed resulting in an inflow of ZAR 559 million. And on a total cash inflow from our operating activities of ZAR 3.8 billion includes the outflow of CPG of ZAR 411 million and a cash inflow from European shipping of ZAR 746 million. Therefore, on a continuing basis, our cash inflow from operating activities added to the value of ZAR 3.5 billion.

Looking at our capital expenditure of ZAR 1.5 billion, that included European shipping of ZAR 357 million. So, excluding that is ZAR 1.1 billion, comparing that to our continuing depreciation of ZAR 985 million. As indicated or guided to the market, half year results was largely due to new contract gains. We did have to invest in additional capital expenditure, so slightly over our depreciation guidance for the year under review.

Our repayment of lease obligations of just over ZAR 2 billion did also include CPG of ZAR 222 million and shipping of ZAR 273 million. Therefore, on a continuing basis, our repayment of lease obligations is ZAR 1.5 billion. And then just on the, as indicated, the cash paid on the acquisitions, it all relates to the Axis Group, MDS Logistics, Fareast Mercantile Ghana or ACP Holdings, and Geka Pharmacy.

Looking at leverage, I think it's a very pleasing position. Just to inform everyone, at the reporting period 30 June, we exclude the EBITDA from the European shipping operations because it's disclosed as discontinuing operations. But at the same time, we also had to include all the debt on our balance sheet that resulted in a debt-to-EBITDA of 2.8 times.

If we include the EBITDA from the European shipping operations, we would have been at 2.23 times. But we also did manage in discussions with our funders and as a result of a very steep devaluation of the rand, we had for a once-off reporting period [ph] dispensation (50:43) that we were allowed to convert the foreign EBITDAs at spot rate, not at average rates. That impact was sort of a [ph] 1.5 turn – or 0.15 turn (50:50) on debt-to-EBITDA. So, that also greatly assisted in achieving a 2.8 times debt-to-EBITDA which is well below our covenants of 3.25 times.

And then most notably after the proceeds of shipping, our debt-to-EBITDA will reduce to 1.6 times, which place us in a very healthy balance sheet position as we navigate the remainder of COVID-19. To note, our liquidity remains extremely strong. Post the shipping proceeds, we will have ZAR 13.2 billion of unutilized banking facilities, 76% of which is in the long term and 57% of that at fixed rates.

And all our debt requirements are accommodated in banking market at this stage. To note also that our debt capacity, including the proceeds from shipping disposals, should give us a headroom of ZAR 4 billion to ZAR 5 billion, which is significant at this point in time. And also to note, our interest cove at 5.4 times is well below the covenant ratio requirement of 3 times.

Looking at the group performance against our medium-term guidance, obviously a disappointing result out of our revenue/operating profits as a result of COVID, which indicated 5% growth in revenue and 40% decrease on operating profits. However, our cash conversion ratio remains within our target range of 70% to 75% at 72%. Our debt capacity remained strong on ZAR 4 billion to ZAR 5 billion.

Debt-to-EBITDA 2.8 times at end of June; it is above our guidance of 2.5 times and post proceeds of shipping at 1.6 times, well within our ranges. ROIC disappointing at 4.9%, most notably the impact of COVID-19 on our earnings or operating profits.

Our dividends, we did pay the interim dividend of ZAR 1.67 which is more than our full HEPS for the year and no final dividend will be paid. This will be reviewed in H1 depending on the prevailing market conditions. And to note our net working capital, very strong performance, but the average for the period under review at 5.1% of revenue sort of marginally above the guidance of 4% to 5%. And we still target to maintain our working capital within that range.

Thank you very much, and I'll hand back to Mohammed on the strategy session.

Thanks, George. If we just recap our strategy, we are transforming Imperial from a regional portfolio of businesses to an integrated, end-to-end market service and logistics business. That's what we set out to do from March last year. And our strategic intent is to become the Gateway to Africa and transforming our business from an asset heavy, 3PL business to an asset right business.

So, we're not saying we're going to be completely asset light. There are certain instances particularly in our Logistics Africa business where owning the asset is a competitive advantage, I mentioned that in the chemical and fuel and gas sector. So, we will own assets provided they give us the highest return, but we'll get out of asset heavy business as [indiscernible] (54:05) business models like market access.

Our key differentiator is Africa and that's why our strategic intent to become the Gateway to Africa is a focused one. In terms of our positioning in those markets to be able to provide pharmaceutical distribution in 50,000 points of sale in Nigeria, thousands of points of sale across Sub-Saharan Africa is a very strong network and we need to just build on that and focus on that.

We want to grow the business both organically and through strategic acquisitions. We have grown the business, as I've shown, from a revenue perspective organically in these last set of results. We have done acquisitions to the value of ZAR 900 million. But there are still areas within our strategy where there are gaps. And from a geographic perspective, we would like to also expand our footprint on the continent and in selected markets, which talk to our Gateway to Africa strategy.

We want to remain a business of scale. We are one, particularly on the African continent if you look at our footprint and our size. And the strategy is all ultimately about unlocking value. And we did demonstrate a big part of that through our strategic repositioning in these last results by exiting the shipping business at a very good price, much higher than our current multiple and using those proceeds to position us, as I've described in the slide. That's our footprint on the continent.

You can see we – through our networks in the light-blue areas – cover over 20 countries now and continue expanding that. And a big part of our strategy is to expand that footprint across more markets in Africa across Market Access and Logistics Africa.

This is a summary of our strategy in six pillars. A key part of our strategy is to operate as One Imperial. As I said, Market Access is our unique service proposition as a logistics company. But combining those two capabilities as a one-stop shop, particularly in tough markets like Africa, give us a competitive edge. And your ability to backward and forward integrate being a market access players gives you very good growth opportunities like I explained around demand generation as well as contract manufacturing, which add new revenue streams to your capabilities or your service lines.

We're investing a lot on our people. We are changing the culture of Imperial to becoming more One Imperial, not the portfolio of businesses, and transforming the leadership diversity and attracting the best talent is a key part of our initiatives. We want to extend our Africa footprint. We are in large markets in Sub-Saharan Africa, but there are gaps in our portfolio within those Sub-Saharan markets, particularly in West Africa on the consumer side. We are not in French-speaking Africa and that's an obvious expansion for us based on our strong positioning in the West African markets. And we will build on that.

We believe that an international footprint is important in terms of providing trade flows into and out of Africa, or servicing those trade flows into and out of Africa. And that's what we're busy with in terms of our international portfolio. How can that business assist us in taking product end-to-end from foreign markets into Africa and leveraging off our footprint in the many markets we have in our Logistics and Market Access business.

A big focus of our strategy is digital. And I spoke about it earlier on in terms of expanding our services to e-commerce, e-commerce fulfillment, and digital freight exchanges. We've made some progress in those areas as you've seen in some of the investments we've made, and we will build on that and there is some very exciting opportunities for us, particularly with our scale in Logistics and Market Access.

And then very importantly, as I said earlier on, our role is organization has changed dramatically and COVID has changed that in terms of being purpose-driven and looking at our responsibility from a planet and a people perspective. Yes, we will also prioritize our profit. But I think as a business as we described in terms of connecting Africa to the world and serving its people, we have a clear purpose and our business model talks to our purpose, which is great.

The last two years have been years of significant strategic focus, portfolio rationalization and restructuring. We started out this journey by refining our positioning. We've simplified the business dramatically by exiting non-core businesses, underperforming businesses, low return on effort businesses and a lot of progress in the last 12, 18 months has been made on that.

We've reduced cost through that. We've concluded acquisitions, and we've also grown the business in new areas while we have been exiting areas that don't talk to Gateway to Africa and One Imperial, and we've transformed the – or we're busy transforming the company to one that is forward thinking and not backward looking. And with the new appointments we've made and our focus on digital and people, I believe that will gain momentum.

COVID-19, as I said, has amplified the need for our positioning [ph] I think through it (59:59), there'll be lot of opportunity for us, and we need to be awake of those opportunities. And I've listed the tough decisions we've made during the year which I won't cover again. I've covered those earlier on.

The slides that follow show progress made against some of the strategic challenges we face as a business. Growth has been something we have not achieved and it's a big focus area for us in terms of how do we get the business growing again. And we want to grow the business both through acquisition and organically. We've sharpened our capital allocation in terms of our acquisition criteria, looking – not looking at it purely from a portfolio, but looking at how Imperial can take the business we acquired to the next level in terms of adding value and synergies to that, and not just buying businesses for the sake of growth.

We're spending a lot of time and capital around our systems and processes in terms of our digital and data initiatives, but also in terms of organizational design to operate as One Imperial. And we've listed the many, many things we've done during this year that demonstrate the growth in the business, most importantly, contract renewals, new business on the organic side, acquisitions in key strategic areas, particularly market access, and new solutions and new services in demand generation like contract manufacturing. We've expanded our sourcing and procurement business into other industries. So, while the exits have shrunk the business, you can clearly see we have made great progress in growing the business in strategic parts in all our business.

Imperial has been historically a very asset heavy business. It has transformed and we're busy still with that transformation. And through our investment in digital and data, that will change. Market access never existed in Imperial 10 years ago and that's a complete asset light model in terms of very little CapEx requirements. And that is now close to half of our operating profit and a big part of our business which has shown how we've transformed this business over a period of time to become more asset light and we continue making progress in that regard.

I spoke about simplifying the business earlier on. We have simplified it, in my mind, in terms of the focus around capability rather than regions. And we have, through that, taken out a lot of cost in duplication in my mind, but also importantly we have become smarter around our commercial function. We've appointed heads of key industries within Market Access to give it the focus on consumer and pharma that we need to rather than running it as a portfolio [ph] and petty business (01:02:48).

One of our big threats is areas of our business being commoditized. And us reinvesting or investing in new age businesses, we have done a lot of that in this past 12, 18 months by getting out of our European shipping business. We exited CPG and we further consolidated our freight business in South Africa. And like I said earlier on, we want to invest into our e-commerce fulfillment, in e-commerce and digital freight capabilities, and some of those are far advanced and we'll speak about more about that when we get to the next set of results.

We've appointed a Group Chief Digital Officer in line with our focus on digital data and innovation. As I said, we've invested in three very exciting new areas in digital distribution, freight forwarding, and point-of-care diagnostics. But outside of that, we also are looking at the number of initiatives within digital fleet, mobile commerce and e-commerce as well.

And I think a big part of our strategy going forward is also about continuously aligning our processes and organizational design to One Imperial. The two areas I believe our strategy that still requires work is our International business and, as I said, we are exploring all options there. But also getting the organization aligned to this One Imperial and that certainly we've progressed that a lot and we will gain momentum into 2021 through those initiatives.

We've appointed a Group Chief People Officer who joined us in October last year to drive this change in culture and to drive our approach from being a decentralized business to becoming more as One Imperial. And I also mentioned previously about our ESG focus and we certainly continue looking at healthcare, looking at education and looking at safety as key initiative for us to focus on as a business that plays such an important role in terms of getting products to key parts of the world.

Looking ahead, it's obviously a difficult and demanding time. It's been a hell of a couple of months, as you can imagine. We haven't been able to travel. We haven't been able to see our colleagues face to face. It is really unbelievable what we've been through as an organization [ph] as humanity (01:05:31) over the last while and that certainly has taken its toll and that you can see in the numbers in terms of the impacts. But despite that, our market – we remain operational in many of our markets despite the various level of lockdowns. As I said, we haven't yet returned to pre-COVID levels in terms of volumes, but it is recovering and July and August are testament to that. We haven't finished August, but from what we've traded thus far, we are seeing an improvement there.

And our guidance for 2021 using our 2020 numbers as a base is to grow revenue, grow our operating profit and grow our continuing HEPS. We're very focused on cash flow generation and will continue doing that into this financial year and hope to achieve our target of 70% and 75%. As George took you through the balance sheet, you can see our balance sheet is strong, it's resilient. We've got ZAR 4 billion to ZAR 5 billion of capacity in these times that's like gold. And we're very fortunate to have that kind of financial strength going into this 2021 period.

And as George said as well, that we will reassess our dividend at the first half year in February depending on how trading conditions pan out over the next six months. You can see how dramatic the impact is on our business when we lose big revenue and we want to see the next six months settle down before we start paying dividend again. And we'll update the market when we get there.

In conclusion then, I'd like to thank our shareholders and funders for their support. I'd also like to thank my colleagues, probably many of them on the line, and those that are not on the line for an incredible achievement during this difficult time, to all of you thank you very much for a difficult year. But we're in good space and we're in good shape to take advantage of the opportunities, as I mentioned, going into this financial year. So, thank you everybody. We'll take questions.

Thanks, Mohammed. Good morning, everyone. There's quite a few questions on the webcast. I will get through those first and I'll probably just go through them question by question and then you can answer straight after. The first question is from Marc Ter Mors. Marc has a few questions from SBG Securities. The first one, how has the group managed inventory levels in Market Access?

Very well. As you can see, our net working capital was in line with our guidance. Our working capital did go up, but it was very manageable and we're managing that very well, as George took you through the numbers, in terms of net working capital.

Could you also talk about pricing power in Market Access and with volumes flattish, what would be bolt-on versus pricing contribution?

No. We have had organic growth, as I said. So, it hasn't only been through price. We do have pricing power in certain markets, particularly on the back of currency devaluation as we've explained before in the pharmaceutical business. But we have added new principals. So, across the business in our SSiH business, we added four or five new principals this year. So, that is not growth from the existing portfolio, but it's new principals and new product categories. So, we have had good top line growth and that's why the revenue was up 18% in Market Access.

So, the last question from Marc, and it's also a similar question that we got from Siswana at ALUWANI Capital around the Turkish freight business being mixed. Comment further on this acquisition. How will it be integrated in existing assets? What is the combined size in the group now? What would be a realistic target for five years out? And can you give any color on the returns, margins and revenues of this business?

It's virtually a startup. It's to complement our Imperial Clearing & Forwarding business. So, what we did there was we house the Imperial Clearing & Forwarding business which was in Logistics Africa and we've put that in our International arm to create the clearing and forwarding focus. And this complements that.

So, if you look at Turkey, there's a lot of product that – Turkish Airlines is one of the biggest airlines in terms of the trade routes into Africa and we see an opportunity to leverage that into our Gateway to Africa. But it's not a major acquisition. It was virtually a startup with a partner there to create a trade lane leveraging on our existing clearing and forwarding business.

Okay. Next few questions come from Michael Jacks from Bank of America. The first question, one of the newspapers reported that Imperial had begun consultations at cargo solutions. Is this business being discontinued? And if so, what are the revenue, EBIT numbers involved?

No, the business was rationalized with other parts of our freight business, so it was just integrated.

Okay. The next statement is followed up by a few questions. In an environment where COVID has led to significant reported impairment by other listed companies, Imperial seems to have done well with minimal impairments to continued operations which would suggest that visibility is reasonably good and that these businesses are expected to return to pre-COVID earning levels fairly quickly. How does this reconcile with, one, a seemingly low conviction outlook statement because in the prior years, Imperial has provided ranges, i.e., single or double-digit guidance; and two, holding back on a final dividend despite the strong balance sheet?

Yeah. So, the impairment tests are complicated test. It involves many, many parts. A big part of the discount rate – the big part of the impairment was the discount rate impact. And as you can see, most of our acquisitions has been in Market Access. Most of our [ph] goodwills I've seen (01:11:57) in those acquisitions. And because those businesses are in consumer and healthcare, there is more – there is a significant underpin to them.

So, George, I don't know if you want to comment on that, but we do look at these things every year and...

Exactly, but I think there's also businesses with significant headroom. And, yes, there was an overall impact of an increase in WACC rates, but also taking into considerations that those businesses in the Market Access space [indiscernible] (01:12:32) Palletways that are real asset light businesses, they have a high cash conversion ratio. So, even though we did have this impact of increased WACC rates, a decrease on terminal growth rates, these businesses still have significant headroom. And the ones that did not have that and where it was just one step too far [indiscernible] (01:12:50) payments as per our models that we do annually.

And just on the comment on the guidance, it's uncertain. Will lockdowns return? We have had virtually six, seven weeks of trading behind us. So, it's very difficult in this environment to give clearer visibility in terms of guidance certainly for the next 10 months for the rest of our financial year. So, yeah, there's a lot of uncertainty and that – we're just saying that if you look at the impact of COVID and you look at the recovery that we are expecting, we should be better than last year. But to guide more particular – more precisely than what we have in the past, it's very difficult in this environment.

Thanks for those questions, Michael. The next question is from Zaid Paruk from Aeon Investment Management. Do you believe the local logistics industry is oversupplied? If so, how do you see this playing out? How much of the industry is profitable?

Yes. It is, in my mind, oversupplied. I think there is a lot of capacity in the market as the economy has declined in South Africa. We have seen players exiting the market. We have seen lot of small operators in the last while exiting. And I think scale and diversification is an important thing. So, is the market profitable? Absolutely.

We're making profits even in these difficult times in our South African business. And there are areas of the supply chain where you can make money. Obviously, there's areas like your basic transport, your line haul type business, which is very low margin, and that is difficult to make money. We have said we are moving out of that in terms of our model in more offering end-to-end service where you become more integrated with the client. But it is a profitable market and there is growth opportunity.

The next questions, one for George, from [indiscernible] (01:15:04). When you calculate your WACC, what is your cost of equity and how do you determine the hurdle rate internally?

The cost of equity is based on the 10-year bond yield and plus a margin [indiscernible] (01:15:23) 5% that we apply to that. And internally, we will add a margin of 4% to our cost of equity for African regions to compensate for an higher risk in those territories [ph] and we will take off a (01:15:36) 3% of equity in our European markets in the developed countries. And then the cost of debt is calculated across all the regions where we incur the debt, and it's in sum of the parts to get it to a group perspective and the contribution of debt and equity out of the different territories.

Thanks George. Roy Cokayne of Moneyweb has two questions. The first one relating to acquisitions. So, we mentioned that the acquisitions are totaling ZAR 900 million. What businesses were acquired? Mohammed, you briefly spoke to some of these in the presentation, but do you want to start up with some...

Yeah, maybe I can explain on that. The one acquisition expanded of pharmaceutical footprint in Southern Africa in Namibia, which was a nice add-on to our consumer footprint. We also added on a consumer business in our Ghana business. So, there we're a strong pharmaceutical player and we've added in our consumer market access business.

We also added Axis Group to our sourcing and procurement capability. Imres does sourcing and procurement purely in the healthcare space. And Axis Group gives us an opportunity to source and procure outside of healthcare. And then the other acquisition was just us gaining control of our transport warehousing logistics business in Nigeria, where we do want to expand our logistics capabilities in that market and integrate it with part of our market access service in West Africa.

The second question from Roy around restructuring that's taking place particularly in South Africa. How many people were retrenched as a result of this, and are there further retrenchments still planned within the group? If so, how many, when, and what parts of the business will be impacted?

So, we are in the process of finalizing what I mentioned around our cost cutting. It hasn't yet been implemented, as I said. There will be retrenchments as part of that, but it will be probably less than 1,000 in terms of number of jobs that are impacted. Yeah. And which areas? It's across our transport and warehousing businesses within South Africa.

Okay. A few questions from Ross Krige at JPMorgan. And in keeping with restructuring, what impact did restructuring and other once-off costs have on the FY 2020 operating profit, excluding impairments, i.e., how much would have been included in continuing HEPS?

Do you know or exactly it's...

No. I think it's – we've given you the impact of COVID and it would be part of that number.

Second question from Ross. Please elaborate on the asset-backed commercial paper arrangement. Why was this done? Did this result in working capital inflows in FY 2020 and what impact will this have on working capital flows in 2021?

That asset program that we have in our International business [ph] on our future (01:19:00) clients, we've added the asset-backed commercial program for the last three, four years. It's very cost effective. We will continue with that. The year-on-year impact was flat on the asset-backed commercial program. We had to take out some of the assets relating to European shipping disposal out of the program, but we have replaced that with other assets. [indiscernible] (01:19:26) keep the assets in that program as long as that program remains cost efficient, [ph] it's actually the (01:19:33) cost of interest lower than our own cost of interest, so we will continue with that.

And the last question from Ross, please specify what the denominator used in the net debt-to-EBITDA calculation is and how this reconciles to reported EBITDA and cash lease payments.

The debt-to-EBITDA, obviously, the EBITDA for banking covenant purposes includes more than just EBITDA. There are some other line items that's included, the ForEx line is included, the put options are included. So, the way the calculation is structured is it's earnings from continuing operations and the add-back for depreciation and interest. So, there are some other once-off items included in EBITDA as well. And as I said, to note for this financial year, an important impact were from an accounting point of view, [ph] the EBITDAs use the (01:20:27) average rate for the 12 months and for covenant purposes, we got dispensation to convert the EBITDA at spot rate for this financial year.

Okay. Thanks for those questions, Ross. Just a final set of questions from the webcast before we move to the conference call is from Rowan Goeller from Chronux Research. Rowan asks, are your European operations able to service foreign debt? You said you will start hedging certain foreign exposures. Is there currency mismatch with respect to debt?

No, there is not. No. In terms of our hedging policies, we hedge 50% of our purchases and working capital in-country that's foreign denominated. Capital items are fully hedged. Inter-company loans is immaterial. [ph] The new covenant (01:21:19) position as a result of IFRS 16 is where you do put on to your balance sheet a lease that can be in a different currency, for example, if you have – in Kenya, you have a lease that you service locally in Kenyan shilling, but the lease is a US dollar denominated. That does create an open position on our lease, but it's not material across the group. And what we have agreed is that we hedge 12 months out where it's a lease between – let's, for example, say it's a dollar-denominated operating profits, it's a European lease, the cost is very efficient, and then you'll cover the full lease exposure.

Okay. Thank you, George and Mohammed. I'm just checking, are there any questions on the conference call?

There are no questions on the line.

Thank you. That brings us to the end of Q&A.

Thank you.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.