raw transcript


Interphase Corporation
 
INPH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Interphase


Corporation First Quarter 2005 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a


reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday, April 20, 2005. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Greg Kalush, Chief Executive Officer of Interphase Corporation’s. Please go


ahead sir.


Gregory B. Kalush, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Nickie [ph]. We will welcome everybody. This is Greg Kalush, I would like to welcome


you to our investor conference call concerning the first quarter of 2005. With me is Steve Kovac,


our Chief Financial Officer. Steve will begin our discussion with an overview of our financial


performance for the first quarter, and then I will provide some updates on our business activity. We


will conclude then with some Q&A. Steve?


Steven P. Kovac, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President-Finance and Treasurer


Thanks, Greg. I would like to thank everybody for participating today and for your interest in


Interphase. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we do not make financial projections


to the public. However, some of our discussions may contain forward-looking statements about our


business, our financial condition and prospects of the company. The actual results of the company


could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements, because of various


risks and uncertainties including without limitation, changes in product demand, the availability of


products, changes in competition, economic conditions, various inventory risks due to changes in


market conditions, and other risks, as we have indicated in the company's SEC filings and reports.


All of the foregoing risks and uncertainties are beyond the ability of the company to control and in


many cases the company cannot predict the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual


results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. So, when used


in this call the words believes, plans, expects, intends, anticipations, other similar expressions as


they relate to the company or it’s management are intend to identify forward-looking statements.


So, I will now review the financial results for the first quarter of 2005.


Our revenues for the quarter were 8.8 million, an increase of 19% sequentially from the last quarter,


a decrease of 5% from 9.2 million recorded in first quarter of last year. Broadband telecom


revenues were 4.9 million down 16% up from 5.8 million in the prior years first quarter, however our


– those revenues are up 60% sequentially from the last quarter. In the first quarter of 2004, a major


customer was buying a product that’s two times the price of the product that they shifted to in late


2004.


In addition, the current quarter includes 3% to 10% customers, and this compares to only two 10%


customers in Q1 or Q4 and we expect this number to increase to at least 4 by year-end and maybe


more. Combo products were up 2.4 million in Q1 of 2004 to 2.9 million this quarter.


In addition, professional service revenues for the quarter was 213,000, up 124% from the first


quarter of 2004. And revenues from our security accelerator product line were 162,000 compared


to only $4,000 in the first quarter of last year. All other revenue including storage, legacy, WAN and


LAN, repair [ph] sector was 637,000 for the quarter versus 886,000 in the first quarter of 2004. Our


gross margins were 54% versus 53% in the first quarter of last year. Inspite of some price
raw transcript


Interphase Corporation
 
INPH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


reductions that we grant to our lower – or to some of our larger OEMs including the one I just


mentioned from the first quarter last year.


Now all these customers expect continuous improvement in pricing each year, our cost


management practices are helping us to keep pace with customer expectations of the annual price


reductions. Our operating expenses were down at 1.6% when compared to last year’s first quarter


and totaled 4.6 million this quarter and 4.7 million last year’s first quarter.


Our R&D spending for the quarter was 2.2 million versus 2.1 million in the 2004 first quarter. Our


sales and marketing expense was 1.5 million for the quarter versus 1.6 in the first quarter of 2004.


G&A for the quarter is down slightly from last year and totaled 900,000 versus $1 million in


expenses during last year’s first quarter.


Our first quarter net income was a $155,000 or 3 cents per share versus 275,000 or 4 cents per


share in last year’s first quarter. Our cash and securities remain fairly constant at 20.2 million from


20.5 million at the beginning of the quarter. Our inventory decreased approximately 700,000 this


quarter and it was primarily the results of the special negotiated one-time purchase of parts, which


are utilized on current products. Our account receivables DSO’s were 36 days, which is improved


from 49 days at year-end. Our total long-term debt representing a floating line of credit from the


banks that 3.5 million or no change from the prior quarter. Our total liabilities including debt though


dropped 900,000 from year-end to 6.4 million from 7.3 million.


In summary, there is just some very positive financial indicators were as for the quarter a solid cash


position, sequential revenue growth and profitability and increasing customers revenue to the first


occasion. Our margins are helping and improved from the prior year, while our expenses have


declined. So, I will turn it over to Greg, who can add some perspective to this, and update you on


some of our plans for the rest of the year.


Gregory B. Kalush, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Steve. We are excited to be back on the growth path that we charged last year with


revenues up sequentially by 19 percent. Our broadband telecommunication controller revenue


grew year-on-year by 19 percent, sequentially by 60% over the first quarter from 4.9 million, up


from 3 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. We remain optimistic about our prospects for future


quarters because we are seeing new design wins beginning to ramp up, including a large revenue


increase from a new customer, who have been working with us several years.


During the quarter, we announced that we have been selected by a large European telecom


equipment provider as its principle I/O provider for their new AdvancedTCA consolidated platform.


With the rollout of this platform that we utilize a variety of illustrated interface broadband TMC


controllers, similar to our common platform design wins at Lucent technologies, this year European


OEM design win goes into common advance CCA application platform that will be used by several


different divisions within the strategic camp. However, our unlike Lucent, Interphase will supply all


of the I/O for this platform including T1/E1, ATM fiber channel and Gigabit Ethernet.


Sales for this new customer represented more than 10% of our first quarter total revenue, and a


new in greater percentage of our broadband telecommunications revenue. We expect customer,


this customer to continue buying at a similar level in the coming quarters. This platform is intended


to become the AdvancedTCA building block platform aimed at producing significant cost savings,


the equipment provider, creating for them significant economies for scale by reusing the marginal


and flexible design for deploying a variety of different applications.


Further, there is our expectation that our broadband telecom revenues was stabilized in the coming


quarter, and begin to steadily increase thereafter, thus our expectation is for revenue growth for