corrected transcript


J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
 
JPM
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


Due to poor audio quality this transcript may contain [Inaudible] terms.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you to the JPMorgan


Chase First Quarter 2005 Earnings Call. Today’s call may contain forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are


based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are


subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those set


forth in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ from


those set forth in the forward-looking statements are described in our 2004 Annual Report on Form


10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and


Exchange Commission's internet website to which reference is hereby made.


[Operator instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chief


Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh. Please go ahead sir.


Michael J. Cavanagh, Chief Financial Officer


[audio gap]..to let some others dial in. I will be referring to a presentation which is available on our


website; so I hope you all have that in front of you. As the operator said, I am going to cover the


quarter, then hand it over to Jamie for a few - for some comments. And then we will take a few


questions.


So if you turn to page 2, first quarter 2005 earnings, this is the highlights of what we think is in our


first quarter numbers, and this is what I expect you will take away from the call. I am not going to


go through these in detail here because we will drill into them in further on in the presentation. But


first, most of our businesses showed very good earnings momentum over the last year.


The Investment Bank had great results on near record revenues with particular strength in trading


and IB fees. We had good progress on the expense side. Also credit quality continued to be


strong across the wholesale and consumer sides. And we ended with a very strong capital base


also having settled our WorldCom litigation in the quarter.


If you turn now to page 3, the first quarter GAAP comparison of earnings, I will just point out here


operating earnings of 2.9 billion, or $0.81 per share, not included in those numbers are $90 million


of merger costs and 558 million after tax of litigation related to WorldCom which brings us to 63


percent [sic 63 cents] of reported EPS.


I am not going to spend time on the GAAP comparisons on either this slide or slide 4 which


includes JPMorgan Chase only in the year ago period. So let’s go straight to slide 6 from here


where we begin pro forma comparisons which include Bank One results in all prior periods.


So on page 6 this is some significant P&L items and a methodology item that I wanted to point out


before we go any further so I’ll spend a little bit of time on this page. So of the P&L items, first we


had private equity gains of $789 million pre-tax, or $0.14 a share. This appears in our corporate


segment. Obviously these are very good results. Two deals together in particular totaled


approximately $500 million pre-tax. And obviously Jamie will comment a little bit on the outlook but


this clearly front end loads what we had expected in 2005, so he can comment later on where we


see this going from here.


Second we had a reduction in our wholesale loan loss allowance of 377 million pre-tax, or $0.07 a


share. This primarily appeared in our investment bank but some of pieces of it were in commercial
corrected transcript


J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
 
JPM
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and treasury services. This is strictly based on improvement in the quality of our portfolio which


obviously we don’t see continuing forever but we are glad to have it in the quarter’s results.


Third, MSR risk management, positive 106 million this quarter, or $0.02 a share. This appears in


the home finance segment of our retail financial services business. Now this is another volatile


item that we plan at zero and continue to think that’s the best way to think about that number.


And last, the fourth P&L item was treasury securities losses up $918 million, or $0.15 a share and


this appears in corporate. And here this is, we’ve repositioned the portfolio which is used to


manage our exposure to interest rates. And to anticipate a few questions we might get later, the


effect that this will have on our earnings at risk to – up to a 100 basis points shock which is the


number we’ve reported in our 10-Q. We are bringing that to about 50 million negative which is an


improvement from prior quarters, still very neutral on that metric.


Net interest margin going to the return side of this repositioning, net interest margin give up over


the reminder of the year given this trade and all other things being equal is about $50 million


reduction in NII which will appear in our corporate segments. So that finishes the P&L items on the


page.


So now shifting to one important methodology just to adjust in your models. I wanted to point out


that we’ve changed the way we adjust for tax equivalent revenues to an approach that we think


follows best practice. Now there is a slide in the Appendix that illustrates exactly what’s going on


here. And I will be glad to follow-up after today’s call if more explanation is needed. But there is


three things that you need to know. First tax adjustments have been removed from the corporate


segment which increases the corporate segment’s tax rates which then causes the operating basis


tax rate to increase to 35% when previously it had been 33.


Secondly, the result of these changes leave operating earnings and EPS themselves unchanged so


this is strictly a matter of geography. Third, our corporate segment we hope becomes more


transparent as a result of this. So again, just drawing that to your attention so we can, you can


adjust your models going forward.


Now turning to slide 7, you see the consolidated pro forma P&L. And again it’s 2.9 billion in


operating earnings, up $596 million versus the fourth quarter or up 26%. That’s on higher revenues


as you can see, lower credit costs and flat expenses.


So if you turn now to slide 8, I will spend a minute just talking a little about what we saw in the


expense side which was a good story for the quarter. So the top half of the page on 8, revenues


were up quarter-over-quarter, yet expenses held flat. In that number of 8.9 billion or so, we had


higher compensation expenses. Driving that was obviously a bit of our performance, but also we


had the effect of the in-sourcing which moved non-comp expenses into the compensation line. And


we also began, and both lines saw this, the comp and non-comp, the impact of consolidating


Highbridge for a full quarter and a partial quarter’s worth of the Cazenove joint venture.


On the merger save front, I will just comment there that we saw $150 million of the incremental


quarterly saves versus the fourth quarter, bringing total quarterly saves to $380 million which


annualizes to just over $1.5 billion. So we’re halfway to our $3 billion merger save commitment and


feel good about that.


Now looking ahead to the second quarter, just some directional thoughts here, obviously you are


going to take account for whatever you think performance does in the next quarter as will we. On


the merger saves side, we continue to be confident and on track to end 2005 with the fourth quarter


exit rate for merger saves annualizing at $2.2 billion. So it really means about 60 million of


incremental saves quarter-over-quarter in the second versus the first to be on track to do that. So


we see that coming in the next quarter.