corrected transcript


JPMorgan Chase & Co., Inc.
 
JPM
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you to the JPMorgan


Chase Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Call. Today's call is being recorded. Today’s call may


contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan


Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could


differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause


actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements are described in our


2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended


March 31, 2005, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the


Securities and Exchange Commission's internet website.


[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the conference over to JPMorgan Chase's Chief


Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh.


Michael J. Cavanagh, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning everybody. I am Mike Cavanagh. We are working on shortening that preamble for


the next time. Getting going here, we are going to spend - I am going to take you through a


presentation that’s available on our website; so please if you get that in front of you, we will go


through that, which will cover the quarter, and then take some questions.


So first going to Slide 2, second quarter 2005 earnings, this is sort of the headlines of the results.


We will drill into these in greater detail as we get further back, but just to hit on them now,


investment banking, we had weak trading results which drove a lot of the overall results for the


quarter, but very strong investment banking fees. In the remainder of our businesses, we had very


good momentum across most of them. In particular card services, treasury services, the branch


business and asset and wealth management all had better than double digit earnings growth over a


year ago.


Merger saves continued to be on track. Credit quality was very strong in the quarter on both the


wholesale and consumer side. We added to our litigation reserves and settled our Enron class


action litigation and ended the quarter with Tier 1 capital within our 8 to 8.5 range, at 8.2%.


So flipping to Slide 3, this is the second quarter ’05 GAAP comparison of earnings. So you see we


had 2.328 billion of operating earnings, or $0.66 a share. Down in the box below you see that our


litigation charge was about 1.2 billion after tax, 1.9 pre-tax and that relates to Enron and other legal


matters that we included in the non-operating charge in the second quarter of last year. Other legal


charges were taken in the quarter as is usually the case and are included in the operating results of


the appropriate line of business.


This is the last time that we have to do this GAAP comparison. You see that this is comparing to


prior year which is heritage JPMorgan Chase only results, excluding Bank One results. So we


have been looking at and we will skip to the math of the past several quarters, the pro forma


combined results. And so hopefully you found that helpful over the past few quarters, the work we


have done to do those.


So let’s skip from, past Slides 4 and 5, and actually the only thing I’ll say on Slide 6 which is the


consolidated P&L on a pro forma basis, as you see again earnings of 2.3 billion, down 584 versus


last quarter, or 20%, and 459, or 16%, versus a year ago.
corrected transcript


JPMorgan Chase & Co., Inc.
 
JPM
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


With those numbers in mind let’s flip now to the next slide, Slide 7, which takes those results and


shows them on a by-business basis. So again just orienting to this page which we will spend a


minute on, the left most column, second quarter results by business, for 2.3 billion for the company.


You see the comparisons quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year in dollars and then percent off to


the right.


So up at the top you see the disappointing investment banking results, down 54% versus last


quarter and 40% versus a year ago. But the circled numbers are the ones I was referring to earlier,


great year-over-year earnings progression in credit card, treasury services and asset management.


Then the retail business, which shows up 4% here on a reported basis when you exclude the gain


on the sale of Bank One’s brokered home equity business, which we exited a year ago, out of last


year’s second quarter results, that business also had double digit earnings growth.


And lastly I’ll just point you to the commercial bank here to make a point that that business had 174


million of operating earnings in the quarter which were down substantially versus the prior quarter


and the prior year and this resulted from an adjustment to our wholesale loan loss allowance that in


effect reallocated our allowance amongst our wholesale businesses but it did it through the P&L.


So we did this as a result of refining the data inputs that are used on our allowance calculation


methodology which we describe in our 10-K.


The commercial bank’s results included, as a result of that, 142 million in credit costs which are


essentially all related to this allowance adjustment and not a function of a change in credit quality in


that business. Earnings for Commercial Banking before credit provisioning were also then up 9%


year-over-year, consistent with the trends I just talked about in the other businesses away from the


Investment Bank. So we felt very good about the underlying momentum, and now we’ll drill into the


businesses one-by-one to go a little bit deeper.


Turning to Slide 8, the Investment Bank pro forma comparison; so here you will see a circled


number in the first column, 606 million of operating income, again down quarter-over-quarter and


year-over-year primarily driven by weak trading results. Trading revenues were 600 million, just


over 600 million, in the quarter down from 2.2 billion in the first quarter. But before talking about the


trading results I’d like to make a couple of other points on the revenue side.


First Investment Banking fees of 965 million which you see circled were again very strong, similar


to last quarter and a little up from last year. Within that, advisory revenues were a record quarter


since 2000 at $359 million. Our European Investment Bank’s fees were up 33% year-over-year.


So we feel very good about the fee results inside the Investment Bank and looking into the second


half of the year we have a strong pipeline for a good second half there.


The other point away from trading that I want to make on the revenue side is the credit portfolio


line. You see we had 295 million of revenues in the quarter and though that’s down from prior


periods, it was very strong on continued gains on the debt previously contracted, basically workout


gains as well as loan sales. And we see those opportunities abating as we look forward.


On the trading side, fixed income markets were down 871 million and equities markets revenue is


down 484 versus the first quarter, while VAR climbed. So a couple of comments on that. First as


you’ve heard and seen from many of our competitors, the markets were challenging ones for trying


to make money trading this past quarter. And we were unable generally to do so across our trading


activities.


Again, next is that trading was generally weaker in Europe than in Asia and the United States and


weaker in equities than fixed income. Third, as we’ve said before, conditions were very difficult in


April and May. In June we saw a return to more normal markets and we continue to see more


favorable trading conditions so far this quarter. Last comment on trading, VAR has returned to its


first quarter level at this point in the second quarter.