Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Southam — Chief Executive Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
John Hadfield — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Reinout H. Goossens — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Conor Rowley — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Luke Nelson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Grant Sporre — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Daniel Lurch — Analyst, BNP Paribas
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Amos Fletcher — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Michael Marnell — Vice President - London, Bank of China

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to KAZ Minerals 2017 Results, and it's great to see so many familiar faces here today. So, I'm Andrew Southam, CEO; and I'm joined by John Hadfield, our CFO.

2017 has been an excellent year, and our results reflect the delivery of the strategy we set out some years ago, to be a pure play copper company dominated by large scale open pit mining. Over the course of 2017, the Bozshakol clay and Aktogay sulfide plants have achieved key milestones in their ramp-up, such that we ended the year with all of our operations in commercial production.

Copper output, we grew by 80% in 2017. Bozshakol, the first of our two major growth projects, has made strong progress, more than doubling its copper output from 48 kilotonnes to over 100 kilotonnes. Aktogay produced 18 kilotonnes in 2016, and we grew that to 90 kilotonnes in 2017 as the sulfide plant was commissioned at the start of the year. Thanks to Bozshakol, we grew gold production by 40%.

The additional output is reflected in our financial results. Gross EBITDA has risen by 151% to $1.2 billion, and we achieved a gross EBITDA margin of 64%. Our new assets are low cost and low sustaining CapEx. And our free cash flow, which is after the payments of debt interest costs, improved by over $0.5 billion during 2017.

Our new large scale mines are structurally low cost. As an increasing proportion of production came from Bozshakol and Aktogay, the group's gross cash cost reduced by 12% to $1.38 per pound, leading to a group net cash cost of just $0.66.

Strong production growth led to the low – and low costs led to the free cash flows I showed on the previous slide. These were the main reasons behind a $600 million reduction in net debt over the year and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.7 times.

Turning to health and safety, which is the group's number one priority, sadly, we had four fatalities, all of which occurred in the East Region and all of which were avoidable. We have had zero fatalities in operations at the three open pits, which are Bozymchak, Bozshakol and Aktogay, since their commencement, which is now over 25 million work hours.

We have a number of initiatives underway in the East Region, several focused on the causes of fatalities. However, I believe it's what we can do on changing culture that will be of most benefit in this area.

KAZ Minerals have a strong track record of delivering our production guidance. And in 2017, the 80% increase in output led to the 259 kilotonnes a copper shown at the top of the slide. The 259 kilotonnes is sitting in the middle of our most recent guided range. But in considering our performance in the year, I would remind you of our original guidance issued in February 17, of 225 kilotonnes to 260 kilotonnes. As we saw progress across the year, we revised that guidance upwards to the 250 kilotonnes to 270 kilotonnes shown here.

Gold is an important contributor to our profitability and was at the top of our guided production range, supported by good grades at Bozshakol.

In respect of costs, Bozshakol and the East Region were at the lower ends of their guidance, and Aktogay was slightly below its cost range. The asset is, of course, fundamentally low cost, however, we did benefit from some elevated grades during the sulfide plant's commissioning, and we are yet to enter normalized maintenance.

So, in 2017, we have achieved a $0.66 per pound cash cost, which is one of the lowest net cash costs of any pure play copper company. Within our portfolio, all of our operations were in the first quartile of the global cost curve. There are structural reasons for our low cost position. Kazakhstan has good power infrastructure and there is a power surplus in the country. Both Bozshakol and Aktogay have low strip ratios. We have easy access to our customers with both Bozshakol and Aktogay having rails [ph] burst (00:05:06) onto the sites. And all of our sites have access to the water they require. These factors will support us in maintaining a competitive cost position for years to come.

So, we've grown this business from 85 kilotonnes of copper in 2015 to the 259 kilotonnes we've delivered in 2017. And as this slide shows, we have more growth to come. In the near term, Aktogay sulfide has been ramping up across the year, and this will give continued growth in 2018. We've also recently announced an expansion of Aktogay, which will deliver incremental output from 2021.

I'm now going to show a short video, as traditional in our period-end results.

[Video Presentation] (00:05:59-00:09:10)

So, turning to Bozshakol, we delivered very strong growth over the year, doubling output. The 48 kilotonnes of copper from sulfide material in 2016 was increased to 88 kilotonnes as all throughputs increased.

We also commissioned the clay plant in late 2016 and declared it commercial in July, contributing 13 kilotonnes of copper. Bozshakol has good by-product credits and produced 119,000 ounces of gold, almost double the 64,000 ounces in 2016.

This slide shows the ore throughput ramp-up curve of Bozshakol. At the sulfide plant, which is the dark blue bar, we made good progress across the year. The fourth quarter was impacted by a mill relining and other maintenance work with a 13-day shutdown in November. After we restarted, December throughput was back above 90%.

In 2017, we have proven that the sulfide plant can achieve and can sustain its designed throughput. We had 100% throughput over the month of August. To maintain that consistently in 2018, we are focusing on improving maintenance planning and execution, and on eradicating minor operator errors. We're now fine tuning our systems, our operating procedures, to get ourselves those extra percentage points that come from consistency.

For 2018, our guidance at Bozshakol is for around 100 kilotonnes of copper. That guidance takes into account that we have entered the year with the sulfide and clay plants not yet at 100% throughput. The original feasibility study assumed that the clay plant commenced operation at least at the same time as the sulfide plant. In reality, the clay plant started up towards the end of 2016, has been ramping up thereafter. And this has meant that we have been stockpiling additional volumes of clay ore.

So, for 2018, we've made the operational decision to limit the additional clay material we extract to minimize stockpiling and rehandling. And after grades processed at 0.56% in 2016, 0.53% in 2017, and we're guiding 0.44% for sulfide in 2018, the average grade over those first three years will be around 0.5%.

The average production guidance over the first 10 years of Bozshakol remains at 100 kilotonnes of copper.

At Aktogay, we guided sulfide production at the start of 2017 of 45 kilotonnes to 65 kilotonnes. The ramp-up went well, and we achieved commercial production in October. This, together with an elevated copper grade of 0.66% over the year as we extracted supergene enriched ore right at the top of the deposit, led to us revising guidance upwards and the achievement of output of 65 kilotonnes in its first year.

The oxide plant operated very well throughout the year. We had a few learnings from 2016 winter around spray patterns, covering the pads, heating the sulfuric acid solution, which helped us in the fourth quarter of 2017, and in delivering the 25 kilotonnes of cathode, up from 18 kilotonnes in 2016.

Looking forward to 2018, at Aktogay, we believe we should get the sulfide plant up to 100% throughput by the end of the year. Reflecting this, we expect output of 90 kilotonnes to 105 kilotonnes from the sulfide plant, and 20 kilotonnes to 25 kilotonnes from the SX/EW plant. The total Aktogay production is therefore expected to be 110 kilotonnes to 130 kilotonnes of copper.

In December, we announced that we were going to construct a second sulfide concentrator to double the processing capacity at Aktogay from 25 million tonnes a year of ore to 50 million tonnes. The new plant is expected to commission in the second half of 2021 and to ramp up over 2022. Previously, we had a mine life of 56 years. With the expansion, the mine life is reduced to 28 years, which we still consider to be long life. The second line will bring an incremental 80 kilotonnes of copper production from 2022 to 2027, and 60 kilotonnes thereafter.

The total cost of the expansion is budgeted at $1.2 billion. This spend will cover a complete new processing line, primary crusher, conveyor, 25 million tonne per annum processing plant, and an upgrade to power infrastructure on site.

We will also expand the specification of the mining fleet we employ from 140-tonne to 230-tonne trucks. We consider this project to be relatively low risk as we've been mining since 2015, the site infrastructure is established, and the major focus of the construction, the sulfide plant, will be the third time we have built it with the same [ph] owner's (00:14:47) team.

At the East Region and Bozymchak, we delivered 67 kilotonnes of copper production, in line with our market guidance. By-product output is more difficult to forecast, and we were at the top end of guidance with gold as Bozymchak maintained output at 100% of design capacity over the 12 months, the second successive year that they have managed that.

This slide shows the breakdown of production guidance by business unit. In summary, we're expecting group copper output around 10% higher than in 2017 at 270 kilotonnes to 300 kilotonnes, zinc in the region of 60 kilotonnes, gold at 160,000 ounces to 175,000 ounces, and silver in the region of 3 million ounces.

I'll now hand over to John, to talk through the financial performance and financial outlook.

Thank you, Andy. KAZ Minerals has delivered two major growth projects in Bozshakol and Aktogay. The ramp-up of production from the new operations, combined with improved commodity prices, has transformed earnings and cash flow in our 2017 financial results. We sold 256 kilotonnes of copper in 2017, an 82% increase from prior year, into a market where average copper prices rose 27% to $6,163 per tonne.

As a result, gross revenues doubled to $1.9 billion. Gross EBITDA increased 151% to $1.2 billion with the margin improving to 64%. Gross revenues and gross EBITDA include the results of our operations for the full period, including pre-commercial production. The group recorded a net cash cost of $0.66 per pound with all our operations in the first quartile of the cost curve. The group was highly cash generative in the year, and free cash flow jumped into $452 million.

Our balance sheet has also strengthened significantly. Net debt reduced to $2.1 billion due to strong operating cash flow, lower CapEx at Bozshakol and Aktogay in the year, and return of VATs paid during construction. Available liquidity at the year-end was $1.8 billion.

So this slide shows the year-on-year movement in gross EBITDA, which includes pre-commercial production. Most of the increase was due to sales volume growth from the new operations. Bozshakol sold 99 kilotonnes of copper, more than double the prior-year, adding $221 million to Gross EBITDA, assuming 2016 unit costs.

Similarly, Aktogay ramped up to sell 87 kilotonnes of copper, adding a further $258 million. The East Region and Bozymchak sold 70 kilotonnes of copper, a 15% fall in sales, reducing gross EBITDA by $26 million. By-products added $43 million to gross EBITDA, boosted by Bozshakol gold sales of 107,000 ounces, 78% higher from the prior year.

The gross cash cost impact was neutral for the group as lower unit costs from the ramp-up of Aktogay offset increases elsewhere. Gross EBITDA also gained from improved prices. High copper prices added $183 million, and by-product price increases, mainly zinc, added a further $63 million. $197 million of the gross EBITDA relates to pre-commercial earnings from Bozshakol clay and Aktogay sulfide plants, which was capitalized, leading to an EBITDA reported through the income statement of just over $1 billion.

So, this slide shows the year-on-year movement in copper sales and cash costs for Bozshakol and Aktogay. For Bozshakol, gross cash cost of $1.21 per pound was slightly higher than 2016, as expected, due to lower grades, the ramp-up of higher cost clay operations, and the establishment of normal maintenance schedules following the ramp-up.

Strong gold output resulted in low net cash cost of $0.54 per pound. Aktogay delivered gross cash cost of $1.00 per pound, reduced from 2016 due to following growth from the lower cost sulfide operations. KAZ also beat the $1.10 to $1.30 per pound guidance range, helped by an elevated copper grade, lower maintenance and muted inflation.

A small amount of by-product credit from silver resulted in the first quartile net cash cost of $0.98 per pound.

Looking at the East Region and Bozymchak, gross cash cost in the East Region increased to $2.08 per pound. This was driven by a 15% reduction in copper sales volumes, partly due to the closure of the Yubileyno mine. By-product outputs, however, remained strong. The sharing of these revenues across fewer tonnes of copper produced resulted in a by-product credit of $1.66 per pound, leading to the lowest net cash cost in the group of $0.42 per pound.

The group gross cash cost improved to $1.38 per pound due to higher volumes from the low cost Aktogay operations. The group net cash cost of $0.66 per pound was a small increase on last year's result, which, again, reflects Aktogay's volume growth as it has lower by-product credits. We have now firmly established the group as a low cost producer.

This slide shows the movement in our net debt, which has reduced from $2.7 billion to $2.1 billion at the year-end. Gross EBITDA of $1.2 billion has benefited from strong operating performance from all of our mines, and we delivered cash costs at the lower end or below guidance.

We also saw a $17 million saving on sustaining CapEx and $104 million on expansionary CapEx in the year. We are expecting about half the expansionary CapEx savings to be carried forward into 2018. It is worth noting that 2017 benefits slightly from phasing.

We were also assisted by the receipt of $232 million of project-related VAT that was mostly reported in the first half results. As I mentioned previously, we strengthened our financial position significantly. The group's gearing ratio has fallen to 1.7 times net debt to EBITDA. This is a continuation of a very strong de-gearing trend since 2015, following the ramp-up of the new projects.

We fully drew the amended $600 million PXF facility signed in June, giving a total of $1.8 billion of available liquidity at the year-end.

On capital allocation, our near-term focus is to continue to reduce our gearing metrics. We do continue to invest in growth with the announcement of the Aktogay expansion project. The board will continue to assess the group's financial position, cash flows and growth requirements in determining when to resume dividends in the future.

This slide sets out our capital expenditure commitments on approved major growth projects. The main new addition is the $1.2 billion investment in the Aktogay expansion, which occurs from 2018 to 2021. As discussed earlier, some of the lower capital spend in 2017 will be carried forward to 2018, with $40 million due at Bozshakol for final contractor payments. $250 million of the deferred $300 million, which was deferred from the construction contract to NFC, was paid in January 2018, with the final $50 million to be paid in the second half of the year.

So, my final slide sets out the 2018 financial guidance for each asset. Bozshakol gross cash cost expected to be slightly higher from $1.30 to $1.50 per pound due to lower feed grades and normalization of operating costs as the mine enters a third year of production. Aktogay gross cash cost guidance of $1.10 to $1.30 per pound has been maintained, although, as discussed earlier, the mine beat guidance in 2017.

For 2018, we expect cost to settle within the guidance range as a normal maintenance routine is established and copper grades reduce from elevated levels. East Region and Bozymchak gross cash costs are expected to increase by circa 12% to $2.30 to $2.50 per pound, impacted by a reduction in copper sales volumes to around 65 kilotonnes, as well as modest [indiscernible] (00:23:42) inflationary pressures. Sustaining CapEx of $115 million for the group is around the level we expect to see going forward for this asset base. Expansionary CapEx totals $630 million, the bulk of which was covered on the previous slide, but please note there's $40 million of other CapEx mainly related to the Artemyevsky II mine expansion.

In summary, we are very pleased to report a strong set of numbers. The ramp-up of production from our new low cost assets, combined with higher commodity prices, has transformed earnings and cash flow in our 2017 results.

I will now hand back over to Andy.

So, we've delivered an 80% increase in copper output in 2017, all of our operations is now in commercial production. We're one of the lowest cost pure play copper companies at $0.66 per pound, with all of our operations in the first quartile of the global cost curve. EBITDA, 151% higher at $1.2 billion. So, 2017 has been a great year.

With the Aktogay expansion, we have low risk growth ahead of us in the commodity that we want to be in. So, I would now like to invite you to ask questions that myself and John should be happy to take.

Yes. Good morning. Reinout from Morgan Stanley. Two questions from my side. So, first of all, on the Aktogay expansion, given that you – when you came in below guidance on Phase I, does that mean that, I mean, you can come below guidance on the Phase II, the $1.2 billion? And on that $1.2 billion, how much of that is Kazakh tenge and what was the assumption you made when you said that $1.2 billion?

And then finally, on the recent project speculations, how much firepower would you say the balance sheet currently has just looking at the balance sheet? Thank you.

Okay. So, on the Aktogay CapEx question. So, we've guided $1.2 billion. We're at the outset of the project. We feel that's an appropriate number, there's a contingency in there as well, but we feel that, that is the right number the way we see today. In terms of the cost of that second stage, we believe that is a competitive cost that delivers 80 kilotonnes a year from 2022 onwards. And as I said earlier, we view this as a very attractive low risk growth option for the group.

So, that's – in terms of tenge assumptions, we will have a reasonable tenge component there because we will have, I think, a fair bit of local labor on the project. But all of the equipment, again, will be internationally-sourced. So, there will be a tenge component to it and we sort of – in terms of how do we think about tenge in that number, we have assumed that the tenge strengthened slightly from where we are today, but not materially.

In terms of your second question, look, we've been de-gearing. We're not where we want to be yet on the de-gearing line. We have moved down to about 1.7 times net debt to EBITDA. But we, in terms of what's available, we're clearly happy with the Aktogay II expansion, which is why we approved that December.

And we continue to look at assets in copper. The announcement we put out last week was unfortunate that we had to make the announcement. It's just one of a number of projects we looked out over time, and I really have nothing further to say on it than that.

It's Dan Major from UBS. Two questions. Firstly, on the balance sheet, obviously, leverages come down a lot, net debt has come down somewhat. When I look at the cash flow profile going forward and your debt repayment schedule, you obviously got a lot of cash on hand at the moment. What is your strategy on the balance sheet over the next 12 to 18 months? Do you plan to just continue the amortization schedule as it is or would you look to refinance or roll some of those maturities?

And then the second question comes to longer term project development without mentioning any specific projects, but you've currently developed projects as a 100% owner. If you were to look outside of Kazakhstan and perhaps more [indiscernible] (00:28:33) jurisdictions, would you look to syndicate projects or would you still look to be the sole operator?

So, maybe should I take the – yeah, I mean, on refinancing the balance sheet, I mean, obviously, we did refinance the PXF facility in the mid-year. I think we've got relatively long dated loans. So I think we're comfortable where we are, and I think our level of financing at the moment supports the projects that we have in the group. So we're not planning on doing anything in the immediate term on that. Andrew, do you want to comment on the...

So, on how we look at projects, as – we're not weighted necessarily to a 100% model. We look at different projects in different ways, but at the moment, we have the portfolio of assets we have, which is announced in the Aktogay expansion. And we know we're very comfortable with that portfolio. We see that as low risk, it's in our home jurisdiction, so we're proceeding with that. In terms of any other projects, let's wait and see if indeed anything else should come up in the area over time. But we're not necessarily – we'd have to look at each project individually and make a decision on it.

Thanks.

Hi. Conor Rowley from Credit Suisse. Two questions, one on the balance sheet, again. Just in terms of your gearing levels and how you and the board think about dividends, sort of where would you feel comfortable before we can sort of expect even a token dividend to be coming back?

And secondly, on Bozshakol, on slide 9, it does sort of show that you think the average is still 100,000 tonnes over 10 years, but it does look like it's going to pick up in 2019. Can you just be a bit clearer how you think about processing that clay ore over the next 2019, 2020, 2021, and what profile we can sort of expect for the next five years?

Yeah. I mean, so dividends, obviously, you've seen in the announcement that the board did not declare a dividend in respect to 2017. We do intend to keep that on our watch list. The board will assess our cash flows, our growth requirements, our financial position over the next few months, and then we'll reevaluate it again towards the end of the year.

I guess, we're also de-gearing at the moment and debt's coming down, although, as Andy said – mentioned before, we are slightly higher geared than some of our sector peers anyway, so we're mindful of that. So, really, it's more a process that we'll revert back to the board in the second half of the year and come back to you with an update on where we stand on our dividend.

Possible production profile, so I mean, I think one thing to look for, we need to get up both the sulfide plant and the clay plant up to 100%, which we fully expect to do in the near future in 2018. At the sight of that, we will drive a slightly higher production figures than what you've got there for 2018, because that 2018 number does take account of the fact we've entered the year not quite at 100% throughput. So, I think, if you're looking forward, we will be at that 100% level clearly. So, you will still see a slightly elevated production above the average of 100 kilotonnes over the next few years, and then it will come back down slightly below that, such as the average over that first 10-year period will be the 100 kilotonne we've previously said.

Luke Nelson, JPMorgan. Just to push you a bit more just on projects and phasing, [indiscernible] (00:31:56) obviously sits in the background and, as you mentioned today, represents future growth options. Just in light and context of the announcement that you made regarding potential other projects outside your portfolio, it would just be good to get your idea of where that stands, how you're thinking about that project, and sort of an update of the studies there.

And then secondly, just also, can you remind us where VAT receivables currently stand and how you see that evolving over the year? Thank you.

So, could you repeat the second question? I didn't quite catch that.

VAT, V-A-T, receivables, where it stands and just the evolution of sort of the release of that over this year.

Okay. So, I'll start with [indiscernible] (00:32:45). So, we did further study work in 2017. And when we looked at our portfolio, what do we want to prioritize? We decided that the Aktogay II expansion was the right priority for us going into 2018 because it was an extension effectively of an existing mine. We've been mining on the site since 2015. We have demonstrated that, that processing plant design is right. We've proved that with Bozshakol, we've built it again successfully with Aktogay, and we've got the project team that led both those two constructions with us.

So, in terms of what do we feel was the right next step for the group, the Aktogay expansion felt like the lowest risk way to add incremental production to us, and it brings through 80 kilotonnes from 2022.

Beyond that, we will consistently look at opportunities. We'll weigh out the risks of those opportunities and what they bring to us, and COGS [indiscernible] (00:33:38) will be considered amongst those.

Yeah. I think on the VAT receivable, obviously, I mentioned in the presentation, we received $232 million in the year, which was a return of construction-related project VAT. So, I guess, if you like, we're now moving away from the kind of big construction on that, more into more an operational basis. And so, I don't see any risk of VAT recovery during the year. I know we're receiving VAT in 2018 already and it's flowing through, so I think you should see that flowing through as normal over time.

Thank you. It's Grant Sporre from Macquarie. I see you've allocated a tiny amount of capital to evaluating a further smelter project. Can you just sort of update us on your latest thinking about that, please?

So, we – I mean, we looked at constructing a smelter in Kazakhstan. And that was – we put some parameters around that. We said that we'll own – we're a mining company, that was a priority for our use of capital, those are the kind of margins we want, and that's the kind of – that's our business. However, if we were able to find a partner from China, most likely, that was willing to basically finance and lead the construction of a smelter in Kazakhstan, given we've just launched Bozshakol and Aktogay II, very long life mines, producing concentrate going into China, they could be an advantage for us.

So we did study that over – well, started in 2016, studied over 2017, and the conclusion of that is that we're not going to go ahead. We don't see it as being viable to construct a smelter. And accordingly, all our work on that has now ceased and we have expensed the cost that we incurred on that. So, there's no further progress on the smelter.

Hi. Good morning. Daniel Lurch from Exane BNP Paribas. Two quick questions, first on your cost guidance. Could you outline a bit – you mentioned already that you expect the Kazakh tenge to appreciate a bit. In your guidance for 2018, can you outline what your expectation is in terms of currency, and also, what assumptions you're making on cost inflation? You mentioned that you see some cost inflation in the East Region. Are there any initiatives which you can take to limit that inflation or are there any cost savings initiatives?

And secondly, quickly again on the dividend, your gearing has decreased. Of course, you have pretty high CapEx this year still. Is there any target range in terms of gearing that you would be comfortable or maybe a medium term target range where you would be comfortable to initiate shareholder payouts again? Thank you.

So, a few questions on the cost guidance. I guess, on the tenge, we're seeing a low 300s, that's where we are now, and it may appreciate slightly from there. And we've got that baked into our plans and budgets. We're expecting that to happen.

In terms of the cost inflation, I mean, I think it's probably worth pointing out that Bozshakol and Aktogay are actually very low cost this year. We're not really seeing significant cost inflation on Bozshakol and Aktogay this year at all. It's more the normalization of our maintenance costs as we go into – that we've ramped up and will come out of constructions, that's what you're really seeing.

I think you are right, that there is some local inflation in the East Region, was at about 12%. We did do a lot of work last year to try and look at our contracting strategy in some of our local tariffs to keep them low and some of the key underpinning things. We are blessed with quite low power and we're now seeing big changes in that type of thing.

So, overall, management is working hard to keep that under control, but at the moment, it's limited to

the East Region, really, that's the bulk of where we're seeing it, which is a relatively small part of our portfolio. On the gearing range, I mean, I'll probably just repeat what I said before in terms of the board. I mean, we are assessing where we are. We'd like to be obviously lower than we are now because we're focused on de-gearing in the near term.

Now, quite where that limit is, I'm not sure I want to say that now. I think what we'll do is we'd take it to the board and we're going to reassess. We'll look at, as I said, cash flows and growth options, and then we'll come out with some further guidance at the appropriate time.

Just one more thing on the cost, just to reemphasize something that John said in his presentation. The East Region is one that shows the largest increase in gross cash cost period-on-period. And partly, that's a function of units sold. So in 2017, we sold 70 kilotonnes – we produced 67 kilotonnes across Bozymchak and East Region, we sold 70 kilotonnes. So, we did have a reduction in inventory over 70 kilotonnes, and when we're doing unit cost, that is factored in there.

So when we go into 2018, the guidance there is around 65 kilotonnes of copper. So, you're going to see that. In terms of assumptions, we're 5 kilotonnes lower in terms of units, so you [indiscernible] (00:38:34) your G&A and other costs associated with that now divided by a smaller number of sales, that's one of the factors there. I think anyway, over the past – since the devaluation, we saw there's been very muted inflation anyway. So, we're starting to see some of that come through.

Hi. Jatinder Goel from Citi. Two questions, please. On future potential acquisitions of projects, would you exclude any regions given your strength has historically been operating in-country, but would you stay within the region or would you look at, say, Africa, Latin America, Australia, wherever?

And secondly, on moly plant, you have constrained yourself to market conditions, et cetera, but can you be more specific? Is it just the pricing that you're watching, and how much unit cost does it add to Bozshakol if you were to operate the plant for a full year? Thank you.

Okay. I mean, we're very, very conscious of what's made us successful in terms of the projects and what we've done over the past few years. So, in terms of anything we look to do, it would be very – again, we would be very mindful of our own ability to operate before we considered any expansion plans. But at the moment, Jatinder, we're very happy with our assets in Kazakhstan. If something came up which was extremely attractive, it would have to be balanced against any risk associated with that. So, we're very, very careful in that. But at the moment, really, okay, we look at assets on an ongoing basis as we do as a copper company should. We're not at early stages with anything, I mean, there's nothing further to say on that. But we'll be very mindful of our own abilities to operate successfully, and, yes, that would preclude us from going into a number of different jurisdictions in the world.

In terms of moly, so we started up the moly circuit at Bozshakol in December. So, we are now producing moly. It just started in December. So, we – it's reasonable, with 50% content moly at the moment, the concentrate we're producing, which is marketable, but we haven't yet fully got that running on a consistent basis. So, we haven't – the chemical composition is all what you need to really fully market it.

I would sort of caveat moly by saying that it is going to be a very small percentage, around 1% or so of revenues at Bozshakol when it's running. So, I don't think it really moves the needle too much, but it is just another part of the process which we should get running at some point.

Does it add much to the unit costs as well?

So, obviously, on a net basis, we wouldn't do it. If they added to it, we have to be – on a net basis, you have to be profitable. So, it's a reduction on the net cash cost. But, again, the numbers are very, very small. Okay. So, I wish it wouldn't get carried – I wouldn't think [indiscernible] (00:41:18). But, of course, it would increase the gross cost very slightly, but on a net basis, we would only run it, obviously, if it were a net credit to the – to the net credit of Bozshakol. But we're talking very small numbers.

Thank you.

Hi. It's Amos Fletcher from Barclays, a couple of questions. Firstly, do you think there's any potential to gain economies of scale at Aktogay Phase II? You mentioned sort of sizing up the mining fleet, et cetera, whereas you've guided for OpEx to remain in line with the existing Phase I. And then the second question, I suppose, is to push a bit further on balance sheet and going to new jurisdictions. You've said first priority for capital allocation is a focus on de-leveraging. How do you square that away with potentially paying $1 billion for a deposit that generates no EBITDA? Thanks.

Okay. So, let's start with the economies of scale question on Aktogay. So, yes, there are some benefits from the mining, but it's still within the same range. So, yes, moving from 140-tonne to 230-tonne trucks is slightly helpful on the mining site. But overall, the cost of it will still remain in the same kind of range we've previously talked about. So that's why we haven't changed that, but it is slightly helpful as part of economics there.

Look, we haven't got another project to talk about, Amos, at the moment. So, we look – as I said to you in my earlier answer, we do from time to time look at other assets, we've looked at a number of other assets over time as a copper company should. We are not anywhere with any project at the moment or in early stages, and we had to make the announcement we did because of the question from the press. So, really, I don't want to start talking about any particular projects.

Hi. It's Dan from UBS again. I have a follow-up question. You mentioned about you're obviously benefiting from low cost power at Bozshakol and Aktogay. Can you give us a reminder on the sort of structure of your power off-take and any sort of risks of a change in the power balance in Kazakhstan resulting in increasing power costs?

And the second question is on the sustaining CapEx numbers that you've given as the guidance today. Is that what we should be expecting as a life of mine sustaining CapEx or will they sort of creep up as the assets mature in time?

Yeah. I mean, think of the power cost, obviously, it's a state-provided power cost. We're not seeing any change in our tariffs year-on-year. I think there is a power surplus in Kazakhstan, so I don't think we feel there's any particular risk around the power cost, which is what I said earlier.

And the sustaining CapEx, I think we do see ourselves returning to – this is a more normalized level for us. Obviously, at the early part of the mine, you do get some benefits where you don't have to put so much money into sustaining CapEx. And so, they creep up a bit, obviously, as well as operational maintenance gets normalized. Certainly, that happens with the sustaining CapEx number. So, we're expecting to be more representative of a longer-term run rate, what we have now.

Thanks.

Hey. Good morning. Thank you. Mike Marnell from Bank of China. I just wanted to maybe focus on the other side of the business, which is the sales side. You have a fairly captive market in your sales to China. How do you see the Chinese market working with you given your ramp-up of production and what you're anticipating to produce? One would expect you have increased demand. Could it be coming from China in your forecast? Secondly, where do you see the copper prices going, if you have any views on that going forward over the next couple of years?

And thirdly, on the PXF, obviously, you've got repayments starting in June this year. Do you, at this stage, have any anticipation of just maintaining that PXF and running it down as your overall net debt reduces or do you see potentially that as a good way to refinance and move forward over the next few years beyond the current maturity? Thank you.

Thank you for those questions. So, in terms of China demand, extremely positive. So, we are shipping our material into the western side of China. And that is where a lot of Chinese economic development is taking place. That's where they – if you think about most of the Chinese copper imports are coming into the Eastern seaports, they don't want to drag that copper across the full width of China, so, I think part of China's strategy in dealing financing our two projects was to secure long-term copper supply into the western side of China, which is the next phase of their economic development. And we've seen that [ph] borne (00:46:12) through with investments in smelters, as well as economic industrial activity that we're seeing in that part of China. So, we're extremely positive on that.

We're getting – we've got long-term relationships ourselves with a number of Chinese major smelting companies, and we're getting continued interest from others as well. So, we're very, very positive on that – on the sort of physical demand side of China.

We don't give sort of copper fees. So, we all have our own – we've built 38-year Bozshakol, 56-year Aktogay. We built long life mines which will go through many, many cycles. We built those mines as we continues to invest in copper in Aktogay because we are very bullish in the outlook for copper, but in terms of sort of near-term price expectations, we'll leave that for you, guys, to speculate on.

Finally, on the – John, PXF...

No. Well, [indiscernible] (00:47:04) PXF. I mean, I think we've got a strong relationship with the PXF. We had a $3 million facility, we've now extended that to $600 million. So, I think we see that as an important partnership for us going forward. And I think that's all I'd say. I think we just redrawn the loan now. So, we're planning on paying it down as per the schedule, but obviously, that's out there for us to look at if we need to do something again.

See if there are any questions on the line. Right. Okay. Well, thank you very much, and look forward to your continued support. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handsets. Thank you.