Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Oleg Novachuk — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Kazakhmys Plc
Mian Khalil — Head of Projects, KAZ Minerals Plc
Andrew Southam — Chief Financial Officer, Kazakhmys Plc
Fraser R. Jamieson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Liam Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Rob Clifford — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK)
Michael E. Flitton — Analyst, Citi
Alon Olsha — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very glad to welcome you here for our yearend results for 2014. In the beginning of my presentation I would like to introduce my team which I have with me. First, Mian Khalil, our key person to deliver our growth projects, you know him very well; and Andy Southam who was very instrumental for our transformational transaction last year.

I would like to say that we are very delighted that we have started our exciting journey of transformation about 18 months ago. Previously, we told to the market that we would like to change our company to become very dynamic, lean and effective, pure copper play in the region of Central Asia. And we started this journey exactly 18 months ago. It was very unbelievable, difficult – and anyway, we have done it and currently we enjoy that we have reached what we wanted, and we still have very exciting story in front of us.

In 2014, the end of 2013 and beginning of 2014, we successfully disposed our noncore assets. If you remember this long-lasting downstream asset in Germany, MKM, then we sold our participation in ENRC, then our participation in the power station GRES-1, and overall proceeds from these disposals was about $2.2 billion of the cash proceeds.

And our majority free float became 58%, unprecedential. If you take many other companies from the Soviet USSR, you know that these oligarchs and the founders of the company usually stick to the control and they never give up control. They will always want to stay 51%. We are very flexible and we want the market to participate and we are open. And we would welcome that. We are a company with a majority of free float.

And currently we are in the middle of our development curve as you see. We have successfully completed our restructuring and we retained the low-cost cash generative assets and the projects in our portfolio. Our company was renamed KAZ Minerals. We would like to rebrand it and if you have seen in the announcement that we – when we refer to the old operations we start to say Cuprum. Actually for me they are Kazakhmys. And we want to say that currently we are KAZ Minerals. It's a new company and a new story on the market.

And we expect that in the nearest future, our company will be totally different and we have to deliver our growth project. We want to achieve it just literally three years' time from now; 300,000 tonnes of copper by 2018, and 80% of all production will be from the new open-pit mines. We also have long-term debt facilities which will allow us to do that. It's unprecedential and very favorable conditions for the financing which is not available on the market and, thanks to our strategic relationship with China, we were able to secure this financing.

After the completion of our major growth project, we will be the first and second quartile cost producer. And of course, because of the nature of our operations, because the majority of our operations will be from the open-pit, it will be very inherently safe and our major growth project will be really a lead change to us.

In 2014, we have successfully delivered our production. We probably guided you that our range of our production will be between 80,000 tonnes to 85,000 tonnes and we have produced 84,000 tonnes, as the average, which is 9% higher than the production in 2013. That was very strong cost performance, offset lower revenues.

Our EBITDA was $355 million in 2014. And net cash cost in the second half was $1.07 per pound. And Andy will read you through the details and explain you [ph] why we take in the H2 (04:19).

We continue our investments in our major growth projects. Construction at Bozshakol has progressed through the winter period, entering critical period to commence commissioning in Q4 2015 and we expect limited production in 2015. Aktogay is on track to commence our copper cathode production from oxide part of our ore body into Q4 2015.

And sulfide remains on schedule for 2017 as we promised you before. As you remember, we have acquired the project Koksay which is comparable to Aktogay and Bozshakol and currently we are progressing with the confirmatory drilling.

Health and safety performance is absolute priority for our management in 2014 and for the future. Regrettably we have had 13 fatalities in 2014 and six fatalities happened in our continuing operations and seven were in our disposal assets. Three out of six in our continuing operations happened in our projects, two in Bozshakol and one in Aktogay. And currently – but at the same time, we have a great achievement, we have achieved 3 million man-hours without lost-time injury during 176 days.

And currently we're introducing the new culture, a new system of safety at our new operations at Bozshakol and Aktogay. We have appointed a new head of health and safety with enormous experience in the industry, and he is here with us today, Peter Plavina. And I strongly believe that when you build a new project, you have all chances to jump from the level of safety culture where we are now to the new level because we can introduce something new.

And all people coming from around all Kazakhstan and from different countries are very keen to introduce the new standards, the new culture into the group. And I believe that targeting zero fatalities, it's not decoration, it's something real which we can achieve.

Key initiatives in 2015 will be, first of all, external review of our underground mining operations, which is ongoing as we speak. I believe that we can finish that in a few months, analyze what's going wrong there, and definitely take some drastic measures to reduce the risk which we're currently facing.

Major growth projects, we will continue supervision and engagement with the contractors on health and safety, and we will enhance incident reporting and investigation. For 2015, we think that we will maintain the stable copper output. The range of our production will still remain the same between 80,000 tonnes to 85,000 tonnes.

By-products output expected to reduce at the East Region mines temporarily. It was decided because we had two choices: either to decrease a little bit the copper production and maintain the same by-product, or to maintain the copper production stable and reduce the by-product. It's just the nature of ore body.

And also I would like to tell you that we're working on the extension on the life of mine of Artemyevsky mine in the East operation which has about 12 years of life. And this mine is in feasibility stage study. And that's why we decided to rectify the reduction of the by-product by the stabilization of the copper level. It's connected to the future extension of this mine but it will be very temporary, just for two, three years.

Our major growth project, Bozshakol, as I said, will commence commissioning in the fourth quarter 2015 with limited copper production and the copper cathode from SX/EW at Aktogay oxide to commence in Q4 2015.

And priorities for 2015, of course, is the health and safety. When we will start commissioning of our production of Bozshakol, we will roll over everything we will do there to our existing operations, at the East operations and Bozymchak.

Bozshakol commissioning limited production in Q4 and during 2016 we will ramp up the production. And the full capacity from Bozshakol will be reached in 2017. Aktogay oxide commissioning will be in the Q4 2015 with average production of about 15,000 tonnes of copper per annum for 11 years. And we will continue our sulfide project construction and deliver that in 2017 as we promised.

At the East Region, we will implement some cost-cutting measures, implement transportation efficiencies, and we will complete our Nikolayevsky upgrade. By the way, it's very successful and we significantly increased the recovery rate there. That helps us to control the cost. And Koksay exploration, we will continue confirmatory drilling and scoping but we have limited the CapEx for Koksay this year at the level of 15 million in 2015.

And by our tradition, I would like to demonstrate you our movie to show you the progress of our Bozshakol project. We planned that we will have a trip in May. And after that, Mian will take over.

[Video Presentation] (09:36-13:14)

Good morning.

As you can see from the video, we have managed to make some progress over the winter months. I've always said it's critical for the winter months to go well. I think we've done what we needed to do. For what we've accomplished, internal equipment, you've seen from the video that all our major equipment is well along. The one thing that – when this video was shot that you didn't see is one of the ball mill's gearless drive stators are installed. They're about – each quadrant is about 120 tonnes, so the biggest load on site for lifting. So the four pieces for one ball mill installed. And last weekend, we installed the first piece for the SAG mill, so that work is coming along very well.

The 220 kv line, as we indicated is essentially completed. It's in the checkout and government authorization stage to energize. Training, you saw the training – operations have now started training their people, starting with the maintenance crew in mining. And then they've got a simulator for operator training on mobile equipment and they're putting people through that.

Pre-production mining, we expect to start in the first half of 2015. And ore feed to the concentrator, as Oleg told you, is Q4 this year. And I think that's a very, very achievable target. The spend is as we had projected in the last meeting. So there are no surprises there.

Aktogay, we have made some decent progress. I think you've seen some photographs in our results. Previously, all you had seen was some earthmoving equipment and some bare ground being pushed around. Now you can see from that that we've actually physically progressed, more significantly in the oxide area where one of the buildings for solid extraction is already up. The second building is well along.

The heap leach pads, the first two leach pads that we need are ready for receiving ore except for one small corner which we're waiting for spring to finish off. And so that's a week or so work to finish that off. So essentially, it's ready for us.

Again, the forecast, as we've said before, is quarter four 2015 for oxide production and commence sulfide production in 2017. So we're on track. One of the photographs we showed you in the annual results was for a big foundation in Aktogay that's the second largest pour. That's the mat foundation for the SAG mill. I expect next week we'll be pouring the largest pour, which is the mat foundation for the two combined ball mills. So again, in spite of winter we have made some progress there. Winter does get cold as I reminded you. It got down in Bozshakol and Aktogay to the low minus 30s this winter but we didn't stop work. [ph]

I think I've basically (16:32) – key sulfide concrete, state acceptance; these first several boxes and the ticks, I'm not going to read through every one of them. These are promises we made to you last time that we were going to progress. These have been completed. And ongoing is the clay plant construction at Bozshakol. The gyratory crusher for the main crushing plant is, again, progressing satisfactorily. The gearless drive, as I said, it has been installed for one of the mills. And it's on for the SAG mill and then we'll follow with the second ball mill.

And bulk materials – underground bulk materials which is a critical thing to open up the site essentially is more than 50% complete. So that was tough going in winter. You can imagine with a frost depth of 2.5 meters, digging is like blasting rock. That the top ground is frozen but in spite of that, the contractor made good progress, all within the constraints of safety. We have strict regulations about how long people can work in certain temperatures and stuff like that.

Again, some pictures showing the SAG mill and what you see right here are the two ball mills. On the left is the ball mill number two and the ring that you see around it is the gearless drive stator. And the SAG mill, the first piece, as I said, has gone in.

Truck shop, again, you saw a piece of that in the video clip; truck shop has been turned over to operations. They're using that for their training. And obviously, it's going to be used for maintenance of the equipment once they start mining. It's a key facility and a pretty big facility.

Operational staff training. Again, you had a glimpse of that. Classroom training has started, as well as practical training for the maintenance people, the mine maintenance people. Progressively as time goes on, they'll switch that over to the concentrator operations people but the mine starts first, so that's where they're doing. Jeremy Allen is Head of Operations for both Bozshakol and Aktogay. He's an extremely experienced operations chief and he is leading the management of that phase and we're glad to have him.

And that's a 40 foot SAG mill, again, this photograph was taken about 2.5 weeks ago and it doesn't show the first segment of the gearless drive. But you can see the mill itself is assembled. What we have to do is put the gearless drive in and then put the liners in the mill.

This is the mining equipment yard and you can see those are the drilling rigs trucks you saw in one of the videos. They're all assembled, waiting.

And you can see our loader in the truck shop where people get training or hands-on on the maintenance of the loader. Water filtration plant, again, a key facility not only for [ph] portable (19:46) water but also for the cooling system for the mills, so that's gone in.

Aktogay, the picture you see in front of you is what I mentioned, is the main SAG Mill mat. And in the foreground what you see – but in the foreground you can see is the foundations for the main concentrator building. This is a duplicate of the Bozshakol concentrator building. So the big blue building. And we've started pouring the foundations for that. So that's going on track. Again, winter is not quite over yet, as you can see in these pictures, about 2.5 weeks old – no, this one is about two weeks old.

Leach pads 1 and 2, I said is substantially complete. The oxide plant, we've got the first SX building, as I indicated, up. And the PLS pump and the pump house and sulfide plant earthworks obviously is complete. That's why we started pouring foundations. In terms of support facilities and our path forward, the permanent camp foundations are near completion and we started setting the modular permanent camp up.

Again, there's some photographs for that in the results. 110 kv power line, we have 110 kv here versus 220 kv there, just a matter of how the grid is set up. It's effectively complete in March and that's plenty of time for oxide. And we've commenced concrete work on the sulfide plant. This is the solvent extraction building. There are two of them. This is the first one and you can see the shell is complete. They're putting some flashing and finishing touches on the roof. And inside is pretty straightforward. There are pre-cast concrete cells. And they're at the [ph] customs on (21:43) border with Kazakhstan, so the installation of that will start in March.

This is the permanent camp, slightly different construction methodology, even though it's the same size as Bozshakol. Here we went for a modular camp instead of stick built. That allows us to speed up the construction during the winter season. So we went with pre-cast foundations and the camp is going in, so that's progressing well. Same style of accommodation, just a modular construction.

Thank you. Andy?

Okay. I'm delighted to be presenting KAZ Minerals first financial results as a restructured business. Today, I'll be focusing on the 2014 results of the continuing operations which are the East Region, Bozymchak, the major projects and of course our outlook into 2015.

In 2014, revenues from continuing operations fell by $85 million. The LME copper price was 6% lower, [indiscernible] (22:55) silver was 20% lower and gold fell by 10%. Copper sales volumes from the continuing operations were also slightly below the prior year, as inventories returned to more normalized levels.

We've been quite successful in 2014, particularly in the second half, in managing our cost position, given the inflationary impacts of the February tenge devaluation. Despite the $85 million lower revenues, EBITDA for the year was broadly unchanged. Group net debt rose by $191 million to just below $1 billion. We invested $900 million in expansionary CapEx, principally in the major growth projects.

We also acquired Koksay, our third major project, for which we paid $225 million in the year. And the disposal assets were divested with funds of $188 million. The relatively small increase in net debt in the year was due to these investments being largely offset by the receipt of $1.25 billion from the sale of our 50% share in Ekibastuz GRES-1.

In previous presentations, I've guided a net cash cost for the East Region of $1.20 to $1.40 per pound. This figure was provided as a pro forma cash cost for the East Region as a standalone business. It therefore reflected the terms of pricing agreements for example the smelting and refining that we subsequently entered into. It also included an allocation of central costs.

In the actual results for the year, for the period prior to economic separation, the East Region does not include central costs, which are not directly attributable to it and of course does not include the terms of the pricing agreements which we subsequently entered into as they were not in place at the time.

This means that the net cash cost as calculated off the financial results is not representative of the region as a standalone business. I would therefore focus you on the second half gross cash cost of $2.77 per pound and a net cash cost of $1.07 per pound as more representative of the East Region as a standalone business.

This slide sets out the movement in continuing operations EBITDA between 2013 and 2014. So cathode revenues fell by $39 million as our realized price fell by 3% and we also sold 3 kilotonnes fewer cathodes than in the prior year. Although production of 83.5 kilotonnes was ahead of the prior year, we started 2014 with a low level of inventory which has now returned to more normalized levels.

Silver's been the hardest hit of our commodities in our portfolio. The realized price fell by 23% and we also had very slightly lower sales volumes, leading to $28 million reduction in revenue shown. And gold revenues fell by $19 million, as sales volumes are 13,000 ounces lower.

Zinc, the region's largest by-product in revenue terms saw strong pricing, particularly in the second half of the year. However reflecting production, sales volumes were lower. These reductions in revenue were almost entirely offset by our lower costs in 2014. The tenge devalued by 19% in February which is beneficial as over half the East Region costs are in local currency.

When I presented in August, I warned of post-devaluation inflationary pressures expected in the second half of the year. We were at the time locked in discussions with a number of service providers who were seeking tariff increases – in some cases backdated to the February devaluation.

I'm pleased to say that we've been successful in limiting these increases which is reflected in the cost reductions we have shown on the slide. On input prices, we only started to see softer pricing coming through right at the end of the year, so there is little benefit in the reported figures for 2014.

The year-on-year comparative figures have also been assisted by the decision to close the Berezovsky concentrator in December 2013, raising utilization levels at other concentrators in the region.

This chart shows the movement in the group's net debt over the year. The group EBITDA which is shown on the left-hand side of the chart of $556 million is made up of the $355 million from the continuing operations and $201 million from the disposal assets for the 10 months until their divestments.

Corporate income tax and mineral extraction tax payments were $157 million, below the income statement charges as we started 2014 with a corporate income tax receivable which has been reduced during the year. We paid $150 million in interest, largely on the China Development Bank facilities for the major growth projects.

Sustaining CapEx was below guidance for both the continuing operations and the disposal assets. In August, I noted that in the run-up to the transaction, changes in management and a review of priorities had held back investment.

In the second half of the year, we have identified our investment priorities in the East Region but of our internally approved projects approximately $26 million which we expected to have fallen within 2014 have now been moved to 2015. If we had spent that $26 million, we would have been at the lower end of the guidance of the East Region of $80 million to $100 million. Expansionary CapEx there of just over $900 million, $500 million of which was on Bozshakol, Aktogay $360 million.

In April, we completed the sale of Ekibastuz GRES-1 with the net proceeds shown there of $1.25 billion. We acquired Koksay, $225 million have been paid to date. The final $35 million is due on the summer of this year subject to confirmatory drilling. On completion of the restructuring end of October, the disposal assets left the group with $188 million of net funds. So overall for the year, net debt increased by $191 million, moving from $771 million to $962 million.

Turning to capital and debt management. We highlighted last summer that the pre-export finance facility could not continue past the completion of the restructuring. I'm pleased that we successfully obtained the support of our banking group to amend it, allowing the facility to continue with amended covenant terms. At yearend, we were fully drawn on commitments received to date at $349 million.

As we enter the final year of Bozshakol construction, this slide sets out the currently available financial resources. At the end of December, we had funds of $2.1 billion. And of the $1.5 billion Aktogay facilities, $800 million remains available for drawing. Our long-dated CDB debt has been a feature of previous presentations. We have again shown the repayment profile of our facilities based on the amounts drawn at the end of the year. Bozshakol is currently amortizing over 12 years. And the main portion of the Aktogay debt will begin amortizing from 2018.

Financial guidance for 2015. The gross cash cost for the second half of 2014 was $2.77 per pound and I'm guiding a gross cash cost for 2015 of between $2.80 and $3.00 per pound. This figure includes output from Bozymchak which has a higher gross cash cost in the East Region assets although it is offset of course by gold revenues on a net basis.

Whilst the second half of 2014 was more representative of the East Region as a standalone business, we did increase head count slightly and some of the post-devaluation cost increases came through during that period. And these changes will have an inflationary impact when annualized over a full year 2015.

Other minor inflationary pressures include power prices rising by 9%. And other service providers pushing for tariff increases this year. There are also certain costs that the East Region will incur for the first time as a separate business. For example, insurance and also certain IT costs. I would also note that the TCRC for smelting and refining services will be unchanged in 2015.

So as indicated by the guidance range, depending on how input prices evolve in 2015 and also the level of savings we can obtain from ongoing initiatives such as reviewing suppliers, we do anticipate that we should be able to offset at least some of the inflationary factors I've just mentioned.

On sustaining CapEx, I'm going to stick with the guidance we previously have given for East Region of $80 million to $100 million. Whilst we were comfortably below that level in 2014, $26 million of spend has been carried forward into 2015.

Annualizing the spend in 2015, approximately $25 million is to complete the Nikolayevsky concentrator which will be the upgrade which will be finished in the year and also one-off optimization projects with short payback periods. So the ongoing level of CapEx is at the bottom end of that range, if not slightly below.

Turning to expansionary CapEx. On Bozshakol after the $500 million investment in 2014, our total spend on the project to-date is now $1.3 billion. And the $900 million remaining spend should be incurred in 2015.

Aktogay, we spent $360 million in 2014. The rate of CapEx slowed in 2014 as we appointed a number of contractors including Non Ferrous China to manage a sulfide processing plant. And following these appointments, we anticipate a spend of between $500 million and $700 million in 2015.

So we've entered 2015, the final year of Bozshakol's construction, with a portfolio of cash generative operating assets, $2.1 billion of funds, and $800 million available for drawing. Our main priority now is to complete the Bozshakol project, ramp-up production at this first quartile asset.

And to summarize our presentation, just briefly show you what the achievements in 2014. We have successfully completed restructuring of the group. We have demonstrated the strong cost and production delivery in 2014. And our major growth projects funded and on track to deliver 300,000 tonnes of copper cathode production by 2018 with 80% from the open-pit mines.

And in order to succeed in life, as you know, it's very important to be in the right place in the right time. I think that KAZ Minerals is exactly in the right industry – copper. And we believe that the copper is the only commodity which will be favorable with next few years. You can see currently that all the commodities are down – oil is down, coal is down but the copper is the only commodity which is in very strong demand.

I can share with you some thoughts, before New Year in December and the beginning of January, I was four times in China, and I met with the Chairman of NDRC, it's a National Development and Reform Committee of China, it's kind of body above all the ministries. This body decides how much, what, and when to buy in China, what will be the development of Chinese economy. This is a very, very strong body. Its kind of – they report directly to the Prime Minister and they set out the plan for the Chinese economy development for next 20 years.

And I was included in the governmental delegation of Kazakhstan and we have had the meetings with China. And we discussed some potential investments from China to Kazakhstan. And I can tell you I discussed with the representatives of the ministries, with the association, Nonferrous Metals Association with other organizations in China and we again reiterated the demand of copper in China will remain extremely strong.

Regardless of the pace of growth, regardless of the economy situation in the West, Ukraine, sanctions on Russia, China has its own growth base. Definitely, we shouldn't expect that the China growth will be 8% or 9% or two digits, and that was very good point made by the Chairman of NDRC. He said look, if you compare the pace of growth, 14%, 15% in 2005 or 2001, don't forget that the Chinese economy has grown a few folds since the end of 1990s. And now we cannot grow 5% or 10% yet. They want to return back to the normal growth but in terms of the volume it will be huge. And the consumption of copper is enormously big. And that's why our major projects will be delivered exactly at the right time. We think that in 2016, 2017, when we will complete the ramp-up of our major project, Bozshakol, and we will start the sulfide production from Aktogay, the copper will be delivered at the time when the copper price will be at the peak or it will start to grow.

So I suggest we finish our presentation here and we are open now for your questions. Thank you.

Thanks. Fraser Jamieson from JPMorgan. I guess it's a couple of questions for Andy. Firstly, on the debt side of things, you obviously don't have any covenant testing until December 2016, I believe. So there's no sort of risks around that. But liquidity, given the sort of new reality of where commodity prices are, looks like it might be quite tight given the repayment profile on the debt that you have in place at the moment.

So I was just wondering if you could maybe talk about any discussions that you've had with the lending group or the China Development Bank in terms of maybe pushing out some of the amortization of those debt facilities.

And then if I could squeeze a quick second one in around the cash cost guidance. Essentially, the bottom end of that range is flat versus where you were in the second half. You outlined a lot of inflationary pressures against that. Is it realistic that you can get to the bottom end of that range, or with the sort of cost initiatives you have or should we be thinking more about the sort of $3.00 per pound level as being more realistic or at least the top half of that? Thanks.

Okay. So the end of 2014 we had $2.1 billion of cash. We had $800 million available for drawing. Bozshakol, funding to completion is $900 million and we will commence commissioning in this year. So the key for us on the debt side is to get Bozshakol up and running as quickly as possible and to get that ramp-up. In terms of beyond that, once that project's up and running, it will clearly open up a range of different financing options.

We become a very different company in terms of outlook. We've got a high quality, we've got a supportive banking group and we've got a good track record of working with them. So not only do we put in place initially the CDB facilities to fund these projects – in 2014, as you know, we renewed and amended the PXF facility with the international banks and we also renegotiated the CDB facility on Bozshakol on more favorable terms and went bilateral with the CDB. So we've got a good record there.

So I think we're very clearly funded all the way through to Bozshakol completion. What happens to commodity prices in the medium term, we are much more bullish than the current spot prices but I think the world will be different for us once Bozshakol's up and running.

And unit cost?

On the unit cost, the $2.77 second half, yes, we do have those inflationary pressures above it. I think the $2.80 to $3.00, I think to be at the lower end of that range would require some favorable headwinds. And some of the unknowns for me at this particular point is to what extent we're going to see reductions in global commodity prices coming through into input prices.

So I didn't see – as I said in my presentation, I saw little of that in 2014. I would expect to see some more benefit coming through this will slightly lag into 2015. So that is one factor which I think is critical to getting us to the lower end of that. Otherwise, we'll be in the upper end.

Thanks.

Good morning. It's Liam Fitzpatrick from Credit Suisse. Two questions just on the projects. We've seen the production profile move around a little bit and you've given some updated guidance in here. How certain is that? Could we see it change? And then secondly on the cash costs for the projects, I think since you originally provided the guidance a year or two back, there's been a lot of moving parts. So do they still hold? Should we be thinking that maybe you could beat that guidance? [indiscernible]

(40:58). [indiscernible]

(41:00). Mian?

Okay. Production we had previously given you guidance that in the feasibility study, we had looked at a very conservative ramp-up of 2.5 years under the McNulty curve. Realistically, what we – based on past experience on concentrators around the world, I think it's – you normally reach commercial production which is roughly 70% in about a 12 months period. So we should be able to target around that range. That's achievable.

Then on the cash costs, we did update the Bozshakol cash costs. As you know, we changed that over a year ago. But we do continue to review them and you're absolutely right, there's been a number of moving parts. We've had the tenge devaluation. We've also had changes in commodity prices and some of our by-products in expectations of those – for example, moly has also changed over that time.

The cash cost guidance we gave is over 10 years. And I said previously, on the devaluation in particular, that based on past experience, we have seen high levels of inflation coming through following the devaluation. And therefore over a 10-year period, I really wouldn't be locking in longer-term benefits from that. So as we are within the year of Bozshakol construction – Bozshakol commissioning, I think we're still comfortable with the $0.80 to $1.00 – well, we are comfortable with the $0.80 to $1.00 range. And again on Aktogay, slightly further out because production – the main sulfide portion starts in 2017 but again we're comfortable still within that range of $1.10 to $1.30 net cash costs per pound.

Good morning. Rob Clifford, Deutsche Bank. Two questions. There are a couple of things that strike me as odd. One, Oleg, was the safety performance. There are about five times as many people in the assets for sale but the fatality rate was about the same. So it looks like the safety performance of your ongoing assets looks substantially worse than the assets you sold. So it's unusual maybe such a difference in performance there. What is the cultural difference that means your performance isn't as good? And as your own man said, a safe society is [ph] a controlled site (43:31). So just some comments on that would be good.

And then second one, the project. Most projects follow an S-curve in terms of ramp-up of the CapEx. You're spending 40% of the Bozshakol budget in the final year; that compares with, say, Aktogay where you're spending 9%, which would be a more normal ramp-up. That really looks like there is significant slippage risk in delivery that you're delivering so much of the spend in the very final year of the project. Can you talk about why there is such a difference in that?

Sure. Let me start from safety. I think if we all look at the track record to follow safety performance. In 2010, we had 27 fatalities over the group. In 2013, we had 18 fatalities. In 2014, we had 13 fatalities. And this is the overall culture in the group which we introduced from the center – from the head office with our people. Sadly, we have fatalities in our projects. If we just split the disposed assets, we had seven fatalities there and six fatalities in continuing operations.

In these six fatalities, one happened in Bozymchak and Kirghizia during the construction. Our sub-contractor truck was rolled over because of unsafe driving there. And two fatalities – it was a group fatality, happened in Bozshakol during the construction of the rebar tank wall, if I remember correctly – also our sub-contractor. The fatalities at the production site was three in the Eastern operations. And definitely all of these fatalities we believe were avoidable.

But [indiscernible] (45:19) of the culture is the same and we are working very hard to make sure that all our sub-contractors follow our standards and the safety policy and currently we're taking very harsh measures. As an example, I can tell you currently, Mian firing people, firing highly ranked managers from our sub-contractors from the site if they don't follow our rules. Three fatalities happened in the projects or in sub-contractors' organizations. And we ensure and make sure that they follow our rules. And if they don't, they're just simply not suitable to work for us. For the spending, I think, Andy is better to or Mian, you can [indiscernible] (46:04).

That's an interesting question because we were – I was just talking to another member of the audience about that before we started. There are two reasons for the delayed spending as you see based on our forecast. Number one, we had a slight hiatus period when we removed the previous contractor and brought the new contractor on board. So that distorts the standard S-curve if you look at the total duration of the project because there was a kind of slowdown period in the center where a lot of money was not spent.

Number two, I normally put in my contracts a provision that I sometimes have to exercise. And we did exercise where we say if a contractor is not performing against all aspects of the contract, not just construction but in terms of reporting, in terms of schedule management, et cetera, we can withhold payment even though the work is done. And we've exercised that option with NFC.

So in the last quarter of last year, we withheld payment for October, November and December. They're all coming due now and I've authorized those payments in January. So that pushed a little bit of the cash into the first quarter of this year. But the work is progressing. And there are two schools of thought. One is the civil service school of thought, money spent is progress earned. I've never subscribed to that. The real way you measure progress is how many cubic of concrete have poured, how many tonnes of steel are erected and when you look at physical work, earned value based on physical quantities, were on track.

And I can tell you many contractors are [indiscernible] (47:36) Mian. They really want us to pay more. But Mian keeps money till the right moment when we really see the performance. That's why we have a very good control of the cash flow.

I was joking with Oleg the other day that my – I'm on fewer Christmas card lists every year.

That's true. Maybe we can check the people on the phone? Okay. Let's continue.

I'm Mike Flitton from Citi. Just a couple of questions. Firstly on by-product production. Can you just give us a bit of a better idea of the profile of the next two or three years. Obviously – is the run rate for next year a good idea of how we think the grade impact is going to play out?

And just secondly, if I push you a little bit on the cash cost for Aktogay. Obviously, the moly prices have had a bit of a fall over the last month or so. Is there a sensitivity you can give us, perhaps, for moly in terms of how that affects cash costs, if you're still pretty confident on how those are going to play out? And if we might see perhaps a revision, or when you may next look to revise them over the year. Thanks.

Firstly, on the by-product, I would say that we think that the grade of by-product will be more or less stable for the next two, three years. We have just reached the ore body where we can choose what will be the major product there. As you know, the eastern part of our operations, it's not copper mine. All of those mines are not pure copper, it's fully metallic mine. And you should choose which metal to follow.

If you want I can produce from Orlovsky Mine and I can produce the zinc concentrate, with the copper as by-product. And that's why sometimes we decide what the market situation, what will be the most profitable to mine, will it be better to take this part of the section, or to go around from another one. And because, as I said, we are planning to extend the life of the mine from the Artemyevsky Mine, and currently, we have there two ore bodies – one which we're mining now. And the second one is a little bit deeper which is connected with a small corridor.

We have two choices. We can go directly to this ore body but we have to wait a couple of years. We could reduce the copper production now but – for the good by-product grade, or take the small corridor and prepare this ore body to be mined in two, three years' time. And we decided to mine this part with the lower grade of zinc and silver. And we expect that the copper grade should be more or less stable. Of course, annually, we do the production exploration [indiscernible] (50:12).

So I usually know the grade – the precise grade of the ore one month before we go there to mine, or two months before we go there to mine. But I believe it will be stable. As to the gold production, from our Eastern operations, gold will be slower, in the same way as silver and zinc, but we will increase gold from our Bozymchak projects. On moly, I would say Aktogay has no by-products in moly. Moly is only in Bozshakol and it's not major part of our product. And Andy, you can comment on the cash cost depending on moly; I don't believe that moly is significant. It should be...

Moly's a very small part. First of all, Aktogay, we've given a range on the net cash cost, $1.10 to $1.30. We use moly at around 25,000 long-term on that. So it's within that range. The gross cash cost of Aktogay, to give you a feel for what are – the impact of moly is on that, it's only $0.20 to $0.30 higher than that net cash cost range. The reason for that is Aktogay's got a very, very low stripping ratio.

So the by-products are approximately probably around 5% or so of the revenues of that project. And you can put your own – moly's moved around a huge amount in the last 12 months or six months. So that's going to give you an idea of sensitivity and what your views are on moly. Long term [indiscernible] (51:36) anyone got any good insights as to what moly's going to be long term, it'll be great to hear them, but thank you.

Hi, morning. Alon Olsha from Macquarie. I just had two questions. Firstly, on the tenge, there was some speculation at the end of last year. And again at the beginning of this year that we could see another devaluation. We've heard numbers anywhere from another 20% to 30%. So just interested in your views on that and if we could expect the same kind of sensitivity on cost if that did come through. And then, secondly, just on cash interest costs, if you could give some guidance for 2015 and 2016?

Yes. Well, starting with the tenge. It's a managed currency. The official range in which it's being managed is KZT 170 to KZT 188. It has moved closer towards the KZT 188 this year. In terms of what the government policy is on how it's managed going forward, I'm afraid I can't speculate on what they're going to do on that.

In terms of interest costs, well, we've set out the interest rates on our facilities. We had $150 million of payments in 2014. We are floating LIBOR on all of the debt. So you will see continued drawdowns in 2015 but there will be some repayment as well. So you expect that to move up closer towards the sort of $200 million level. But it will be between $150 million and $200 million but dependent on LIBOR, of course.

Do we have anybody online? Okay, no. Any more questions today?

So just to conclude, I would like to emphasize that it's a really exciting year for us. And I think that it will be very exciting to see that we will commence production from two major growth projects in the world. The very big world-class projects which have never been seen before in our history, and I'm not sure that too many companies in the world can do the same.

And let's just meet next time when we will be ready to report to you about our success. Thank you very much for being with us today.

Thank you.