Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Oleg Novachuk — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
Andrew Southam — Chief Financial Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
Ioannis Masvoulas — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Reinout H. Goossens — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Conor Rowley — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Alon Olsha — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Luke Nelson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Daniel E. Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Daniel Lurch — Analyst, BNP Paribas
Edward C. Sterck — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for joining our presentation today. I'm very happy and very proud to tell you that this is the most pleasant presentation for the last two years for me and that's why I'm keen to start as soon as possible.

First of all, I would like to remind you during the last presentation, the slogan of our annual result for 2016 was From Promise to Performance. And currently, we would like to show you how well we are performing. So we're not only promising. We're not only switching to performance, but this half-year results is very obvious that our strategy, which we have launched in 2011 was successfully implemented.

We have successfully completed two major projects in Kazakhstan simultaneously and many people in investment community have doubt about the success of that story, but we clearly demonstrated that it is successful. And thanks to the ramp-up of Bozshakol and start production in Aktogay. We have doubled our copper production and gold production. We tripled our EBITDA and we increased our free cash flow before interest almost 10 times. I think that this is a tremendous result, which we have never seen in our history before.

We're also happy to say that our – we are growing production from our new low-cost assets and currently, we are the lowest copper producer – the lowest cost copper producer in the world. Our cost of production from first half of 2017 is just $0.64.

On safety, it is very important for us and I think that probably two-thirds of my time I spend on safety. And unfortunately we have one fatality up to now, but I can tell you the records of our safety significantly improved compared to last year's. And moreover, I can tell you currently, we work much more than we worked before, because man-hours we're spending now is exceeding 30 million man-hours.

And for 30 million man-hours, we have one fatality and reporting records are also improving, currently the discipline and culture of production in our company significantly changed. And every meeting, we start with our production people, started from the safety sharing. And all managers of our production sites are very keen to make sure that all people understand the importance of safety. And our target is to become a company with zero fatalities.

And by the way, I wanted to remind you that when our company was Kazakhmys, we mined 40 million tonne with 50,000 people. Currently we mined over 70 million tonne with only 8,000 people and our underground production and safety record significantly improved compared to past.

As I said, we are the lowest cost copper producer in the world. Our production from East Region and the Bozshakol are very low, $0.50 per pound from the East and only $0.48 per pound from Bozshakol, but we are so happy to see.

And if you look at our company [ph] as a business and then (03:21) we just had the call with the journalist. And I said, when I compare the other businesses available in the world, there are three major questions which people ask to themselves before they invest. Firstly, where the production will go? Do we have liquidity? Do we have market? Do you need to compete? There is a simple answer. The copper is in very strong demand.

So there is no question whether we sell copper or not, the question is at what price. But currently, we see that the price is improving and demand, especially for China is building up very strongly in the moment.

We have no question about the liquidity of our product. The second question is what about the cost of production and we are the lowest cost producer in the world. And EBITDA margin of our operations for first half of the year is 60%. Can you imagine that we fully de-risked our projects? Our investments which we have made few years ago, currently fully de-risked. There is no execution risk. Projects have been completed. Investments have been totally made. Ramp-up of Bozshakol will be reached by the end of the year 100% and ramp-up of Aktogay will be reached 100% during 2018. So all our investment has been fully de-risked already and on this background, we generate 60% EBITDA margin, which I think is fantastic.

In 2016, we delivered globally significant into the new production. Our company delivered 53% of new production in 2016 and we still are the major contributor of new production in 2017. Our share now is counting about 50% which is also very good achievement for us. And by the way, that shows us that our company is the fast growing company in the industry at the moment.

Before switching to Aktogay, traditionally, I would like to show you our next movie [indiscernible] (05:23) projects, please. [indiscernible] (05:23).

[Video Presentation] (05:24-08:22)

So this is our movie. And I like when music finish, [ph] seems like (08:24) it invites you for the future. It's not the end of our story. It's just a part of our success.

We started our production in Aktogay in February and we're pretty confident that we have learned our lessons from ramp-up process at Bozshakol and we transferred across to Aktogay all the ramp-up teams from Bozshakol and we have experienced people who already know what could go wrong and how to rectify if any problems would arise. And we are very confident that the targets which we have setup for our team to reach the full production capacity in 2018 is easily achievable for us. And currently, we're happy to say that we see very good progress of that.

On Aktogay, I also would like to say that the production in the first half of 2017 from sulphide has reached 23,000 tonnes. And we also have SX/EW production from oxide ore, we successfully delivered 10,000 tonnes in the first half. And, of course, the production was supported by the higher grade supergene zone in our mine – the grade from the zone, the copper grade in the zone is 0.75% which will benefit from that. And at the same time, we are confident even without that, our production could be at the level which we planned and expected.

So the bottom of full-year copper guidance range in Aktogay has been increased to 70,000 tonnes to 85,000 tonnes. And we plan that we will produce about 20,000 tonnes from oxide and from 55,000 tonnes to 65,000 tonnes from sulfide.

From that picture, you can see the equipments and we have recently, maybe some of you has visited our mine in Aktogay. And you have seen the quality of the equipment, the maintenance facility, the professionalism of the people who are working there with extensive experience in the industry. And most – [indiscernible] (10:25) the quality of the roads. I think that the quality of the roads in Aktogay sometimes better than in London. Yeah, I can tell you that we are very proud that we maintained the high-quality of operations and this is a world-class project.

Yesterday, we had the board meeting and board members ask us to create the balance scorecard to make sure what is world-class projects. And we have some few metrics to demonstrate that Aktogay and Bozshakol corresponds to the world-class quality of operation.

On this slide, we try to show you the progress of our ramp-up. How quick and how better Aktogay is going. And here, you can see what was the production in the first three months in Bozshakol and Aktogay, then second half of the year from four to six months, and you can see that we're demonstrating the ability to learn lessons and improve our operations, and improve the speed of ramp up at Aktogay. And that's why we're pretty confident that our throughput will reach our plant level, which we already guided.

Yeah. This is the picture of flotation cells, and I can tell you that recently Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited Bozshakol, and I was proudly demonstrating him the level of automation of Bozshakol and Aktogay. I took him to the dispatch room and I have shown him how the mine is operated. We can see all the tracks in the pit, we can see how much copper is in the bucket of the shovel, what the express analysis of the copper grade and other materials is immediately made and we see this chemical composition of the ore already on the screen. And we know what the quality of the ore will be sent to the concentrator. We know what's the fuel consumption of the truck. We know what is the next maintenance period for this truck and how many motor hours left before the next maintenance period. And if something unforeseeable happened, what kind of spare parts should be ordered to make sure that we don't have a disruption in production. And also, just to compare, when we were at Kazakhmys, we have the concentrator with the capacity of 24 million tonnes. This concentrator was operated by 2,000 employees. The concentrator of Aktogay and Bozshakol, each of them are 25 million tonnes, nearly the same. We have only five operators per shift to operate it. And when I brought Prime Minister, it's a huge plant. Many of you saw it, it's 360 meters length and 57 meters height, and you don't see people at all, everything works automatically there. I'm very proud that this is the top end of the technology which we use there.

Our targets has been moved. As I said, we're pretty confident that we can achieve the level which we promised to the market. Our commercial production will be declared by the end of this year. The full capacity of Aktogay will be reaching 2018, and 2019 will be first year when we will produce 100% of plant production. And we moved our guidance – we have revised the full-year guidance for sulfide from 50,000 to 65,000 tonnes a year.

And on that picture, you can see the SAG mill. And I'm also proud to say that this is a new technology, which is used widely – known but not widely used because of the size. I think that the secret of our success because we use the second largest SAG mill in the world and the largest sizes ball mills in the world. It was quite a challenge to deliver that equipment to Kazakhstan and we are the first company who use that equipment in this Eurasian continent if you wish because we are a landlord country and it was a quite a challenge to deliver this kind of size of equipment to the middle of nowhere. And you see that this technology works that this arch on the top this is the stator, and the drum itself, this is the rotor. And there is a magnetic field between the stator and rotor and the drum is rotating by magnetic field. It's a gearless drive.

So, you have reduced maintenance cost. It's less noise. People can comfortably operate, and, of course, everything is fully automated. You don't need to control it because when you have a gear drive, you have plenty of issues with the lubricants, with the temperature, with wirings, with maintenance time and stoppages you need to do. So this kind of technology was significantly better and more reliable.

The oxide, we're also very happy with the progress of our oxide operations and I can tell you currently we have reached the even higher capacity than we expected because we found some improvements in the chemicals and the equipment we started to use and we confidently say that this year we will produce about 20,000 tonnes of copper cathodes. And our copper cathodes are highest quality and our clients happy to take our cathodes as the high quality there. I think that, currently, of course, the rate of production is a bit higher than it will be in the winter times because the temperature supposed to be minus 30 or minus 40 during November, December. But currently we're enjoying the good weather and the production rate is significantly higher than we had during the winter times. And on that picture, you can see the cathodes which we produce and the quality of the copper we ship to our clients.

On Bozshakol, Bozshakol is at first full year of production and we plan that ramp up of Bozshakol will be finished this year. Currently, we have already successfully reached 93% of the productivity and we're pretty confident that 100% capacity will be reached by the end of the year. We are very happy to say related to both project, Aktogay and Bozshakol, that we have no any design problems. The major problem when projects of this scale are ramping up is that people understanding that design of equipment was wrong, they need to change the size of flowsheet, flow sheet was wrong or materials we had found that wrongly or chemicals are not in compliance with the quality of the ore. I can reassure you that we are very happy that we have no any fundamental issues and ramp up has no any insurmountable obstacles, which will not allow us to reach 100% capacity by the end of this year.

The production guidance on Bozshakol is also revised because of our performance. We think that we will produce up to – from 100,000 to 110,000 tonnes of copper and concentrate. The gold also will be increased from 100,000 to 110,000 ounces and silver production will reach 650,000 ounces by the end of the year. In this picture, you can see the pit. I think, currently, again, who visited the mine, probably now you see that it's not the beginning of the construction, but it started to look as a real mine, the size and the scale of operation is very impressive there. And we also use a very modern equipment. We use this special equipment which monitor the stability of the slopes. We use the drone technology instead of using the old fashioned equipment which controls the geological situation and the stability of the slopes and the size of the benches. Currently, we use a drone which makes the picture, the live picture sends it to the software and software indicates where we may have a problem, is that the geological fault or the angle of the slope is higher than necessary, where the water inflow may be coming. So all that technology working together to make sure that we control our operations at the latest modern technology. And here, by the way, you can see the clay on the upper level. This is the clay and the sulfide ore is a bit far. And you see the different color. This is the different types of the ore we mine.

Yeah. Our concentrate are successfully sold to our Chinese clients, and I can tell you that demand is growing up and building from China. Currently, we have seen even stronger demand than last year. I've heard some information from different people that the Chinese economy is slowing down. I tell you that we don't feel it. We see that the demand for copper is growing up significantly. And now we see new customers from China who are very keen to secure long-term supply of the concentrate to their smelters in China. And on this slide, you can see the pricing of our materials that we sell it very competitively with very low discount based on the world's practices.

East Region and Bozymchak, this is the well-established projects. If you remember Bozymchak is a gold mine – gold, copper mine, which is located in Kyrgyzstan. And it's also, by the way, we never talk about that, but I'm very proud to say that we build this project from the scratch in the mountains at the heights of 3,400 meters between two valleys. And recently, when we started to study the other projects in the world, and I said, by challenge, Bozymchak was very challengeable because we have – firstly, it's a high mountain. Secondly, the deposit is located on the mountain, and we have two mountains like that and very narrow valley. And this, you need to use this constrained space to allocate the concentrate, to allocate the tailing dam, which was very difficult. And when we started to build this mine, we found that there are some trees there, which were included in the Red Book. And I think that the Kyrgyz Government didn't even suspect that they have these trees. But when we started construction, they realized that those trees are on the Red Book, and we cannot cut them to allocate the tailing dam and we have to find another place. And it was a very challenging project but we successfully delivered this project and ramp up of this project took us about eight months. We reached the 100% production on this mine, [ph] eighth month (20:52). And Bozymchak successfully operates, it generates about $50 million of EBITDA every year, and it reached 100% capacity and we successfully operate that.

That's why we keep the same guidance for Bozshakol or for Bozymchak and the East operations and we can see – you can see from these slides that we are happy that we are on track and all the guidance we have given just six months ago will be kept. This is a revised production guidance. The previous production guidance for copper was from 225,000 tonnes to 260,000 tonnes, currently, we'll lift up the bottom range of that, so we tell you that the production for copper will be from 235,000 tonnes to 260,000 tonnes. Zinc production will remain the same as we guided before. Gold production, also they are – lower range, will be increased from 135,000 to 150,000 ounces and silver production will be significantly increased from 2.75 million to 3.1 million ounces of silver.

And now, I'm happy to pass it on to Andy about finance.

Thanks, Oleg. So, several years back, we set out our pure play copper strategy to be high growth, low cost. And our financial results for the first half of 2017 show us delivering against that. Revenues and EBITDA have more than doubled and at 30th of June, we had available liquidity of just under $1.6 billion and a rapidly reducing net-debt-to-EBITDA gearing metric.

We produced 118 kilotonnes of copper more than twice the 56 kilotonnes in the prior year period. This growth took place in a period of strength and in commodity prices with copper averaging 22% higher than the prior period.

The combination of volume growth and higher pricing led to an increase in gross revenues of almost $0.5 billion to $837 million. Gross revenues shown at the top of this slide include pre-production result – pre-commercial production for the full period.

We achieved $505 million of gross EBITDA in the first half, over 3 times higher in the prior period, with all of our divisions contributing to that increase. And as Oleg said, this gross EBITDA represents a margin of 60%. Revenues were $721 million and EBITDA $429 million and these figures exclude Aktogay sulfide which was in pre-commercial production throughout the first half of the year.

The low cost position of our assets led to a highly competitive group net debt to cash cost of $0.64 per pound and operating costs were supported by muted inflation in Kazakhstan.

Free cash flow before interest was $269 million, up from $20 million in the prior period, due to that higher profitability. Our balance sheet position has also materially strengthened. We successfully refinanced our PXF facility in June, increasing the facility to $600 million and as I mentioned earlier, we had in the region of $1.6 billion of available funds at the half year.

With our expansionary CapEx largely behind us, we reduced net debt by $227 million from the position at the end of December, also assisted by the return of VAT paid during the construction of the major projects.

This slide sets out the movements in gross EBITDA, which includes Bozshakol and Aktogay pre-commercial production between the first half of 2016 and the first half of 2017. So, Bozshakol recorded sales of 50 kilotonnes of copper and 58,000 ounces of gold, leading to an increase in gross EBITDA of $219 million to $242 million and its individual gross EBITDA margin was 70%.

Aktogay had a gross EBITDA of $93 million, which is $91 million above the prior year period. The increase was due to higher sales volumes from oxide, which was ramping up in the first half of 2016 and of course, due to the contribution from concentrate sales, which – with the concentrator starting up in the first half of this year.

The East Region and Bozymchak had reduced copper sales volumes, as expected due to that lower production. However, stronger copper and zinc prices led to an almost $50 million increase in EBITDA to $180 million, $76 million of the gross EBITDA related to pre-commercial production and was capitalized, leading to an EBITDA calculated from the income statement of $429 million.

This slide sets out the movements in copper production and cash costs between the periods. At Aktogay, the commencement of the sulfide plant in February 2017, together with higher output from oxide material, led to copper production increasing to 33 kilotonnes from 5 kilotonnes in the first half of 2016. Over the same period, the gross cash cost reduced from $1.56 per pound to $1.13, positioning Aktogay in the second quartile of the global cost curve. As indicated in our Q2 production report, the cash cost was below guidance, supported by a higher-than-anticipated copper grade.

At Bozshakol, the gross cash cost reduced from $1.52 to $1.20 as we ramped up copper volumes from 10 kilotonnes in the first half of 2016 to 52 kilotonnes. The strong by-product credits from gold led to a net cash cost of just $0.48 per pound.

Turning to the East Region and Bozymchak, we guided higher costs in 2017 due to the anticipated lower production. The increase was; however, lower than guidance as unit cash costs in the first half were supported by a reduction in inventory, with sales volumes exceeding production by 5 kilotonnes.

Supporting the net cash cost of $0.50 per pound, the East Region produced 32 kilotonnes of zinc and concentrate in the first half, which benefited from a 50% increase in the LME zinc price. Overall, the group maintained a competitive net cash cost of $0.64 per pound in the first half of 2017.

So, this slide shows the historic investments in the two major projects and the limited spend that we have remaining.

In the second half of 2017, we expect to invest approximately $140 million in Bozshakol and Aktogay. As you're aware, we did defer $300 million due to our principal [ph] contractual (27:48) at Aktogay, which will be settled in 2018. So the production growth that we are delivering now has largely been paid for.

This slide summarizes our updated financial guidance for the full year 2017. Our Bozshakol diluted domestic inflation has led to a slight reduction in the gross cash cost range to $1.15 to $1.35 a pound. At Aktogay, the benefit of higher than anticipated grades has led to a reduction in the gross cash cost range for the full year to $1.10 to $1.30 per pound.

In East Region and Bozymchak, we have benefited from the muted domestic inflation and also as I mentioned, the sales volumes exceeding production. We therefore revised the guidance down to $2.05 to $2.25 per pound for the full year.

On sustaining CapEx, we're guiding $85 million across our operations for the full year 2017. Expansionary CapEx is primarily in respect of the two major projects and has been revised downwards by approximately $50 million and we also expect to invest up to $50 million in Artemyevsky II and other projects in 2017.

I previously indicated that we would refinance our PXF facility in the first half of 2017 and I'm very pleased that we successfully did so in June. The refinancing was oversubscribed and were closed at $600 million with the facility extended to June, 2021. All of our existing lenders participated and we added four new lenders to the facility.

So, we have been running at elevated gearing levels due to the construction of the two major projects. And as I said at the start of the presentation, the output from these projects has transformed our financials. We generated over $0.5 billion of EBITDA in the six months and our net debt reduced by almost $0.25 billion. The delivery of these projects provided the right backdrop to amend the PXF facility and at 30th of June, we had around $1.6 billion in available funds.

The group's gearing metrics have been improving rapidly and we're now on a clear path back to more normalized levels.

Thank you. And, as usual for conclusion, I would like to emphasize our key messages for these results which – we remain as a high-growth company, as the new mines – as we have completed in ramping up our new mines, we are amongst the lowest cost copper producer globally. We have reached $0.64 per pound cost this half year.

Our financial position is materially increased and strengthening at the moment. And our gearing level is decreasing significantly. And our major growth projects, $3.6 billion CapEx are already fully invested and we deliver in our growth to improve in market for [ph] copper (31:03).

By the way, that was counted when we discussed the decision to start our construction of our projects exactly after the crisis. In 2008, when copper dropped from [ph] 9,000 down to 3.6 (31:15) I remember this times very well that when we discussed this with our board members and with our potential investors, many people were very skeptic about that. But we said, firstly, because of the lower turn of the market, its best time to start. And they said, when the construction of those two projects will be finished, the cycle will go back. The prices for equipment, the availability of good people will be significantly tightened compared to current situation. And for us, it's better to build two projects at the same time because we have more purchasing power. We have some backup if something goes wrong, with one project we can easily take equipment from another one.

We can change people. And we can share experience. And that's exactly what happened. You see that when we finished construction of Bozshakol and started production in Bozshakol and Aktogay, the copper cycles started to change. So, we are lucky and sometimes I think we were thinking about that long time ago. And we're happy that we reached our goals.

Thank you very much. And we're happy to take your questions.

Good morning. Ioannis Masvoulas from RBC. Two questions from my side. First, in terms of your growth phase, this phase is as you said derisked. You're now in a deleveraging mode. But given your operational performance and the strength in the copper price, it looks like in the next 12 to 18 months; you will be in a good position to launch the next growth phase.

So, I'd like to ask you on that, Koksay hasn't really been discussed on your slides, and I just wanted to figure out what's the timeline on that? Is it something that you will be able to decide on by middle of next year or will it take longer? And then how do you think about the trade-off between potential expanding of your existing operations, for example Aktogay, given each very long mine life or launching Koksay as a standalone project?

And just a second question on working capital. In terms of the ramp-up of Aktogay, should we expect an additional investment in working capital in the second half or is it [indiscernible] (33:36) into the H1 numbers? Thank you.

Thank you. I like your entrepreneurial spirit. It's very good. First of all, our major focus will be to de-gear our balance sheet and reach 100% capacity on both projects to make sure that we sustainably deliver the volume of our production and the cost which we currently set up. This is most important for us.

Secondly, we need to take the approach to, to the balanced capital allocation. I'm sure that most of our shareholders, including myself, I came to see dividends back. The last time we paid dividends to our shareholders was in 2013. And definitely, we will take a view depending on the copper price, depending on the performance of the company.

But during 2018, we will discuss the possibility to resume the dividends payment to our shareholders. At the same time, definitely using our capacity, which we have successfully built, the quality of people which we currently have, the very strong team, definitely we should look around and see the new opportunities including Koksay.

Koksay currently in the scope and study stage. And I think that during 2018, when we will finish feasibility study and then we will see the economies and compare it to other available options and, of course, we should take into account the expectation of our shareholders through the resumed dividend payments. On expanding, this is one of the opportunities. You're absolutely right and we are also considering that. But it will depend on economics. As soon as we have numbers, then we will take decision about that.

Thank you very much.

Andy will tell you about the working capital targets.

Yeah. So, on working capital, the way I would look at it is we've had a large part of that increase already in the numbers. As we go through the second half of the year, the main variable might be the copper price in terms of debtors, but that would be not particularly material. And I would say that our CapEx that we have still for that second half of the year on Aktogay should be sufficient for the sort of consumers' [indiscernible] (35:41) increase that we're still seeing coming through. So I wouldn't model anything beyond that.

Thank you.

Good morning, Reinout from Morgan Stanley. Two questions. First on the CapEx in 2017 and 2018 which has left, excluding the $300 million. How much of that CapEx is actually – what is it going to be spend on, first of all? And then, how much of that is variable?

And then secondly on the growth CapEx in the East Region. Post 2017, so looking to 2018, 2019, where do you need to spend and how much do you need to spend on those [indiscernible] (36:18)? Thank you.

So, on the remaining spend. So, as we've shown in the presentation, we got around $137 million, we're guiding for the second half of 2017 going up to $370 million in 2018 as you correctly pointed on asking your question. $300 million of that is certainly spoken for in respect of NFC in 2018.

I'll take the 2018 spend first. The second $70 million there is in respect to expanding the oxide sales and that will be – that money is not committed today. It's a project which we'll be starting in 2018. So at the moment, we're forecasting that CapEx in 2018. Obviously, we look to try and defer it slightly but it'll be between 2018 and 2019. So the moment we're you showing it for 2018, but that money will be spent.

In terms of the second half of this year, some of that is for continued [ph] first fill (37:15) and that is an area we're continuing to work through which we consider the [indiscernible] (37:20) strategy with Bozshakol, but that is the figure we expect to spend. Also, within that, we do have some further mining fleet expansions within that figure. And finally, we're also considering the acquisition of wagons and rail carts. So that's another part of the spend that still remains.

On East Region, so we're guiding $60 million across Bozymchak and East Region for sustaining CapEx in 2017. As we go forward, what we've highlighted in previous presentations is sort of the element of optimization projects within that, which is sort of typically $10 million to $15 million. So that's going to be the kind of variation you might see on the sustaining CapEx side to somewhere between $50 million and $60 million.

The projects beyond that, we have highlighted Artemyevsky II, which is a mine extension. So we are guiding in the region of $30 million this year, which is mainly short development works and probably a similar number in 2018. That figure will then increase when we're looking at somewhere in the region of $60 million between 2019 and 2022 to construct the second stage of Artemyevsky II.

Hi. Conor Rowley from Credit Suisse. I just have two on Aktogay. First, on your 2017 guidance. The bottom end – you are pointing to lower grades later this year, but the bottom end of your guidance suggests in the Q3 and Q4 be below what you did in Q2. So, I'm just asking like how aggressively will those grades potentially come down, and therefore, how conservative is that bottom end?

And then, secondly, just going back on the potential growth options. You said one option is potentially lifting production at Aktogay. I'm just wondering in the sense and that in terms of, it's a greenfield project, you had the option to pick the design at the beginning and you're very happy with how it's working. How much of that capacity is maybe built into the design or how much is just – you would just need to build almost further sort of greenfield extension.

Right. Yeah.

[ph] Maybe I could try. (39:30)

Yes, please.

So just on the Aktogay guidance. We are very conscious this is during the ramp up phase. So, I think rather than sort of trying to do mathematical calculations over great declines to get to that bottom end of that range, I'd think about that range taking into account a range of outcomes including nothing particularly major, but in just in terms of normal commissioning, is usually might being occurred in the second half of the year.

So yes, you will see a slightly lower copper grade but I wouldn't sort of guide something too dramatic to get yourself at the bottom end. That's really not the way to think about that particular range.

Yeah, on the expansion projects. I think probably it's too early to say anything. And I just said that this is a good idea to expand to. We all thought about that but it doesn't mean that we have already started doing about that something, because firstly we need to focus on the de-gearing of the company and balanced capital allocation. We want to make sure that our shareholders are happy. I'm not sure that everybody will be happy to see us immediately switch to a new project and say guys, we finished that and now this is the next one. You should wait out a few years before we start paying dividends. We all take the balance you – what will be the capital allocation.

And depending on the money, we will be able to provide continuous growth, we will make this decision which project should be prioritized, and in which way to do. Definitely, I can tell you that whatever project will be chosen, it will be significantly lower risk because we have build a serious capacity to deliver the projects of this scale in Kazakhstan. Whether it will be new project greenfield or it will be Koksay or it will be expansion on existing ones, we believe that we can do that at the high quality for shorter time and with less risks.

Thank you.

Hi. It's Alon Olsha from Macquarie. So, obviously, another very good set of results, which is becoming a well established theme here. I guess, my question is, to what extent is this, the honeymoon phase for the company in terms of the project early on, where you're maybe a little bit softer, so the plant is running particularly well with grades, particularly on by-products, are higher than you expected or do you think potentially, there is scope to increase the long-term operating metrics for the mine particularly around grades as well as throughput or is it too early to tell?

It's a nice question. I remember about honeymoon after IPO. When we listed our company, one analyst told me, look, you should remember that your honeymoon will be very short. And all your promises you have given to the market will be asked in next year or so. If you don't do anything you promised during IPO, your honeymoon will become a disaster for you.

And I think that this honeymoon is totally different. First of all, because it's well designed for whole mine of the life, and we know pretty sure what will happen next year and what will happen with the mine 10 years after. Because the mine, I can tell you the current mining fleet we have at the moment, 18 trucks, 140 tonnes and 4 shovels of 22 cubic meters. But we know that the grade will decline in 8 to 10 years from now. And we need to change the equipment. We need to buy the new trucks of 190 tonnes and new shovels of larger bucket. But we knew about that and the facilities we have build, the width of the roads, the width of the benches, the wash bay, the maintenance bay where – and the crushers and hoopers for the crushers that two trucks can simultaneously dump the ore down, were built for the high – the larger-sized equipment and our maintenance cost and replacement cost has been built into the model.

So, we think that this honeymoon will not end because it was well planned in advance. Of course, the cost will grow a little bit, but it doesn't mean that the economics of the overall project will be different from what we planned. Andy, if you want to add?

And in terms of sort of what I'm saying at the moment is just it's still too early to tell. So, in terms of consumption levels within the concentrator, we're still ramping up. We haven't been running continuously at the sort of 100% level, so you need to be seeing to actually really measure that consumption levels. In terms of the maintenance cycle, we're only really getting into that.

So, at this point, I agree with you, we have some fantastic results. So they are to the positive side, but there's nothing that has come up so far at this stage which will lead us to change the parameters, the longer-term parameters that we previously put out to the market in terms of that sort of 10-year view. So we'll continue looking at that. But it's just too early to tell [ph] them now (44:30).

Okay. And I assume that extends to things like your grades for your by-products gold in particular at Bozshakol. And what about reserve grade? Is there scope there to do more drilling to define the resource a little bit [indiscernible] (44:44)?

We'll continue to fine tune that as we go through – as we go forward. But we've always set the grades at the beginning, particular on the copper side, we're very specific on that. The grades at the beginning were going to be higher than the longer term. We have highlighted that at Aktogay in its first year, we have benefited from slightly higher than anticipated grades. But that's not something we can read anything into. It is a sort of short term benefit we're seeing which is helping that ramp up profile in 2017. But at this point, nothing really has come up which would lead us to change the very, very good 10-year type operation metrics, production metrics we put out previously.

Thanks. And then just finally, could you remind us what the outstanding VAT balance is? And when you would expect to receive another payment?

So at the 1st of June, on the historic, the project-related VAT, we had $85 million in respect of Bozshakol and Aktogay and the balance sheet at the 30th of June. That amount is subject to, sort of, audit and various administrative procedures. And we'd expect to see progress on that over the second half of this year. I'm not describing – I'm not going to quantify how much we necessarily will get, but I expect it to continue to progress on that in the second half of the year.

Good morning. Jatinder Goel from Citigroup. Two questions, firstly, on the leadership transition, specifically Oleg, how do you see your involvement and role changing [ph] as you – where your Chairman head (46:24) at the beginning of next year? And any implications it has on Mr. Kim's involvement in the company?

And secondly, just on the operational side, when will be the right time to think about moly, since copper and other by-products are now coming relatively okay? Thank you.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much for the question. I think, first of all, we all work as one team. And my purpose to make sure that – and I talked – when I talked to my managers, I said that my purpose to build the system in the company, which will not depend on people. Whether I'm here or not, the company should work as good as we planned. And the forthcoming changes are mostly driven by the idea to build this strategy to strategic development of the company because we would like to remain the same fastest-growing company in the world. And I would like to make sure that we can make a transformational deal next time. Transformational deal means something significant, which will change the company size, company profitability or at least to remain the same high quality of the assets as we currently have and pursue our strategy which we have set up in 2011.

Of course, the smooth transition of my role as Chief Executive to Chairman will happen. And I will – we are working with Andy very closely that all daily operational routine will be smoothly transferred to Andy. We also recently appointed Chief Operating Officer with about 30 years experience in Rio Tinto, Mark Anderson. He started to work in our company two months ago. He is fourth-generation miner. All his life he spent in United States. He knows very well the Western culture of production, very high standards for safety. And he moved his family to Kazakhstan.

And, by the way, he said that our story was sold by expats working in our company so well that he didn't even visit Kazakhstan before saying yes. And when he arrived, he wasn't disappointed. He is very happy to work, and this is his third month he works. And I'm sure that our operations will be taken care very well and, of course, with the guidance from Andy, our company will be [ph] very well (48:53) as well. But my purpose will be to make sure that our company will be developing in the same trajectory, which we have set up in 2011. And that's why I need more time to focus on strategic development of the company.

On by-product...

Moly.

...moly, yeah, the money is very simple. When you start producing molybdenum, it means that you need to add additional reagents which will depress gold and copper. And we decided that we will postpone production of molybdenum until we see this stable production in the satisfiable recover rate for copper and gold. And I believe that during 2018 when we will see that we are happy with the recovery rate and with the volume of production of copper concentrate and gold in copper concentrate, then we will switch to moly. All circuits have been fully tested, they are ready to start production. But we would like to stabilize the main production stream first, and then we will switch to molybdenum.

Thank you.

Good morning, Luke Nelson, JPMorgan. Just a question back on guidance. I mean, on H1 annualized basis production, excluding zinc obviously all towards the top above range of the updated range. Cost is also looking so comfortably within or below guidance. So can you just give a sense of where the risks lie, maybe upside, downside to – as we head into H2 towards the renewed guidance?

And then, I suppose also, what you're factoring and specifically in terms of underlying cost inflation tenge power, et cetera. Thank you.

May say that downside risk is very limited. And that's why we comfortably lifted the bottom line of our range. Of course, we don't know what may happen, but we currently feel very comfortable that we can deliver lower range of our guidance. But the risk that we can produce more also exist, which is a nice risk to have.

So just what's been baked in, in terms of inflation, the currency, et cetera?

Yeah. So we've given guidance in terms of the unit cash cost. So that will also be impacted by [indiscernible] (51:12) production, because the higher volumes we have in production [ph] corresponding (51:15) we should have lower unit cash costs. That's one factor impacting the range.

We're seeing sort of mid-to-high single-digit inflation over year-on-year. And power tariffs [indiscernible] (51:29) part of your question. Power tariffs that typically work on an annualized basis, so we wouldn't expect to see necessarily a power change in the second half of the year. I think looking at Bozshakol and Aktogay's two new projects, they're still also – as I said earlier, they're still – we're still determining the maintenance program. We're still determining consumption levels.

So I think the range we've given also reflects a level of uncertainty over the second half of the year. But what you can see is that they are performing as first and very good [ph] second quarter (52:05) assets. The range we've given is bottom-end is below where we were in the first half, top-end is above. So we're in the right range.

Hi. Dan Major from UBS. First question is on the balance sheets and on the debt drawdown. You still got available facilities on the PXF. Clearly, the copper price environment, the trajectory of free cash flow. Is it your intention to fully draw those facilities or not?

The second is some modeling question on $300 million of deferred payments next year, when those are due sort of within the year? And, yeah, perhaps I'll leave at that for now. Thank you.

I'll have to say what a change that type of question is from [indiscernible] (53:00) longer. The question has been more around sources of liquidity rather than whether or not we would be [ph] drawing (53:07) facilities that we have available to us. I mean, look, the facility is available to draw until the end of the period. We can also repay it when we wish. There is flexibility around that and we will just see how it progress over the second half of the year, make a decision over that period. And I think we set out also the sort of relative cost around various financing as well in the slide which you can refer to.

On the $300 million payment, that's going to be split into two parts. So the bulk of it would be early in the first half of 2018. So $250 million will be early in 2018 and then there'll be $50 million in the early in the second half of 2018.

Thanks. I've remembered my final question. Can you give us any thoughts on what the structure of the dividend policy might be as and when it is potentially initiated?

So I mean, KAZ Minerals has got [indiscernible] (54:11) has got a strong history in shareholder returns. So we've returned around about $2 billion since we listed back at the end of 2005. We just spend a dividend in 2013 when we went for this strategy – investing in two major projects with a high growth.

And what we recognized in that period was that, we were a single commodity company. And we didn't feel it was appropriate to have a progressive dividend, because of the variations that you get from being at the single commodity company. But dividend and shareholder returns still played a very, very important part of the Kazakhmys story as it was then. Hence, we raised around $0.5 billion on listing [indiscernible] (54:55) return around $2 billion in that period to 2013.

So I don't want to prejudge where we end up in terms of dividend policy going forward. That's a discussion we will have as we see the gearing continue to fall. We will start to think about that capital allocation policy, the balance capital allocation policy within dividends and growth. But that's the way we've looked at it in the past. So we will visit that again, but [ph] then, that's probably the best color I can (55:20) give at the moment.

So, power, sort of base policy clearly rather than a progressive?

Yeah. So what we did we looked at where the company was where the outlook was and we paid out combination of base dividend. We paid specials and we did buybacks. And it was quite a significant returns over that period, but it wasn't a locked-in progressive dividend.

Hi. Good morning. Daniel Lurch from Exane. A quick question, a quick follow-up question on inflation and your power cost advantage. So you're basically expecting that inflation or you're seeing inflation currently in the mid single-digit number which is probably better than previously expected given the devaluation of the currency. While your power costs are competitively very lower in the global industry. So do you expect that there might be some pressure on power tariffs next year, given that potentially inflation is lower than the government or the utility provider expected? Is that a risk which see you or is it more like a medium-term risk? Thank you.

[indiscernible] (56:34)

Okay. You could start from inflation.

Yeah. So on inflation, mid to high – single to high digit, single-digit term inflation. How that – I mean, Kazakhstan power tariffs are regulated. They have been held flat in tenge terms, partly as a tool against inflation. I think the government will be very, very keen to keep inflation down. There is oversupply at the moment in Kazakhstan in terms of power. But you're quite right as well that we aren't going from a very, very low base.

So it's difficult to predict given the drivers behind that where they take power tariffs. But I know that Kazakhstan will continue to be very mindful of inflation and power tariffs is something which affects [indiscernible] (57:20) industrial companies.

Thank you. Edward Sterck, BMO. You've talked quite a lot about improving gearing metrics. And obviously, there are various plants that are conditional upon those. What do you feel is an appropriate level of gearing in terms of net debt to EBITDA for the company and when do you expect to get there?

Appropriate level of net debt to EBITDA is below where we are today. So we need to get it down. We were around three times at the half year. So we do gearing rapidly. It's partly factors under our control. So just a simple production growth that we are delivering and we promised as that comes through, that will help us de-gear, our cost position will help us de-gear and then factors that we don't control such as commodity prices, we're seeing [ph] much lower (58:12) commodity prices both in the first half and now as we move through the second half, prices have moved up.

So that de-gearing story is going to continue on a net debt to EBITDA type metric and what I would say to you is [ph] lower than where we're (58:26) today we're going to continue on our de-gearing, that's a focus for us.

Thank you.

Okay. If you have no more questions and if we don't have phone questions, nobody is in line, then, thank you very much for coming and I'm sure that on the year-end result, we will please you with another successful story. Thank you very much.