Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Southam — Chief Executive Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
John Hadfield — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Danielle Chigumira — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Conor Rowley — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Ephrem Ravi — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Luke Nelson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the KAZ Minerals Results Presentation for the First Half of 2019. I'm Andrew Southam, CEO. I'm joined by John Hadfield, our CFO. I'd like to get across two key messages today. Firstly, operationally, our assets are performing excellently. Secondly, our near and long-term growth projects of Aktogay and Baimskaya are both progressing very well.

In the first half, we have reported a 6% increase in copper output to 148 kilotonnes, 8 kilotonnes above the prior-year period. We had design ore throughput at Aktogay and Bozshakol sulfide plants over the first half. And all assets were in the first quartile of the global cost curve. The group's overall net cash cost was just $0.80 per pound. Revenues and profitability have, of course, been impacted by the lower commodity prices that we have seen whilst physical demand for our concentrate remained strong. LME copper was 11% lower in the first half.

Because of our cost position, we were nevertheless highly profitable. EBITDA of $620 million resulted in 59% EBITDA margin. We have near-term growth throughout Aktogay II, which will add 80 kilotonnes or so production from 2022. We invested just under $0.25 billion in the first half and the project is on schedule and is on budget.

At the start of the year, we completed the acquisition of the Baimskaya, containing one of the world's largest undeveloped copper deposits. And over the first half, we have been conducting the bankable feasibility study. I'm pleased to report there has also been steady progress on the infrastructure required for the project. We have declared an interim dividend of $0.04 per share.

This slide shows our broadly unchanged net cash cost of $0.80 compared to our peers, but pure-play and diversified. KAZ Minerals is again amongst the lowest cost producers globally.

Going to health and safety. We are on a long-term trend of producing fatalities. However, I am saddened to report that we have had two fatal incidents this year, both last month and in the east region. We have a number of initiatives underway focused on the main courses of fatalities, which we believe are delivering long-term improvements. We've had zero fatalities in operations at the three open pit mines of Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak since their commencement over 47 million man hours, and have established a very strong safety culture and procedures of those sites from the outfit.

Whilst we are still to achieve our target of zero fatalities, in the first half of 2019, our recordable injuries rates have halved when compared to the prior year. I wanted to draw your attention to some of our environmental data that has been impacted by the successful ramp-up of Bozshakol and Aktogay. You can see on the graphs the impact of our large-scale efficient open pit mining on CO2 per tonne of ore process from 2015 when we were largely underground mining through 2016 when we had the first output from Bozshakol and then through today, [indiscernible] (00:03:54) plants operating at design capacity.

We've also shown water withdrawal per tonne of copper. Now, we are fortunate to be operating in areas that are not water-stressed, but we have taken a number of measures to reduce our water consumption on a per unit basis. And this chart shows that success.

Looking forward, we expect further efficiency improvements from the Aktogay expansion and then the impact of Baimskaya production from carbon-free power.

At both our two major open pit mines, Aktogay and Bozshakol, we are seeing the benefit of operation improvements. Initiatives tested successfully at one site can be implemented at both. Aktogay has had an exceptional first half. Maintenance works were conducted efficiently and all throughput was at design capacity, 33% above the prior period. We have improved recoveries and recorded copper production of 74 kilotonnes at a sub-$0.100 per pound cash cost.

Bozshakol sulfide plant also operated at design capacity throughout the first half. Unit recorded copper assets of 47 kilotonnes, slightly below the prior period due to reduction in grades. And as we suspended the clay plant for three months during upgrade works, which were completed successfully in May and which has operated above design capacity thereafter.

Supported our byproduct credits on gold sales, Bozshakol had a net cash cost of $0.42 per pound. Output will be second half weighted as we expect an improvement in copper grade with the full year guidance unchanged at 105 to 115 kilotonnes of copper.

East Region and Bozymchak. Over the first half, we recorded copper output of 26 kilotonnes against full year guidance of in the region of 55 kilotonnes. We have been seeking operational efficiencies and in the first quarter, we temporarily suspended processing at one of the regions' concentrators, during which time, we stockpiled ore to raise utilization levels over the remainder of the year. That concentrator restarted in April, resulting in the step-up in copper and zinc output in the second quarter.

Bozymchak was slightly ahead of our expectations in respect of gold and should result in the division, being at the upper end of its gold guidance. The performance on gold partially offsets the impact of lower-than-anticipated zinc grades. The division had a net cash cost of $0.103 per pound.

So this slide summarizes our full-year production guidance. We had output of 148 kilotonnes of copper in the periods of June, which for the second half weighting from Bozshakol [indiscernible] (00:06:57) absolutely on track for our full-year guidance of circa 300 kilotonnes.

No change also to our gold guidance for the year of 170,000 ounces to 185,000 ounces after our first half output of 88,000. Silver is a smaller byproduct, we reported output of just over 1.5 million ounces in the first half against full-year guidance of 3 million ounces.

Zinc, as we communicated in our production report in July, we have revised our guidance down by around 5 kilotonnes to 40 kilotonnes to 45 kilotonnes for the year. So our full-year copper guidance is unchanged; and after an excellent first half, we are well positioned to deliver it.

I'll pass over now to John, who will talk you through our financial results for the first half and our full-year guidance.

Thank you, Andy. I'll now talk through the financials. I'm pleased to report that KAZ Minerals delivered a strong set of financial results for the first half of 2019. The group recorded revenues of $1.1 billion with record production levels from Aktogay, helping to drive a 3% increase in copper sales volumes to 144 kilotonnes. The growth in sales partially offset the impact of lower commodity prices in the period with revenues of 4% lower than the first half of 2018 compared to an 11% fall in the copper price.

Results also benefited from the sale of 26,000 ounces of gold in Bozshakol accumulated at the end of 2018. Group EBITDA of $620 million were $70 million lower than the prior year with the group achieving a strong EBITDA margin of 59% due to continued low costs of the group's operations. The group net cash cost at $0.80 per pound remains one of the lowest in the sector and benefited from the sale of prior year gold inventory, which had a net positive effect of $0.07 per pound.

Free cash flow reduced to $182 million, mainly reflecting the decrease in EBITDA plus higher sustaining CapEx and inventory levels at Aktogay and Bozshakol versus the comparative period when the operations with an earlier stage and then maintenance cycles. Net debt increased to $2.6 billion as cash flow from operations was offset by investments and expansion in [ph] CapEx for (00:09:20) Aktogay and the acquisition of Baimskaya in the period.

In June, the group completed a new $600 million debt facility with DBK in respect to the Aktogay expansion. $120 million of this facility was drawn at the half year. The board declared an interim dividend of $0.4 per share. This reflects the group's flexible dividend policy and the fact that the group is now undergoing a period of high-capital investments.

This slide shows the movements in EBITDA versus the first half of 2018. I'll talk about the key variances. The group delivered copper growth and copper sales at Aktogay, which are $40 million to EBITDA, more than offsetting smaller reductions in copper volumes from Bozshakol and the East region.

Byproduct sales volumes are at $19 million following the sale of stockpiled gold from Bozshakol. Lower commodity prices impacted EBITDA by $86 million, largely due to the 11% reduction in the average copper price. Overall, EBITDA in the period was $620 million, a reduction of $70 million from the first half of 2018.

The group continues to perform well from a cost perspective, and all of its operations remain in the first quartile of the cost curve. The net cash cost of $0.80 per pound makes the group one of the lowest-cost producers of copper globally.

Now, turning to the operating cost detail. Bozshakol and Aktogay are structurally low-cost assets and continue to benefit from low strip ratios, good access to power, water and transport networks. These assets also benefit from the weaker tenge in the period.

Aktogay delivered a gross cash cost of $1.01 per pound, slightly below guidance, $1.05 to $1.25 per pound assisted by strong volume performance in the first half. Additional shutdowns and maintenance in the second half are expected to result in cost of moving into the guidance range at the full year.

Bozshakol recorded a net cash cost of $0.42 per pound. This figure includes $0.21 per pound of byproduct credits from the sale of 26,000 ounces of gold inventories accumulated in 2018. Bozshakol gross cash cost of $1.57 per pound includes $0.13 per pound and charges associated with the gold inventory sale.

These costs increased in the first half of 2018 when the newer operations benefited from higher sales and grades, as well as low maintenance costs. Gross cash cost in the second half forecast to trend lower with increased production supported by improved grades and the absence of gold inventory charges. Guidance is, therefore, unchanged at $1.30 to $1.50 per pound.

Moving to East Region and Bozymchak, gross cash cost of $2.36 per pound was below guidance from $2.60 to $2.80 per pound. Management took actions to control costs in the period, whilst the East Region benefited from the weaker tenge, having a higher proportion of local costs. The tenge traded at an average 379 per dollar in the first half, 16% weaker than the prior comparative period. These cost savings more than offset local price increases on item such as salaries and raw materials. As a result of the positive cost performance, guidance for gross cash cost for the full year has been reduced by $0.30 a pound to $2.30 to $2.50 a pound.

The net cash cost for East Region and Bozymchak increased from the prior period, but remains competitive at $1.03 per pound. The increase was due to a reduction in zinc revenues in the first half, which was both in volume and price-driven. Zinc in concentrate volumes are expected to be higher in the second half. Overall, the group's gross and net cash costs of $1.44 per pound and $0.80 per pound respectively are in line with the prior year and the group remains one of the lowest cost producers of copper globally.

This slide shows the movements in net debt. Overall, the group's net debt position has increased from $2 billion at the end of 2018 to $2.6 billion at 30th of June 2019. This reflects the acquisition of Baimskaya as well as the continued investment into capital projects, which offset the cash flow from operations. The group generated EBITDA from operations of $620 million. I'll give some further details on key items.

Working capital increased by $131 million. This is mainly due to a change in inventories following the purchase of consumables and spare parts to support the Aktogay and Bozshakol operations. The conservative approach has taken to support sustained output and it is expected that over time inventory requirements will reduce as the group develops better data on consumption and wear rates and works with suppliers to shorten lead times and further develop its shared spares strategy.

Sustaining CapEx of $66 million was broadly in line with guidance of $150 million for the full year. Expansionary $332 million mainly relates to Aktogay, where expenditure was $255 million. We spent $37 million at Bozshakol for a final project retention payment of $23 million incurred at Baimskaya to progress the feasibility study. The acquisition of Baimskaya of $435 million includes $1 million of cash acquired from the vendor. Other movements include the receipt of the remaining $45 million of proceeds from NFC for the sale of a 19% stake in the Koksay project.

Turning now to the 2019 financial guidance. In respect to gross cash costs, plans for Aktogay and Bozshakol remains unchanged. As discussed earlier, the guidance for East Region and Bozymchak has been lowered by $0.30 per pound to $2.30 to $2.50 per pound. For sustaining CapEx, there's been no change to guidance. [ph] We expect (00:15:34) each asset expected to be around $50 million, a total of $150 million for the group.

And moving to expansionary CapEx, the Aktogay expansion is progressing well and $100 million of

spend has been rephased into 2019 to further de-risk the project. The total project budget remains unchanged at $1.2 billion. Total guidance on Aktogay I and Aktogay II is now set at $570 million for the year.

Expansion in CapEx of Baimskaya is now guided at $150 million in 2019. This includes $70 million previously guided for the feasibility study and $80 million approved by the board to spend on pioneer works on the project. Andy will provide further details on both of these projects shortly.

The group believes that copper market fundamentals remain strong in the medium and longer term and continues to invest in value-accretive growth in copper. In the first half, the group paid $436 million of cash for the Baimskaya acquisition and invested a further $332 million into growth projects, mainly the Aktogay expansion. The new $600 million financing facility, which agreed in June with DBK to support the Aktogay expansion. $120 million withdrawn from this facility at the half year, and it is expected that the balance will be drawn during 2019 and 2020, in line with spend on the project.

In addition to the $480 million remaining on the DBK facility, the group has cash and cash equivalents of $739 million on hand at 30th of June, 2019. Gross debt reduced to $3.3 billion with scheduled capital repayments of $272 million, made in the first half of the year.

The group continues discussion on the financing of the Baimskaya project ahead of the results of the feasibility study expected in the first half of 2020.

That completes my review of the financials. And I'll now hand back to Andy, who will talk through the group's growth projects.

All right. Turning to the Aktogay expansion project, to recap, Aktogay II is a $1.2 billion project, double sulfide ore processing from 25 million tonnes to 50 million tonnes per annum with its first copper production in 2021. The project adds circa 80 kilotonnes of annual copper output at a net cash cost of $0.100 to $0.120 per pound.

As the project is a carbon copy of the already completed Bozshakol plant and the Aktogay I plant, we view it as a lower risk growth project. Progress over the first half has been good with grinding and floatation foundations placed, we've almost completed the structural steel casing for the concentrator and the primary crusher foundations are being laid. The project schedule is unchanged with first ore process anticipated in 2021 and the project budget is also unchanged at $1.2 billion. However, we have rephrased it slightly.

We started the year with guidance of $400 million for 2019 and have made good progress. We've also secured the $600 million DBK facility specifically for the Aktogay project. We have brought forth some activities into the second half and we now expect spend to be closer to the $500 million mark and have adjusted the CapEx phasing accordingly.

This picture shows the Aktogay II sulfide concentrator with the foundation to the SAG mill and the two bore mills inside the steel structure. We will begin enclosing the plant shortly in our familiar blue and yellow colors to enable work to continue over the winter period.

At the start of the project we are upgrading our mining fleet from 140 tonne trucks, [ph] 240 tonnes. (00:19:41) This supports the higher mine output required for two plants and lowers the cost per tonne of ore mined. This process is underway, and here is one of our new 240-tonne 793s. We have five of them operation now, and we'll be adding them incrementally over the coming years. Aktogay II is on schedule and on budget.

As you know, we completed the acquisition of this world-class asset at the start of the year, one of the world's top 10 undeveloped copper deposits, which has the potential to produce 250 kilotonnes a year of copper, 400,000 ounces of gold at a first quartile cash cost commissioning in 2026.

There has been no change to our approach to this asset. A bankable feasibility study is in progress together with detailed engineering run out of the Vancouver office of Fluor where they have the relevant cold weather experience. Alongside which, we will have discussions with banks and financing and we'll consider partnering options. The bankable feasibility study is clearly an extremely important milestone for both of these.

In the second half of 2019, in addition to the bankable feasibility study, we will also invest in pioneer works such as site accommodation, fuel storage, landing strip, and site power infrastructure. We've allocated $80 million for this in the second half and it will enable work to progress more swiftly post the feasibility study.

We've previously spoken about how our investments in the project coincides with the Russian government priority of developing the Far East and the Northern Sea Pass. We have continued to see incremental progress in respect to the infrastructure that [ph] we've acquired. (00:21:40) The 110 kV power line running north from Baimskaya and required for the construction phase, is now around 90% complete and will be finished this year.

The floating nuclear power station is built, capable of supplying 70 megawatts, it was tested in April, received permits for operations in June, and will begin its journey to Pevek in the next few weeks. The 220 kV power line to the hydro energy in the south, which is needed for the operations phase of Baimskaya has been allocated federal funding to commence construction, and contractors are expected to begin work by the end of this year.

Our previously spoken of the federal road construction plan, which will link Baimskaya to Pevek with an all-weather road. In February, I showed 100 kilometers of the road is complete as well as bridges on the route. And I'm pleased that financing has now been made available for another 250 kilometer section.

KAZ Minerals has had an excellent first half operationally, delivering growth and very competitive costs amongst the lowest globally. Despite weaker commodity markets we remained highly profitable. We've made good progress on both our projects. This provides the perfect platform for us to deliver the growth pipeline firstly at Aktogay, which will in turn support longer term growth at Baimskaya.

John and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Thanks. Good morning, it's Danielle Chigumira from Macquarie. And a couple of questions to start off. Firstly on the CapEx increases, and especially at Baimskaya, given the leverage and the uncertainty around the financing for the project, what makes KAZ comfortable increasing that CapEx at this early stage of the project? Should we read into that, that the financing has progressed at such a stage to make you feel comfortable enough to spend that capital? [indiscernible] (00:24:04)

So the spend we have announced the second half, essentially increases our access to that site. It makes any activities we want to perform in the site much easier. It forms a part of the project that is not incremental, if you like, to our previously announced overall spend on the project. And we view this $80 million as not particularly new material in the context of the project as a whole. We are making good progress with the feasibility study and we felt that this was an – a useful additional spend which does give us the opportunity to progress more swiftly, post the feasibility study.

Secondly, you mentioned the working capital build for the existing operations of Bozshakol and Aktogay. And what kind of working capital build should we expect for Aktogay II for this year and next year, ahead of the start-up in 2021?

Yeah. I think we've seen the working capital build-up for Bozshakol and Aktogay and I think it's been very important to support the ramp-up of those projects. You can see the benefits of that, I think, particularly in the first half for Aktogay I. Aktogay II, I think will be correspondingly a bit less than Aktogay I, because you've got a lot of synergy in the sites across that. And also, we're looking at improving working capital as we go forward. Looking at our share of spread strategy across the sites and looking at things like wear rates and consumption of the data. Obviously, Aktogay II is a carbon copy of Aktogay I. So we will have obviously learned a lot from that process by the time we actually get that site into operation.

Hey. Conor Rowley from Credit Suisse. Just one question on Baimskaya again. Spending the CapEx now before the feasibility has come in does show the market that you're pretty confident on the project. And you've said very much you're confident on medium- to long-term copper prices, but forget 2022 copper prices. You're spending the money more near term than that, do you think you can do this project yourselves at today's price?

So our approach on this project has been unchanged and that is that we will do the feasibility study. $18 million, I think, in the context of this project is not a significant amount of money. Once we've completed that feasibility study, we will then be in a position to assess properly the long-term financing available for it. We will consider partnering options and we will, of course, consider market conditions at that time. But we don't need to make any decisions on any of those areas today. It's not the right time. The key milestone for all of that really is to deliver the feasibility study. It will give greater clarity on the CapEx profile, production profile, OpEx and really opens the door to those types of serious discussions.

Hey. Dan Major from UBS. Couple of questions. Firstly on the balance sheet, I guess, trying to decipher the share price reaction to today's results. Can you just remind us on the covenant structures there? It says there's one earnings-based covenant on the PXF. Can you tell us what the metrics are on that?

Certainly we'll never disclose the earnings-based metric on the PXF. We do give a wide range of detail on the various balance sheet covenants in the back of the pack but we don't normally give explicit detail on the earnings-based metric on the PXF.

Okay. If we looked at where you leverage ratio sits now, can you give us some confidence on the headroom? Are you well within the covenant? Is that...

Yeah, we're in a comfortable position now. I think if you look at the way the gearings moved, jump that you see in gearing in the first half is principally due to Baimskaya acquisition, which is really a one-off increase in CapEx. Obviously, as we go through the second half, we've got very strong production coming through from Aktogay and a slight improvement from Bozshakol as well. So I think you've probably seen the material movement in gearing in the year and we're comfortable with where we are basically.

So when you mean gearing, you mean net debt to EBITDA?

Yes. Yeah.

Okay. Thanks. And then second question, just to follow up from Danielle's on the working capital. Should I interpret your previous answer as we will see additional working capital build because you indicated the build this year would unwind. But then if you add in the additional build as you ramp up Aktogay II, net-net where should we be thinking working capital heads in the next two years on an absolute basis?

Working capital from where we are now, obviously, as we said, we've built a strategy to make sure that we've got a strong robust performance in the operations. We are looking to optimize that now. Plus, we are looking at our [indiscernible] (00:28:42) Bozshakol as well. So I think you should see some net benefit in the working capital overall.

Obviously when we bring on Aktogay II, we will probably have some working capital requirements for Aktogay II although at a lower order of magnitude than what you've kind of seen already because of the history of operating and the fact that we now have a portfolio of three assets to give a kind of shared spread pool to use.

Reduction in the base of working capital now would largely offset the build from Aktogay. Is that what you're trying to say?

I think broadly. Broadly, yeah.

Okay. Thanks. And then finally on Baimskaya, can you just give us an update on the TASED and the tax status? Has it been fully approved? I know you've been extended to the area?

No, the status on TASED is still that the TASED area itself. So we've got the project disposals within TASED area and that was approved. We need to apply for TASED actually on the project. They're still currently pending this [indiscernible] (00:29:40).

Okay. Thanks.

[indiscernible] (00:29:43) from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. In the deal you made with the [indiscernible] (00:29:49) the Baimskaya project, either KAZ or the [indiscernible] (00:29:53) or both? You guys assume that there is a risk that the Russian government is not going to deliver the infrastructure required to make the project work. You agreed to project the downside risk of [indiscernible] (00:30:03) different payments in case of the bore infrastructures are not delivered or not delivered on time. My first question is what is the plan [indiscernible] (00:30:14) power line is not delivered?

And my second question is how much CapEx do you think is acceptable to spend before getting the project board approved? Thank you.

On infrastructure, everything we've seen over the first half of 2019 has been absolutely in line with our expectations. And we're working with the vendors one team to progress this project across all areas. And if you look at the – our infrastructure, as I said in my presentation, the first stage we need from that is the 110 kV power line that has been constructed over the course of the year. It is now around 90% complete and it will be finished by the end of this year.

The 220 kV power line, which we need for the operations space, okay, which links the site to the very significant hydro assets to the south. Financing has now been allocated from the government to start that construction at the end of this year. So everything that we are seeing is, as we expected before we acquired this asset, it has been progressing over the first half. And very strong message for everyone here today is that both these projects are progressing well as we expected. So we don't have any particular concerns over the delivery of our infrastructure. And also again this part of Russia and indeed this project are important to the Russian government to see build and nothing that we've seen this half has changed that.

In terms of your second question, the limited spend, we will continue to – we've taken $80 million, we've got the fees going on in the same time. Limited spend to enable this project to move forward. We'll do that type of activity but not more than that.

Dan Shaw from Morgan Stanley. Just one question on the Aktogay CapEx increase. Can you talk a bit more about what was happening there? I know this is coming from 2021 into 2019, but doesn't necessarily come with a faster of ramp-up or anything like that. So, can you talk a little bit about – detail there. Thanks.

Sure. Okay. John has spent a little bit more time on this one. But I think in terms on some of the – maybe understanding that what's happened on that with the change in CapEx guidance this year, it's important I cover this properly. So our approach to projects is once we have approved construction, the business is best served by getting that project finished as soon as possible.

And we will do everything we can to de-risk that project schedule and keep the project on budget to get it finished. And with Aktogay to – we saw opportunities to accelerate certain activities and bring them into the second half of 2019, which would otherwise have fallen in later in the project. So these are not additional activities that were on-hand. It's not additional spend. If anyway, it is simply bringing forward certain activities from, say, 2020 to 2019 because of the progresses made over the first half, and also because we secured a $600 million facility from DBK in June specifically for this project.

So we have the opportunity to, as we said, further de-risk the schedule in this project by bringing forward certain activities into 2019. The overall CapEx profiles sustaining this $1.2 billion. So we view this actually is a positive. The reflection of progress in the first half, it's – and it further de-risks this project. And no change to the overall spend. We view this as a positive and the right thing to do.

But just to clarify, there's no change in the delivery schedule as it was before?

I think you can have even greater certainty over that delivery schedule and you can – over the schedule as we're saying at this point. We'll obviously update our schedule as we go forward, if there is need to be so.

Hi. Conor Rowley at Credit Suisse again. Sorry, to go back to Baimskaya. But just – can you give a bit of color about how you're communicating with the government? Because you can look at those increased CapEx this year's confidence on the project or cynically you can look at it there – the government is doing their bit and they're sort of pressuring you to do your bit early on that. So what I'm trying to say is, let's say, we get the feasibility next year and it doesn't say quite what you want it to say. The government is doing huge amount of work to get the project up and running. What happens then?

So we did a lot of DD on this project. Our team – the team is responsible for Bozshakol and Aktogay led the DD on Baimskaya. We also had the prefeasibility study, which being prepared by Fluor. And we were very confident in the acquisition of this asset that we are acquiring one of the world's top copper deposits. And nothing so far in the feasibility study has come up to change that, and we don't expect there to be any change. Okay? So we are very, very confident in the outlook for this particular project.

And if you look at what we're doing in terms of these pioneer works, it's essentially about getting access to sites. Landing strip, slightly more – on-site power equipment, accommodation on-site. It just sort of takes this project to move forward more swiftly, post that feasibility study. So I think in the context of project, $80 million really should not be viewed as a significant change. And it – as I said, it just gives us optionality of moving forward, more swiftly [ph] post-feas (00:35:36).

Hi, Jatinder Goel from Exane BNP Paribas. A couple of questions, on your CapEx spend for this year, you spent like 35% of the overall $1 billion budget, so to it which looks like massive pickup. Is there a big line item that could drive you to that run rate? Or do you risk undershooting your CapEx budget for the year?

Second question on Koksay. There hasn't been much mention today, but you've got a project partner. Do you have any visibility on timeline of Koksay as well? Thank you.

Okay. To start, on the CapEx forecast. So obviously, any normal project, Aktogay II is no exception, you now have an S curve. So the moment [indiscernible] (00:36:21) under the S curve and as we accelerate through that project, the spend will step up. So we're confident we will get a significant step-up in spend in Aktogay II in the second half.

Baimskaya is more around letting some contracts and so, as Andy mentioned, we've got various things that need to be done. So we're in the process of looking to tender and award those contracts. That gives us some confidence in the spend over that. I think that's a good estimate that we put out to the market and that's a realistic approach to the way we thought we are there.

I think, finally behind your question, these projects have got enough prepayments in them. And if something doesn't fall in 2019, it will fall into 2020. Very much, again [indiscernible] (00:37:02) particular, point everyone to look, we're going to spend this money between now and 2021. It's going to cost $1.2 billion, it is going to be built successfully. And whether a payment falls in 2019 or falls in 2020, that's a timing issue. But the guidance we've given is our best estimate for this year and we're very happy with all the progress on both projects.

But in terms of Koksay, so we've finally completed our deal with Nonferrous China (sic) [China Nonferrous] (00:37:28). They're now in 19% shareholder in Koksay, and we are proceeding with the technical and feasibility studies on that asset. Our strategy on that is to complete that study and then make a decision on how we proceed beyond that point. So we're really looking at a sort of 2020 update on the project.

Just a quick follow-up on Aktogay and thinking forward the CapEx, but you have done the deferrals in the past for cash payment. Is there an obvious hurdle to not do that again? Or is it just a cost of it which doesn't make economic sense?

So there were certain specific circumstances around the $300 million cash deferral that you saw in Aktogay I, if that's what you're referring to which was in respect of Nonferrous China(sic) [China Nonferrous] (00:38:15). So that was very specific circumstances.

In terms of being able to predict quite when lumpy payments take place and whether it's $500 million we spend over the full year or $450 million or – that's difficult to say at this point and it would just be timing issues between 2019 and 2020.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions]

Dan from UBS quick follow-up. Specifically on the Bozshakol cost guidance, you've kept the gross cash cost guidance unchanged. Just to clarify, is that based on the – I guess $1.44 a pound in the first half – or we have to adjust for the goal payment or is it in...

It includes. That's our total gut. So $1.57 but we're expecting a step-up in grade and also volume in Bozshakol in the second half. So that should actually bring overall the reported figure of $1.57 down into the government's ranges.

Okay.

[indiscernible] (00:39:15)

In fact, the net cash cost would be basically lower than what you'd previously expected...

It is maybe like our underlying net cash cost excluding the goal was $1.44. We would expect a stronger performance in the second half. And overall, it will bring the $1.57 down into the guidance range, so.

Got it. Thanks. Okay.

Just so, Dan, just to be really clear on that. In the first half on the gross basis, yes, the $1.57 includes the impact of the cost side of that. But it also includes the one-off benefit, if you like, on the net basis. So as you go into the second half, you have a lower cash cost, but at the same time, you don't have that benefit on a net basis that you've got from that sale of inventory you saw in the first half.

[indiscernible] (00:40:04)

Yeah. All things being equal.

Thanks. Danielle from Macquarie again. And just on Baimskaya, so clearly there's a wide range of market expectations around the value at the moment. What do you anticipate disclosing to the markets when you actually publish the feasibility study. And do you anticipate publishing the year-by-year grades, tonnages, et cetera like something like a technical report that we see across the other side of the Atlantics, we can really get to grips of what the value for this project is?

Certainly, we anticipate giving you a lot more information than you have today, absolutely. Quite what form that is, we will look at that as we finish the feasibility study. But certainly, we'll be giving you much greater detail on the production profile to enable you to model that better. We'll give you much better information on the cost profile of this asset, the CapEx profile. So I think you will have a lot more information which enables you to get a better, to do a more accurate model with the correct – with the correct shape of the curve across all the key metrics.

Okay. And secondly, on getting the TASED status for Baimskaya, is there a CapEx hurdle that you need to meet in order for the government to award that status?

So, no, there is not. So this is a incentive to attract investment. So it is an application process for a project. And as John said, at the start of the year, the area eligible for TASED was expanded to include exactly the area that we are operating in. And so there's no sort of precondition, if you like, on having made investments before it is to attract investment.

Ephrem Ravi from Citigroup. Just a couple of quick questions. One, follow-up on the PXF covenant question. Just I know – I appreciate you can't give a number, but if I were to kind of walk back from the copper price because that's probably the biggest uncertainty out here. So what kind of copper prices can you bear with everything else being equal before you kind of get to uncomfortable levels on the covenant, is it $2 a pound, $1.50, $2.25? And if you can give us a sense that would give the market some reassurance on that particular front.

Secondly, on the Baimskaya, you are expecting to deliver the bankable feasibility study in the first half of next year. By when do you need to get a partner or the financing in place to deliver the project by 2026 as you planned? So what is your degrees of freedom around between first half of 2020 and then you have to kind of really kind of press the bore button on the project.

Yeah. I think on the PXF, I think the easiest way to articulate that is just we have an extremely low-cost copper portfolio. Net cash cost of $0.80 per pound, that means we are very strongly cash-generative in a wide range of copper prices. So we're comfortable – as I said before, we're comfortable with the level of the PFX at the moment.

And in terms of Baimskaya, we have allowed – we understand that putting in place project financing on a project, partnering, they do take time. So in our thinking on this, we have assumed they will take a sort of standard amount of time to do those. And they're not straightforward. It will be done over the – expect over the course of 2020 [indiscernible] (00:43:52).

Luke Nelson, JPMorgan. Just another follow-up question on Baimskaya. Just in terms of stand left in terms of finishing the feasibility study, how much additional spend, if any, is required in 2020? And then, in terms of the pioneering work, is there any additional spend on that required next year? First question.

I think we'll have a relatively modest amount of CapEx next year. Clearly, there is some additional work to do on feasibility study going into next year. But [indiscernible] (00:44:30) significant number.

Just more on to sort of geopolitical level, obviously [indiscernible] (00:44:38) in Kazakhstan early this year. And recently, there's been media reports both potential sort of unrest in Kyrgyzstan, just would be interested to hear your thoughts around any change in your view on operational risk in either of those two countries?

Kazakhstan very stable. The success of that country has been built on foreign direct investments and that's recognized. So very stable country to operate in and you see absolutely no change there whatsoever.

Kyrgyzstan, we continue to operate very successfully there. Bozymchak has been at design capacity for many years now. And as I reported in the first half, we even had a slightly higher output than we expected. But we don't see at this point any impact on our operations or any changes that you may see across the jurisdictions we work in.

Any questions on the line?

Your first question comes from the line of James Bell of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning and thanks for the call. I dialed in a little bit late so I'm sorry if this question has already been asked. But just looking at your debt repayment profile on slide 45, are there any options to roll or delay those repayments and reduce the amount of gross debt you have to pay back particularly in 2020 and 2021?

We're completely committed to [indiscernible] (00:46:21) on that repayment profile. But if you just look at KAZ Minerals, we have a very strong record of managing our debt profile. In the first half of this year, you've seen we introduced the $600 million facility and we will continue to manage our debt profile over the coming years.

Okay. That's great.

We have no further questions on the queue.

Okay. Well, look, thank you very much for your time today. And we look forward to a successful second half. Thank you.