Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Southam — Chief Executive Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
John Hadfield — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Alon Olsha — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Luke Nelson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to KAZ Minerals Results Presentation for the First Half of 2018. I'm Andrew Southam, CEO. And I'm joined by John Hadfield, our CFO. I wanted to start by setting out where KAZ Minerals is today, and our future strategy.

We've just released strong operational and financial results for the first half, $690 million of EBITDA at an EBITDA margin of 63%. The Group's net cash cost was $0.82 per pound. All of our assets were [indiscernible] (00:00:43) in the first quartile of the global cost curve. In 2015, we produced 85 kilotonnes of copper. Following the successful deliver of Bozshakol and Aktogay, we are on track for our full-year 2018 guidance of up to 300 kilotonnes.

Marking the completion of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects, and our associated de-gearing, we have declared an interim dividend for the first time since 2013. We believe that the significant – so we believe that the combination of continued copper demand growth and falling supply will lead to a significant copper shortfall. In the medium-term, we have low-risk copper growth from the Aktogay expansion with first production in 2021. That project brings an additional 80 kilotonnes of production, will be a significant low-cost producer with a portfolio of highly cash generative operations. That platform will support our transformational growth. The 250 kilotonne-a-year world-class Baimskaya project that we announced two weeks ago.

Here's the agenda of what we are going to cover over the rest of this presentation. I'm going to talk through our strong operational and financial performance in the first half of 2018 and the outlook for the rest of the year. John will report on our financial performance, and I will then recap on some of the key points in our presentation two weeks ago.

Over the past few years, we have constructed and commissioned two major growth projects, Bozshakol and Aktogay. They've been successfully ramping up. And I'm pleased to report that in Q2 of this year, the second of those new mines, Aktogay, achieved design ore throughput for sustained period. That progress at Aktogay has led to KAZ Minerals reporting an 18% increase in copper production to 140 kilotonnes over the first half.

Our new mines are structurally low cost, and this is reflected in our profitability. We have maintained our position amongst the lowest cost copper companies, globally. Following the successful delivery of Bozshakol and Aktogay, the Group now has a portfolio of large-scale low-cost operations which provide strong cash generation. This has enabled the rapid de-gearing of the balance sheet with a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.4 times at the 30th of June. Accordingly, for the first time since 2013, the board has declared an interim dividend, we'll pay $0.06 per share, and John will speak more on this later.

Turning to health and safety, we had zero fatalities across the first half of 2018. However, I'm disappointed to report that we have had a fatal incident in July in the East Region. We've had zero fatalities in operations at the three open pit mines of Bozymchak, Bozshakol and Aktogay since their commencement. We have a number of initiatives underway in the East Region focused on the causes of high potential incidents. And across the Group, a wider focus on developing further our safety culture.

I'm going to run briefly through the performance of our operations during the period. At Bozshakol, we produced 50 kilotonnes of copper in the first half, on track to the 95 kilotonne to 105 kilotonne guidance range for the year. The variance between quarters one and quarters two was due to a scheduled mill relining at the sulfide concentrator. Rates will be variable over the year as we move through different ore blocks.

In the second half, we expect a slightly lower average grade, offset by an increase in ore throughput. Gold, which makes up around 20% of the revenues of Bozshakol, so output of 62,000 ounces is on track to achieve the full year range of 115,000 ounces to 125,000 ounces.

At Aktogay, we've made excellent progress ramping up over the first half with a significant increase in ore throughput of the sulfide plant including a sustained period at design capacity. Production from the sulfide plant and from oxide together totaled 60 kilotonnes, an increase from 33 kilotonnes in the first half of 2017. Aktogay is now well-positioned to achieve its full-year combined sulfide and oxide guidance of 110 kilotonnes to 130 kilotonnes.

The East Region of Bozymchak reported output of 29 kilotonnes of copper, supported by byproducts of zinc, gold and silver. Ore process volumes will be the second half weighted as we did idle the Nikolayevsky concentrator for short period in the first half. Zinc production was below the run rate required for the full year as we move through a low zinc content section of the Artemyevsky mine.

This slide summarizes our guidance for the full year. After a strong operational performance in the first half, we have not amended our 2018 guidance. This remains at 270 kilotonnes to 300 kilotonnes of copper, supported by strong by-product output. John will now talk through our financial performance.

Thank you, Andy, for the positive review of operations. KAZ Minerals has delivered an excellent set of financial results for the half year. The Group sold 141 kilotonnes of copper in the first half of 2018, a 22% increase from prior year driven by additional volumes from Aktogay sulfide which achieved its design ore throughputs in the second quarter.

The Aktogay volume growth coupled with a 20% improvement in the average market copper price to over $6,900 per tonne has delivered higher revenues, earnings and cash flow in the first half of 2018. Revenues increased to $1.1 billion for the period, whilst EBITDA increased to $690 million with a strong margin of 63%. The gross revenues and gross EBITDA comparatives include pre-commercial production for Bozshakol clay and Aktogay sulfide in the first half of 2017.

In 2018, all operations were fully commercial. The Group net cash cost of $0.82 per pound remains one of the lowest in the sector. The increase from the prior year is due to additional volumes from Aktogay which is a low-cost producer, but has limited by-products credits.

Free cash flow almost doubled to $308 million supported by cash flow from the new operations. Earnings per share of $0.62 represents growth of 41% versus the prior year benefiting from strong underlying EBITDA performance.

Interest expense increased to $119 million from the prior year as we stopped capitalizing Aktogay sulfide and Bozshakol clay costs after commercial production began in the second half of 2017. The depreciation charge also increased to $128 million after commercial production from those mines commenced.

Net debt of $2.1 billion was unchanged from position of the 2017 year-end. This cash flow from operations was used to fund the expansionary capital. This included the deferred payment of $250 million to NFC in respect to the first Aktogay projects as scheduled. The final settlement of $50 million is scheduled for the second half of the year.

This slide shows the movements in gross EBITDA for the first half of 2018 versus the prior year comparative period. The primary driver of the $185 million improvements in gross EBITDA was a successful ramp up of the Aktogay concentrator. As Aktogay, couple of sales volumes almost doubled the 61 kilotonnes adding $139 million to gross EBITDA assuming 2017 unit costs.

East Region of Bozymchak saw a 21% fall in copper sales to 30 kilotonnes, reducing EBITDA by $21 million mainly due to the planned idling of the Nikolayevsky concentrator. By-product sales also fell at the East Region and Bozymchak where lower zinc and silver volumes were the main contributor to $23 million reduction in EBITDA. There's a cost impact of $37 million in gross EBITDA, mainly due to higher operating cost of East Region and Bozymchak including inflation. Favorable prices mainly copper added $128 million to gross EBITDA, leading to an overall reported figures to the period of $690 million.

This chart shows the position of KAZ Minerals operations on a net cash cost curve. As you can see, the Group's low cost position has been maintained. All of our operations remained in the first quartile of the curve with the overall average of the company being $0.82 per pound in the first half of 2018.

Turning to operating costs, as expected, gross cash cost of Bozshakol increased to $1.27 per pound as the prior year benefited from higher grades, limited maintenance, and low clay volumes. We're also seeing some general mining inflation, notably in consumables, oil price and salaries. Despite these increases, Bozshakol remains below the guidance range of $1.30 to $1.50 per pound. However, we are expecting unit cost to align with a low to mid-range of the guidance over the course of the year. This is principally due to the reduction of grades to the average of 0.44% as previously guided, the inclusion of a full year of clay operations, which are higher costs, the continued normalization of maintenance costs and the effect of general mining inflation. Bozshakol continues to produce strong by-product credits from gold, giving it a competitive net cash cost of $0.55 per pound.

Moving on to Aktogay. Gross cash cost of $1.09 per pound, Aktogay are broadly in line with the first half of 2017. The benefits of higher volumes from the sulfide operations has been offset by the normalization of maintenance, which has increased versus the prior year when operations were brand new, the effect of mining inflation, we've seen increases for consumables, oil prices, and salaries. We've also seen additional reagent cost for oxide operations where consumption rates are higher as grades have reduced.

Similar to Bozshakol, costs should trend higher in the second half due to the reduction of grades, continued normalization of maintenance, and inclusion of a full period of mining inflation. Aktogay costs are therefore expected to align with the low to mid-range of the guidance of $1.10 to $1.30 per pound.

Turning to East Region and Bozymchak, gross cash costs have increased from $2.00 to $2.50 per pound. This is due to an 8 kilotonne reduction in sales volumes in the first half of 2018, mainly due to the planned idling at the Nikolayevsky concentrator and the impacts of inflation, which is more pronounced in the East Region because of the high proportion of local and labor costs from the new operations.

Costs also increased at Bozymchak as the operation matures, the longer haul distances, and increased maintenance at the mine. Costs at the East Region and Bozymchak were at the higher-end of the guidance range $2.30 to $2.50 per pound. However, unit costs are expected to benefit from higher volumes in second half as the concentrators are scheduled to run at close to full capacity. On a net basis, cost of $0.77 per pound continue to be very competitive due to high by-product credits from zinc, gold, and silver.

And finally, looking at the Group overall, the gross cash cost of $1.45 per pound is broadly unchanged versus the prior year as the additional contribution of low cost Aktogay volumes is offset by higher costs mainly at the East Region. The Group continues to have a competitive net cash cost of $0.82 per pound, making it one of the lowest cost copper producers globally. The increase in net cash costs from $0.64 to $0.82 per pound is due to the production of additional Aktogay volumes, which have limited by-products credits.

This chart summarizes the financial guidance for the full year, which remains unchanged. All operations are expected to deliver the stated cost guidance. Sustaining CapEx is still forecasted at $115 million with expansionary CapEx of the Group expected to be $630 million.

The Group's dividend policy is for the Board to consider the cash generation and financing requirements of the business before recommending a suitable dividend. As previously mentioned by Andy, following the delivery of Bozshakol and Aktogay, the Group now has a highly-profitable portfolio of operations. This has enabled rapidly gearing to 1.4 times net debt to gross EBITDA at the half year. As a result, the Board has declared an interim dividend of $0.06 per share for the first half of 2018, and intends that the final dividend will be at a similar level.

The cash cost at Baimskaya and the cash acquisition cost at Baimskaya of $436 million will be funded from existing liquidity at its initial completion, which is expected in the first half of 2019. The financing requires the project construction including the budgets, the phasing and the sources will be assessed during the feasibility study following which the Board will further review the Group's allocation of capital.

The Group believes that the future financing requirements are manageable. There are options to face the Baimskaya CapEx over the period from 2018 to 2026. Furthermore, partnering options will be evaluated during the feasibility study in 2019. This is optimal timing as the study will provide further detail on the development strategy for the project.

The capital investment for Baimskaya will be supported from significant earnings in the Group's existing operations, as well as additional cash flows from the Aktogay expansion when it starts production in second half of 2021.

That concludes the financial review, and I'll now hand back over to Andy.

I'm now going to recap on KAZ Minerals strategy, which Oleg Novachuk, our Chair, set out two weeks ago. Firstly, we see strong medium-term copper market fundamentals. Across the sector, mine space, declining rates and have finite lives, supply from existing mines is forecast to reduce materially. To meet demand next decade, the world needs new copper projects. Viable significant copper projects are rare. We know we've been looking for them as have many others in the sector.

We believe, therefore, that a significant copper supply deficit will emerge over the next decade. Our portfolio of assets should deliver value and volume. Baimskaya and Aktogay II will almost double the Group's copper production at a lower capital intensity than the previous major growth projects that we have constructed. Both Baimskaya and Aktogay II have attractive operating costs. Baimskaya, we believe, will have a first quartile operating cost and we expect the expanded Aktogay to have a first quartile or good second quartile operating cost.

These growth projects should generate attractive returns for shareholders. Given our track record and the outlook for copper, we believe the continued growth is the best strategy for future shareholder returns. KAZ Minerals has grown the business from 85 kilotonnes of copper in 2015 to 259 kilotonnes we produced in 2017 and this year, we've guided up to 300 kilotonnes.

We are currently executing the Aktogay expansion, a medium-term project. This will bring an additional 80 kilotonnes from 2022. That means additional earnings, additional cash flows as we complete the construction of our longer-dated transformational growth, the Baimskaya deposit in Russia. Baimskaya will contribute a further 250 kilotonnes a year of copper production.

We announced the Aktogay expansion in December last year, and the project has been progressing well. As the slide shows, this is medium-dated growth with first production in 2021 contributing 80 kilotonnes from 2022 to 2027 and 60 kilotonnes thereafter. We view this project as low risk. We've built the same plant twice already, and we're now doing it for a third time.

In the first half of the year, we mobilized contractors at Aktogay with initial excavation and earthworks now underway and we have placed orders for long lead items. Installation of the mills should commence in 2020 with the first ore processed in 2021.

This aerial photo of the site was taken last month. At the top of the photo, you can see the existing Aktogay I sulfide concentrator. And marked in the red outline in the center of the photo is the future location of the second concentrator where you can see earthworks have commenced.

Our second and larger growth project is the Baimskaya deposit that we announced on the 2nd of August. Baimskaya is one of the world's top 10 undeveloped copper assets, 9.5 million tonnes of contained copper, 16.5 million ounces of gold. The total acquisition cost is $900 million in cash and shares, of which $225 million is deferred to production for March 2029.

We have guided $5.5 billion of nominal CapEx to be invested over the period to 2026. This is for a 60 million tonne per annum processing capacity comprised of two 30 million tonne per annum concentrators. We expect annual production of 250 kilotonnes of copper and 400,000 ounces of gold for the first 10 years at a first quartile cash operating cost.

This slide shows an indicative timetable. We already have a feasibility study prepared by flow. The next stage for the deposit is to conduct a full feasibility study, which will take us through indicatively to the end of 2019. This will provide greater detail on the capital costs, phasing of capital, and operating parameters than we have today.

Whilst the feasibility study is progressing, this is also the appropriate time for us to work on our financing options and to consider potential partnering for the construction phase. The feasibility study will provide more precise information on the project, and we will make further demonstrable progress on state support infrastructure both of which are clearly helpful in negotiating financing and potential partnering terms, which leads me to infrastructure. So this is a slide that we have presented previously. And I wanted to re-emphasize that in addition to the plans for the future infrastructure, the delivery of the infrastructure that we need is already underway.

In respect of power, with the construction phase of the project, we are going to get power from the north of the project. There's an existing power station which is due to be decommissioned shortly. And its replacement, Russia's first nuclear floating station was constructed last year and will go to Pevek. There is the first of a number of floating nuclear power stations that Russia is building, and it will be in Pevek by around mid-2019.

Our existing power lines between Pevek port and Bilibino, which are currently being upgraded. Specifically for the Baimskaya project, the Russian state is constructing a 110 kV power line from Bilibino to the site. The construction is progressing well, and we expect the power line to site to be complete by mid next year. [indiscernible] (00:22:46) pylons that have been delivered to Pevek port for the construction of that line.

With the operations phase of the project, a 220 kV line to the hydro station, hydropower, located in Magadan is planned. The design of the power line has received government approval and financing to commence its construction has already been approved. This slide shows the Magadan, which is largely hydropower, electricity capacity and significant surplus that Baimskaya will utilize in operations through the 220 kV line.

In respect to roads, the dark lines on the screen are the existing winter road with extended life. The current winter roads are shown in green. In dotted red, these are the existing plans to build all-weather roads over to [indiscernible] (00:23:56) to open up the region. These would connect Baimskaya with Pevek, replacing the winter roads currently being used. We expect to accelerate these plans to enable earlier all-weather road access to site. These all-weather roads are already under way.

Looking specifically at the road to Baimskaya, this section of 100 kilometers of the route is already constructed. The picture we showed previously of a bridge, that bridge is there, it's on that route to Baimskaya. So the construction of the all-weather roads that we need is already underway.

The Russian government have a strategic objective to open up the Northern Sea Route to Asia all year round. The Northern Sea Route is being primarily used at the moment by oil and gas producers with icebreakers. There has been a significant increase in the number of shipments along the Northern Sea Route and Yamal LNG recently made successful shipments East without an icebreaker using an Arc7 category cargo vessel.

To achieve its objective of all-year round access to Asia through the Northern Sea Route, Russia is expanding its fleet of [ph] Class IX (00:25:23) nuclear icebreakers. The Russian commitment to expanding traffic to Asia through the Northern Sea Route will benefit logistics for the Baimskaya project.

In conclusion, we have delivered strong first half results both operationally and financially, with the Group well-positioned to achieve its full-year guidance. We are confident in the outlook for copper and that KAZ Minerals can create value through growth. We have medium-term growth through the Aktogay expansion, bringing 80 kilotonnes of copper for 2022 adding to our portfolio of long life, low-cost assets. This will be followed by the world-class Baimskaya deposit.

We have a project construction capability, this is an asset located in a region that we are comfortable operating in. And our investment coincides with the strategic objective of Russia to develop the Far East. KAZ Minerals delivering value and volume.

John and I would be happy to take any questions.

Hi. Good morning. It's Alon Olsha from Macquarie. Just two questions, firstly, on the dividend. Why did you decide to pay dividends, I guess, given that the call on the Group's cash resources is going to be higher over the next few years and it seems to be very little scope to increase that dividend, would have not been better just to preserve all the cash that you have?

And second question, just on gearing, do you have a gearing range in mind, net debt to EBITDA kind of a range, which you are considering that will inform the phasing of CapEx for your projects going forward?

Yes. On the dividend, I mean, I think we gave some strong reasons for the payment of dividend today, which I think we articulated clearly. Effectively, we are paying in respect of the new cash generation for Bozshakol and Aktogay. These operations have come on with very, very low cost assets that were highly cash generative. We're paying it to mark the operation of those assets, successful ramp up of Aktogay. We did say that we'll further review the Group's allocation of capital once the feasibility study has been completed on Baimskaya, we have clarity of the cash flows for those. So that gives you a period of dividend that you can look at.

On the gearing, again, it's quite hard to look at precise gearing ratio for time being. There's all sorts of different things in the project construction in terms of the phasing of CapEx that we have control over. And so from that perspective, we need to have a look at the feasibility study to understand how that CapEx profile will look and how we intend to phase the project over that period.

And then effectively, we'll manage through that. We're confident we can manage through that. We've got very low-cost asset base as I said before. We got Aktogay II coming on, which gives material additional cash generation. So we've got a very cash accretive asset base which will support the construction of Baimskaya.

If you would like to ask...

Two questions. Just on costs, you talked about ending up at the low-end of guidance for costs. And can I just confirm that that's for the full year, and therefore costs in the second half should be materially higher? Just wanted to confirm that. Second, on the Baimskaya deal, honestly, the investor base pretty much hates this universally. Would you consider putting it to a vote?

I'll take the cost question first, and then maybe, Andy, you can take the Baimskaya one. On the cost question, yeah, look, we've said costs are rising to some degree. We have seen some inflation pressures coming through. That's consistent with what I think you've seen elsewhere in the mining sector. So we do expect costs will rise in the second half of the year.

We are seeing probably high-single-digits, low-double-digits inflation, depends which contract you look at, we are expecting it to come up. Also, as we said before, we've got some grades coming down on Bozshakol as we said were trending towards 0.44%. And so, we are expecting costs to rise up. I did say it will be towards the low to mid-range of that guidance. So, that's – typically, that's what we're expecting to come up, but... [indiscernible]

(00:29:57).

Correct. That's for full year, exactly. It's for full year.

So, we're a mining company, and mining is a long-term gain. And we take a view over that longer-term. We're building out Bozshakol over 30 to 40 years; Aktogay we first started 50 to 60 years. And we're making long-term decisions which we believe will create long-term value. And our perspective on the copper market is that, they are strong fundamentals there which we'll see coming through over the next few years as copper will move into a significant supply deficit.

And so, we're looking through many cycles within assets. Baimskaya is a 25-year copper asset. In terms of that asset itself, it's world-class because it's got a low cash operating cost, it's located in a region which we believe we can operate successfully. We've got a very strong track record on project delivery having delivered Bozshakol and Aktogay in parallel over the past few years.

So, we believe this project will create significant shareholder value and is the right next step for KAZ Minerals.

So, no vote.

We believe this is the right decision of the long-term shareholders and will create significant value.

So, just to push you, Andy, if people don't like that, they should sell the shares?

I think that this is the right transaction for the Group and I believe that shareholders will overtime appreciate that.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Just one question on, Baimskaya, again on partnering. Some of your peers have been a bit more vocal about that they will partner and they will syndicate the project before going ahead with that. I appreciate it could have been difficult before acquiring. But if you think your balance sheet is fine and your cash flow is able to fund it, why talk about partnering now?

What we've said is that during the feasibility study, we will assess that the overall CapEx cost how that can be phased and the development profile of that asset. And during that stage, we would also consider partnering options. And if you look at recent transactions in the sector, most of those have been at the construction phase, so the feasibility studies have been performed first.

So that's the right point to look at it. There are number of variables between now and that stage. So, I wouldn't want to prejudge an outcome, but we will look partnering during the feasibility stage, which as I said earlier, I think is the absolutely appropriate time for us to consider what those are.

Hi. It's Dan Major from UBS, a couple of questions. Firstly, on Baimskaya and on the infrastructure details that you provided. Just to quickly recap on those. The expected completion day of the 110 kilowatt pipeline is end of this year. Is that correct?

It's during 2019.

During 2019. And the longer line from the South, you said, it's been financed or the financing has been approved. Has the project actually started? I mean are they in construction yet?

So, the construction has not yet started with 220 kV power line. So financing has been approved in the Russian budget to commence the construction of that power line, which we'd anticipate beginning in 2019. But we need that power line only when we start operations. We have sufficient power from the 110 kV power line that's already underway, and which will be supplied by the power station that I showed you out in the presentation.

Okay. And then on the road, obviously, you've indicated it's partially underway. Is that fully financed as well?

The way it works is financing is only signed off for a certain number of periods. There is an existing winter road which we intend to use during the construction phase of the project. We would like to accelerate the construction of the all-weather road, because that would obviously make the construction phase a lot easier. But as I show in the slides, the construction is already underway, but we'll look now as we have acquired the asset to accelerating that progress.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just perhaps a follow-up on the partnering. Obviously, you're looking to review. I mean, is there any way you could give us a probability, I mean, just to say greater than 50%, lower than 50% chance that you bring in a partner. Is there any way you can give us that sort of a guidance at this point?

We've got quite a long period to look at this. I mean, we're saying the feasibility study will be completed by the end of 2019. And we will look seriously at partnering option during that time. We believe this is an attractive asset. We, as a company, have a very strong track record of delivering projects. So, we think this is an attractive proposition for certain companies to partner on. But this is something we all look seriously at, but the appropriate time for that is over the feasibility study. And we'll come back to you on that over the course of that time.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

[indiscernible]

(00:35:11)

...BNP Paribas. Couple of questions just to hard-push on partnering again, but more simple questions. Are you open to giving up up to 49% of stake to any potential partner? And as related to that, do you just need the financing from a partner or do you need any technical and/or local support as well? So is a local partner also preferable in that sense technically? Probably, you have successfully delivered projects, but do you need any help with the size and scale given the CapEx is quite heavy compared to size of the company?

Second question on dividend, it's like 10% payout at the moment, and you have indicated similar absolute number towards the end of the year, but do you think you need to revisit your dividend policy to put a more longer-term or medium-term discipline in place either to pay out this policy or something which can give more visibility to shareholders and the analysts? Thank you.

Partnering, we will come back on. We will assess the partnering option during the feasibility study stage, and we will come back with any [ph] financing, on partnering on (00:36:21) more details on the project when we make that progress during the feasibility study.

In terms of what we look for from a partner, we've got the strong technical capabilities to deliver this project. So we have no need for any support in that respect. Our project team has delivered Bozshakol and Aktogay so successfully. We're heavily involved in the assessment of Baimskaya. And so, we're very comfortable with our ability to deliver this project on a technical basis.

In respect of local support, the way we structure this transaction, we believe we have that local partner through the structure of this transaction. So we believe we have the local support that we require. So those would not be objectives for us in respect of how we thought about partnering.

Do you want to take dividends?

Yeah. On the dividend, I mean, so I articulated the dividend policy earlier which [indiscernible] (00:37:13). And so we do have a flexible dividend policy which we think suits our needs. So we've got no immediate plans to change that. As we said, we're committed with the board regarding dividend based on our cash flows, which is what we've done in declaring interim dividend with respect to Bozshakol and Aktogay. So we have no immediate plans to change the flexible dividend policy.

And the Board views that policy as quite appropriate for a single commodity company like us, but we all have potential greater variability in earnings through that exposure to single commodity. So we believe our dividend policy, which is very flexible is the appropriate one for us to continue with. [indiscernible]

(00:37:53).

It's appropriate at the moment. We'll review going forward as the Group develops and as the outlook changes. But it's the appropriate policy for us today.

Luke Nelson, JPMorgan. Just a longer term question, is there a strategy based around hitting a specific level of copper production long-term to Sort of rolling forward to 2027, end of next decade, you'll be at 500,000 tonnes with Baimskaya potentially. But is it a longer-term goal to grow that or so is it potential that we see this level investment continuing a lot longer than what we see optimally with Baimskaya at the moment?

And then, secondly, just touching on the answer to prior question around the delivery time, obviously, Bozshakol and Aktogay were delivered successfully on time within budget. Can you just confirm where the Mian and the team will be delivering Baimskaya through to delivery? Thank you.

I mean, I think the Baimskaya project that we have – in our growth portfolio at the moment, we have the Aktogay II project, which is delivering 80 kilotonnes from 2021. So, that will enhance the Group's production, earnings, etcetera, as we then move into the final stages of the Baimskaya development. But I think that takes us to roundabout, we've indicated around 0.5 million tonnes you said in your question. I think that's sufficient outlook for us at this point in time. So we'll review our strategy as we progress through that. But I do appreciate the longer-term thinking that you've shown in your question. [indiscernible]

(00:39:40) in terms of the project team, so we have a very strong project team internally, and we have retained all the key members of that project team from both the Bozshakol project to the Aktogay project. So we have retained those people within this Group, and they were heavily and are heavily involved in the Baimskaya project.

Again, Mian is still very much part of the Group management, and he's very heavily involved in the Baimskaya project as are the Project Directors from both Bozshakol and Aktogay, other key members of those project teams.

We have a number of people involved in both Bozshakol and Aktogay. They're separate Project Directors that are responsible for [indiscernible] (00:40:33) projects. Mian was sort of heavily involved obviously as well overseeing that. He is heavily involved in Baimskaya, but we have a strong strength and depth there. So, we have Project Directors in both Bozshakol and Aktogay still with the Group and other key members of those teams that are still with us.

Hi. It's Dan from UBS. A follow up question on that topic. I understand the strategy of taking the same team and rolling them from project to project. Obviously, many of your peers have done that successfully in the past. When you look at staffing this project, I mean the scale of the project is larger and the region is very different. What gives you, I guess, the confidence beyond the very senior level project team that you're going to be able to get the staffing to execute on this in a very different region? Can you give us a sense of the numbers, the delta, in terms of the requirement to build this project and where you're going to source all that labor from?

This is something we look at very carefully, and we were particularly mindful that we were operating in a very cold weather environment, and in quite a remote location. So we have been looking for the past number of months at ensuring we have the right resource and then finding the right backgrounds. So, we all have – we have strong EPCM support on this, and we have been interviewing a number of people to ensure that we have adequate skills in place. So we are quite comfortable that we will have the right skills in place for this project and we're recruiting at the moment and we have identified those people.

This mainly going to be expat labor?

In terms of the key project, leadership positions, yes.

Okay. Thanks.

Any questions online? All right. Okay. Well, thank you very much, everyone, for your questions. I look forward to updating you on KAZ Minerals progress and on Baimskaya as we progress. Thank you.

Thank you for joining today's call. You may now disconnect your handsets.