Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Oleg Novachuk — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Kazakhmys Plc
Mian Khalil — General Director, Kazakhmys Projects Ltd, Kazakhmys Plc
Andrew Southam — Chief Financial Officer, Kazakhmys Plc
Alain Gabriel — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Fawzi Hanano — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Fraser R. Jamieson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Michael E. Flitton — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Danielle Chigumira — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Myles L. Allsop — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Rob B. Clifford — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK)
Liam Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Edward C. Sterck — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

I think we can start. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for joining us this morning. I'm very pleased to see such a good turnout today as well as during our shareholders meeting, it was surprisingly good turnout, better than usual times. First and foremost, before I start, I would like to introduce our team. I'm Chief Executive of Kazakhmys, Oleg Novachuk. We have Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Southam; and Head of our Major Projects, Mian Khalil.

As usual we will run you through our results. In our agenda today we have the highlights of our production in 2014, operational results. Mian will run you through the growth projects and Andy will tell you about our financial results.

If you look back at the evaluation of our – the development of our company, 18 months ago we started to think about where Kazakhmys is. I remember very well 2008 when the crisis happened, when we started to feel a lot of pressure from cost inflation, declining grade of our copper in most of our matured mines and also the lower copper price. And that was a challenge for us to decide what Kazakhmys will be in next few years. And we decided as our strategy which was stated before that Kazakhmys would like to focus on the core copper business. Kazakhmys would like to optimize the assets and deliver the major growth projects.

And that's what we have done during the last few years. And especially last 18 months we were very busy to make sure that we have optimized our assets. We started to review our asset base which led us to the conclusion that we need to take drastic steps. And we decided that first of all, we need to dispose of our non-core assets. And previously, as you remember we had MKM, our downstream copper business in Germany. We also had investments in ENRC, 26% in ENRC, and also 50% in GRES-1. This is the largest power station in Kazakhstan. As previously, we plan to build BHP Billiton in Kazakhstan, but we realized that it doesn't work for us and it doesn't deliver the right value for our shareholders and that's why we decided to dispose our non-core assets and focus on our major copper assets.

We have successfully done it in last 18 months. We disposed of all our non-core assets with $2.2 billion cash in proceeds and due to that reason, thanks to ENRC transactions, we became the company with the majority free float. Currently the free float of our company is 58%.

When we had started to review our assets, we understood that really we need to take drastic steps to make it work and to make sure that our company is lean, efficient, dynamic and can deliver the best value to our shareholders. We decided that we should take out from our group the mature mines which cannot be suitable for the listed company, which cannot generate enough return to our shareholders, but at the same time we cannot sell this asset because of their low performance. And we agreed that we will split the company in two parts, let's say, old Kazakhmys and new Kazakhmys. Old Kazakhmys included the mature mines, smelters, power stations. And the new Kazakhmys will consist of five mines, four mines and concentrators in the Eastern operations, the most profitable in our portfolio and the gold mining in Kyrgyz.

And also three major growth projects, Bozshakol, Aktogay and Koksay. Last February when we reported about that, I think many people were skeptical about the feasibility of that project and many people didn't believe when this project will be delivered, what will be the working capital provision to the old group. But our management team was pretty certain that that's the right way we do and we will definitely deliver that project. And likely on 15th of August, we successfully – we had the shareholders meeting and shareholders supported us and currently this project in the final stage and we suppose to complete that in Q4 before the end of the year.

And also as a next target for us is to deliver on major growth projects. And that will complete execution of our strategy and that will position our company as the most competitive amongst our peers in the world. It will be a low-cost producer. Most of our operations will be open pit and we also have the highest growth rate amongst other peers.

In parallel, with the restructuring which required a lot of management time and a lot of efforts, we also paid attention to the efficiency of our operations. And in the first half, the group copper cathode equivalent output was 139,000 tons and the KAZ Minerals, that will be the new name of the new Kazakhmys after the completion of our restructuring, the KAZ Minerals output will be 41,000 tons of copper cathode. Group EBITDA for the first half was $324 million and KAZ Minerals EBITDA out of that is $175 million. You see what's the benefit of our restructuring is.

We also achieved 8% decrease in gross cash costs to $3.09 per pound, that mostly was due to the operational efficiencies and the Tenge devaluation also helped us to reduce the cost. Our cash funds was $2.5 billion and net debt was reduced to $192 million. As I said, our restructuring has been approved on 15th of August by our independent shareholders. No one from related projects, that's Mr. Kim, Mr. Ogay voted and I also decided not to vote to allow independent shareholders to take their view and vote for that.

Our economic separation started from 1st of August. I know that currently we haven't completed the transaction due to the regulatory requirements but economically we are separate from 1st of August. And completion is expected in Q4 this year, by the end of this year. Our major growth projects are on track. Our second contractor mobilized at Bozshakol. As we previously said, we would like to strengthen our team and to meet the deadline to deliver all projects in time, we decided to on-boarding the second contractor which has been already mobilized.

On Aktogay, for SX/EW plant, contractor has been mobilized as well and work has started. Bozshakol and Aktogay Oxide remain on track and commissioning is expected in the second half of 2015.

Unfortunately our health and safety records are still not acceptable. It's not worse than in 2013 but nevertheless it's not acceptable for us, we had 11 fatalities. But it's worthwhile to mention that last year, 2013 and 2014, were the first years when we started our major projects, Bozymchak and Aktogay and Bozshakol, and unfortunately we have lost three people. Two people died at Bozshakol's site, of subcontractor of our contractor and one person died in Kyrgyzs, also that was employee of our subcontractor.

So overall from operation we have eight fatalities and three fatalities from the projects, and that's totally unacceptable. What we are currently doing, definitely the new KAZ Minerals would pay close attention to manage the safety properly. I have appointed the new safety head, who has very extensive experience working in BHP Billiton, and he joined us recently and we make sure that we will run our new company in the highest world standard.

We have changed the collective employee agreement to include the accountability for safety breaches. Before, labor unions in Kazakhstan were very keen to protect the rights of the employees and employee cannot be motivated to obey the rules and they know that whatever they do, they will never be responsible for the actions. And we agreed with the unions to revise the collective employee agreements and currently we have included the accountability for safety breaches.

We also increased responsibilities and accountabilities of the site managers. We changed our approach. Before that we had health and safety department which worked as a police to make sure that our managers on site worked properly and they obey all the rules and they follow all our policies. But currently we say that the responsibility and accountability will be on the site. The manager of the site is responsible and accountable for safety. And health and safety managers will be like coaching, to help them to make sure that they understand what should be done. So we changed the approach and I think that will give us some results very soon. We have a very strong focus on the risk assessment for employees and of course we now, after the fatalities we have seen in our projects, we have a closer [ph] oversight (09:55) of our contractors at major growth projects.

For the production, for first half we decided to show you the production profile only from new business to give you some more flavor. What is the new business is and what will be the guidance for the end of the year. The copper cathode production for the first half was 41,000 tons of copper and we decided to revise the guidance till the end of the year. We started to mine higher copper grade sections in Orlovsky mine which belongs to the Eastern operations. And the guidance for the year-end will be about 80,000 tons to 85,000 tons of copper versus the 80,000 tons we previously have.

For zinc concentrate, currently we have produced 62,000 tons of zinc for six months and the guidance for the year-end will be 115,000 tons to 120,000 tons. That anticipates lower grades and because our focus has been shifted to copper. And the same applies for silver and gold. The current production is almost 1,700 ounces and the year-end forecast will be 3,300 to 3,700 ounces. For silver, we produced 18 million ounces and by the year-end it will be between 37 million ounces and 42 million ounces.

We also are working hard to complete modernization of our Nikolayevsky concentrator, which is moving very successfully. By the year-end, we will finish because currently we are in the final stage. Just to give you some numbers. We started modernization of this concentrator with the recovery rate of copper at about 72%. Currently we have achieved 89% and the final number we would like to see will be about 90% to 92%. The refurbishment of this concentrator will be completed by the year-end.

The Eastern region priorities, the major production site for us. Of course, first of all, is the focus of improving our safety performance. By the year-end we would like to complete this separation and put in place the new structure. We will review our supplies and service providers to make sure that we can achieve the maximum benefits from the independent work of this area. We will complete modernization program of our Nikolayevsky concentrator, as I said before. And definitely as a part of our reorganization, we will upgrade our IT systems and infrastructure.

And we are also considering to build the second stage of Artemyevsky mine which will be – the life of this mine is for next three, four years but we decided to study the opportunity to extend the life of the mine for 10 years. It is the continuation of the existing ore-body and we are in the process of studying that and probably we will update you next time when we announce our year-end result.

And now I would like to pass it over to Mian to lead you through our major projects. Thank you.

Good morning. We've made some progress and we're going to quickly run you through what we've accomplished in the last half, the first half of this year, and what our plans are going forward. On Bozshakol, we've completed the main concentrator building. You can see the picture up there. We can also open an IKEA facility there. Some people call it the IKEA building. It looks – the color scheme is pretty, but these are the Kazakhmys colors. We're almost complete with the permanent camp, where our 1,500 employees are going to be residing in operation. So that's a major step in the right direction. And as you can see in the bottom left-hand corner, the mine maintenance facility shell is complete; inside is almost complete. And as we get into discussions of what we're doing in the second half of, I'll brief you on that. So quite a bit more to show you here than we did last time.

Continuing on, we've commenced the installation of the [ph] main sulphide mill (14:15). We have representatives on the mill manufacture on-site assisting with that. We've begun the installation of all our internal steel platforms inside the buildings for the grinding and flotation area. As you can see from the impressive lineup of the trucks from the bottom-left, our truck assembly is almost complete for the truck fleet, for the mine as well as the shovels. And we've commenced construction of our overland conveyor, which tracks, conveys the ore from the primary crusher to the main concentrator.

The bottom right-hand picture shows that SAG Mill foundation and the setting up of the sole plates for the SAG Mill, just an indication. What are we planning to do in the second half of this year? We're going to be a bit busy. We're planning to wrap up all the major concrete and steel works for the sulphide concentrator. The non-process buildings – and let me explain what we mean by the non-process buildings. These are the support facilities, the admin, the laboratory, the truck shop, the maintenance facilities, change houses, that kind of stuff and the permanent camp will be completed in the second half. We've completed construction of the 220 kV power line. We do have power on-site. We have permanent power on-site through 35 kV power line, which we built almost two years ago. So that is more than adequate to provide power to the permanent camp. But the permanent 220 kV power, which we need for the concentrator, is going to be completed in the second half. We'll complete the assembly of the haul trucks and the shovels. And what we didn't put up there is the ancillary support equipment that goes with that, which are the drills, et cetera.

And a key thing that we want to make a big dent in before it gets really, really cold, and it does get a bit cold out there, is the installation of the heating units for the large buildings so that we can keep them above freezing and increase productivity during the winter months.

We'll continue with the installation, obviously, of the major mechanical and electrical equipment ongoing till the concentrator is ready to operate. We will begin installation of bulk materials. That's cables, cable tray, pipe, et cetera, both underground and above-ground. And the guideline that we have for amount of CapEx we're going to spend for 2014 is in the $750 million to $950 million range, which is not too far off what I believe we told you before.

In the second half, the payments are more weighted towards the second half than the first half because as we told you we brought a new contractor on-board in the first half of this year and so all the bulk materials have been ordered. They're beginning to show up on site. So as the materials show up on site, payments are due. So that weights the payments a little bit to the second half compared to the first half.

The milestones as you can see for this year is finishing off the key infrastructure and assembly of the mining fleet. First quarter of next year, start pre-production mining. So, that's going to be the first operational step on the project in terms of getting ready to feed the concentrator, and in the second half next year, we're wrapping up construction and starting commission. Okay.

Aktogay. We have progressed quite a bit since we last spoke about six months ago. The 110 kV power line, the main earthwork contracts, the railroad spurs, the water pipeline, pump station and the big off-site plant which is one of the two main processing units, have all been awarded and work is commencing on that. Tenders are out for the sulphide concentrator and we have just received the tenders and we are beginning the process over the next two months of education and award to get that going. And as we have promised before, the CapEx will be updated once we have done that.

In the first quarter of the year, our 110 kV line is about half complete and we will finish it this year. The bulk of earthworks commenced and are continuing and are progressing. We will show you some pictures in a bit. The solvent extraction contractor has mobilized. And again, we will so you some pictures where actually we have already started to work on the foundations within a week of them being mobilized. So that's going well. The mining equipment assembly has commenced and has progressed well there as well as Bozshakol. And the leach pads are just about ready for geo-membrane installation.

The milestones going forward is to complete the mining infrastructure in 2014. 2015 fourth quarter we expect to have first copper out of Aktogay, which is kind of ironic that it's almost the same time as Bozshakol although it's – but this is oxide copper not sulphide copper, and 2017 have the first sulphide production.

To give you an idea of what's going on, it's a busy site right now. You can see there is a lot of equipment operating on the mass earthworks. You can see the 110 kV power is progressing well, lot of towers up. You can see the mining equipment fleet there and in the bottom right-hand corner you can see the main building foundations for the solvent extraction building are formed and getting ready to be poured.

Koksay. Third project. Attractive project, 3.4 million ton resource with upside potential. Average grade of 0.48%, which is better than Bozshakol and Aktogay. Estimated annual production rate of 85 kilotons of copper cathode equivalent, and 55,000 ounces of gold and 360,000 ounces of silver and about a kiloton of molybdenum concentrate. So it's a copper gold, moly ore body.

CapEx in 2014. This year is minimal. It's $5 million. We are commencing drilling in the second half of the year. And that drilling is going to confirm the previous drilling and expand upon it, out into the flanks. And there will be minimal capital investment until Bozshakol starts production later next year. Drilling is going to take about a year.

And that's it. CFO, Andy?

Kazakhmys' performance in the first half of 2014 is presented including the retained and disposal assets. This reflects that under accounting standards we have not met the held-for-sale criteria on the disposal assets and therefore this is how we reported in our half-yearly accounts. Also the economic separation under the restructuring was not effective until the 1st of August. So as noted on the slide, continuing operations is the full mining division, captive power division for both periods and excludes the non-core businesses disposed off of MKM, ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1. Later in this presentation I will talk about the results of the KAZ Minerals, the retained assets for the first half and also their outlook over the rest of the year.

Despite an 8% lower LME copper price and a 19 kiloton reduction in copper sales volumes, the EBITDA was only $30 million lower than the prior period due to the impact of the Tenge devaluation and cost initiatives. Kazakhmys has been battling high cost inflation over the past few years and you will recall that we commenced an optimization program in the second half of last year and the results presented today reflect the full impact of this program when compared to the first half of 2013. In addition, we also see the benefits of the Tenge devaluation which occurred in February.

Free cash flow has improved on the prior period due to a number of factors. The sales terms to certain Chinese customers were changed this year which resulted in a one-off reduction in working capital, with sales receipts almost a month earlier than previously. As highlighted in the circular, at the half year the disposal assets have under-spent on their sustaining CapEx budget, which is one of the adjusting items in the working capital payment and had assisted free cash flow.

The timing of a number of major items of CapEx will fall in the second half. For example, the largest item in the 2014 budget for the captive power stations are the replacement of turbines, the expenditure on that will take place in second half of the year. But in addition, the disposal management team, disposal asset management team, have been postponing CapEx to maximize their flexibility over future spend. For example, the retention of almost 2,000 workers at the suspended Zhezkazgan smelter has led the disposal asset management team to consider reopening that smelter in the second half of the year. Any CapEx for that would be unbudgeted and would have to be financed by postponing other CapEx.

The gross cash cost of copper was 8% lower than the first half of 2013. We benefited from the Tenge devaluation and the cost optimization program. We are however seeing considerable inflationary pressures as suppliers seek to pass on higher input cost of materials either as direct supplies to us or as service providers who consume materials themselves. For example, all transportation providers are experiencing higher fuel, tire and spare parts costs.

We gave a 10% pay raise in April this year following the devaluation which will also impact us in the second half. The guidance we gave in February for the full-year was a gross cash cost of $3.15 to $3.30 per pound. This took into account the devaluation and our estimate of the full-year impact of inflation. So notwithstanding the restructuring, this remains our full cost for the full-year.

We started the year with net debt of $771 million and at 30th of June it had reduced to $192 million. During the period Kazakhmys received the proceeds from the sale of Ekibastuz, $1.25 billion. We also invested approximately $500 million on our development projects, Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak and we also acquired Koksay for just under $200 million.

In the operations there was a $71 million working capital inflow, as changes to contractual terms for debtors and also linked to timing of payments, we saw an increase in creditors in the period. The tax payments for corporate income tax, mineral extraction tax were below the income statement charges and the group's corporate income tax receivable fell by about $40 million over the period. The sustaining CapEx of $157 million is below the run rate for 2014 guidance. It has already picked up in the second half. And as I said earlier, the lower CapEx is partly a result of the timing of expenditure but also the disposal management group have restricted CapEx in the run up to this transaction.

This slide sets out the estimated key financial metrics for retained operations. Due to the higher copper grade and presence of byproducts, the East Region operations had an EBITDA margin of over 40% compared to an overall mining EBITDA of 24%. The KAZ Minerals EBITDA of $175 million in the first half was being calculated including corporate costs and allocation of mining [ph] central (26:40) costs and applying the 2014 TC/RC for processing of concentrate at Balkhash. The restructuring tax in the first half for the East region was $47 million.

The net cash cost in the first half was $0.96 per pound. The full-year guidance of $1.20 per pound to $1.40 per pound includes the impact of post-devaluation inflation in the second half and also a net allowance for additional costs as the operational separation of the East Region is completed. On sustaining CapEx, the East Region incurred $30 million of spend in the first half. We are guiding $80 million to $100 million for the full-year as we have been deferring spend also and as the Nikolayevsky concentrator modernization program is largely completed this year.

The pie chart on the slide sets out a split of the East Region's cash operating cost by category. I will draw your attention to salaries, which has been a major source of inflation for us over the past few years and which represents only 24% of costs compared to approximately one-third of our cost base in the current full mining division.

This slide sets out the net debt position as of 31st of July, the date of economic separation. For the remaining months of 2014 until completion, the net cash flows of the disposal assets will be adjusted through the working capital payment. As of 31st July, the group had net debt of $328 million, including $2.3 billion as cash and cash equivalents. Of the $1.5 billion facility we have at Aktogay, $1.4 billion remained available for drawing.

We also have a $500 million pre-export finance facility which is currently fully drawn and that contains EBITDA-based covenants and also requires the banking group's permission to continue post the restructuring. We have sufficient funds available to repay the facility completion of the restructuring. However we may seek to retain all or part of the facility with amended covenants. The group's net debt to EBITDA ratio will increase in 2015 as the major growth projects development continues and as production is largely restricted to the East Region operations. However, the commencement of Bozshakol is expected to sharply improve the financial metrics going forward.

The completion of the current restructuring will leave KAZ Minerals within a year of the launch of Bozshakol, which will combine its first quartile production with the higher margin East Region operations together, generating very significant cash flows.

Oleg?

And we have chosen to show you this slide to just give you more flavor about the future profile of our company. After the restructuring, our company will be the most efficient amongst the peers. And as you can see here, the cash cost of our Eastern operations will be from $1.2 to $1.4 per pound. Aktogay will be $1.1 to $1.3, and Bozshakol is the most profitable. At the moment, it's $0.80 to $1.

And, of course, I think that will place us in a unique position. First of all, our company is located very close to the major copper markets in China. We have very strong, long-lasting relationship with our strategic partners in China, the most largest copper producers in the world. We strongly believe that copper is the commodity for the next decade. Regardless of all stories about the situation, economic situation in China or what we have in the copper market, we strongly believe that copper will be very well demanded for next decade.

And I told you a few times the stories about what's happening now in China. The Chinese government decided to relocate an enormous amount of people from the Southeast to the Western part of China, which will lead to construction of about 150 cities with population over 2 million. Can you imagine how many apartments, how many grids, how many infrastructural stuff should be built in China, and what will be the demand for the next 10 years to 15 years.

It's also important to note that China now has switched to green economy. They want to build the electric cars. And for those of you who have been in China, you've probably seen the pollution level in Beijing or big cities, and even in small villages. The pollution is very big there because they still use coal, they have a lot of transportation. In Beijing, you cannot use the car every day. They just introduced the rules that you can use your car only Tuesday or Thursday, and they register the numbers, and rich people buying few cars to use them every day because of the pollution. And, of course, the only way for them is to switch to electric cars. But electric car use four times more copper than the normal one. But consumption of copper per capita in China is incomparably low. As you know, the average consumption in the world currently is about 12,000 tons per capita per annum; in China, it's 2.5 tons. That's the way up.

That's why I think that after this restructuring, it's very important for our company, first of all, to deliver our major growth projects, to keep the cash cost under the strict control, and as you can see, if we will be successful, that will be a great story. And the copper production growth is enormous. You can see here from where we are now and where we will be in the very near future; it's 28%, the highest in the industry. And I think that that will really place us in a unique position if we will implement everything as we planned.

We are back to the story during IPO. I remember when we were in IPO, we had honeymoon period. We were loved by the market. But due to some reasons, due to the microeconomic situation and cost inflation, crisis in 2008, we also experienced bad times. Now, we're in the beginning of the growth. This restructuring will open up a new page in the history of our company and will lead us to the prosperity of our shareholders in very near future because we are just probably two, three years away from where we should be.

And that I would like to finish. And we open up for your questions. Thank you.

This is Alain Gabriel from Morgan Stanley. Quick question on the cost guidance that you have included in your presentations. So you're still standing by your gross cash cost and net cash cost guidance for the full year, which implies a big uptick in inflation in the second half. Can you shed more color on what's driving this inflation, give us more granularity?

And the second question is for Andy on the EBITDA reconciliation. So the EBITDA in your presentation for KAZ Minerals is $175 million, but in the release you said the EBITDA for the East Region is $190 million. Can you give us the bridge of what's explaining the difference? Thank you.

Okay. I'll take the second one first. So, the KAZ Minerals, we've allocated almost all of the corporate costs. So, if the first half we had a corporate cost of $16 million negative in the group EBITDA figure, so all of that supplied to that mining figure of $190 million get down to – or almost all of that, you get down to the $175 million that I've shown for KAZ Minerals.

In terms of sticking with the $3.15 per pound to $3.30 per pound cash cost guidance, we were $3.09 per pound for the first half, so we were slightly below the full-year guidance. Where we're seeing inflation coming through? We're seeing all – effectively anyone who's importing goods into Kazakhstan, seeking to pass on the impact of that devaluation to their customers, and that's across fuel and other consumables, but also on service providers. And the 10% pay rise that we award in April, that is not out of line with what other companies have done. So, again, we're seeing higher salary cost coming through, and that's not fully reflected in the H1 figures.

It's Fawzi Hanano from Goldman Sachs. Just a few questions on the East Region mines, first, with regards to copper production. You got an 80,000 tons, 85,000 tons this year. One of the four mines depleting in the end of next year. Will you have capacity to increase the other three mines or will we see production at East Region fall to around 70,000 tons beyond 2015?

Secondly, with regards to by-product production, you reduced it for this year. Is there something we could expect for the guidance in future years in terms of silver, zinc and gold? And lastly, with regards to East Region cost, good cost performance, $0.96 per pound in the first half. You've kept your guidance for the full year at $1.20 per pound to $1.40 per pound, kind of bridging on the question that Alain had asked earlier. And also, can you explain what the gross costs look like? Is it closer to $3 a pound at East Region mines?

I would suggest to start from the cost, Andy, if you can cover that, and I will answer on the profile production.

Okay. So the $0.96 per pound in the first half for the East Region, first of all, the East Region didn't operate as a totally separate division for the full first half. And so, in keeping with our previous guidance of $1.20 per pound to $1.40 per pound, we have allowed for some additional costs to come in from that separation in the second half. That's one of the factors there. Secondly, there's the devaluation factor I mentioned previously.

Another factor is we have now introduced, as you pointed out, that slightly new guidance on the by-product credits. We put in ranges which also may impact the net cash cost which is the guidance we're giving in the second half of the year. So there will be – we expect a slightly higher gross cash cost. There may be some variation on the by-product credits, so a slight element of uncertainty there which is why we're sticking with the $1.20 per pound to $1.40 per pound guidance for the East Region for full year.

And as for the production profile in the next – in the nearest future, we don't foresee any significant reduction in production because we still have reserves to increase our production in case if the mine – if one of the old mines will be depleting. But at the same time, as I mentioned, we are considering extension – program of extension of our existing mines, and one of them is Artemyevsky mine. We have orebody which is a little bit deeper than the existing ones. And we have [ph] built the drifts (37:14) to have access to this orebody. But, of course, we need to study that excess life carefully as a separate project to make sure that we can extend the mine life of this mine for a next – for probably 10 years to 15 years. But for the nearest future, the production profile will stay the same, nearly the same.

As to the zinc and silver grade, yes, we should expect that next year and year after, zinc and silver grade will reduce. But that wasn't unexpected. That was planned in our geological model. And we will guide you separately when we will announce about our year guidance. Thank you.

Thank you. It's Fraser Jamieson from JPMorgan. I guess, one question to each of you probably. Andy, firstly, on the project cost estimates, to what extent – I think you said in the past that they include your expectations around increased inflation post-Tenge devaluation and that was what lead to the increase in the guidance previously, but could you just confirm that and just confirm that you're still very comfortable with those ranges?

Secondly, Mian, it seems from the few photos that you provided on the commentary on Bozshakol that construction is going very well. Is it fair to say that your assessment of the risk around the project is now moving from construction phase to the commissioning phase? And I guess the extension to that, what are the remaining sort of key hurdles that you need to get over on the construction side of things to get to commissioning?

And then, Oleg, I suppose the company is now becoming basically a development company. It's all about development risk. How do you get the market more comfortable about the development risk and about those projects? [indiscernible]

(39:31)

Okay. I think that the – first of all the answer is we're not – there's no reason at the moment for us to change the guidance on either Bozshakol or Aktogay in terms of the cash operating cost we've given previously.

So those numbers, do we include an expectation? We feel that is within those ranges. We're comfortable that those ranges are still appropriate given the inflation we're seeing in Kazakhstan. They do have slightly lower exposure to the Tenge anyway. They do have far lower labor component, for example, than our existing operations. So to that extent they don't have the same exposure. So we're quite happy with that. And if we have – we will continue to review it, but at the moment, no reason to change.

Yeah. What about the commissioning?

On the project, in terms of the construction, yeah, I think we're doing well. The introduction of the second contractor has been proven to be successful. We still have the normal construction hurdles to do and things to watch out for, weather and labor and all that. But that's normal on every project site. I don't see anything unusual risk on the construction site going forward.

The focus is going to start turning to commissioning. But the way we've managed this project is we've got a stage we call operational readiness. And we've brought in and we've taken a wise decision to invest in bringing in much, much earlier than normal key operating staff. They've already been on the team for over a year. Some of the operating staff on the concentrator side, a couple of key members were there during the design phase. So we're not going to have the same issues that many projects have where the operation team parachutes in in the last three months of the construction and say, what the hell are you going to give us? That's not going to happen. These people have been involved and integrated into the construction right from the beginning. The operational readiness is going on. The training is going on. People are being hired. They're jumping at the bid actually to get going. So there's strong interaction. The pre-commissioning plan has been done and has been discussed with the operations. So knock on wood, everything should run okay.

And just the critical path items on construction.

The critical path item on this job is going to be the same as any job, the mills. We have three mills, a SAG and two ball mills. We have representatives from FLSmidth, the mill manufacturer already on site to do the mechanical installation of the mill. Within probably a month's time, we'll have representatives of the gearless motor drives, ABB on site also. A lot more representatives and I think maybe necessary, but that's the way the world is nowadays with these guys. So we'll end up with maybe 20, 25 people between these two companies on site just helping us put the mills together or advising us, advising [ph] and to see (42:43) how they put the mills together properly. Expensive, but well worth it. That should, again, in short, smooth commissioning and ramp-up.

That directly links to your question about the execution risk. As you know, to build any mine, you need at least five to six years. And we spend about three years for feasibility study. I think about three years, [ph] I mean (43:07) right? And then about the same long time for construction to make sure that we run our operations.

I remember six years ago when we said to the market that we have Bozshakol, no one reacted because of the execution risk. You're too far from the completion. The closer you are to completion, the less risk you have. And Bozshakol situation is very clear. All the equipment has been already purchased. There is no risk that we will always spend for equipment. The price is fixed and most of the equipment has been delivered to the site.

The construction contracts. All of the construction contracts have been made as lump sum. The change and the cost of the construction is also limited. And the execution risk only about not immediate timetable. But we are probably – as we said, that we will deliver the project in the second half of 2015, we're slightly more than one year away from the completion, and everyday closer to completion, we have less risk. And we have, with our Chinese friends, we have clocks, electronic clocks which take the seconds and minutes, how long it remains to start the production. And everybody watch it every morning. So, I'm pretty sure that the risk for Bozshakol is not high.

For Aktogay, the advantage of Aktogay is that it's almost identical to Bozshakol. All our lessons learnt in Bozshakol will be implemented in Aktogay strategy. And of course it will be easier for us to deliver that project without the mistakes we have made during the construction of Bozshakol. And Koksay is too far. Currently it's very early stage, it's a scope study. We need to delineate the ore body to understand what the project will have. I am pretty sure that in terms of attractiveness for me, Koksay is the most attractive. But to make decision about the size of the project, quality of the project, it's too early. I think when we finish drilling, when we start the feasibility study, we will be ready to answer that. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

Probably just one more thing on just on the devaluation. Overall, it's definitely a benefit. Okay. So if you look at our cost rate, [indiscernible] (45:17) growth. And that was a major factor in contributing to the $3.09 per pound we see in the first half this year. What happens with inflation is you just give up some of that gain. And so going back to the cash cost of both the projects, do we think they are going to increase because of inflation following the devaluation, the answer is no because the devaluation overall will have a benefit to both of those projects. Yes, some of that will be given up. We are giving cash costs over the first 10 years. So over that period we would expect the benefit to be probably not up in inflation over that period. But overall this is a net benefit to both projects.

Hi. It's Mike Flitton from Citi. Just a couple of questions. Firstly, again on the inflation rate, given the lower sensitivity, can you give us just a sense of how you think that will develop on an annual basis on a medium term? In the previous year, you look to sort of 7% annual inflation rates, but obviously lower exposure now.

And secondly, on the [indiscernible] (46:21), obviously the $240 million is still up for adjustment from the cash flows. I'm just wondering if you just can give us a sense of what – a range what that could be $20 million to $30 million a month higher or lower, just a bit of color on that. Thanks.

Okay. On inflation, Kazakhstan inflation you say has been running around 7%, 8%. If you look at Kazakhmys' inflation, it's actually been running considerably higher than that in the period since the last devaluation in 2009. So it was running 20%-odd. So I think the new [indiscernible] (46:57) in the East region, some of the factors behind that higher level of inflation was, in particular, coming through on wages. We have approximately 24% or so of the cash cost in the East Region comes from wages, and that's smaller than, say, one-third of the full group at the moment. If you look at Bozshakol and Aktogay, it should be a much larger proportion of our cost base going forward, labor there is somewhere between 10% and 15%, so significantly lower than the previous group.

So I think our exposure to higher levels of inflation and generally seen in Kazakhstan is greatly reduced. We will have increased exposure to factors such as power. In Bozshakol and Aktogay it will make up a slightly higher percentage of our cost base than in the past. But I feel that the new group is much better positioned in respect of outlook on inflation. So, I would expect us to be much closer to that kind of Kazakhstan level of inflation than running considerably above as we saw in the past.

So, continuing from the cash adjustments, I think – did you mean the restructuring...

Yeah, the cash flow adjustments until the actual group is...

I think, currently, it's better to say that we have guided the market, that it will be $115 million in cash, which will be provided to the old group, and adjustments on spent CapEx and the refundable VAT. I think it's better to keep – the worst scenario is $240 million, okay, and everything else will be only better.

Thanks. Good morning. It's Danielle Chigumira from UBS. On Aktogay, can you give us an idea when the tendering process for the sulphide plant is expected to be complete, giving us better clarity on the overall CapEx? And just on Bozshakol, could you give us some more clarity on the production profile, near term. Previously you've given very helpful charts in terms of the near-term spike in production. Could you give us an idea where that is currently?

On Aktogay, in the next quarter, we'll have the tendering process complete from the main sulphide concentrator as I alluded to earlier. The bids are in. It takes a month or two to evaluate, sort out an award and sign a contract. So that's imminent in the scheme of things. On the production profile, Andy?

Okay. I would say our production profile, we previously said that we will increase – the peak of our production will be in the first 10 years, and that's still the case. But probably the closer we are to production, the more details we will have from drilling and from mining, planning. So the profile is still the same. It might be slightly lower than we previously showed you. And I think that that information was reflected last time when we reported about a slightly higher operation cost. Previously, we guided the market that it will be $0.60 per pound to $0.80 per pound. Now, it's $0.80 per pound to $1 per pound. But average, the production profile is the same. No changes. Thank you.

Myles Allsop from UBS as well. Just going back to BHP doing the spin-off, they kind of talked about $3.5 billion of incremental savings whereas you're talking about incremental costs coming out of the spin-off. I mean are we in sort of three, four months time going to be talking more about the potential of reducing cost within the East Region, or is it just too tough out there given its politics, labor, devaluation, sort of inflation and so on?

You mean to improve the costs in these, right?

Yeah. I mean to talk about the benefits of being able to reduce the kind of – you've got sort of four or five mines to focus on as opposed to 17. Can you not, kind of, squeeze that lemon a bit harder now? [indiscernible]

(51:02) That current cost of the group is that if we take everything together.

Yes, we had net cash cost of over [ph] $2 (51:12) in the first half going down to $0.96 for the East Region. I mean, Myles, let me just – can we start – turn that question around, okay? In the current – in the first half, we had G&A somewhere around, what, $350-odd million, okay, on its own and that's supporting the 16 mines.

Our starting point for the East Region was to leave behind that corporate center which supports those operations. So when you talk about us having additional costs, it's not additional costs above what we currently have in any way shape or form. This is about making sure that a region, which previously did not have a management team running it, is being spun out, leaving behind its default, any of those shared corporate costs previously. And, yes, we have to put a management team on top of it to run as efficiently and to drive it forward, but it certainly not the case that this is additional cost. Apart from that, we're turning what is currently a fourth quartile set of operations into some second – a good second quartile cash generative business.

And maybe to say, can we squeeze this lemon harder? Yes, we can. So what are we doing on that? We're just trying – as I mentioned in my presentation, we're trying to optimize our supplies, material supplies and service supplies to the company. When we were as a one group, of course, Kazakhmys was built as vertically integrated company. Historically, it was necessary to have everything in-house to produce copper, beginning from ore and ending with the final product.

Currently, we have a lot of services available on the market, but due to the inherited productions and services, which are in the group, we were forced to use them because we invested money in equipment. For example, we use our shaft sinking construction company, transportation companies and maintenance companies. Currently, while these groups are separate, we will evaluate the best available options on the market. We're not trying to use the internal sources on that. So that will be the way for optimization.

And also, as Andy said previously, we have enormously high volume of administrative expenses which will be definitely reduced. And due to the restructuring, we're losing a few layers of management between the top management and the line managers. Previously, between me and the manager of the mine, I had about six layers. Now, I have only two. And now they can directly talk to me, and all these managers which were necessary to manage a big group are not necessary anymore. So it'll be very lean and very dynamic company.

You're confident that your $1.20 to $1.40 in the East is not going to be turning into $1.60 to $1.80 in two, three years' time?

It depends on the economy, of course. But if everything stays as is, we don't see big signs of that.

Thank you.

Hi. Rob Clifford, Deutsche Bank. Just you can pay off the PXF facility, but you clearly don't want to. What happens if the banks don't come to the party and soften the covenants on that? And as you go through this big project phase, your debt is going up, how do you think about where you want to position KAZ Mineral's balance sheets? What gearing do you want? What credit rating do you want? What are you targeting post settling down?

Okay. I mean, I think additional source of corporate liquidity. It's a nice to have. It's not a must-have. We prepared the working capital report, which went out in the circular last month on the basis of us having no additional corporate facilities.

So if we can do a corporate facility with it on the PXF basis, on acceptable terms then something we're quite likely to look at. If we can't, well, that's the way we just weigh out the pricing on that and decide what we want to do.

In terms of long-term debt ratios, I think we'd like to move back to eventually a 2.5 times EBITDA through the cycle EBITDA as a target level of debt. But we do fully recognize, that whilst the group is going through this phase of major development, we will be above that certainly until Bozshakol is fully ramped up.

Got it. Thanks.

Good morning. Liam Fitzpatrick from Credit Suisse. Two questions. Just on the financing side, you have looked at partnering in the past. Is that something you'd still consider given Koksay and given where your balance sheet is going, is it partnering of Aktogay or Bozshakol? And then just in terms of thinking about the projects, what sort of ramp-up period should we think about? Is it 12 months, is it 18 months or is it shorter?

On partnering, I would say we would like to keep our options open, and we have very strong relationship with our strategic partners in China. And yes, we do meet them. We discuss with them the potential partnership in the future. But currently, we have no immediate needs for that.

We're just building the relationship for our future, let's say, what will be the project of Koksay in next two years if there will be a large project, it will be similar to Bozshakol. And I think and probably we will find the options to finance. If it will be a big project and it will require a lot more money than we think, then maybe we'll consider the partnership. But currently, we have no immediate needs but we developed the relationship for some cases if we need those. And for commissioning, Mian, if you would...

Yeah. The previous figures we have disclosed show a two and two-and-a-half year ramp-up which is conservative. And that's what we put into the feasibility study and that's been in every forecast we've done. That's based on some very industry-specific ramp-up curves called [indiscernible] (57:19) curves that you do for new projects.

Just to be clear, that is a ramp-up in terms of ore processing and the grade on Bozshakol is higher at the beginning. So what you will therefore see is a much sharper ramp-up in terms of your cathode output than you would on the sort of actual physical throughput of ore. So you do see quite a sharp ramp-up on Bozshakol.

So, it's not a straight line between zero and two-and-a-half years. It gets very quickly up to the 80% production rate and then the last 15%, 20%, sometime takes a little bit of tweaking. That's typically how ramp-up curves work.

Let me say that the average production level of Bozshakol will be about 100,000 tons, but the peak of production is 140,000 tons. And then after 10 years, it will be down to 80,000 tons. So, if we're talking about ramp-up, it means that it's what will be the date when we've reached that peak, so that's...

So how long after initial commissioning do you think you'll get to, say, 100,000 tons? Will it be in 12 months?

I would say it would be very close, 12 months to 18 months. And by the end of year, we'll have more guidance on that from the operations group.

Thank you. Edward Sterck, BMO. Just relating – just a question on the CapEx for the new projects. Does the guidance include all of the working capital requirements to free cash flow, or is that working capital in addition to the CapEx guidance?

So, in the project CapEx, that includes the working capital required for those projects to commence. So the project will be delivered by the projects team in a state in which it can be operated by operations that's been included in the CapEx.

Can we switch to questions on the telephone? Do we have somebody on line?

We have no questions from the telephone.

Any more questions?

So, let us conclude at this stage. Thank you very much for coming. It was very pleasure to see you all here. Thank you. See you next time.