Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Southam — Chief Executive Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
John Hadfield — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Krishan M. Agarwal — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas SA
Danielle Chigumira — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Conor Rowley — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Boris Sinitsyn — Analyst, VTB Capital CJSC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to KAZ Minerals Results Presentation for the Full-Year 2018. I'm Andrew Southam, CEO. And I'm joined by John Hadfield, our CFO. I'm going to run through the highlights of 2018 and the performance of our operations, followed by an update on our growth project currently in construction, Aktogay II and an update on Baimskaya. John will talk through our financial results for 2018 and the financial guidance for 2019. I am very pleased with the performance of our new open pit mine. In 2018, we produced 295 kilotonnes of copper at the upper end of the guidance we set for the year and 14% above 2017. Even more impressive is it that 295 kilotonnes, also represent a compound annual growth rate of over 50% since 2015.

The increase in volume has led to a 12% rise in revenues and an EBITDA in excess of $1.3 billion. Our production is highly profitable. Our EBITDA margin was 61%. With a group net cash cost of $0.85 per pound, KAZ Minerals remains amongst the lowest cost copper producers globally. Our free cash flow calculated before expansionary CapEx has improved by 29% to $585 million. In 2018, we had expansionary CapEx of $530 million largely on Aktogay. Despite this spend, we reduced our net debt and lowered our net-debt-to-EBITDA gearing metric for 1.7 to 1.5 times. We reinstated the dividend at the half year to mark the successful delivery of our two growth projects and consistent with our announcement at the time we have recommended a similar final dividend of $0.06 resulting in a full-year payout of $0.12.

KAZ Minerals now has one of the most exciting growth pipelines in the sector, 80 kilotonnes of near-term growth through the Aktogay expansion, which will add significant cash flow to the group and support the construction of the longer term Peschanka deposit to Baimskaya. Going to Health and Safety, I'm disappointed to report that we had four fatalities in 2018, all of which occurred in the East Region. Whilst we're still to achieve our target of zero fatality, we are on a long-term trend of improvements. At our underground mines, we have had a major initiative underway to improve ground support, a significant cause of fatal incidents in recent years. In 2018, we had zero fatalities from rock falls, an initiative that is ongoing in 2019.

We have had zero fatalities in operations at the three open pit mines of Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak since their commencement, which is over 38 million man hours, my belief that we had established a strong safety culture and procedures at those sites from the outset. In light of the tragic events in Brazil, I would like to make some comments on KAZ Minerals tailings facilities. On Bozshakol and Aktogay, we're at the early stages of two downstream construction tailings dam. At Bozymchak in Kyrgyzstan, we have dry stack tailings. We have four tailings dams in the East Region. They are all upstream construction and three of which are active. How do we manage them?

Our three East Region active tailings dam have dedicated teams overseeing their management on site. The dams are subject to daily monitoring with measurements taken by our site-based teams. These readings are also monitored by a central corporate team. All our East Region active tailings dams are also inspected by external engineering firms. The most recent being in October of 2018, October last year, just prior to the winter period. We are also subject to regular government inspections. The mining industry is rightly looking at the management of tailings. We would welcome – we welcome any industry initiatives and developments in this area. And we'll continue to assess how we can improve on what we currently do.

To add to our performance in 2018, I am delighted that this was the 10th consecutive year in which KAZ Minerals achieved its copper production guidance. That period does, of course, include the ramp-up of the two major growth projects. Copper was at the top end of the range. Gold was slightly above our guided range due to a strong performance at Bozymchak. On gross cash costs, all our assets were either in or just below their guided ranges. At Bozshakol, we met guidance across all metals. Operationally, the assets performed very well with the focus of management on achieving design ore throughput. The 25 million tonne per annum sulfide plant achieved 92% throughput in the first half and 97% in the second. The 5 million tonne per annum clay plant underwent some optimization works at the start of the year before achieving 109% of design ore throughput over the second half.

Looking forward to 2019, expecting a further increase in ore throughput, we are guiding 105 kilotonnes to 115 kilotonnes of copper and 130,000 ounces to 140,000 ounces of gold. The ramp up of Aktogay has been strong, with a step change in throughput from quarter two onwards. We have also continued to benefit from higher grades as we mine ore at the top of the deposit. In 2019, we expect a further increase in ore throughput volumes at the sulfide plant, partly offset by slightly lower grades and for the oxide plant to continue operating at 25 kilotonnes per annum. Outputs in 2019 is guided at 130 kilotonnes to 140 kilotonnes of copper.

We produced 62 kilotonnes of copper from the East Region and Bozymchak, compared with guidance of approximately 65 kilotonnes. At Artemyevsky in the East Region, ore output was challenging, as we continue to transition between two ore bodies, two sections of the ore body. This has also had an impact on zinc, where we experienced lower than anticipated grades. Bozymchak in Kyrgyzstan's good performance is the main driver behind the division's strong performance on gold. Looking forward to 2019, we are guiding a further step down in copper output to 55 kilotonnes at geological conditions, limit extraction volumes at Orlovsky with a modest recovery expected in 2020.

We are actively looking at cost reduction measures in the East Region, to manage the impact of the lower production. As we have surplus processing capacity, we do see opportunities to rationalize infrastructure and raise utilization levels. However, the benefit of any such measures taken in 2019 will only be seen in 2020. This slide summarizes our guidance for 2019 with copper expected to be in the region of 300 kilotonnes. Zinc will be at similar levels to 2018 with guidance of circa 50 kilotonnes. Gold will also be broadly similar to 2018 levels with a range of 170,000 ounces to 185,000 ounces, and gold – sorry, and silver will be approximately 3 million ounces.

So turning to our first expansion project, Aktogay II is a $1.2 billion project to double sulfide ore processing from 25 million tonnes per annum to 50 million tonnes with first copper production in 2021. The project adds 80 kilotonnes of annual copper production at a net cash cost of $1 to $1.2 per pound. As the project is a carbon copy of the already delivered Bozshakol and Aktogay I sulfide processing plant, we view it as a lower risk growth project. We approved the project in December 2017 and in 2018, we mobilized contractors on site to begin the initial excavation and earthworks. We've also placed orders for the long lead items following the same engineering as we had on the first concentrator at Aktogay.

Progress over winter has been good, and we have been laying the foundations for the sulfide plant and excavating the area for the new primary crusher. This picture was taken last summer but it is our best picture to show the site layout. And you can see there in the center the location of the new sulfide plant, which is located about 1 kilometer away from the existing sulfide plant at the top of the picture. So just moving forward to progress we've made over winter. This was in January and shows the preparatory earthworks for the concrete foundations of the primary crusher and conveyor. This picture also in January shows the pouring of concrete in temperatures between minus 20 up to minus 40 degrees.

We use scaffolding covered – cover scaffolding to create tents with heater inside to enable that concrete to be poured. And this section shown is through the [ph] sag and the bore (00:10:34) mill. The concrete pouring you saw is on the right-hand side of this picture as you look at it. In the center are the placement of the flotation cells. That was in January and so moving forward to February. You can see here that we have just now started the process of steel erection on-site. The key message is that we all very experienced in cold weather operations and in construction and we've made all the progress that we expected over winter on that project. And to give you a feel for operations on-site and the progress on the construction, we now have a short video on Aktogay.

[Video Presentation] (00:11:15-00:15:21)

So, in summary, Aktogay II is progressing on schedule and on budget. On to Baimskaya, our acquisition of the Baimskaya here in Russia, we are very excited that we have now completed the CPs in January followed by the completion of the transaction, which triggered a payment of $436 million and 22.3 million shares issued to the Vendor, those shares has been subject to a three-year lockup. A bankable feasibility study is in progress run out of the Vancouver office of Fluor, where they have the relevant cold weather experience. Our approach to this asset remains unchanged. We will perform a feasibility study, alongside which we will have discussions with banks on financing and consider partnering options.

One month into ownership, I don't have a huge amount by way of update on the project. Power for the construction phase is to come from Russia's first floating nuclear facility built by Rosatom. It was constructed last year [indiscernible] (00:16:36) to Murmansk, where it was loaded with nuclear fuel and tested. The 110 kV power line to the site are in construction and are on schedule to be in place by the end of this year. We are also progressing towards formally obtaining the tax incentives available for this development, through the extension in January of the TASED zone to include the Baimskaya area.

And I'll pass now to John for the financial update.

Thank you, Andy. Turning now to the financials; in 2018, KAZ Minerals delivered another strong set of financial results. Revenues increased to $2.2 billion for the year, whilst EBITDA rose to $1.3 billion, maintaining a strong margin of 61%. The ramp up of Aktogay was the main driver of a 16% increase in copper sales volumes to 296 kilotonnes. The gross revenues and gross EBITDA comparatives include periods of pre-commercial production for Bozshakol clay and Aktogay sulfide for the prior year. In 2018 all operations were fully commercial. The group net cash cost of $0.85 per pound remains one of the lowest in the sector with Bozshakol and Aktogay delivering better than guided costs.

The increase in the group average from the prior year is mainly due to additional volumes from Aktogay, which is a low cost producer that has fewer by-product credits. Free cash flow increased to $585 million, driven by the ramp up of Aktogay. Net debt is slightly lower at $2 billion as cash flow from the new operations was used to fund expansionary capital. The net debt position at the 2018 year-end benefited from the deferral of CapEx with $130 million re-phased into 2019. The group's dividend policy is for the board to consider the cash generation and financing requirements for the business before recommending a suitable dividend.

A signal to the half-year results, the board has recommended a final dividend of $0.06 per share; combined with the interim, the full-year dividend is $0.12 per share. The group ended the year with gross liquid funds of $1.5 billion. But do note post balance sheet we paid the cash consideration for Baimskaya. The board will further review the group's allocation of capital at the completion of the Baimskaya feasibility study. This slide shows the movement in gross EBITDA in the year. In 2018, the group delivered EBITDA of $1.3 billion, an increase of $75 million from the prior year. The smooth ramp up of Aktogay delivered additional EBITDA of $175 million. The ramp up of both plants at Bozshakol added EBITDA of $13 million. East Region of Bozymchak saw a reduction in volumes with the $12 million impact from EBITDA mainly due to lower mined ore volumes at Artemyevsky and Orlovsky

Lower production in the East Region and Bozymchak was the key driver of reduced by-product revenues for the group. Management continues to focus on operating costs with Bozshakol and Aktogay below unit cost guidance for the year, cost increase in absolute terms due to the normalization and maintenance for new assets, a reduction in growth and some general mining inflation mainly at the East Region where there was some inflation in salaries, raw materials, fuel and railway tariff. This had a $92 million impact on EBITDA. The LME average price for copper increased compared to the prior year. However, the group saw a limited benefit as the increase in sales volumes was weighted towards the second half of the year when prices were lower.

Turning to operating cost detail. Bozshakol and Aktogay are structurally low cost and we'll continue to benefit from low strip ratios, good access to power, water and transport networks. We also had a tailwind from weakened tenge in the second half. Bozshakol recorded a gross cash cost of $1.29 per pound below guidance of $1.30 per pound to $1.50 per pound, strong gold and silver by-product credits resulted in a very low net cash cost of $0.58 per pound. At Aktogay gross cash costs were $1.06 per pound below guidance of $1.10 to $1.30 per pound. Aktogay has limited by-products but have a competitive net cash cost of $1.03 per pound after silver credits. As expected, cost of Bozshakol and Aktogay increased in the prior year when operations benefited from high grade and limited maintenance spent.

The Bozshakol result also included some additional volumes in the high cost clay plant. Moving to East Region and Bozymchak, gross cash cost increased to $2.44 per pound but within guidance of $2.30 to $2.50 per pound. This was due to a number of factors. Firstly, a 9% reduction in general sales volumes due to lower production in the maturing mines. The segment also saw some general mining inflation, which has a greater effect on the East Region versus the new operations as a higher proportion of local and labor cost. Costs also included a $9 million impairment for VAT at the East Region. This relates to historic operating VAT from five years ago, which has timed out for reclaim. Bozymchak was affected by higher maintenance costs and longer haul distances as the mine matures.

Due to a high level of by-products, the East Region and Bozymchak still delivered the first quartile net cash cost of $0.94 per pound. And finally, looking at the group overall. Bozshakol and Aktogay the main drivers of the strong gross cash cost performance of $1.44 per pound. The portfolio now benefits from a greater share of low cost Aktogay volumes, which offset higher cost volumes from East Region and Bozymchak. Gross cash cost increased in the prior year as expected, due to normalization of maintenance cost at Bozshakol and Aktogay as well as lower production volumes and some mining inflation at the East Region and Bozymchak.

The group delivered a net cash cost of $0.85 per pound ranking it as one of the lowest cost producers of copper globally. The increase versus the prior year is due to a larger share of Aktogay volumes, which are low end by-products combined with a smaller share at East Region and Bozymchak volumes, which are higher in by-products. This chart shows the position of KAZ Minerals from a net cash cost curve. All of our operating segments remain in the first quartile of the cost curve. This slide sets out the movements in net debt. Overall, the net debt position of $2 billion, it's slightly below the prior year but cash flow from operations is broadly offset by capital expenditure. The group generated EBITDA from operations of $1.3 billion. I'll give you a few details on some of the offsetting items shown in the slide.

Working capital requirements are $150 million; this is mainly due to the purchase of consumables and spare parts to support the ramp-up of Bozshakol and Aktogay. The conservative approach was taken during this period and is expected that over time imagery requirements will reduce as the group develops better data on consumption and wear rates, works with suppliers to shorten lead times and further develop its shared spares strategy. Income tax paid of $95 million which benefited from capital allowances and tax losses on our growth projects; sustaining CapEx of $85 million, which is below guidance of $115 million. Approximately $30 million of expenditure has been deferred in 2018 into the current year.

Expansionary capital $530 million, which is $100 million below guidance, and will be carried forward into 2019. This chart summarizes the 2019 financial guidance. Respective gross cash costs guidance of Bozshakol is unchanged at $1.30 to $1.50 per pound, whilst Aktogay is slightly lower at $1.05 to $1.25 per pound compared to 2018. Guidance for the East Region and Bozymchak is set at $2.60 to $2.80 per pound. This is an increase in the prior year mainly due to lower forecast production of the maturing mines. Turning to sustaining CapEx, guidance is $50 million for asset, with the group total of $150 million. This includes $10 million at each segment deferred in 2018. And finally, moving to expansionary CapEx, 2019 is guided at $670 million of which $100 million was carried forward in 2018.

At Bozshakol, $40 million of final contractor retention payment deferred from 2018 will be settled early in the year. Aktogay expansion CapEx is guided at $400 million. There is an additional $70 million required for the final stage of the heap leach cells and initial project, of which $50 million is brought forward in 2018. At East Region, $70 million is guided, principally for the Artemyevsky expansion, which includes $10 million deferred in the prior year. The group will also fund the Baimskaya feasibility study with guided spend of $70 million. Finally, we expect $20 million to be incurred for the Koksay feasibility study, which will be funded from the proceeds of NFC's $70 million investment into the asset.

That concludes my review of the financials. I'll now hand back to Andy.

In conclusion, we have delivered strong results for 2018, which enhance our proven track record. As an operator, 10 years of meeting guidance and amongst the lowest cost production globally. In project delivery, building Bozshakol and Aktogay over $4 billion of CapEx, in parallel, in time and on budget. We have in front of us near-term growth through the Aktogay expansion project, which will add 80 kilotonnes of copper production. And that enlarge group will support the construction of the truly world-class Baimskaya deposit.

John and I will now be happy to take any questions.

Thanks for taking my question. This is Krishan Agarwal from Citigroup. You mentioned you had $92 million of impact on the cost and the cost guidance is sort of not going up year-on-year. Can you walk us through as in what kind of cost inflation you have taken into account for 2019 and what sort of the tenge assumptions you have taken into account? Second question is on your cash needs for the business for 2019. So, if I were to look at the total CapEx guidance of close to $820 million, the repayments of loan close to $545 million and the tax saves and the interest cost. Is it okay to see the total cash needs of the business at $2 billion for the 2019? And what sort of liquidity you have to manage those cash needs? Thanks.

A lot of questions. I think maybe to start with the costs. So, inflation in Kazakhstan is probably high-single digit is coming down. We saw inflation in the East Region – we had a period of really needed inflation for 2015 since the devaluation and we've seen more it come through this year. We're not expecting that to continue in the same sort of way. And you're right in terms of the tenge we have a slightly weaker tenge obviously particularly in the second half of the year. We're looking at tenge around sort of mid 300s and that's a broad assumption for tenge. The second question, sorry [indiscernible] (00:28:52) so you're talking about the cash, cash for next year.

I mean I think we've guided the cash requirements for next year particularly in terms of expansionary CapEx. We're highly cash generative as a business. We've got lowest cost of copper production globally we think. And going forward, cash requirements we highlighted that we will look for another facility at Aktogay, which we expect to complete in the first half of the year. And broadly speaking going forward, I think that's the guidance that we've provided I think should give you everything that you really need. In terms of liquidity, we've got $1.5 billion in the bank at the moment. I actually mentioned as well that we spend $436 million in the first quarter on Baimskaya, for the completion of that. And I think that should give you all the premises you need for you to look at the cash projections for 2019.

Hi, Dan Major from UBS. A couple of questions on sort of near-term financials, you mentioned about potential sort of further reductions in working capital. Can you give us any guidance there? And the second thing, you've obviously deferred some sustaining CapEx into 2019, taking the number to $150 million. Is there any change to your medium-term long run sustaining for the CapEx estimates? So that's first question.

Yeah, so the working capital. We took a very conservative approach with Bozshakol [indiscernible] (00:30:24). You've got to put in context these are new sites we're ramping up. Our priorities are very much on making sure we deliver the smooth ramp up in production, which I think we've done. In doing so, you've got to appreciate, these are remote sites and it's difficult to get parts there. What we're doing is developing shared best strategies, which will allow redundancy across both sites. We're optimizing things like weigh rates because obviously when you start, you need to refine how hard the ore is – how it looks as it wears. So as we go forward, we expect to be able to refine the working capital.

Now this – I wouldn't expect this to be instant in the first half of the year. This is very much something that we'll see as we optimize our operations and understand the needs going forward. But I think as the shared best strategies starting to come together, we should start to see some reductions, but I would kind of have a caution in the near term, it'll be fully more in late 2019 and into 2020. We'll see meaningful reduction in the working capital requirements. On the sustaining capital, you're right. We guided $10 million over for each asset, total of $30 million into 2019. We're not expecting to see that from a longer term average at this stage. Around $40 million for each of the asset still remains for the longer term. But just in particular we're looking at [indiscernible] (00:31:28).

Thanks so much. And then second couple of questions on Baimskaya. You pushed the feasibility study completion timeline by about six months. Can you give us a sense on what was the driver there? And also give us a little bit more detail on the seasonality of the work at Baimskaya? Obviously it's harsh winter conditions but obviously it's also frozen and it allows you to do more during that period. So if you can give us a little bit more sort of color there. And then the second part, I know you've only had the asset for a month but have you had any negotiations regarding the progress over the Southern Power Line.

Sorry the first part of the question is [indiscernible] (00:32:12) so I'll focus on the second part.

The first is the driver of the delay.

Yeah, the feasibility study. So, we said previously, we'll complete the feasibility study by the end of 2019. We're currently saying that we will give the results of that feasibility study in the first half of 2020. But so all that's happened is we've actually started the feasibility study. Now we've given a slightly updated timetable on that. Nothing material was changed. There's no change in the project timetable. So we will give those, we will give that update in 2020 with the feasibility study there.

In terms of the seasonality of works at Baimskaya, as we showed in the video, we are at Aktogay II. And as we did at Aktogay I and Bozshakol, we are able to progress construction be that earthworks, pouring out concrete, erection of steel. We can do that through the winter period just as we don't see seasonality affecting operations. So we are very used to operating in difficult – in cold climates. And we expect to demonstrate to you that – the same thing again at Baimskaya. The last part of your question on the infrastructure, I haven't got – we're one month on from the acquisition.

We haven't got – there's not a sort of milestone progress, but we continue to – we continue to make progress across all of the infrastructure requirements at the site. So, the 110 kV power line which is the first requirement for us which we need for construction that has been progressing over the winter period. We are absolutely on track on that line to have that complete at the end of this year. The power line down to the Southwest where we're going to get power from the hydropower at Magadan, we are in discussions on that and there is financing allocated already for that construction to start.

Thanks.

Hi. This is James Bell, RBC Capital Markets. Just two questions. Firstly, you talked about the board reconsidering capital allocation when you have the feasibility study for Baimskaya. So, for 2019, should we consider a sort of similar level of dividend or does the capital spend mean that you may see that change? And then secondly, at Baimskaya, I guess it's kind of a follow-on from Dan's in terms of the, will you wait until you have the feasibility study before starting to engage with banks or potential partners or is that something you hope to do in 2019?

So, on the dividend, the board will consider the dividend again in August. We do have a flexible policy on that which I think is quite appropriate to us as a single commodity company. We have guided that we will look at the capital allocation policy again at the end of the feasibility study stage which is also a decision point for us in terms of partnering, in terms of financing structure for bonds. I think that's the right time for that. So, we will consider the dividend – the board will consider the dividend in August.

And I'm afraid our policy gives us a lot of flexibility as designed to do that a lot of flexibility and is designed to do that. In terms of discussions, there can – there'll be no sort of final position on financing. You need a bankable feasibility study for that to actually put that financing in place. And also, as we've previously indicated, that's also the appropriate time for us to move forward properly with any consideration of partnering. Because it gives you that much more certainty over the project parameters and we believe would – is therefore the right time to do so. And of course in that intervening period, we will explore our options. We will have discussions, but there'll be nothing firm on that until we reach the end of the feasibility study.

Okay. Thanks.

Good morning. Jatinder Goel from Exane BNP Paribas. A couple of questions. Firstly on Aktogay II financing. Will it be matched to the CapEx, which is $1.2 billion? And is it likely to be a similar facility to Aktogay I? And related to that, do you have optionality to defer cash payments to your contractors, as you did with Aktogay I? Second question, Koksay feasibility could be coming at a similar time as Baimskaya. Would you be able to take both of these projects simultaneously on board if it comes to that? And just a third question on $70 million feasibility. Is it fair to assume that in addition to $5.5 billion CapEx? And is there any more feasibility spend left in 2020 as well? Thank you.

I think in Aktogay II, the way to look at it is the specifics for Aktogay II. I think if you look at the magnitude of it, it's effectively replacing amortizing debt in 2019, a quite straightforward facility. We're not obviously looking to defer anything. So, this is a straightforward facility, we're looking to progress as we go through the year.

So, Jatinder, just to be very precise, we are saying that we expect to put in place a $600 million facility, specifically for Aktogay II in the first half of this year. We haven't said through that facility [indiscernible] (00:37:36). But we have said that we will have that in place now. So, expectation is we will that in place in the first half of this year. The deferments on CapEx we saw in Aktogay I were quite specific and related to a particular contractor. So we – you may see some variations between years in terms of guidance and when the actual spend occurs similar to any other CapEx projects. But we would expect the profile to follow broadly what we've already set out already and obviously updated today with that guidance which is line with what we previously said.

Second question is Koksay feasibility, you're asking whether we could do at the same time in terms of capacity. I mean the Koksay, we've guided $20 million in the year. That's very much at the level of – we've guided that. We'll look at Koksay when we get there. And that's what we've said towards the end of the feasibility study, we'll take the next decision on Koksay. So there's nothing further to say on that right now.

But you can see Jatinder that we, in terms of priority, Koksay, first of all, with Aktogay II. Below risk projects, much nearer term returns, creates the platform we believe that enables us to deliver Baimskaya. The second priority for us is Baimskaya, a world-class asset which we believe we've got the project delivery capability to create significant value through delivery of that project in terms of – it's important both in terms of scale and in terms of quality. Koksay for us clearly is a third priority against those. And you can see already we've bought in a partner, a minority partner on that. So we will be flexible at how we look at that project. And we will make those decisions once we've got that feasibility study in conjunction with our partner on it. And then, sorry, [indiscernible] (00:39:24) feasibility study cost.

Sorry, what was the question?

$70 million feasibility spend, that's in addition to $5.5 billion and is there anything left in 2020 as well?

That's included. That's included. That's the guidance for this year. There maybe a bit more in 2020 but relatively small magnitude.

The $5.5 billion Jatinder, that includes the feasibility study. It's a nominal CapEx number including our guess at this time at a PFS stage of what the total construction cost of that project is in nominal between now and 2022.

Okay.

Including the $70 million.

Thank you very much.

Good morning. It's Danielle Chigumira from Macquarie. A couple of questions. Firstly on the by-product credits in the East Region, you made some comments already about zinc but your guidance also implies a significant decline in gold and silver [indiscernible] (00:40:24). Could you give some color on why that is because it doesn't just seem to be Orlovsky because Orlovsky gold grades are relatively low? And secondly another question on funding, you spoke about getting the banking, the bankable feasibility study. But would you consider selling a stake in Bozshakol or Aktogay potentially to fund Baimskaya? And is there anything in your current debt facilities that would stop you from doing so?

And so in terms of the by-product production, we are going through a section of Artem ore body which has got a lot of by-product grades. We will then move into higher grade areas we think towards the end of 2020. So, you will see some variability in by-products. In terms of how we consider our assets and we are – we love Bozshakol and Aktogay. But we don't have to make any decisions today Baimskaya. There are a lot of variables in that. And we will look at that at the end of the feasibility study stage. And we will consider partnering options. We will [indiscernible] (00:41:34). We've got a very strong asset base. We will consider a range of options, but we're very happy with Bozshakol and Aktogay. I don't want to get drawn on what the group might look like during that because we haven't made any decisions in that regard, but we are very happy with Bozshakol and Aktogay. They're fantastic assets performing very well. So, we will look at that, Danielle, as appropriate points in the future. The last part of your question is regarding, we have a – we are flexible in what we can do and the options we can consider.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions]

Just to a follow-up question following on by-products in the East Region. Zinc production has underperformed and they had some operational issues in the East Region associated with access to grades, et cetera. Obviously, you'd mentioned that you plan to get access to those high grades over time. Apart from that, is there anything operationally that you can do to target an improvement in the by-product production outside of a reversion to grades or is this strategy that it's – that by-product is secondary to copper production and it will just be what it will be? And then secondly, just a follow-on on the East Region in general, I mean cost guidance this year is stepping up. Production is down obviously. But looking at the cost curve that you provided, it will put it firmly into the second quartile of the cost curve. My question is, is it still a core asset or is there an opportunity for that to potentially be the capital and not to be recycled potentially given the capital intensity and other assets or developments over the coming years?

Okay, I mean, the main driver behind by-product production is what's in the ground, and so is the great profile which primarily drives our output in the East Region, and we have a small number of mines for any variations as we move through those mindful that have a direct impact in the overall production I think in the East Region. If you look in our reserves and resources table, you will see that for example Artemyevsky, has higher in grades than we currently producing at, and that is indicative of the way we're developing that ore body, we're currently moving between an existing section where we currently have operations, operation into another section of the ore body where we do have high by-product, by-products again.

There is this period of transition. I have indicated that at some point during 2020, we would expect to see a uptake there in the great works strategy. But that is the primary driver of the by-product product profile. Is there more we can do? I hope so. And I believe there is. And if you look at what we've done over the past few years, we have successfully raised recovery rates, for example the Nikolayevsky concentrator. I'm looking forward with the East Region, we do have a long-term production profile which we have to manage in the cost side. Partly that can be through efficiencies on cost, and partly that can be through trying to drive improvements in recovery.

That is certainly something we were looking to do and we are working on. But the primary driver behind the profile will be the metals in the ground that we extract. I mean East Region and Bozymchak, together they had a EBITDA margin of 45% which I think compares very well with the copper businesses of a number of our peers. So, this is and remains a profitable business. And they are smaller mines, say, than Bozshakol and Aktogay. But we don't feel there is any particular issues there beyond us having to manage that production profile.

Hi. Conor Rowley, Credit Suisse. Just one question, on the type of financing you're looking at for Baimskaya, if you look at the type of debt you had for – in the first two projects, they obviously came with very different covenant restrictions. And so, I'm just asking the question in terms of, is there any change in terms of what you feel you would be up to get going into a different region? And therefore different covenant restrictions could actually impact, whether or not you need to partner or not.

Yeah. I mean look, we think we think Baimskaya will be attractive to a wide range of lenders internationally. But I think it's too early to really sort of look at what the particular parameters that the debt might be at this stage, it's very early. I think once we get to the feasibility [indiscernible] (00:46:26).

Any questions on the lines?

There's a question on the phone line from Boris Sinitsyn calling from VTB Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, gentlemen. Thank you for the presentation. Actually a few questions from our side. First one is on your potential [indiscernible] (00:47:00) production. So, do you expect any tonnes from it in 2019 going forward? The second question is on – in TC/RC dynamics in 2019. So, what is like year-on-year change for you? And the last one is on your Nikolayevsky [indiscernible] (00:47:19) dam closure, which is I think next year. So what are the costs? And do you include them into your company guidance? Thank you.

Okay. So first your moly, we did have our first production in 2018 at Bozshakol and moly. So we did have some sales. I think it was around $4 million or $5 billion of revenue we got, so it' not mature in any way to the group and that's against revenues of $2.2 billion. In 2019, we will be starting the moly circuit at Aktogay partway through the year. So we will see some more moly production but I don't expect moly to be a material part of the group's revenue. On TC/RC, we had a slight reduction, a very small reduction from the TC/RC that we had in 2018 and we followed the – we follow Chinese benchmark on TC/RC. On Nikolayevsky, tailings dam, so we are looking to move tailings storage there from the existing dam to an open pit and an open pit we have located there. And we don't expect significant cost to be incurred beyond what's – sorry, there will be no additional cost beyond what is in our guidance that is already included.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions]

[indiscernible] (00:49:00) and just would follow up. Just quickly maintenance, is there any sort of key maintenance scheduling we should be aware of across the operations for 2019?

So we have – I mean the main maintenance, which impacts our production numbers are the relinings that take place across the year and that – all that ore at Bozshakol and Aktogay. And those maintenance works will drive say quarterly numbers. It affects quarterly numbers but across the year, they've all been fully included in the annual guidance. So, you will see that variability as we move across the year on a quarter-by-quarter basis.

Okay. I understand there are no further questions. Well, thank you very much for attending on a busy day I know for all of you and we hope we'll see you all again on our next results. Thank you.