Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Southam — Chief Executive Officer & Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
John Hadfield — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Exane SA (United Kingdom)
Luke Nelson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Today, we're going to present KAZ Minerals' results for the full year 2020. I'm Andrew Southam, CEO, and I'm joined by John Hadfield, our CFO. I'd like to draw your attention to the important notice at the start of this presentation. I'll take you through highlights of our results for 2020, how our operations have performed, and their outlook for 2021. I'll give an update on the growth projects and then John will run through our financial results and guidance.

But first to start with the offer, as you'd all be aware, the revised recommended offer from Nova Resources of £7.80 in cash for each KAZ Mineral share was announced on the 4th of February 2021. The first closing date of the offer is on 9th of March. Whilst I'm sure the offer is of great interest to you, you will appreciate that I'm not able to say anything new on the offer today. So, today's presentation is on the performance of the business in 2020 and the outlook for 2021.

In 2020, in the face of the challenges posed by COVID-19, KAZ Minerals has prioritized the safety of its workers and contractors. This meant we took action early in the onset of COVID, and put in place comprehensive measures to protect our sites. We have reported copper production of 306 kilotonnes, 2% above the guidance range we set at the start of the year, a performance which I believe differentiates KAZ Minerals from a number of our peers. I am very grateful for the dedication and commitment of our staff and contractors, who enabled us to successfully maintain output throughout the year. This is the 12th consecutive year that we have achieved our annual guidance.

Our production performance is also reflected in the financial results. We've reported revenues of $2.4 billion, 4% above the prior year. We had slightly lower copper sales volumes. However, this was offset by stronger commodity prices with the average copper and gold prices up 3% and 27% on 2019 levels, respectively.

We did incur additional COVID-related costs, however, we generated EBITDA of $1.4 billion at an improved margin of 61%. KAZ Minerals is firmly established as a first quartile cost producer. And in 2020, our net cash cost fell to just $0.64 per pound. Our free cash flow before expansionary capital expenditure was $691 million, 68% above 2019.

As you can see from the chart, our free cash flow generation was weighted to the second half of the year, as we benefited from a rising copper price environment. We've also continued to progress our growth projects, despite somewhat reduced activities in the first half of the year at the Aktogay expansion, work continued throughout, and the project remains on track for a late 2021 startup and on budget.

At Baimskaya, we have given a number of updates during the year, including the key parameters for the project in November, and the status of infrastructure. Some areas which we believe to be relatively advanced, others still to be mapped out. The board have not recommended a final dividend due to the offer. Irrespective of COVID-19, operationally and financially, KAZ Minerals has had a very strong 2020.

This slide sets out our actual performance against the original targets that we set at the start of the year. We have met or exceeded all of our original production guidance. Gross cash costs, which are shown on a per unit basis, were supported by the strong production, lowering the cost per unit and by operational efficiencies and a weaker tenge.

Sadly, we had four fatalities in 2020, three at the east region underground mines, and one contracted fatality at the Aktogay expansion. No fatality is acceptable to us. And we continue to work towards our goal of zero fatalities. Each fatal incident has been thoroughly investigated with actions taken to prevent their recurrence. We have a number of initiatives underway as part of our goal zero program, improving our processes and strengthening the safety culture. In the year, it was important to remain focused on operational safety and health. I am pleased that in 2020, we have had our lowest ever total recordable injury frequency rate at 1.14.

A word on our COVID-19 response. Early in the outbreak, we introduced measures to prevent the spread of infection to protect our workforce and sites. Aktogay and Bozshakol are both camp-based sites. And in late March, we made the decision to close site access. This meant that no arrivals were permitted onto the sites for approximately two months, extending the rotations of the staff working at that point. This gave us time to establish our own procedures, so we could safely reopen the sites.

We set up sections of the accommodation camps as isolation areas. We secured COVID-19 testing capability, and we planned for the introduction of longer rotations going forward. These measures meant that we were able to safely restart rotations at the end of May. In July, we established our own PCR testing laboratory at Aktogay, supporting both the operations and the expansion project.

Many of our suppliers have been impacted in some way by COVID-19. And we work with them as part of a detailed risk assessment exercise. We encourage suppliers to hold inventory in country or better still on our sites. Where real challenges existed, we identified alternative sources and we have raised inventory levels for specific items that we believe are most at risk.

KAZ Minerals has delivered for its stakeholders during this pandemic. We have taken measures to protect the health and welfare of our staff, maintained head count, and continued paying the salaries of our workforce, including those who remained at home. We have sustained output at our operations and paid taxes. We've recognized the difficulties faced by the vulnerable in the communities of our countries of operation and provided support to them. We have supplied the material our customers require.

At Aktogay, we have reported copper production of 131 kilotonnes, 21 kilotonnes from oxide ore and 110 kilotonnes from the sulfide plant. This was just above our guidance range supported by higher than expected grades. Production was, however, lower than the 146 kilotonnes of copper we reported for 2019, consistent with the mine plan and guidance as we expected a reduction in copper grade in 2020, and we also processed 4% less ore.

Going forward, we will continue to see a declining grade profile at Aktogay. I will remind you that we have previously guided that the average copper grade expected over the period 2019 to 2021 is 0.5%. And for the past two years, we have been above this. And secondly, that our JORC resource greater at Aktogay sulfide is 0.33%. Over the next few years, we will continue to see a decline in grades as we move towards the resource grade. With circa 20 kilotonnes from oxide material, this leads to a guidance range for 2021 of 115 to 125 kilotonnes.

Turning to Bozshakol. We increased copper production to 122 kilotonnes with a good operational performance. This can be seen in the 31.6 million of ore processed. We successfully increased availability of the sulphide plant particularly in the second half, although this was partly due to postponed maintenance. We have also run the clay plant at above designed capacity during the year. As with Aktogay, the Bozshakol sulphide grades will be on a downward trend towards the JORC life-of-mine copper grade of 0.35%. Accordingly, our copper guidance for 2021 is 110 to 120 kilotonnes. This assumes continued strong throughput, but at a somewhat reduced grade.

Our guidance for gold is 120,000 to 130,000 ounces, again, as grades trend towards life-of-mine levels. These production figures are very much in line with our medium term 10-year guidance for Bozshakol, which is for an average of 100 kilotonnes of copper per annum, and 120,000 ounces of gold over that 10-year period. As Bozshakol enters its sixth year of operation, both the copper and gold guidance for 2021 are above these 10-year numbers.

In 2020, the East Region and Bozymchak have delivered copper production of 53 kilotonnes. Our byproduct output of gold, silver, and zinc was in line with guidance. We were impacted in the fourth quarter by an extended outage at Bozymchak, where we suspended operations to ensure employee safety during a period of political instability. We did, however, restart just before the end of the year and in the year-to-date, the concentrator is running normally.

We have set copper production guidance at a similar level to 2020 at circa 50 kilotonnes. Gold guidance is similar to 2020; however, due to the grades, silver and zinc are expected to be lower this year. Zinc grades vary significantly period on period and the circa 40 kilotonnes of zinc in concentrate guidance for 2021 is slightly above our actual 2019 production.

This slide summarizes the group production guidance for 2021. In respect of copper, we are guiding 275 to 295 kilotonnes. This production range is absolutely in line with our mine plan and medium-term guidance, which of course has grades of Bozshakol and Aktogay falling from the elevated levels they started up with and moving towards the JORC resource grades of 0.35 and 0.33, respectively.

Gold remain a significant byproduct, although below the level reported for 2020, again due to grades as Bozshakol will move to less rich areas similar to copper. And this is absolutely consistent again with our medium-term mine plan. We are also guiding 2.8 million ounces of silver, and 40 kilotonnes of zinc in concentrate.

Now, turning to our growth projects. The Aktogay expansion project will double the site's sulphide ore processing capacity from 25 million to 50 million tonnes per annum. We have faced some difficulties in the year. In the first half, we prioritized maintaining the Aktogay 1 operations manpower and progress on the projects slowed, but it never stopped. We've continued to face difficulties in getting international vendor reps to site. And most recently, we have experienced delays in shipments from China. I am pleased to report though that the project is still on track for completion towards the end of this year and the total project budget remains unchanged at $1.2 billion.

During the year, we have progressed the primary crusher. It is now largely complete. We've installed the gearless motor drives for the SAG mill and ball mill number one. The permanent camp is being handed over in stages to the operations team. In 2021, there is still further construction work required including on the pebble crusher, HPGR, thickeners, as well as ball mill number two. Here is a picture of the two ball mills, two of the largest of their kind and equal in size to Aktogay 1 and Bozshakol. So, they are tried and tested. There are seven cells per line on the floatation circuit and are equal in size at Akotgay 1 and Bozshakol. So, again, tried and tested. Here's the primary crusher. We can have two of our 240-tonne trucks approach, one from each side and they tip into a vertical crusher. The ore is then taken by conveyor 1.2 kilometers to the coarse ore stockpile.

Here's a picture of the site. It looks very similar to Bozshakol and Aktogay 1 with the exception of the three deep cone thickeners at the bottom of the picture, which by increasing tailings density, will help us to reduce our tailings footprint. You can see construction work ongoing on the pebble crusher on the right hand side in the center of the picture; and looking left from there, you can see construction work on the HPGR section. As the Aktogay expansion project is a carbon copy of the already delivered Bozshakol and Aktogay 1 sulfide plants, we view it as a lower risk growth project.

Turning to Baimskaya, during the year, we progressed the Bankable Feasibility Study, detailed engineering, and pioneer works. The pioneer works are intended to support activities on the site in the future, and include the expansion of the site camp, installing fuel storage facilities, and investment in the site power infrastructure. This work enabled us to provide an update on the 18th of November, which included all the key parameters for the core project including schedule, production, grades, working capital, capital cost, and operating costs. We believe this update provided all the current information required to assess the project.

In the November announcement, we also gave an overview of where we are in the external infrastructure as set out in the complex development plan, which was submitted to the Russian Prime Minister. For the first half of 2021, we are guiding $175 million to fund the finalization of the feasibility study and continue detailed engineering and pioneer works to maintain the project schedule. We're not expecting to receive any new information from the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study. The study work on the core project is largely complete, and we released the results of that in November. The Bankable Feasibility Study will enable the group to assess its financing options for the project. Upon its completion, which is tied to the finalization of the infrastructure, the board will also consider additional capital spend over the remainder of the year.

On power, the two options of an LNG plant or a nuclear power are to be studied. Either solution would be located at Cape Nagloynyn. The government will finance the power lines to the site. On the new port, sections will be government financed, but electrical infrastructure, port equipment and accommodation is for us to finance. The new port is closer to the site than the previous port at Pevek, however KAZ Minerals will have to finance half the road, approximately 200 kilometers.

The financing of the second section of the road from Bilibino to the port remains under discussion. The complex development plan has certainly given this process additional momentum. But it's still not signed. Securing this construction of this infrastructure will require future agreements likely to include take or pay contracts.

I'll hand over to John now to talk through the financials.

Thanks, Andy. I'll now talk through the financials. I'm pleased to report that KAZ Minerals has delivered a strong financial performance in 2020 in a challenging operating environment. The group reported revenues of $2.4 billion in 2020, a 4% increase compared with the prior year. The growth in revenues is driven by 3% higher average LME price for copper, and higher average prices for the group's gold and silver byproducts. This more than offset a 5% decrease in copper sales volumes, which were lower than production volumes due to short-term delays at the Kazakhstan-China border in December. The flow of goods over the border normalized in January this year.

The group recorded EBITDA of $1.4 billion, 6% higher than 2019, with a slightly increased EBITDA margin of 61%. Copper sales are weighted towards the second half of the year, when market prices were higher. And the group delivered very strong EBITDA of $872 million in H2. The group's net cash cost fell by $0.13 per pound to $0.64 per pound, and remains one of the lowest in the sector.

Free cash flow for the year increased by 68% to $691 million, benefiting from the higher EBITDA and lower working capital outflows compared with 2019. At the year-end, the group's net debt was $158 million lower than 2019 at $2.6 billion, as free cash flow exceeded investments made into the group's growth projects.

At the year-end, the group had $1.3 billion of gross liquid funds. The group had fully drawn its PXF facility in the first quarter and continued to make drawings under DBK-Aktogay expansion facility during the year. At the period close, the group had $62 million of undrawn facilities.

Under the terms of the recommended offer, Nova Resources has the right to reduce any consideration payable up to the amount of any dividend, which is declared or paid during the offer period. The board has, therefore, not recommended a final dividend in respect of 2020.

This slide shows the movement in EBITDA during the year. I will highlight some key variances. Overall, the group reported full year EBITDA of $1.4 billion, a $76 million increase from 2019. Copper sales fell from 317 kilotonnes in 2019 to 300 kilotonnes in 2020, due to low group production and delays at the Kazakhstan-China border at the 2020 year-end. The 2019 financial year also benefited from the sale of 6 kilotonnes of stockpiled inventory.

The chart also highlights the change in the group's sales volumes in the year with a reduction at Aktogay and East region partly offset by an increase of Bozshakol. Overall, the reduction in the group's copper sales volumes negatively impacted EBITDA by $21 million. In respect to byproducts, lower sales had an adverse effect on EBITDA of $11 million. Higher costs impacted EBITDA by $95 million as a result of $40 million of additional operating costs related to COVID-19, high unit cost due to reduction in sales volumes, and general inflation for salaries, power, and consumables.

Aktogay also saw an increase in costs associated with the operational readiness of the expansion project. The group, however, benefited from higher commodity prices, especially in the second half of the year. This more than offset the impact of lower volumes with the increase in market price for copper and byproducts of gold and silver, benefiting EBITDA by $203 million. The group continues to perform well from a cost perspective and net cash cost reduced to $0.64 per pound in 2020 down from $0.77 per pound in 2019. KAZ Minerals remains one of the lowest cost, pure play copper producers globally.

Aktogay and Bozshakol remain structurally low cost assets and continue to benefit from low strip ratios, competitive power tariffs, scale economies and good access to water and transport networks. Aktogay reported a gross cash cost of $1.21 per pound in the middle of its guidance range of $1.10 to $1.30 per pound. This was an increase compared with the prior year due to lower sales volumes and $20 million of additional costs relating to COVID-19. Costs were also incurred to prepare for the operational readiness of the Aktogay expansion project ahead of its start-up by the end of 2021 and for general inflation in salaries, power, and consumables. These cost increases were partially offset by the weakening of the tenge in 2020, which reduced the group's local costs in US dollar terms.

Bozshakol reported a gross cash cost of $1.26 per pound, which is below the initial 2020 cost guidance but within the updated guidance range of $1.20 to $1.40 per pound. Gross cash cost reduced as $80 million of additional costs associated with COVID-19 and some general inflationary increases were offset by higher copper sales volumes and a weaker tenge.

In addition, the 2019 gross cash costs included charges associated with the sale of 26,000 ounces of gold bar inventory, which increased costs by around $0.05 per pound. Net cash cost of Bozshakol benefited from high prices for its gold bar products during the year, reducing to $0.12 per pound in 2020 compared with $0.31 per pound in 2019.

Turning now to the East Region and Bozymchak. The segment reported gross cash costs of $2.44 per pound. It was below the updated guidance range $2.50 to $2.70 per pound. Management has taken actions to reduce costs of these operations, including the disposal of the Beluosovsky concentrator at the end of 2019, which lowered costs in 2020.

East Region has a high proportion of local currency costs in the group's other locations and in particular benefited from a weaker tenge, which traded at an average of KZT 413 to $1, depreciating by 8% compared with the prior year. However, the gains from cost reduction were offset by the negative effect of reduced sales volumes, which are 13 kilotonnes lower in 2020 compared with 2019, noting that the prior year sales volumes also benefited from the sale of 7 kilotonnes of copper from inventory.

As a result, gross cash costs increased in 2020 to $2.44 per pound. The East Region and Bozymchak net cash costs decreased to $0.56 per pound, benefiting from high prices for its gold and silver byproducts as well as an increased zinc volumes.

Looking at the group as a whole, gross cash cost increased slightly in 2020 to $1.43 per pound. It's the impact of high costs associated with COVID-19 and lower copper sales volumes offset the beneficial effects of a weaker tenge and the cost control measures taken by management. The group continues to benefit from its byproduct revenues and in 2020, net cash costs reduced to $0.64 per pound compared with $0.77 per pound in 2019.

This slide sets out the movements in the group's net debt in 2020, which reduced by $158 million during the year to $2.6 billion. I'll get some further details on the key items. The cash flow shows a working capital outflow of $161 million in the year. However, this includes $136 million offset against MET and income taxes paid. Excluding this offset, working capital was a $25 million outflow.

I'll provide some detail on the key variances. $100 million outflow was due to changes in inventories, which reflects an increase of $56 million for critical consumables and spares to mitigate the potential operational risks associated with COVID-19, and high level of work in progress of finished goods following restrictions at Kazakhstan-China border in December. $128 million outflow on prepayments which primarily relates to VAT on purchases. And during 2020, the group has continued to recover VAT through a combination offset and refund. A total of $136 million was offset against MET and income taxes. And payments in respect of these taxes was correspondingly lower. These movements were partially offset by $67 million working capital inflow due to favorable movements and the timing of payables and receivables.

Sustaining capital expenditure of $124 million was below guidance of $170 million, as certain projects and non-critical maintenance spend was affected by COVID-19 restrictions and deferred into 2021. Work undertaken in 2020 generally focused on the maintenance and overhaul of mining equipment and necessary repairs. The deferral of non-critical work enabled the group to maintain high levels of production in 2020, but increased levels of sustaining capital will be needed in 2021 to ensure that operational risk continues to be adequately mitigated. Expansionary capital expenditure of $460 million was below guidance of $585 million, as expenditure principally in Aktogay 2 and Baimskaya was impacted by COVID-19 and deferred into 2021.

Turning now to the financial guidance for 2020. In respect to gross cash costs at Aktogay, a modest increase in gross cash cost is expected. This is mainly due to lower production as a result of grade decline and some general cost inflation. Aktogay, however, remains a highly efficient operation. However, given these factors, gross cash costs are guided at $1.20 to $1.40 per pound at 2021.

Similar factors exist at Bozshakol, where there is a forecast reduction in copper growth and production volumes. In combination with some general cost inflation, gross cash costs, the forecast increased to $1.30 to $1.50 per pound. At East Region, gross cash costs for 2021 expects to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.80 per pound. This incorporates local inflation and a full year of production from the high cost Bozymchak operations, which are temporarily suspended for three months in 2020.

Turning to sustaining CapEx, as I mentioned earlier, there were a number of projects in 2020, which were deferred as a result of COVID-19. Bringing forward these deferred projects, we're forecasting sustaining CapEx of the group to be $200 million in 2021. At Aktogay, we expect sustaining CapEx of $80 million to execute projects deferred from 2020, and continue the expansion of the tailings storage facility in order to increase capacity ahead of the commissioning of the second sulfide concentrator by the end of 2021.

Bozshakol sustaining CapEx is guided at $70 million to account for spend postponed from 2020 and the increased level of maintenance required at the maturing mine. East Region and Bozymchak sustaining CapEx is forecast at $50 million to accommodate work delayed from the prior year.

And finally, moving to expansionary CapEx. Expansionary CapEx for the group is guided at $505 million in 2021. $250 million of CapEx is expected to be incurred in the Aktogay 2 project, which is on track to start up by the end of 2021. We expect to incur a further $50 million of final retention payments to contractors in 2022 with the projects remaining on budget at $1.2 billion. CapEx of $70 million is expected at the East Region and Bozymchak, while $60 million will be incurred at the Irtyshsky underground expansion, where activities will include continued construction work and shaft sinking. $10 million is included for the Bozymchak underground phase.

Baimskaya is expected to incur $175 million of CapEx in H1 to complete the Bankable Feasibility Study and continued detailed engineering and pioneer works in order to maintain the project schedule. The board may approve additional capital expenditure following the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study.

That concludes my review of the group's financials, and I'll hand back to Andy to summarize.

KAZ Minerals has delivered outstanding operational and financial results in a challenging environment. We have met the targets that we set at the start of 2020. Our $1.4 billion EBITDA has led to a 68% increase in free cash flow and we've finished 2020 with $1.3 billion in gross liquid funds. Our near-term growth project, the Aktogay expansion, remains on track for first production this year and on budget. We're also continuing to progress our longer-dated project, Baimskaya, with a Bankable Feasibility Study due for completion later this half.

John and I will be happy to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question today comes from Jatinder Goel of BNP Paribas. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks, operator. Thank you for the presentation, Andrew and John. Three questions, if I may. First one, on the privatization, any color you can provide what KAZ will do differently as a private company versus what it can't do as a public company? Just trying to understand is it a question about adding more leverage, which will be uncomfortable for a public company or is it the value crystallization which public markets may not assign appropriately or is there any other element? And related to that, does the copper price recovery change that thought process by any deviation?

Second question, how much can you practically spend at Baimskaya in 2021 after feasibility study excess capital expenditure approval?

And third one, on your production profile, looking at slide 33 or a better slide at 45, is it fair to assume that 350,000 tonne will be the absolute minimum you can produce during 2022 and 2024 for each of these three years? Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Jatinder, for those questions. So, on the first question, regarding the offer, I'd just start by repeating a key message today, which is the – whilst I do appreciate the offer is of keen interest to I'm sure everyone on this call. We are in the midst of an offer period. And so, I'm very restricted in what I can say on it. We, of course, did publish – we announced on the 4th of February the £7.80 per share offer from Nova Resources for KAZ Minerals share and the offer document was posted on the 8th of February, which contains information on the offer process itself. And you can see on the Offer section of our website all of the published documents on this.

In respect of your specific question on Nova Resources, they set out in the offer document their perspective on risk appetite. And I think the questions of what they may do different to KAZ Minerals is the question for Nova Resources. So, I can't really take that question particularly further than that.

On the copper price recovery, obviously, that's extremely welcome. As a mining business, copper prices now risen significantly. But the board of KAZ Minerals does face the challenge of managing risk on this project. And in 2020 in November, we set out the complex development plan, which is a document which was submitted from the Ministry of the Far East to the Russian Federal Prime Minister. And in that document, there is the plan for the infrastructure for this region.

And today, that document is still not yet signed. There are several areas in that document, which are open to further resolution. For example, the financing of the second stage of the road of 200 kilometers from Bilibino to the port of Nagloynyn, the finalization of the source of power being LNG or nuclear, the mechanism for the power tariff.

So, there are a number of areas which are still not yet finalized in the infrastructure plan. And even once this is finalized, securing the actual construction of that infrastructure will require further agreements which – and take or pay contracts. So, from the board's perspective, there is a desire to maintain the momentum of this project to protect schedule and value. But at the same time, managing the risk of continuing to invest in a project, where we have not yet finalized and secured that infrastructure. So, I think that tension will still remain.

Do you want to take the question on CapEx?

Yeah. I mean on CapEx, so, we've guided $175 million for the year on CapEx, and that's predominantly onsite pioneering works. Those things like the air strip and also some electrification and some camp as well as detailed engineering, also the close-out of the feasibility study, which we're expecting by the end of the first half. I think at this point in time, I can't really speculate on how much CapEx would be after that, but we're very focused at the moment on closing out the PFS for the first half. And that will give us the information we need to decide how the board wishes to take the project forward.

And, Jatinder, sorry, you have to remind me of your third question on production in 2022 and 2023.

Yes. 2022 to 2024, it looks like this should be three good years of production, and is it fair to assume there'd be minimum 350,000 tonnes for each of these years?

So we've set out for that period. We've given you the date in which we currently expect to start up Aktogay 2, which will be the end of 2021. That project will then ramp up. We've given you a grade profile of 0.4% for that asset over that period. On Bozshakol, we've given you the 100 kilotonnes a year on average over the first 10 years. And with the guidance that we will start to move over, we're moving over that period towards its reserve grade of 0.35. And you've got – there is obviously the outlook for the East Region. So, we'll obviously do everything we can to maximize production over that period. But they're really the components, Jatinder, to form a view as to our production profile over that period.

Okay. Thank you so much. I'm not sure, if there will be a next call, but all the best.

Thank you for your question. Our next question in the line comes from Luke Nelson of JPMorgan. Luke, please go ahead.

Hi. Morning. Thanks for the call. A couple of questions. Firstly, just on Baimskoya. Is there a scenario where we could see full BFS before final closing of the offer? And then, just in terms of assuming sort of no external factors to consider, can you maybe just outline what are the key hurdle rates the board would need to see to approve by and square, so in terms of IRRs, paybacks, et cetera? And I suppose, how do you factor in some of the additional risks that potentially even after BFS is still unknown? I mean you talked about take or pay contracts potentially happening after FID. Just wondering how you build in some of those additional unknowns into any potential FID of the project? That's my first question.

So, on the Bankable Feasibility Study, in 2020, we substantially completed the feasibility work on the core project. And the reason we weren't able to complete the bankable feas is the infrastructure wasn't and still isn't today finalized. But what that enabled us to do was in November of last year is to publish all of the current key parameters of the project to make that assessment. So, really for the Bankable Feasibility Study, we require the finalization of the infrastructure plan. But we're not expecting to have new information per se come through from that, except to the extent the infrastructure is different to what we've previously announced. And we have highlighted for you the key areas which remain under discussion, the financing of the second portion the road, power tariff, source of power.

So, in terms of finalizing that, I wouldn't anticipate that to be in the imminent future. I'd expect that to be towards the end of the first half, but again, not expecting anything new into that. And if you look back to 2020, we have – as a business, we published four different project updates, three of which on Baimskaya. So, if there is any new news on Baimskaya, we will publish that information. We take those obligations very seriously and we have – throughout 2020, you can see that we provided updates as and when required on that project.

The board will consider the position on the infrastructure. Obviously, it has the information on the core project today. We'll consider all of that once we have that finalized infrastructure plan and then consider, based on the risks that it sees over securing that infrastructure versus maintaining continued momentum on the project as to how to proceed immediately thereafter.

And the Bankable Feasibility Study document again is largely a document for us to use to assess financing for the project, given we have the current parameters of that project today. And the board will assess the project using a range of commodity prices in different scenarios to determine whether it believes it will generate long-term value for the business. And I can tell you that we view it as a good project, albeit one today, which has got higher CapEx, which has had a negative impact on those returns.

Okay. Thank you. And then, two follow-ups, more just modeling questions. In terms of the 2021 guidance on cash costs, can you just remind us what your assumptions are in there for FX? And also, there were some COVID-related expenses in 2020, to what extent they're being included in 2021 cost? And then, finally just on TC/RCs, obviously, spot pricing for imported concentrated to China is much lower than concentrate – than contract. Can you maybe just remind us what your exposure is to spot relative to a contract? Thank you.

Yeah. So, on FX, we're assuming FX around about current levels. I think it's fair to say tenge has been relatively stable over the last few months. In 2020, you're talking about the COVID costs as well. So, within 2020, we incurred around $40 million of COVID costs. In 2021, we're expecting at least a similar level for the first half. And then I think it remains to be seen with uncertainty over COVID, how long those costs may go for. But that's what we're assuming at the current time. Further comment on the spot prices?

TC/RC, so we typically sell around 80% or so of our production under annual contracts. So, the exposure to spot TC/RC is relatively low.

Great. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:40:39) of the Royal Bank of Canada. Your line is now open.

Hey. [ph] Sri (00:40:46) from RBC Capital Markets. Thank you so much for the presentation. Just one question for me. So, how is the COVID situation in Kazakhstan? And within 2020, are there any key learnings from COVID that can be permanently applied to the operations going forward in terms of productivity improvements, et cetera? Thank you so much.

So, the COVID situation in Kazakhstan, we put in place comprehensive measures to protect our workforce and those vary between our different operations depending on the risk profile of those. On Bozshakol and Aktogay, they're both large camp-based sites, where we have established an isolation period. We have testing over the isolation period before the workers are admitted into the sort of general operating workforce to keep our sites safe from COVID. And we would expect that those measures continue during 2021, whilst we still view that to be an external risk.

In terms of what we learned from the situation, I mean, we faced very severe restrictions in the first half in particular of last year, where we couldn't move new staff to site safely, because we hadn't established the testing procedures and various other things that we require to keep our sites safe. And this meant that we had to perform a lot of activities ourselves, whereas previously we'd have moved – we would had contractors come to our sites. And it's been very, very encouraging what we've found from our own workforce the level of commitment, the ingenuity people showed, that we were able to do a lot of the activities ourselves. And as we go into 2021, we still face challenges in getting certain contractors to site, but I think we've learnt a lot from that and there are certain activities, certain maintenance activities, that we feel now that we can conduct internally and do as well, or if not better, than the external experts, who were previously providing those services.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We currently have no further questions.

Okay. Well, if there are no further questions, thank you very much all of you for joining us today on the call. And we, as a management team, remain absolutely focused on delivering the targets for 2021, the maximizing production from our producing assets in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, completing the Aktogay 2 expansion on track for end of this year and management keeping on budget, and of course, securing the infrastructure for Baimskaya completing the Bankable Feasibility Study. Thank you very much.

Thank you.