Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Oleg Novachuk — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, KAZ Minerals Plc
Andrew Southam — Chief Financial Officer, KAZ Minerals Plc
Fraser Rowat Jamieson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Reinout H. Goossens — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Jatinder Goel — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Edward C. Sterck — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.
Daniel E. Major — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Daniel Lurch — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our [indiscernible] (00:06) 2016 results announcement. And I would like to note, when we enter this auditorium, I started to feel that it smells new. This is a new story, [ph] involve (00:18) the new KAZ Minerals as well today.

I would like to say that 2016 for our company, for the history of our company, was exceptional year because we have successfully reached our strategic goal. We successfully completed construction of our two growth projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol, with reduction of the capital for $200 million for Aktogay, and we have delivered the growth, 73% for full year copper output, reaching 140,000 tonnes of copper this year in 2016.

And thanks to the strong cash cost management, we are one of the – I'm not talking about the lowest because many companies before have said they are lowest, but actually you see the numbers, that's why we are talking that we are one of the lowest copper producer, cash cost producer, $0.59 per pound, and I think this is the fantastic achievement for this year.

Our EBITDA growth was more than double. We have reached $492 million compared to 2015 where we generated only $208 million. And we're happy to say that our major project separation are now ramping up as we've planned before. Bozshakol declared the commercial production as was planned in October 2016. Aktogay sulfide concentrate commissioning was in December 2016, with the participation of President of Kazakhstan. It was exactly as we planned.

And this is very rare. If you consider – if you will review all the projects in the world, usually projects either late or over-budget or both of those. So, these projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol, after all disruptions before, were delivered exactly at the time when we promised and better than we budgeted.

We also improved our liquidity position we successfully raised additional financing, $350 million of new credit facilities obtained in December. $300 million have been raised with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan for nine years at the same – almost the same conditions as we agreed with CDB. It was only balance sheet covenants, which is also very favorable to us.

And as I mentioned before, we reduced the capital of $200 million for Aktogay project. And on this graph you can see how steep we started to grow our production and how steep we started to reduce our net cash cost. Unfortunately, 2016 was not good year in terms of safety for us. We have four incidents resulted in six fatalities. Most of the fatalities happened in our old operation – underground operation. This is eastern Kazakhstan operations. And we regretted well that, but we say that all fatalities are avoidable.

And we always focus that our fatalities rate should be zero. And we're sure that we can do that. And to prove that, I can tell you that Bozshakol in 2016 has worked during 23 million men work hours without any fatalities. And we're changing the culture. We're chairing the system of the management to follow safety operations. And we successfully showing that fatalities are avoidable. We're introducing the new incentive schemes.

At Aktogay, it was innovating scheme to pay bonuses to our employees who behave differently from others. So, we set up the fixed salary, and we pay additional bonuses if the safety performance is better than others. So, it's very innovative scheme, never used in the world before. We're trying to check how it works. If it works successfully, then we will roll it over to our other operations.

We continue to improve our performance by implementation of enhanced safety standards and also reviewing the occupational health improvements. And as I said, our target is zero fatalities.

This is the eighth year, when we deliver our results as we promised or better. And you can see on this slide that we promised to deliver the copper between 135,000 to 145,000. We're in the middle on the range. Zinc is the top range of our promises. Gold is high as well. And sliver is significantly higher. And of course, you can see the cash cost, as I said, thanks to our – external factors. And mainly thanks to our cost management programs, we significantly reduce the cost of our production.

And there is still growth ahead of us. We have delivered 73% growth this year. Next year, we expect about 80% of the growth, and in 2018, we believe that we can reach 300,000 tonnes of copper. But take into account that this growth now is without any risks. If we look back few years ago, we always [ph] told outlook (05:28), we just have nearly to – we're nearly completing the projects. Very soon, we will start production. Very soon, we will ramp up.

Today, we can say there is no execution risk. All money has been successfully invested. And all projects have been successfully delivered. And we are ramping up as we plan. So, the growth in 2017, 2018 is almost free of risk or with limited risk compared to last years.

And you can see where we are. As I said, we have successfully managed to reduce our cash costs significantly compared to our guidance and significantly compared to many companies in the world. We are one of the lowest copper producer in the world at the moment.

Before going to show you the achievements in our projects, as usual, I would like to show you our film. This is the final film how we finished Bozshakol. Please?

[Video Presentation] (06:37-09:38)

Isn't it exciting? And as you noticed, most of the senior management are local already. We started commissioning of this sulfide in December 2015. 100% of all key management were expats, with the relevant international experience. And during the year, we've found right people. We trained them and prepare for their operations. And now, with the local management, we maintain the world-class operations.

The very high safety culture, first of all, and probably some of you who visited different mines, you probably noticed that during the winter, when the temperature, as the guy said was minus 37, the quality of the road is better than in London. We keep it very – the surface is almost ideal to make sure that the tyre consumption is controlled. And we are – we control the haulage distances. So, we keep the quality of operations in the highest world standard.

And the first production from Bozshakol was in February 2016. We have produced 50,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate and 45,000 tonnes of copper equivalent. We also produced 286,000 ounces of silver. And it's now – ramp-up is on this on track. Currently, we produce at the level of above 75%. And we absolutely sure that 100% capacity of our production will be reached in the second half of this year. And of course, you can see how steep the ramp-up was. But it really – the initial ramp-up schedule was two years. And now, within one year, we have already reached the commercial production. And by the end of this year, we will reach the 100% capacity.

We also successfully commissioned the second plant. As you remember, in Bozshakol, we have two concentrators. One is sulfide, another one is clay's concentrator. The construction of the clay concentrator has been finished in August. In September, we successfully commissioned that. We have produced in the last quarter of 2016 about 0.2 kilotonnes copper in concentrate. And the first saleable material has been successfully shipped to our customers in 2017. And as of 21st of December, we have produced or mined 21 million tonnes of clay ore, which is enough for us for next four years because the capacity of the concentrate is 5 million tonnes. But this clay is used as a strip. Actually, this is stripping for us. And in the later stages, we will process it at our clay concentrator.

The guidance for next year. So, we will continue to focus on our operations and raising output to design capacity. We plan to produce from 95,000 to 110,000 of copper in 2017. We will optimize our floatation process. We will increase our recovery rate. And our gold production will be between 85,000 to 110,000 ounces. And silver will be in the area of 0.5 million ounces. As I said, the full capacity will be reached in 2017. Our gold grade in 2016 was excessively good, was 0.3 gram per tonne, but it is expected to reduce a little bit in 2017. That's why in the guidance of gold, it's a bit lower than in 2016.

Aktogay, again, before going to the presentation, we would like to show you our [indiscernible] (13:18).

[Video presentation] (13:20-16:18)

This is the second pride in our portfolio. We have started commissioning of our sulfide concentrator in December, ahead of schedule, because we said in the market that the concentrators commissioning will be started during 2017, but we successfully started commissioning in December. And the first saleable copper concentrate has been shipped already to our clients in February 2017, just probably a week or so ago, with very high quality, and the rate of production is also satisfiable to us.

The project budget of Aktogay was reduced by $200 million, which is amazing, for this project is about 10% from $2.3 million down to $2.1 million. We released the contingency and efficiency gains from Bozshakol construction process and local supply strategy. And as Mian told during the film that we transferred all our commissioning team from Bozshakol to Aktogay, and they transfer all the knowledge and lessons learned during the commissioning of Bozshakol. We have a special register.

All the problems we have had during the commissioning of Bozshakol, and we're tackling these problems before. We're just preventing the problems at Aktogay. That's why we believe that the ramp-up process at Aktogay will be significantly faster than Bozshakol. And commissioning now is progressing pretty well. We expect to declare the commercial production in the second half of 2017, and full-year ramped up [audio gap] (17:48) production at Aktogay will be in 2019. The guidance for this year will be [indiscernible] (17:55) to 65,000 tonnes of copper.

Our SX/EW production was a very successful. We commission this production in December 2015. We expected to produce – we guided the market that production of SX/EW will be 15,000 tonnes, but we have produced 18,000 tonnes of copper cathode of a very high quality, and expect that in 2017, we will increase production up to 20,000 tonnes.

So, currently these facilities are fully ramped up, and we think that's we shouldn't expect any problems regardless of this very severe winter, as you know that SX/EW production usually reduce the base of production in winter months. We do that, but it doesn't impact the full year guidance. And we delivered successfully even above what we promised to the market. And so, you can see how steeply we grow in our production in this facility.

And on the Eastern operations, I'm happy to say that Eastern operations in Bozymchak successfully delivered the production which we guided in the beginning of 2016. We reached all our targets. Unfortunately, as I said, we had fatalities. But we continue to focus on that. The production was very strong. We continue to work on that – our copper and by-product output in line or ahead of our guidance.

We have to reduce the working hours at the Orlovsky mine due to the refurbishment of our ventilation shaft. That's why at Orlovsky mine, we will have six-day week in second half – we started in second half 2016. And six days' week will continue during 2017. That's why the overall copper guidance for next year is slightly below of 2016. It will be 65,000.

We're also considering the initial development at our Artemyevsky II. This is the second stage of our current mine, Artemyevsky, and most likely that we will start the majority of our expenditure only from 2019. And we naturally stop production at Yubileyno-Snegirikhinsky mine because it was fully depleted in 2016. But this year, this mine successfully delivered about 5,500 tonnes of copper in concentrate. And now, this mine is under liquidation procedures. And this is another reason why overall production from the East is below 2016.

Bozymchak is another good example how to deliver the projects in very difficult jurisdictions and very difficult locations. Bozymchak project is located at the height of 3,200 meters in the mountain valley that's usually in Peru or Canada. And there is very limited space for [indiscernible] (20:57). There are a lot of forest around our mine, which is in [ph] the red booklet (21:01). It was very difficult to negotiate with the government where to locate the daily down, where to locate the facilities there. But this project was successfully delivered.

In 2015, we reached the 100% capacity. And 2016 was the first year when we worked at 100% capacity full year and our production was very good, it's 7,200. And that was also very good safety performance. We have zero work-related fatality since production commenced. During one-and-a-half year, zero fatalities and the injury rate is also very low. But by the way, there are no expats there, only locals. That's what we're demonstrating that it's possible to change the safety culture and locals can work safely.

And the group's – our production guidance for this year is the following. We suppose that we will produce from 225,000 260,000 tonnes of copper. Zinc guidance will remain the same as last year. The gold will be between 125,000 to 170,000 ounces. And silver will be 2.7 million to 3 million ounces for next year.

And now, I just give the word to Andy about financials.

So, although copper finished 2016 at $5,500 a tonne, it was not the best of years for metal. So, the LME price averaged $5,500 in 2015, but fell 12% to average $4,860 in 2016. Despite the challenging macroeconomic environment for most of the year, the group strategy of constructing two large-scale projects in parallel has delivered a significant uplift in our financials as we recorded the first sales from Bozshakol in March, and ramped up volumes over the year.

At the top of the slide I have presented gross revenues and gross EBITDA, which represent the performance of our assets for the full year, including the periods of pre-commercial production for Bozshakol and Aktogay oxide, in which their operating results were capitalized and not included in the income statement. Gross revenues rose by 43% in 2016, as we sold 141 kilotonnes of copper, up from 84 kilotonnes in the prior year, more than offsetting the lower copper price.

Gross EBITDA was almost $0.5 billion, an increase of 137%. The gross EBITDA margin was 51%, reflecting the contribution of low cost production from Bozshakol. Revenues and EBITDA from our income statement were $766 million and $351 million, respectively, which including Bozshakol for the final two months of the year only after achieved commercial production and Aktogay oxide for the second half of 2016.

The achievement of commercial production at Bozshakol coincided with strengthening copper prices at the end of the year. Our net cash cost for the full year was $0.59 per pound. We benefited from Bozshakol producing at a net cash cost of only $0.27 per pound, supported by brand new equipment. Aktogay oxide was a $1.14 per pound, and East Region and Bozymchak together a combined $0.68 per pound.

Free cash flow before interest paid was $119 million. So, in addition to the high profitability in the year, free cash flow was supported by East Region sustaining CapEx being lower than guided, as we carried forward approximately $15 million of spend into 2017.

At the 31st of December, we had a net debt of $2.7 billion. We have carried forward $100 million of spend of Bozshakol, which is largely completion payments, which we did expect to incur in the second half of 2016 and those have been carried into 2017.

We have gross liquid funds at the year-end of $1.1 billion supported by the new $300 million facility we secured with the DBK, Development Bank of Kazakhstan and a further $50 million we obtained on the Pre-Export Finance Facility ahead of a planned refinancing in 2017.

So, this slide sets out the movement in gross EBITDA, which includes Bozshakol and Aktogay pre-commercial production between 2015 and 2016. So, Bozshakol recorded an increase in EBITDA of $214 million with the sale 45 kilotonnes of copper. Its gross EBITDA margin in 2016 was 73%. Aktogay oxide, which contributed 14 kilotonnes of sales over the year, generated an additional $36 million of EBITDA compared to 2015.

Bozymchak in Kyrgyzstan may not be the largest of assets in our portfolio, but it had a very successful year. Its gross EBITDA in 2015 was $11 million. However, following those optimization work which Oleg referred to at the end of 2015, it increased copper and gold output by over three times, generating $52 million of EBITDA in 2016, $41 million above the prior year.

In the East Region, lower copper prices reduced revenues by $50 million, partially offset by stronger zinc, gold, and silver prices. We also moved to a six-day a week at Orlovsky from July for maintenance work, which led to a reduction in copper and zinc sales volumes, as well as lower grades. The impact of which was around $65 million.

The lower revenues were, however, almost fully compensated for by reduced costs. The full year impact of the tenge devaluation has been helpful. The tenge was 54% weaker than in 2015. And we also took a number of measures to limit the impact of inflation on our business.

We had a gross EBITDA of $492 million for 2016, of which $141 million was capitalized, $137 million of which for Bozymchak, $4 million for Aktogay oxide, resulting in EBITDA calculated from the income statements of $351 million.

We've reported a group gross cash cost of $2.30 per pound in 2015, which has fallen by a third to a gross cash cost of $1.56 per pound in 2016. We have always said that our new open-pit mines will be local cost. And in 2016, Bozshakol made up around a third of copper sales. Also, its gross cash cost in its first year of $1.06 per pound is not representative of its future costs, and compares favorably with our expectations. The increasing volumes from large-scale open-pit mines will help maintain the group's competitive position going forward.

The East Region and Bozymchak recorded a gross cash cost of $1.91 per pound, at the bottom end of our guidance, supported by the Yubileyno mine remaining open for the almost the whole of 2016. The East Region did benefit significantly from the tenge devaluation and the relatively moderate inflation that we subsequently saw.

Our by-product revenues increased 42% or $88 million in 2016 due to the gold at Bozshakol and Bozymchak. However, when calculated per unit of copper sold, given the 73% increase in copper output, by-product credits fell by $0.24 per pound to give the group a net cash cost of $0.59 per pound.

Issuing guidance for Bozshakol costs in 2016 had been – was challenging. It's difficult to forecast how assets are going to perform during the ramp-up period. In reality, the level of maintenance spend required was minimal in the first year, both in respect of mining and in respect of processing.

And for example, we scheduled no relinings in the second half of 2016. These were then postponed to the fourth quarter, and we've actually only just informed them problem in February of this year. In 2017, the Bozshakol $1.25 to $1.45 gross cash cost guidance is based on the operating team's assessment of more normalized maintenance activities of the sulfide power plant and on the mining fleet, which has been operating since the summer 2015. There is also an upwards impact from the commencements of processing at the clay plant. It has higher operating cost in the sulfide plant due to its smaller scale, particularly so during its first year of ramp-up.

At Aktogay, again, it is difficult to forecast operating cost during initial commissioning of the sulfide plant. But the range given of $1.25 to $1.45 is our current expectation. This is lower than the guidance given for Bozshakol at the start of 2016, which was $1.50 to $1.70, you may recall, and we'll have to see how we progress during its first year. And I'll update you accordingly.

The East Region and Bozymchak reported a gross cost of $1.91 per pounds in 2016, a reduction from the $2.30 per pound in the previous year. The weaker tenge was followed by moderate inflation. However, we're also successful in reducing costs. And Bozymchak benefited from lower costs in its first year of full operation.

Looking forward to 2017, the East Region has loss production from the close of Yubileyno mine and from Orlovsky, the region's largest mine now operating on a six-day schedule for the whole of 2017. And mining at Orlovsky will also move to a lower-grade section. The impact of this lower copper production, as well as higher operating cost at Bozymchak as the mine enters its second year of full operations, is that the gross cash cost is expected to be $2.30 to $2.50 per pound.

And this is, of course, the gross cash cost. And as Oleg has indicated earlier, we expect to broadly maintain our zinc and gold production at the same level of 2016 from these assets, which, on a smaller copper output, will provide a greater credit per unit of cash cost than in 2016. And we believe that this will maintain the East Region and Bozymchak in the first quartile of the global cash cost curve in 2017.

We've had a fairly busy period on financing in the second half of 2016 once Bozshakol achieved good throughput levels. And in December, we were pleased to announce that we had secured $300 million from the Development Bank of Kazakhstan. Facility is long term at around eight-and-a-half years, and a similar covenant to those in our existing China Development Bank facilities, and also diversifies our sources of funding. We also obtained a further $50 million on our Pre-Export Finance Facility ahead of a potential refinancing of that facility in 2017. Following our securing and drawing these new facilities, we finished the year with $1.1 billion of gross liquid funds.

We've shown a chart on the slide with net debt to EBITDA metrics over the past three years, which illustrate how our multiples rose sharply as we essentially became a project company, limited production with two major projects in construction. This trend has now sharply reversed. We are past the CapEx. Bozshakol is ramping up. And with Aktogay to commit – having started production in 2017, we expect this downward trend to continue.

This slide shows the profile of our spend on the two major growth projects, which we've now invested over 80% of the project budgets, $3.5 billion to date. 2014 and 2015 were the years of peak spending with close to $1 billion invested in each year. That level of spend is now behind us. And in 2016, we invested approximately $300 million. Looking forward, there is $100 million of Bozshakol investments that are outstanding. The largest part of which are contractor retention payments, which we did expect to incur in 2016, but will now fall in 2017.

On Aktogay, we have previously announced a $200 million reduction project budget. And we have $265 million of spend scheduled for 2017, which includes final construction payments, [indiscernible] (33:26) including critical spares, expansion to the mining fleet, and rolling stock. You will recall that we reached an agreement with our principal contractor to defer $300 million of construction costs to 2018. And we've also moved $70 million to expand the heap leach pads into 2018.

I'll now summarize our guidance for 2017 on the financial side. So, Bozshakol gross cash cost, $1.25 to $1.45, which anticipates a move to normalized operating activities, and also includes the impact of the commencement to the clay plant which will ramp up over the year. Aktogay, also $12.5 to $1.45, the cash cost for the full year including the pre-commercial production period, and therefore difficult to forecast – is lower, as I've said before, than the $1.50 to $1.70 that we guided for Bozshakol at similar point in 2016. East Region and Bozymchak gross cash cost $2.30 to $2.50, impacted by the closure of Yubileyno and a temporary restriction output to Orlovsky. And that said, the net cash cost would, of course, be supported by good by-product credits.

Turning to sustaining capital expenditure. We're guiding $30 million at Bozshakol and $20 million for Aktogay, principally for the mining fleet. At the East Region and Bozymchak, we guided $70 million to $80 million for 2016, also we've actually incurred only $50 million. We've $15 million carried forward into 2017, principally on nonrecurring optimization projects.

The expansionary spend for 2017 is just over $400 million. I've covered the major projects, so Bozshakol and Aktogay already. We also expect to incur up to $30 million on Snegirikhinsky, Artemyevsky as part of the mine extension project there. And we've also earmarked around $20 million for other projects, including continuous study work at Koksay.

Over the past couple of years, the group has managed well the factors under its control. We've met our production guidance, demonstrated good cost control, deferred sustaining CapEx, and we've progressed the ramp-up and construction of the projects on schedule and on budget. And I'm pleased to see this progress beginning to be get reflected in our financial results with the 43% higher revenues, more than doubling our EBITDA, and a group net cash cost of $0.59 per pound.

So, I look forward to further growth in 2017, and a stronger copper price certainly can help.

[indiscernible] (35:56) and this is my favorite slide. It's self-explanatory. And as you can see, this – I think that the slogan for our presentation today is from promise to performance. If you remember, all last years, our last slide was the strategy curve, which we started – we started to implement our strategy in 2012, when we decided that we will dispose of our non-core assets.

If you remember, it was ENRC power station. Then, we decided that we will spin off our high cost assets, the former Kazakhmys. And then, we said that we would like to become a company which will produce 80% out of open pit. It will improve productivity. It will improve safety.

And today, I can say now – we are not promising, now we are successful, we achieved all our strategic goals which we set up five years ago. Both major growth project completed and in production. We became one of the lowest cost producer in the world in 2016, and now our growth continue in 2017 and 2018. So, we're happy to say that we delivered everything we promised to the market.

Thank you very much. And now, we will be opening for questions. Thank you.

Fraser, as usually, the first one. Yeah?

Hi. Thanks very much. Fraser Jamieson from JPMorgan. Firstly, yeah, I would like to say congratulations on what you've achieved. I think there is a lot of skepticism from people within this room and including me, and – about your ability to do it. And you've proved us all wrong, which kind of leads on to the question. So, you – the story is now very different. And from here, it looks like we're very close to getting over the hump in terms of net debt as an absolute number. And certainly, from a gearing perspective, we're probably past that already depending on what you think may happen to commodity prices.

So, I just wanted to get a sense of internally, are you – is the company – is the board comfortable with that kind of gradual de-gearing profile? Is there any internal impetus to perhaps be a bit more aggressive in terms of how you fund the business going forward and the implication on making [indiscernible] (38:32) as share prices [indiscernible] (38:35)? Is there any thinking that this might be an opportune moment to raise some funds, de-gear more quickly?

And then, just a couple for Andy on specifics. Could you tell us what KZT assumption you're making in your cost guidance? And then, Aktogay, you talked about the fact that the guidance for 2017 is a lot lower than where you guided Bozshakol in its first year of ramp-up. The alternative way of looking at it is it's much higher than what Bozshakol actually managed to achieve. So, just trying to get some context around conservatism or otherwise on the Aktogay cost base.

Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to remind you that our facility from CDB, we are the one – not – I think not one of the, we are the only one company in the world who succeeded to raise financing from Chinese Development Bank for 15 years, with only balance sheet covenants. All other banks usually provide you the loans maximum [indiscernible] (39:44) after 10 years, but very, very rare companies can achieve that. And most of the covenants have P&L, which is difficult to manage, especially when copper price started to decline.

And if we – if you say that if we will think about de-gearing company more aggressively, so we need to raise money at the worst condition to de-gear – to repay the loan, which is totally favorable to us. And I think that the – if we will find something better than CDB, it makes sense. But if the loans available on the market at the moment are not better than CDB, I don't think it's a good idea to accelerate de-gearing the company and get rid of the debt, which is very rare to find in the world.

As to Aktogay, I think that the production guidance is nearly the same as we given for Bozshakol. If you remember, Bozshakol was 45,000 tonnes to 65,000. It was totally the same. That's why we just take the same pattern of the ramp-up. But of course, we will try to do our best. But to be sure that we don't over-promise, we would like to give the guidance as we given for Bozshakol.

[indiscernible] (41:00)

Yeah. And just, on the first question there on the de-gearing story, clearly, we're in a much stronger copper price environment. We'll see how that plays out. But that will help – I mean, the group will naturally de-gear on a sort of gearing metrics basis quite rapidly. I think I showed a slide there with a very, very steep decline in the level of gearing that we have. And so, I think with the new projects that are low cost position and where the copper price is, we are de-gearing very rapidly on that basis.

On the Kazakh tenge, so it was rock solid at sort of KZT 340 for most of 2016. And for those of you who don't follow it, it has strengthened in somewhat in the last few weeks actually in 2017. So, we haven't checked today, but we're around the sort of KZT 315 level yesterday. So, the guidance I've given is based on a slightly weaker tenge than that, but not significantly weaker.

[indiscernible] (41:54) 10%?

Slightly below 10%, that kind of range.

Thank you.

On Aktogay, I mean, look, it is quite difficult to forecast operating cost during the ramp-up period precisely because it is a ramp-up period. I think if I look back at what happened at Bozshakol over 2016, particularly in the second half, there was a real focus on just trying to build up the operating hours. Quarter two was probably – possibly slightly lower throughputs than we originally would have hoped for. We had a leaking pipe in quarter one which we rectified in July.

So, the second half of the year, we did focus on trying to just increase that throughput. So, a lot of the maintenance work that might have been performed in the second half, we're just going to do it in – now in 2017. So, it's a little bit difficult to forecast on that. I think the guidance we've given [indiscernible] (42:46) current expectation of where we see [ph] that's going (42:48) 2017.

And sorry, just to follow up on that. So, you're saying that you plan to do the maintenance activities and maintenance schedule differently at Aktogay than you have – than you previously did at Bozshakol because of what you plan there? Or are you planning to do exactly the same thing basically?

Right. In commissioning, you're never quite sure what's going to – you're never quite sure of the issues you're going to face. And so, when you start the year, you have your plan. And that plan would evolve depending on the commissioning issues that you encounter. So, the $1.25 to $1.45 is our current expectation of what we will incur in the year [indiscernible] (43:28). And we'll have to see how it'd progress. It is a ramp-up period.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Good morning. Reinout Goossens, Morgan Stanley. One quick question. So, you've had some tailwinds from devaluing Kazakh tenge. Have you seen it transiting already in higher costs – higher cost inflation? And how should we think about that going forward? Is most of that tailwind going to be [indiscernible] (43:56)? Or is some of that sustainable?

So, we've seen it's a high single-digit inflation following a devaluation in 2015, and expect a similar level into 2017.

Good morning. Jatinder Goel from Citigroup. Two questions, please. Which signpost do you need to – at which boxes do you need to tick before you get to a dividend? Practically, if current copper price holds, would – [ph] which are where (44:29) you get to your gearing or balance sheet measures? And what sort of net debt to EBITDA would you look at practically? And secondly, just on the smelter – potential new smelter in Kazakhstan, what's your thought process behind it? What size and scale are we looking at and over what time period? And does it impact your potential customers of current concentrate as well? Thank you.

Very good questions. I can tell you I'm the first person to vote for the dividends because I'm a shareholder and we haven't seen dividends for a number of years already. But before ticking the box, we – the first box to tick – I mean, for dividend, the first box to tick before that would be to de-gear the balance sheet of our company. That will be our main focus at the moment. And I think that we cannot tell you how long will it take. It depends on the copper price and the market. And it depends on the pace of our ramp-up. But as soon as we feel that we are comfortable with our debt level, then we will consider the capital allocation afterwards.

As to the smelter. We're continuing the study. And currently, we are not able to say what will be the size and when it will happen. Definitely, if it will show us the healthy NPV, we'll see that it will be beneficial for our company to have that smelter. And if – which is very important – we will find financing – because we don't want to de-gear the company and then take a debt, and have it again because we want to build a smelter.

We would like to find the way to finance this project, if it will be viable, if it will be effective to our shareholders with minimum gearing of our company. This is very important. It will not have any influence or impact in our concentrate customers because most of them are consumers of copper cathodes and concentrate. And they will consume either product we produce.

Just a follow-up. Is there any target gearing or any of the metric that you would look at before a dividend? Obviously, getting down to an acceptable gearing is important, but what is that acceptable range, if you could get some sense?

Sure. Historically, we've talked about 2 to 2.5 times. I think the sector's probably moved somewhere from that. I think at this point, I don't need to give you a specific number because we're clearly still not at that level or even a level below that. So, right now, the focus is on completing the ramp-up, de-gearing, and we will continue to assess the outlook for the business, and consider dividends, and that net debt to EBITDA type metric as we progress.

I think when we think about it, clearly, the state the operation, state of the copper market and our own options and the opportunities available to us, we will be part of that. We do historically have a strong record in shareholder returns. And it's something we want to return to, to a much more balanced capital allocation policy. I'm not going to sort of give a specific number today on that.

Thanks. Edward Sterck, BMO. Just a question on – obviously a lot of discussion on restarting paying dividends, de-gearing the balance sheet, and so on. But there are other project options. Does this mean that Koksay is being pushed back further and further in terms of prospective developments and the focus is still on the balance sheet and returns?

I think, personally, as we said, we will focus on the de-gearing of our company. But Koksay is in a stage of pre-scoping study – the scoping study at the moment. And we would like thoroughly to finish that to make sure that we understand all available options how Koksay could be developed. Just would like to remind you that it took us about few years to prepare Aktogay and Bozshakol for construction. And that's why construction was extremely successful. We invited independent experts from the – from around the globe to check about the quality of the design.

The most problem of most of the projects in the world, when they start to ramp up or commissioning of the project, they found out usually afterwards that the design was wrong. Some equipment was chosen wrongly, or layout of the concentrator or [indiscernible] (48:47) was wrong, or something else happens not as it was expected. I can tell you, 100% of design of all our – of both of our projects was right. We don't have any issues. It happens only because we took a significant time to prepare the project before we start the construction. And the same will happen with Koksay. That's why we're taking time. We're not in rush to prepare that project, assess it properly to see how the – how beneficial this project is for shareholders. And then, we will take decisions. But, firstly, de-gearing.

That's great option to have. So, as and when that de-gearing is what we feel to be at an appropriate level, Koksay will be there. A decision will be made on Koksay depending on the outlook for copper and ourselves.

Thank you.

Hi. It's Daniel Major from UBS. Two questions. One is a follow-up on the inflation question. Can you give us a reminder of your split between domestic and U.S. dollar costs at your different operations? The second is on working capital, as you ramp up through the next one to two years, assuming sort of similar copper prices to now. Can you give us a sense of where you expect working capital to move? And the third question, you laid out the sustaining capital guidance on page 28. Obviously, you highlighted a couple of optimization projects. Can you give us a sense of how that compares to life of mine sustaining CapEx of the individual assets?

So, on the split of tenge versus international cost of operations, the East Region, which has a higher labor component, we estimate to be around sort of 50% local cost [indiscernible] (50:42) cash operating cost basis. Bozshakol and Aktogay have lower labor component. They're probably around about 40% local currency exposure.

On the sustaining CapEx. So, we spent $51 million across Bozymchak and East Region in 2016. We did originally guide – or we actually revised the guidance down to $70 million to $80 million in August of 2016. So, we've underspent that amount. We do have some optimization projects, which we have postponed into 2017, and is around $15 million of those included within the guidance for 2017. So, the guidance for 2017 is $70 million, of which $15 million is nonrecurring. So, that's how I probably look at those assets going forward.

Okay. So, the guidance given here are for adjusting for that $15 million is a fair sort of assumption on the run rate over the life of mine of [indiscernible] (51:42) obviously assuming you get some decline in production...

The production with the CapEx, yeah. And your sort of the....

Working capital.

The working capital question. So, at Bozshakol, we have – we had our increase in working capital 2016 as that asset has ramped up. I have guided previously around $50 million to sort of additional working capital for each project in respect to sort of the site operations. So, clearly, we have some more of that to come at Aktogay, as we start up in – as we really ramp up operations in the sulfide plant in 2017.

And, the other point I would set out in terms of [indiscernible] (52:26) concentrate sales, we sell under – there's a delay in the – 10% of your revenues is delayed, perhaps around three months on provisional pricing. So, that's a factor to build into your sort of working capital assumptions on those assets.

So, just to be clear, you pretty much were – got to the normalized level at Bozshakol and you got about another $50 million or so of working capital build at Aktogay as you ramp up?

That's reasonable. Yeah.

Great. Thanks.

So, looks like – okay. Great.

Sorry, me again. Fraser Jamieson at JPMorgan. Just a quick on at Artemyevsky, you said the majority of the cost is from 2019 onwards. I have numbers in my mind sort of $250 million to $300 million for that total project. Could you maybe comment on that? And, the second one was just around Bozshakol sort of longer-term sustainable cash costs is $1.25, $1.45. Leaving aside FX and sort of potential energy costs, is that a reasonable number to think of going forward? Or are we still in sort of low maintenance environment, et cetera?

I think for – the second stage of Artem will be low 100s because we continue to finish our feasibility study. And yeah, probably the numbers you said near to those. And on the sustainable CapEx?

On the sustaining – on operating costs going forward, we have – I mean, I think the best way to look at this is going back to our original 10-year guidance. So, we previously guided $17.90 per pound. But on a net basis over that first 10-year period, we've given you gold numbers. So, you should be getting to a sort of 10-year average, probably the sort of top end of that range. So, that's the – but we'll move – we should move up that range over the life of the asset.

Thank you. Any more questions? Probably we should check people on the phone if we have some questions. Yeah?

We do have a question coming in from the line of Daniel Lurch, Exane. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you so much for taking my question. Just two quick ones for me. The first one is on Bozshakol. Are there any [indiscernible] (54:59) or maintenance options planned in FY 2017 or do you expect a relatively smooth production profile? Second question, quickly on Aktogay, you said no molybdenum by-product credits in 2017. When you do expect them to start? And third question, quickly on the cost guidance, you mentioned that it's difficult to forecast your cost in a ramp-up period. However, could you briefly outline the different assumptions which drive the low-end and upper-end of the cost guidance? Is this mostly driven by different inflation assumptions into your production guidance? Could you give us some details here? Thank you.

Thank you. The first question was about Bozshakol? Andy, is it?

So, we've got...

Yeah. Let me just answer regard molybdenum. We [indiscernible] (55:46) we don't – we decided not to produce molybdenum, [ph] unless (55:52) we stabilize production of our copper concentrate because if you will run two circuits in parallel, some copper will be extracted into molybdenum concentrate. And we – currently, we would like to make sure that we produce – we establish the stable production of our copper concentrate.

And second stage, we will switch to commissioning the circuit of molybdenum. So, it will happen this year, but we cannot tell you the date. As soon as we are satisfied with the production of copper concentrate, then we will switch to molybdenum. But firstly, it will happen in Bozshakol because Bozshakol works already for full year. And it will happen this year for Bozshakol.

Maintenance plant – maintenance timetable at Bozshakol, where we have lots – where we have shutdowns of Bozshakol in 2017 for maintenance.

Yeah, but all the maintenance is planned, and it was known even before we finished the construction. We shift on maintenance operations from 2016 to 2017 because we started production at Bozshakol in February. It didn't work full year, and some maintenance works have been shifted to 2017.

But you always – anyway, we'll have – take major piece of maintenance by realigning the mills, for example. You'll always have shutdowns for that type of maintenance in a typical year.

On the guidance for Aktogay. I think you've touched on some of the key variable points there yourself in your question. So, clearly the level of production we achieve will have an impact on those cash costs on a per unit basis. There are also other factors. So, as the plant starts up, you'll be trying to find the right mix reagents, looking at different consumption levels of those. And so, there will be a number of factors like that inside that guidance.

And there's also – as I said in my presentation in 2016, at Bozshakol, a lot of the planned maintenance works that we had, we actually pushed those into 2017. So, at the moment we're scheduling a reasonable level of maintenance works over the second half of 2017 there for Aktogay. And if we go ahead and stick with that schedule, then that – those costs will be included in that guidance.

Thank you. Any more questions? So, I believe that this year is very easy to understand. Our story is a great success. And thank you very much for attending our results. Thank you.