Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steve Goodweather — Vice President-Financial Planning & Analysis, Luby's, Inc.
Christopher James Pappas — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Luby's, Inc.
K. Scott Gray — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Luby's, Inc.
Peter Tropoli — Chief Operating Officer, Luby's, Inc.
James Fronda — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good day, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Luby's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Steve Goodweather. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, and welcome, again, everyone to Luby's 2014 fiscal third quarter earnings conference call. As mentioned, this call is also being webcast, and can be accessed through the audio link on Luby's website, lubysinc.com. Information recorded on this call speaks only as of today, June 13, 2014.

Before we continue, I'd like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby's future financial and operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company's business, including the expected financial performance of the company's prototype restaurants and future openings, are forward-looking statements.

Those statements include risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, general business conditions; the impact of competition; success of operating initiatives; change in commodity costs and supply of food and labor; and seasonality of the company's business, taxes, inflation, governmental regulations, and the availability of credit; as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q.

I will now turn the call over to Luby's President and CEO, Chris Pappas.

Thanks, Steve. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our third quarter earnings conference call for fiscal 2014. With me today are Scott Gray, our Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Tropoli, our Chief Operating Officer.

I'd like to begin today's call by providing an overview of our businesses, the current trends we are experiencing in each of our core brands and their operational performance, before turning the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray, to review our financials in more detail. Then, we will open the call up to your questions.

We're pleased with our sales results in the third quarter, including continued same-store sales growth at our core Luby's Cafeterias. We opened three new restaurants during the quarter and we continued to enhance our brand initiatives.

Our total company same-store sales were positive in the second quarter, rising 0.3% for the quarter, and they're up 0.5% year-to-date. Our Luby's Cafeterias generated strong same-store sales growth of 2% in the third quarter, driven entirely by increases in guest traffic as a result from our continued focus on operational excellence.

We are also especially pleased with our side-by-side Luby's and Fuddruckers location. We refer to these as combo locations. We now have three side-by-side combo locations opened, totaling six new restaurants that are each well received by our guests. The first combo location was opened over 18 months ago, and was added to our same-store sales base this quarter.

That location produced a same-store sales gain of 2.2% this quarter, and store level profit of 21.3%. This location not only serves our dine-in customers at the Luby's Cafeteria and Fuddruckers, but also serves breakfast and lunch at a nearby corporate office, and provides full catering for their business meetings and special events.

Same-store sales at our Fuddruckers restaurants declined 3.9% in the quarter. In our home market of Texas, same-store sales are down less, they are approximately 2%. As far as total sales for Fuddruckers, the decline in the same-store sales was partially offset by the sales contribution from three new Fuddrucker restaurants, net of two restaurant closings. Part of the decline in same-store sales is attributable for the discontinuance of discounting efforts in the quarter versus the prior year.

We're currently executing our Fuddruckers brand initiatives that we anticipate will enhance restaurant performance. To improve same-store sales, we're focused on our guest engagement activities, and especially on our speed-of-service initiatives, and to build long-term guest loyalty and frequency, we're retaining our everyday value pricing.

Also, at Fuddruckers, we continue to build our franchise pipeline. So far this fiscal year, we've announced four new agreements to develop Fuddruckers restaurants, three of which are international. In total, our pipeline contains the potential for adding up to 50 new units over the next seven years, and we continue to seek out new franchise partners that will open new markets for the Fuddruckers brand.

Turning now to Cheeseburger in Paradise brand. During the quarter, we executed on our conversion and performance plan. We have now converted two of the Cheeseburger in Paradise locations to our Fuddruckers brand, one was converted in quarter one, and one was converted in quarter two, a third is set to open later this month.

In addition, we have one more location currently undergoing conversion with plans to reopen later this summer. At the end of the year, we expect to have completed four Cheeseburger in Paradises to Fuddruckers conversions, and have an additional five location selected for conversion to be completed in the first half of 2015.

I would now like to provide an update on our new restaurant development plans. We have opened 7 new restaurants this fiscal year, which is on pace to achieve our previous range rate to 10. New store openings which are primarily comprised of our Luby's Cafeterias and Fuddruckers side-by-side combo configuration are all well-received by our guests.

As you may recall, in the second quarter, we opened four new restaurants. In the third quarter, we opened three new restaurants. Our fourth combo location will open in July in Rockwall, Texas, just outside of Dallas, and our fifth unit is currently under construction in Webster, Texas, south of Houston, and is slated to open by the fall of this year. We also anticipate that another three stand-alone Fuddruckers will open around the same time, two of those locations are Fuddruckers we acquired from franchisees, and one is a closed Koo Koo Roo Chicken location, that will convert to a Fuddruckers.

Looking now at our remodeling efforts at our core brands of Luby's and Fuddruckers, we expect to complete several remodel projects in fiscal 2014, which has been revised from our previous expectation up to 10. During the end of the third quarter, we've completed six remodel projects.

Finally, at our Culinary Contract Services business, our team continues to grow this segment and we have increased revenue in the quarter to $4.5 million, compared to $4.1 million in the same quarter of last fiscal year. We ended the third quarter fiscal 2014, operating 26 facilities, an increase from 19 facilities at the end of the third quarter fiscal 2013.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott Gray, who will elaborate on our financial results in the third quarter of fiscal 2014. And then, I'll comment on our 2014 outlook before opening the call up to your questions. Scott?

Thanks, Chris. This morning, I'll elaborate on our financial performance for the quarter, and touch on a few year-to-date results. Before I get started, please note that we posted a new supplemental pack on our website at lubysinc.com, under Investor Relations and Events. Some additional information we think that is helpful for the investor.

I'll begin with the our company-operated restaurant segment. Total restaurant sales were up $400,000 or $0.4 million to $90.9 million in the quarter. That change is due to restaurants that we're opened prior to 2012 being up $0.4 million, and new store sales of $3.4 million being offset by restaurant closures, including units closed up for future conversion.

Cost of food as a percentage of restaurant sales was flat at 28.6% of restaurant sales for the quarter, despite increases in commodity cost and limited price increases to offset. During the quarter, food commodity cost increased by 4% at Luby's Cafeterias and 3% at Fuddruckers compared to last year.

Payroll-related cost as a percentage of restaurant sales were 33.3%, which is down 30 basis points compared to the prior year. We continue to make progress on matching our labor requirements to anticipate the daily guest traffic.

Operating expenses were up 40 basis points to 17.8% compared to the prior-year. A decline in repairs and maintenance during the quarter was offset by higher utilities, marketing and insurance costs compared to last year. Occupancy costs were relatively flat as a percentage of restaurant sales, they declined slightly to 5.4% versus 5.5% in the prior year.

Store level profit margins for the restaurant business segment, excluding Cheeseburger in Paradise, were 16.1% of restaurant sales versus 16.5% last year. Including Cheeseburger, store level profit, and that number, we were in total for the segment 14.8% this year versus 15% last year.

Now, some additional points on Cheeseburger. The top 10 Cheeseburger units of the 15 that remain open as Cheeseburgers at the end of the quarter, produced 12.1% store level profit margin before royalties in the quarter, on average weekly sales per unit of $47,000 per unit. Please note that in the investor supplemental pack, we have included a page that outlines our average unit volumes by the type of units. Please take a look, if you're interested.

And moving on to other business segments. Culinary Contract Service sales were up $0.4 million or 10.6% year-over-year, while culinary store level profit rose slightly to $0.6 million in the quarter from $0.5 million last year. Third business segment of restaurant franchise, revenue was up 2.7% year-over-year in the quarter at $1.7 million, primarily from earning and franchise fees for new locations.

Total company income from continuing operations declined to $1.7 million in the third quarter compared to $2.7 million in the prior year, while total revenue increased $0.9 million year-over-year. Income from continuing operations, excluding special items, including Cheeseburger in Paradise was $1.3 million or $0.04 per diluted share compared to $3 million or $0.10 per diluted share last year. This $1.7 million decline in income from continuing operations was due to higher G&A expenses primarily due to higher professional fees, as well as higher operating cost this year versus last year, depreciation expense, and interest expense during the quarter.

Total company EBITDA, excluding Cheeseburger and new restaurant opening costs for the quarter, was $7.8 million or $9.4% EBITDA margin of total revenue, excluding CIP sales, compared to $8.8 million or 11% in the prior year.

Now, year-to-date for the three quarters ended, EBITDA excluding CIP was $17.4 million or 7.5% compared to $18.2 million or 8% in the prior year, down 50 basis points year-to-date. Our trailing four quarters, total company EBITDA as of the end of Q3 2014 was $20.6 million or 24.2% excluding Cheeseburger. This compares to $25.5 million excluding Cheeseburger and EBITDA for last fiscal year 2013.

Now, into our balance sheet. We ended the third quarter with net debt of $34.2 million and $20 million remaining available under our credit facility. Next quarter, we expect to invest $10 million to $11 million in CapEx. This includes $1.5 million in land, $5.4 million related to new units, $1.7 million related to that last remodel and restaurant conversions, concept conversions, and $2 million in recurring maintenance capital. This will bring us to a total of approximately $42 million in capital expenditures for fiscal 2014.

We continue to focus on improving cash flow from operations in order to provide capital to fuel our new unit development. At our current trailing cash flow level of $20.6 million, we project capital spending of approximately $25 million, excluding land for fiscal 2015. Based on a realized improvement in cash flows during the course of 2015, we would then project start dates on new construction units to move up accordingly. We continue to pursue sites for our new unit pipeline for future restaurant development. We currently have three combo sites yet to begin construction.

Now, to recap a couple of items before I conclude, we see our investment in drivers as follows. Our mature Texas-born brands with longevity, generating free cash flow after recurring maintenance CapEx. We have a national and internationally recognized franchise Fuddruckers brand. We have a Luby's brand franchise vehicle with our Culinary Contract Services segment. Our new combo multi-brand restaurants, which average $92,000 in average weekly sales during the quarter, which is greater than our core Luby's average $51,000 and our core Fuddruckers average $32,000 combined. And then, we have a 50-50 owned versus leased composition of our restaurant locations.

Also, I'd like to touch on our capital allocation strategy, which remains as follows. One, taking a balanced approach between capital intensive investments with new restaurants in our company restaurant business segment, and then also, [ph] a lower or no (15:16) capital requirement from our Culinary and Franchise business segment.

So two developed restaurant prototypes for growth, primarily through our combo units, where we build two restaurant concepts side-by-side as well as new locations, including Luby's and Fuddruckers, and reinvesting in our existing restaurants to sustain and grow cash flow, all while trying to maintain our conservative debt levels.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Chris.

Thanks, Scott. Looking toward the end of the fiscal year-end in August, we now expect same-store sales growth for the fiscal year of up to 0.5%. Total restaurant sales, including same-store sales plus the contribution from new store openings offset by store closing is expected to be on the lower end of our total restaurant sales guidance range of $375 million to $385 million. As we execute our plans to convert several Cheeseburger in Paradise locations to Fuddruckers, we expect a negative impact of sales and cash flow in the current fiscal year.

Lastly, as we stated in our press release, we expect to open at least 9 new restaurants in fiscal 2014, which is in line with our expectation at the beginning of the fiscal year for 8 to 10 restaurants. We also plan to have at least two additional restaurant construction starts for fiscal 2015 openings, consistent with prior expectations. And we also want to convert a total of 4 Cheeseburger in Paradise locations to our Fuddruckers brand by the end of fiscal year 2014.

Reflecting back on this quarter, we have some bright spots and some challenges. Luby's Cafeterias is clearly performing well, but it will struggle some, and we're working hard to address those things and get back to positive sales. At Cheeseburger, we have a plan that we're executing on and the progress we are making will be more visible going forward.

And finally, our new restaurant development program is meeting its targets, and we're pleased with this area of growth. We believe in our brands, and our growth strategy, and continue to work to achieve our goals that we will believe will enhance shareholder value for all of us.

With that, operator, I'd like to open up the call to questions.

Thank you sir. [Operator Instructions] We'll first go to James Fronda with Sidoti & Company.

Hi, guys. How are you?

Good. How is it going James?

Good. Thanks. Could you provide a revenue break up between Luby's, Fuddruckers and Cheeseburger, what you did for the quarter?

Yeah. Sure. Luby's is about $55.9 million in sales.

Okay.

Fuddruckers, $24 million.

Okay.

Combos were $2.8 million. We have a small, like $245,000 from KKR, and then CIP was $8.3 million.

Okay. And I guess, what do you think is working right now with Luby's versus Fuddruckers. And is there anything you can do specifically, I guess, you get some growth that you've seen similar to Luby's as Fuddruckers?

Well, Luby's, I'll say that, it's the blocking and tackling day-to-day, we've been doing some remodeling, which is also a catalyst for change in the stores.

Okay.

And then execute – just execution [ph] the equivalent (19:11) of the economy as well.

Okay.

<<A – Scott Gray – Luby's, Inc.>: And then, Peter will help you [ph] with Fuddruckers. (19:16)

Yeah. It's Peter Tropoli, at Fuddruckers, we're looking at speed-of-service initiatives through pitching display monitors that were partially rolled out through a new point-of-sale system. They give us a better ability to track ticket times, that's crucial at Fuddruckers. And the ticket time has been a little bit higher than we're comfortable with, since we've been tracking them electronically. Guest service initiatives and enhancements in the dining room, we're going to need to add a little bit more personal touch in the dining room. It does well in the serving line, when folks are waiting in line, as well as at the point-of-sale.

Okay.

At the cashiers, rolling out to new menus and they're partially rolled out with that, they go with that point-of-sale system, and then we've got some leadership initiatives we're going to need to make.

Okay. That works. And I guess, just on the Culinary Contract Services growth, is that a, I guess, sustainable growth rate that we can look for going forward, or did you just sign on a couple of new contracts?

Yeah, we just signed on a hospital group that's helping with the revenue growth.

Okay.

And this one is, as we said before, hard to predict. We were at the end with [ph] a massive Medical Center (20:29) and any point in time, we would be less than lucky that if [ph] we could do that, (20:33) win them over, as those contracts come do, we're competing with the big dogs out there for the business.

Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

So, thank you, operator, and thank you, all of you for joining us. We appreciate your interest and investment in Luby's, and hope you all have the opportunity to dine at one of our many brands around the country. We look forward to speaking with you again when we announce our fourth quarter results. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Luby's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for your participation.