corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Angelina , and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter FY09 Earnings Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks


there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Black, Director of Investor Relations. You may


begin sir.


Rick Black, Investor Relations


Thank you, Angelina and thank you everyone for joining us today for our third quarter fiscal ‘09


conference call. This call is also being webcast and you can find that on our website at lubys.com.


Before we continue, I would like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including


statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operations results, plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected financial


performance of the company’s prototype restaurants and future openings of new restaurants or


replacement restaurants are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties,


including, but not limited to general business conditions; the impact of competition; the success of


operating initiatives; changes in the cost and supply of food and labor; the seasonality of the


company’s business; taxes; inflation; governmental regulations; and the availability of credit, as well


as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and


Form 10-Q.


I would now like to turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and welcome to our third quarter conference call. In the third quarter, we experienced a


continuation of the macroeconomic environment pressure and its effect on customer frequency in


sales. However, our team controlled costs well in the quarter to preserve store level margins. Later


in today’s call, our CFO, Scott Gray will discuss our cost controls and margins during the quarter.


Today’s restaurant operating environment is all about customer frequency. In order to maintain or


even expand our margins, we have to increase our customer frequency. This is the case for nearly


all restaurant companies today, casual diners, QSR, fine dining, and family dining, as evidenced by


the many promotions and discounting that is taking place. Today’s marketplace is competing with


lower prices to gain customer frequency. Customers are focused on value, and within that value


focus, price is the primary factor for making their daily or weekly decisions, on when and where to


eat out.


Luby’s value proposition has always been one of value. We cook great food from scratch, offer a


wide variety of comfort and healthy items at reasonable prices, and we use a quick interactive


delivery system for the guest to choose their food. This value proposition has endeared our brand


for over 60 years with generations of customers.


Now in today’s difficult environment, we’re taking steps to provide even greater value to our guest


by rewinding prices. As many of you know, we have been offering our Lu Ann platter for 5.99


Monday through Friday, lunch and dinner since the beginning of May. Our Lu Ann meal, which


consists of an entree, two sides and a roll has almost as much brand recognition as Luby’s itself.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We believe that Lu Ann was one of the early value meals, and Luby’s has been offering it to its


customers for decades.


The only takeaways from our Lu Ann 5.99 offer is that we have increased the weekly purchase of


Lu Ann significantly, although this increase has largely been the result of our customers buying


down from our other offerings to the Lu Ann, we are generating incremental improvement in our


negative customer traffic trend. This trend proves the importance of prices we know in today’s


environment.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray to review our financial results from the third


quarter, and after Scott’s remarks, I will review the marketing and promotion initiatives that we have


underway and discuss future plans aimed at increasing customer frequency.


Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. I’ll now take you through our financial results for the third


quarter, followed by our current outlook for fiscal 2009. Starting with the income statement, we


reported a loss from continuing operations in the third quarter of $1 million, or $0.04 per diluted


share, compared to income from continuing operations of one million, or $0.03 per diluted share in


the same quarter last year.


Included in the loss from continuing operations this year are the after-tax impact of approximately


$0.02 per diluted share, an expense, due to an impairment charge for the decrease in fair value of


investments related to our auction rate securities, and then second, approximately $0.01 per diluted


share of gain from a net gain on disposition of property and equipment, primarily due to insurance


proceeds associated with a property insurance settlement related to Hurricane Ike.


Total sales for the quarter decreased 7.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to – to 69


million, compared to 74.6 million in the same quarter last year. Culinary Contract service sales were


three million in the third quarter, compared to 1.8 million in the same quarter last year.


Breaking out our restaurant sales in the third quarter, we were 66 million, compared to 72.7 million


in the same quarter last year. The $6.7 million decline in restaurant sales included a $400,000 net


decline in sales related to closed stores, not fully offset by new restaurant sales. Also we estimated


that approximately 1.4 million of this decline was a result of lower menu prices on promotional items


during the quarter this year compared to last year.


From a same-store sales standpoint, which consisted of 118 restaurants, our same-store sales


decreased approximately 8.9%, primarily due to declines in guest traffic, partially offset by higher


menu prices this year.


The third quarter fiscal 2009 partially benefited from the favorable timing of the Lent season in the


third quarter. Adjusting for these items, the company estimated same-store sales declined


approximately 9.4 in the third quarter of fiscal 2009.


In the third quarter, I will note that restaurant sales at our new prototype locations continued to


perform near the top of our system averages for sales. Two of those stores are in the top 10%, and


two are in the top 20% of restaurant sales for the entire system.


From a market perspective, restaurant sales are more challenged in smaller markets, and the


Lower Rio Grande Valley, as I mentioned in our previous call in the second quarter. Restaurant


sales in Houston, however, our largest market have trended 50% better than our total company


negative trend. For the quarter, Houston same-store sales were down 4.8%.