corrected transcript


Luby’s, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Luby’s Third Quarter Fiscal 2005 Earnings Release


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. At this point, I would like to turn the call over to Luby’s


Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Rick Black. Mr. Black, you may begin.


Rick Black, Director, Investor Relations


Thank you operator and welcome everyone to Luby’s third quarter fiscal 2005 conference call.


Please be aware that a replay of today’s call will be available through June 16th. The replay


number is 866-453-6660 and the pin number is 200023. Before we continue, I would like to remind


you that statements in this discussion, including statements made during the question and answer


session regarding Luby’s future financial and operating results and other statements that are not


statements of historical fact are considered forward-looking statements. Actual results might differ


materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information relating to


the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-


looking statements is contained in publicly available documents that the company has previously


filed with the SEC, including 10-K’s and 10-Q’s. I will now like to turn the call over to Luby’s


President and Chief Executive Officer, Chris Pappas.


Christopher Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and welcome to our third quarter conference call. During my opening remarks, I will


discuss our third quarter performance before turning the call over to our CFO, Ernie Pekmezaris,


who will provide additional financial details. I will then discuss our third quarter operations in more


detail before we open the call to questions.


Let me begin by saying that thanks to the hard work and dedication of our employees, we are very


pleased with our third quarter results. Sales increased 6.5% in the third quarter, marking our sixth


consecutive quarter of same-store sales growth. This growth was particularly impressive given the


year-over-year comparison. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, same-store sales increased by


4.8%. Profitability increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 with earnings per share fully diluted


of $0.15 compared to $0.02 in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We also reduced our senior debt in


the third quarter by 16.8 million, which included the repayment and termination of our term debt


facility that we announced in April.


At the beginning of 2005, we outlined our strategy to investors at our shareholder meeting to focus


on five fundamental areas of our business, improving same-store sales, reducing debt, increasing


profitability, investing in our stores and in our people. We are delivering on our strategy. Luby's


third quarter results of growing sales through stronger operations and increasing profitability while


selling closed properties and generating cash flow from operations to reduce debt is evidence of


the progress the company is making. I will now turn the call over to Ernie to discuss our financial


results in more detail.


Ernest Pekmezaris, Chief Financial Officer and SVP


Thank you, Chris. This was a solid financial quarter for Luby’s from both an income statement and


balance sheet perspective. We were pleased with our continued improvements from operations


and the significant reduction of senior debt in the third quarter as we remain focused on improving


profitability.
corrected transcript


Luby’s, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Let me begin with discussing the income statement. As Chris mentioned, sales for the third quarter


of $77 million increased 5.6% compared to the same quarter last year. Net income in the third


quarter increased $3.7 million or $0.15 per share fully diluted compared to $375,000 and $0.02 per


share fully diluted in third quarter last year. EBITDA in the third quarter, earnings before interest,


taxes and depreciation and amortization, was $9.8 million, an increase of 25.8% over the same


period last year. We have included a breakdown of our EBITDA calculation in the financial table on


the last page of today’s press release.


Operating expenses in the third quarter was $70.4 million, an increase of 3.8% compared to the


same quarter last year. Total prime costs, food and labor in the third quarter was 51.4% of sales,


an improvement compared to 53.1% of sales in the same quarter last year. The improvement in


food costs came from the company’s ability to partially offset higher commodity prices of food: beef,


poultry and dairy by promoting combination meals. The improvement in labor was a result of


enhanced productivity due to higher sales and effective labor deployment.


Other operating expenses were $23.2 million in the third quarter, an increase of $1.2 million


compared to the same quarter last year. This increase was primarily – occurred by higher


advertising costs associated with the company’s advertising, television marketing campaigns,


increased credit card fees and higher store management compensation due to increased incentive


pay.


Moving on to the balance sheet, the third quarter was a significant quarter for debt reduction. We


reduced our senior debt by $16.8 million in the third quarter. A large portion of the debt pay-down


came from the strong generation of cash flow from operations during the third quarter as well as


sales from closed properties. On April 6, 2005, the company announced the repayment and


termination of the term debt facility. The term debt facility, which was funded by Guggenheim


Corporate Funding, had an outstanding balance of $14.6 million at the end of the second quarter of


fiscal 2005.


Funds for the repayment from the cash generated from operations, proceeds from real estate sales


during the third quarter and an $8 million draw from the company’s revolving credit line produced


the reduction in paying this debt off.


We ended the third quarter with $8.3 million in cash and short term investments, compared to $5.6


million at the end of third quarter fiscal 2004. As of May 4, 2005, the company had a total of $11.3


million in properties held for sale.


In summary, from a financial perspective, we are pleased with the company’s progress in


generating cash, reducing debt and maximizing profitability.


I will now turn the call back over to Chris.


Christopher Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Ernie. By achieving same-store sales increases for the sixth quarter in a row, we’re seeing


that the focus on stronger operations, exciting new products and a targeted advertising message is


growing sales. And because of the increased sales and lower cost as a percentage of sales, we’re


able to achieve strong profit growth for the quarter, our fourth quarterly profit in five quarters.


Positive market conditions that contributed to our results during the quarter were great weather


throughout our markets, an earlier holiday season and a stable economic environment in Texas.


From an operations standpoint, we continue to introduce new menu items and provide our


customers…