raw transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Luby's


First Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Carlo and I will be your coordinator for


today’s presentation. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your


host for today’s conference Rick Black, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed sir.


Rick Black, Director, Investor Relations


Hello and thank you operator. Welcome everyone to Luby's first quarter fiscal year 2006


conference call. Please be aware that a replay of today's call will be available through January 5th.


The replay number is 888-286-8010 and the pin code is 34729949. Today’s call is also being


webcast and you can access the audio replay via our website at Lubys.com. Before we continue, I


would like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including statements made during the


question and answer session regarding Luby's future financial and operating results and other


statements that are not statements of historical fact are considered forward-looking statements.


Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.


Additional information related to the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in publicly available documents that


the company has previously filed with the SEC, including prior 10-K's and 10-Q's. I would now like


to turn the call over to Luby's President and CEO, Chris Pappas. Chris…


Christopher J. Pappas, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you. Welcome to our first quarter of fiscal 2006 conference call. During my opening


remarks I’ll discuss our performance in the quarter before turning the call over to our CFO Ernie


Pekmezaris, who will provide additional financial details. I will then discuss our operations in more


detail and provide an update on our expansion plans before we open the call to questions.


Let me begin by accepting that our team performed well in the first quarter. Historically the first


quarter is our lowest sales quarter and this year it was particularly challenging with rising energy


costs for us and our customers as well as the impact of hurricane Rita. Despite these challenges


our organization once again committed itself to improving the execution and delivering solid results


for the quarter. First quarter sales were 3.3 million, an increase of 6.9%, marking our 8th


consecutive quarter of growth. EBITDA in the first quarter was 6.6 million, a 60% increase from the


first quarter last year. Despite the challenges I mentioned earlier, we experienced solid traffic in the


first quarter and believe there are still large numbers of evacuees from areas impacted by the


hurricanes in many of our markets. With the exception of the hurricanes the whether in our markets


was generally good during the quarter. I’ll now turn the call over the Ernie to discuss our financial


results in more detail.


Ernest Pekmezaris, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thanks Chris. As Chris mentioned, the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was a solid financial quarter for


Luby’s with marked improvements in our income statement and balance sheet.


Let me begin with discussing the income statement. Sales in the first quarter were $73.3 million, an


increase of 6.9% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 was a 53-week year for


the company, which caused a calendar shift comparison for fiscal year 2006. The first quarter of


fiscal 2006 ended on November 23rd, one week closer to Thanksgiving than the first quarter of
raw transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


fiscal 2005 that ended on November 17th. Excluding this calendar shift same-store sales increased


5.5%. Thanksgiving Day is included in both the second quarter for both fiscal years. We reported


net income of $2.2 million or $0.06 a share fully diluted in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 to – excuse


me, that was $0.08 a share compared to a loss of $1 million or $0.05 per share in the first quarter


fiscal 2005.


In the first quarter three major expense items food, payroll, and other operating expenses all


improved year-over-year as a percent of sales. Total prime costs, which represents food and


payroll in the first quarter were 62.9% of sales, an improvement compared to 65.3% in the same


quarter last year. The improvement in food costs came from lower commodity costs for poultry,


fresh produce, beef and dairy products, which was offset by higher seafood shortage [ph], and oil


commodity prices. The improvement in payroll cost was primarily a result of increased sales, a


reduction in worker compensation expense, and productivity, and effect of labor deployment.


Other operating expenses were 21.6% of sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, improvement


compared to 22.8% of sales in the same quarter of fiscal 2005. General and administrative


expenses were 6.6% of sales in the first quarter 2006 compared to 6% of sales in the first quarter of


fiscal 2005, this increase was primarily due to staff increases and consulting fees associated with


the implementation of new business systems.


In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we reclassified store management compensation from other


operating expenses to payroll and related costs; provide comparability to financial results reported


by our peer in the industry. In today’s press release you will find a core [ph] historical


reclassification of these costs for fiscal 2005.


In the first quarter we adopted the new accounting rules for expensing stock options, this


decreased our first quarter fiscal 2006 net income by less than 100,000 with no impact on net


income per share. Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was $3.4


million compared to $300,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. EBITDA in the first quarter fiscal


2006 was $6.6 million, an increase of 60.4% compared to 4.1% [ph] in the first quarter of fiscal


2005.


Moving on to the balance sheet, in the first quarter we reduced our outstanding debt by $3.5 million


to $10 million. We ended the quarter with 4.9 million in cash and short-term investments compared


to 4.5 million at the end of the last quarter. As of November 23rd, 2005, the company had a total of


9 properties at approximately $6 million in properties held for sale. Of the 13 properties we held for


sale at the end of fiscal 2005, 2 were sold and 2 other properties were reclassified from properties


held for sale to property plant and equipment for future use to support operations.


To summarize our financial performance, we continued our same-store sales momentum in the first


quarter and through increased revenue and reduced expenses we grew the bottom line. Our


balance sheet is healthy and we continue to generate positive cash flow.


I will now turn the call back over to Chris.


Christopher J. Pappas, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Ernie. We attribute much of the same-store sales growth in the past 8 quarters to effective


marketing and operation initiatives, strong brand loyalty, and a competitive offering that we believe


is unique in the industry. Our value proposition is convenience, quality, and value pricing.


Our cafeteria-style restaurants provide convenience for our customer to walk through the serving


line, choose from a wide variety of freshly prepared food and dine in a comfortable environment.


We offer a high quality level, one, that I believe, separates us in the marketplace by preparing our