corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Luby’s


First Quarter 2011 Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only


mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator


Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Friday, the 17th of December 2010.


I will now like to turn the conference over to Steve Goodweather, Vice President of Financial


Planning and Analysis. Please go ahead.


Steve Goodweather, Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis


Thank you. And welcome everyone to Luby’s first quarter results conference call. This call is also


being webcast and it can be accessed through the audio replay on the Luby’s website, lubys.com.


Before we continue, I’d like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including statements


made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and operating


results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected financial


performance of the company’s prototype restaurants and future openings are forward-looking


statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to general business


conditions, the impact of competition, the success of operating initiatives, changes in the cost and


supply of food and labor and seasonality of the company’s business, taxes, inflation, governmental


regulations, and the availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the


company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Steve. Welcome to all of you joining us on our 2011 first quarter conference call. With


me today is Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and CFO, and Peter Tropoli, Senior Vice President


and General Counsel, as well as our senior operations team. Also with us today is another member


of our team, Steve Goodweather. Steve will be assuming some responsibilities in the area of


shareholder communications. His background is in financial planning and analysis where he has


been working for Luby’s the last four years. Prior to that Steve spent nine years with Continental


Airlines in various financial roles.


On the call this morning, I will discuss the progress we are making attracting more guests to our


restaurant, including detailing some of the marketing initiatives we have launched at our Luby’s


Cafeterias. Attracting guests to our brands and increasing the frequency of their visits has been our


priority.


I will also update you on the steps we’re taking at our newly acquired Fuddruckers operation. From


there Scott will go through our financials for the quarter with you and I will finish up with a


discussion on our 2011 outlook.


But first, let’s take a look at a few highlights of our first quarter. We achieved a 5.5% increase in


same-stores sales. These same-store sales results were driven by our store level management’s


focus on local marketing initiatives, and at this time would like to thank our dedicated team for their


hard work in their improvement.


Our store level profit rose to 6.3 million, compared to 5 million last year, and we generated 2.1


million in cash flow from operations. Our loss from continuing operations was 2.1 million. At this
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


juncture last year we were two months into our cash flow improvement and capital redeployment


plan and had just completed the closure of 20% of our underperforming cafeterias.


In the span of one year we’ve grown our system with the acquisition of the Fuddruckers brand,


includes the addition of 59 company-operated restaurants and a franchise network that includes


130 restaurants. This acquisition dramatically expands our geographic footprint, opening up many


new potential growth markets.


Our 2011 fiscal year started out better than 2010. The economy seems to be showing signs of


improvement and consumers are beginning to loosen their constraints on their wallets. We’ve


always concentrated on finding opportunities to drive guests to our restaurants and this quarter our


initiatives have resonated with our guests.


At our 96 Luby’s, we saw robust growth in our customer traffic, allowing us to generate a same-


store sales growth of 5.5%. This past year we have focused on each aspect of the guests


experience in order to find ways to improve. One idea that came out loud and clear is that each of


our locations serves a unique community and that is why we launched our local marketing


initiatives, whether it’s steak night or shrimp and fry special, our guests are responding to these


limited time offerings tailored to their tastes.


During the second half of the 2010 fiscal year, as these initiatives took hold we began to see our


customer traffic improve materially. On our website, www.lubys.com our customers can sign up to


receive e-mails from their local Luby’s outlining our promotions and sales. The number of our


customers receiving these e-mails has – continues to grow steadily. They can also visit us on


Facebook and receive our daily tweets on Twitter.


At Fuddruckers, we’re also using various forms of social media to communicate with our customers.


Along with our local market initiatives, we’ve also rolled out an All You Can Eat Breakfast on the


weekend at 70 of our locations as of today. 17 restaurants added breakfast during the first quarter


and five so far in the second quarter. Almost half of the same-store sales increase in customer


traffic generated during the 2011 fiscal first quarter stemmed from the new breakfast program. The


All You Can Eat Breakfast offers guests an array of breakfast favorites and adds a new daypart for


Luby’s.


We also saw success during the quarter with a new program selling whole pies and cakes from


several of our Luby’s locations and over the Web. These initiatives largely focused around the


holidays and we’re going to make a big push for New Year’s Day gatherings.


Another program we’re ramping up is Luby’s Smart. We’re working to spread the news that Luby’s


has delicious and healthy options. These items are highlighted on our menu with a heart and


contain less than 650 calories. Some examples of these include our lemon basil tilapia, grilled


chicken breast, and even carved hams. We are examining ways to continue developing that


program in the coming months.


All-in-all we feel we’re doing the right things to please our guests, making them want to eat with


Luby’s more often and be the healthy eating place. The national public media dialog about the


connection of obesity and healthy eating choices plays to Luby’s menu selection and variety, now


and for the future.


Now, I’d like to talk about Fuddruckers. As with our Luby’s location we are also focusing on the


details at Fuddruckers. With our team, we’re evaluating many alternatives as well as looking at


each menu item to see if we can enhance it. Every brand’s goal is to attract guests that have never


experienced the brand or guests that have used the brand previously, but have fallen off in


frequency altogether. The brand’s best opportunity to grow sales is to reignite a current guest to the


brand through a limited time offer or more options on your menu to increase the yes vote to visit