corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good evening. My name is Erica, and I will be your conference Operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone for the Q2 FY09 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]. I


would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Rick Black, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Black, you


may begin your conference.


Rick Black, Director of Investor Relations


Hello, Erica. Thank you and welcome, everyone again to Luby’s second quarter fiscal 2009


conference call. This call is also being webcast and you can access the audio replay on our website


at lubys.com. Before we continue, I would like to remind you that statements in this discussion,


including statements made during the Q&A session regarding Luby’s future financial and


operational results, plans for expansion of the company’s business, including the expected financial


performance of the company’s prototype restaurant and future openings of new or replacement


restaurants are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties. Included but not


limited to general business conditions, the impact of competition, the success of operating


initiatives, changes in the cost and supply of food and labor, the seasonality of the company’s


business, taxes, inflation, government regulations and the ability of credit, as well as other risks and


uncertainties disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas. Chris?


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and welcome to our second quarter conference call. As you’re all aware, the current


economic pressures on our industry continue to negatively impact our restaurant sales. In the


second quarter, our same-store sales were down 5%, which is also our trend for the first half of


fiscal 2009.


Clearly we’re not satisfied with this negative sales trend. However, we’re in line with other recent


casual dining same store sales trends of down 5 to 6%. Later in today’s call, I’ll discuss the


initiatives and promotions that we continue to develop, test and introduce that are designed to


increase customer frequency and drive restaurant sales.


In spite of all the current macroeconomic pressures everyday inside the four walls of each and


every store, we continue to do what we’ve always loved doing, what we’ve always done well,


serving great wholesome scratch-cooked meals that make our customers want to return again and


again. We have an extremely higher frequency compared to many other restaurant chains in the


marketplace.


And despite the negative sales trends in the first half of 2009, we’ve held our restaurant margins


during the quarter with a slight year-over-year improvement and a three point sequential


improvement from the first to second quarter of this year. The operating environment today is


extremely challenging, but we believe if we continue to operate at a high level, provide excellent


service and continually innovate our product offerings, we can outperform our industry over the


long-term.


I’d like to now turn the call over to Scott Gray, our CFO, to review our financial results in more


detail. Later in today’s call, I’ll discuss the initiatives taking place at Luby’s to manage our business


during this economic slowdown.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. I will now take you through our financial results for the


second quarter, as well as provide a few comments on the amendment to our credit facility that we


announced in today’s press release, followed by an update on our current outlook for fiscal year


2009. Starting with the income statement, income from continuing operations in the second quarter


was $196,000 or $0.01 per diluted share compared to income from continuing operations of


307,000 or $0.01 per diluted share in the same quarter last year. Excluding favorable claims


expense, income from continuing operations in the second quarter 2009 was a loss of $0.01 per


diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $0.04 positive per diluted


share adjusted for the impact of special items in the second quarter of 2008.


Total sales decreased 2.7% in the second quarter fiscal 2009 to 70.7 million compared to 72.6


million in the same quarter last year. Restaurant sales were 67.7 million, a decrease of 4.7%


compared to the same quarter last year; approximately 1.5% of the decline relates to the net effect


of sales from closed stores, partially offset by new store sales. Same-store sales, which consisted


of 117 restaurants, decreased approximately 3.2, primarily due to declines in guest traffic, partially


offset by higher menu prices.


The second quarter fiscal 2009 benefited from the favorable timing of Thanksgiving at the


beginning of the quarter and to a lesser extent was adversely affected by the unfavorable timing of


Lent, which began after quarter-end.


Adjusted for the timing of these two holidays, which Chris mentioned earlier, we estimated same-


store sales declined 5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Year-to-date, our adjusted same-store


sales have declined 4.4%.


Moving onto other sources of sales, culinary contract services revenue increased to 3 million in the


second quarter compared to 1.7 million in the same quarter last year. The increase was due to


growth in the total number of culinary contract service operating facilities to 12 locations as of the


end of the second quarter compared to nine at the end of the same quarter last year.


Culinary contract services continues to be profitable after G&A cost. Food costs decreased


approximately 1.1 million in the second quarter compared to the same quarter last year due to


lower sales volume. Food costs as a percentage of restaurant sales, however, decreased to 27.9%


from 28.1 in the second quarter last year primarily due to higher menu prices, partially offset by


increased commodity costs for seafood, beef, oils and shortening.


Moving onto payroll and related cost; payroll and related cost decreased $500,000 in the second


quarter compared to the same quarter last year due to lower crew overtime and lower management


cost offset by higher average wages paid to crew employees. Employee payroll and related cost as


a percentage of restaurant sales increased to 35.4% from 34.5 in the same quarter last year,


primarily due to reduced restaurant sales. As a percentage of sales, the current quarter benefited


75 basis points due to reduction in workers’ compensation expense. Adjusted for this benefit,


payroll and related costs were 36.2% of restaurant sales in the quarter


Other operating expenses decreased by approximately 1.3 million, compared to the same quarter


last year. As a percentage of restaurant sales, other operating expenses decreased 21.1 compared


to 22% in the same quarter last year. The decrease was primarily due to one, an approximate


$700,000 reduction in repairs and maintenance expense related to improvements in cost controls;


two, an approximate 300,000 net decrease in restaurant supplies and other operating expenses on


reduced restaurant sales; and then three, an approximate $300,000 reduction in guest claims


expense.