corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Luby’s


Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-


only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator


Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Thursday, October 28 of 2010.


And I would now like to turn the conference over to Sheila Stuewe. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Sheila Stuewe, Vice President, Investor Relations Counsel, Dennard Rupp Gray & Lascar, LLC


Thank you, Britney and welcome everyone to the Luby’s fourth quarter and fiscal year 2010


earnings conference call. This call is also being web cast and can be accessed through the audio


replay on our – on the Luby’s website lubys.com.


Before we continue, I’d like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including statements


made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and operating


results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected financial


performance of the company’s prototype restaurants and future openings are forward-looking


statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, general business


conditions, the impact of competition, the success of operating initiatives, changes in the cost and


supply of food and labor and seasonality of the company’s business, taxes, inflation, governmental


regulations, and the availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the


company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sheila. Welcome to all of you joining us on our 2010 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end


conference call. With me today is Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,


and Peter Tropoli, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, as well as our senior operations


team.


On the call today, I will elaborate on our results, and the progress we’ve made in our 2010 fiscal


year. We’ll also discuss the Fuddruckers acquisition. After Scott details our fourth-quarter financial


results, I’ll come back and speak about what we see ahead of us. So, let’s get started.


Fiscal 2010 was a transitional year for Luby’s. Last year at this time, we announced our cash flow


and a capital redeployment plan, which included the consummated closing of 25 restaurants.


The focus of the plan was to strengthen our core operations in order to better position our


organization to generate positive cash flow. We also said that we were going to redeploy our capital


into projects to seek more attractive returns. We did what we said we’re going to do. We still have


work to do, but we are well on our way and I would like to thank our management team and


employees for all of their outstanding efforts.


During the second half of the year our customer traffic improved primarily due to improved market


conditions and local-store marketing. We believe that the economy is in a more stable condition


than last year at this time, giving us a firmer ground to stand on, yet we remain cautious as do our


customers.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


For the fiscal year, we reported a net loss from continuing operations of $662,000, compared to a


net loss of $14 million last year. Excluding special items we generated a loss from continuing


operations of 1.4 million in 2010, compared to a loss of 4.6 million in 2009.


Cash flow from operating activities increased 4.3 million to $9.1 million. During fiscal 2010, we


generated 9.4 million in proceeds from the sale of assets and our capital expenditures were 3.6


million. The improved cash flow and positive trend in customer traffic are clear indicators that our


efforts are generating results.


During the year we continued to focus on guest count and better management of our expenses.


Even though our same-store sales declined by 7.4% of the total year, our store level profit margins


rose from 14.2% in fiscal 2010 from 13% in ‘09. Our long-term goal is to return store level profit


margins to between 17% and 19% of restaurant sales and assuming that we continue to


experience improvements in guest traffic and sales, we anticipate that our margins will continue to


improve in 2011.


Despite this progress we realize that much, much more must be done to regain profitability in this


current economic environment. Our team continues to focus on exceeding our guest expectations,


improving existing restaurant cash flow growing our Culinary Contract Services accounts and


redeploying capital to increase shareholder value.


In July of 2010, we became a multi-brand restaurant company with a national footprint. For a total


consideration of 63.5 million we purchased the operating assets of Magic Brands, LLC the owner of


Fuddruckers restaurant, thus acquiring 59 company-operated restaurants and 130 franchise


locations. In order to finance this transaction, we were able to increase the size of our revolving


credit facility from 20 million to 53 million. We plan to services the debt through proceeds from sale


of assets, as well as cash flow from operations.


This acquisition dramatically expands or geographic footprint opening up new potential growth


markets. With a strong base of restaurants in Texas, the Fuddruckers acquisition was a good hit


geographically providing Luby’s with a franchise model with proven national and international


reach. Of the company operated restaurants 56 are Fuddruckers and three are the Koo Koo Roo’s


brand. Fuddruckers stores range from 5,000 to 7,000 square feet in size with average unit volumes


of sales of approximately 1.4 million.


Renowned worldwide for great hamburgers and scratch-baked buns, Fuddruckers is a high-quality,


family-friendly restaurant like Luby’s and we hope to enhance and leverage the brand’s popularity.


We believe that the casual non quick-service burger eatery concept to be a robust and growing


restaurant segment in our industry. Additionally, we view Fuddruckers as a growth vehicle that


complements our Luby’s and Culinary Contract Services business.


Consumer Reports recently ranked Fuddruckers as one of the top three best burgers. We estimate


the Fuddruckers assets acquired will produce incremental earnings before interest, taxes,


depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, in the range of $8 million to $10 million during fiscal year


2011 after consideration of estimated integration expenses and deferred maintenance cost totaling


approximately 3.5 million.


The reconciling items, Fuddruckers – between estimated EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure,


and Fuddruckers’ estimated net income before income taxes are 2 million in estimated interest


expense and 4 million in estimated depreciation and amortization. Our near-term objective for


Fuddruckers is to grow average unit volume at the corporate and franchise stores by focusing on


the basics, the food, the service, systems, and facilities.


We are also taking an in-depth look at our promotional activities in order to drive more traffic to our


locations. Another one of our priorities is to build stronger relationships with our franchisees, and to