corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Luby’s


Incorporated Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will


be placed in a listen only mode, following the presentation the conference will be opened for


questions.


[Operator Instructions]. This conference is being recorded today March 17 of 2010. And I would


now like to turn the conference over to Sheila Stuewe of DRG&E. Please go ahead m’am.


Sheila Stuewe, Vice President, IR Counsel, DRG&E


Thank you, and welcome everyone to the Luby’s second quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings


conference call. This call is also being webcast and you can access the audio replay on our website


lubys.com.


Before we continue, I would like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including


statements made during the question and answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected


financial performance of the company’s prototype restaurant and future openings are forward-


looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, general


business conditions; the impact of competition; the success of operating initiatives; changes in the


cost and supply of food and labor and seasonality of the company’s business, taxes, inflation,


governmental regulations, and the availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties


disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas. Chris?


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sheila. Welcome to all of you joining us today on our second quarter fiscal 2010


conference call. As you may recall we started our 2010 fiscal year focused on strengthening our


core operations and becoming a stronger and leaner operation. Our team is determined to generate


positive cash flow and to return the company to profitability. Although economic headwinds


continue to hamper our sales we continue to explore opportunities to attract more customers to our


restaurants and more often.


We know we have quite a way to go for being operating cash flow positive. However we remain


committed to our plan. Currently we are encouraged by our improving year-over-year same-store


sales percentage. We improved in quarter two versus quarter one and we continue to see


incremental improvement in this metric. We judge our performance based upon the key


components of our business plan which include one, continue to provide our customers with a high


quality dining experience, two, grow our sales and head count at our retail units, three, effectively


manage our food, labor and operating expenses, four, maintain our stable capital structure, five,


reallocate capital from closed units, six, expand our Culinary Contract Service business.


First to go hand-in-hand. With high unemployment rates and the depressed levels of consumer


sentiment generating stronger sales is by far our most challenging goal. Consumers are prudently


spending their money in these challenging times therefore we have brought down our overall


pricing structure versus last year and have developed various initiatives to compel our customers to


come dine with us more often.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I will discuss these later on in the call. Although we cannot control what is happening in the


economy we do have the ability to execute more efficiently and manage our cost. While restaurant


sales were down 7.7 million in the second quarter, food costs as a percentage of restaurant sales


were down approximately 20 basis points compared to last year.


Payroll and related costs declined $2 million and other operating costs and G&A were down


approximately 800,000 and 600,000 respectively. These cost reductions are clear indications that


we are managing our costs and expenses. Since the beginning of our fiscal year we continue to


focus on our systems, training and reporting tools toward key areas of our business.


Our employee scheduling tools are helping us to put the right person at the right place at the right


time doing the right things. The continued emphasize on the utilization of our ordering system is


allowing us to continue to bring down our food costs by reducing waste and ordering in appropriate


quantities. These tools will continue to reap rewards through effective training and utilization and


when sales pick up, we anticipate that they will allow more of our sales dollars to fall to the bottom


line.


Next I would like to speak about the fourth component of the plan, maintain the strength of our


balance sheet. When I joined the company that was one of our major goals and it continues to be.


At the end of the second quarter we had no debt on our balance sheet. Keep in mind that we also


own the land, building and equipment at approximately 70% of our currently operating stores.


With regard to our portfolio of restaurants we continue to evaluate each location for its highest and


best use. Regarding our properties held for sale we’re working to realize the greatest value upon


the disposition of these properties via sale or lease to third parties and to reallocate the capital to


better uses.


The last part of – in our plan is to expand our Culinary Contract Service business. During the


second quarter we opened two new locations including a multi-year agreement with Lone Star


College System. Luby’s Culinary Services now manages the food service operation from the


System’s nearest location at University Park in Houston serving over 3500 students and faculties.


At the University Park location, we operate under the name Luby’s, etc. Our brand, it’s retail, dining


food court is in there and we’ve recently renovated the 4500 square foot dining facility, which


boasts a contemporary atmosphere and comforting environment and speaks to the student


population.


Luby’s Culinary Services will also provide catering for the 14,000 square foot conference center


containing 19 conference rooms and exhibition space. The conference center is capable of hosting


everything from major business conferences to large events such as weddings. We’re honored to


be an integral component of the Lone Star College System submission to provide a full and


rewarding educational setting for their students, faculty and the community.


We also recently opened our first What’s Brewing coffeehouse at 1301 Fannin, a 24 story high-rise


office building in Downtown, Houston. What’s Brewing’s location established – it’s an opportunity


for us to expand our services in the contract food service industry. We have leveraged popular


drinks of Seattle’s Best Coffee and our expertise in great-tasting baked goods to create a


compelling combination for those who work and live in downtown Houston. We are in discussion to


open another What’s Brewing location in Houston as well. All in all, we’ve got long ways to go but


we’re gaining momentum and heading in the right direction.


At this point, I’d like to turn the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray, where he will be reporting on our


financial results for the second quarter 2010. After Scott’s remarks, I’ll discuss our operating and


marketing initiatives as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year. Scott?