Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steve Goodweather — Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, Luby's, Inc.
Christopher Pappas — President & Chief Executive Officer, Dairyland USA Corp.
K. Scott Gray — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Accouting Officer, Luby's, Inc.
Stas Kiselev — Senior Restaurants Analyst, Capstone Investments

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Luby's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, June 09, 2011.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Steve Goodweather, Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome everyone to Luby's third quarter results conference call. This call is also being webcast, and could be accessed through the audio replay on the Luby's website, lubys.com.

Before we continue, I'd like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby's future financial and operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company's business, including expected financial performance of the company's prototype restaurants and future openings, are forward-looking statements, and involve risk and uncertainty, including, but not limited to, general business conditions, the impact of competition, success of operating initiatives, changes in the cost and supply of food and labor, and seasonality of the company's business, taxes, inflation, governmental regulations, and availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.

I will now turn the call over to Luby's President and CEO, Chris Pappas.

Good morning. Thank you, Steve. Welcome to all of you for joining us on our 2011 third quarter conference call. With me today is our senior operations team, as well as Scott Gray, our Senior Vice President and CFO and Peter Tropoli, our recently promoted Chief Operating Office.

Before I begin speaking about our results, most of you are aware of our recent announcement of Harris Pappas's retirement as Chief Operating Officer, which was effective April 20, 2011. Luby's would like to thank Harris Pappas for dedicating his time, talent, and creativity to enhancing and building Luby's operations across the board. Although he stepped down as COO, he remains an active Board member, and he is still contributing significantly to making our organization stronger as a Board member.

Pursuant to the company's management succession plan, the Board appointed Peter Tropoli, formerly Senior Vice President Administration, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary to fill Harris's position of COO.

I would like to take just a moment to more than thoroughly introduce you to Peter Tropoli. Peter has been a member of our management team since 2001 when he joined our organization as Senior Vice President of Administration and General Counsel. Peter has never been the typical General Counsel, instead since his first day at Luby's, he has run key areas of the company, rolled up his sleeves, spent time in the stores, and integrated himself into every aspect of our operations.

He has been my go-to person for special projects for years. Last year when we pursued the Fuddruckers acquisition, Peter's led our team. His insight, his dedication and his problem-solving capabilities are topnotch and that is why he was the best choice to be named our COO. Peter has been present at every conference call for the last 10 years, so he is not new to this process. Our team and Harris is behind him wholeheartedly. So let's get down to business.

On this call, this morning, we will discuss our financial results and our operational initiatives for our Luby's, Fuddruckers and Culinary Contract Services business lines. We'll also touch up on our outlook.

First, I'd like you to give a general companywide overview. Our same-store sales at our Luby's Cafeteria rose to 3.5% year-over-year in the third quarter, the third consecutive quarter of same-store sales increases. We were able to attract more customers to our locations, as our customers continue to react favorably to our promotions, especially our All You Can Eat weekend Breakfast program, which is now offered at 65 of our locations, as well as our kids program.

Our same-store restaurant traffic has also continued to trend positively, up 4.4%. Our average check at under $10 is on par with the prior year, but down about 1%. In 2011 fiscal second quarter, we experienced a 4.9% decline in our average check.

Our average check was trending down in the prior year and our average check has risen slightly in the current year, with the modest pricing increases taken on a handful of menu items near the end of the second quarter.

We were pleased that we were able to continue growing traffic even with a few modest price increases. With the price changes made, our average customer check increased approximately 2%. However, as our customers continue to be impacted by rising prices at the gasoline pump we will not be able to fully recoup the remaining impact of food inflation for menu pricing in the short term. We're determined to support our brand value, image by keeping our menu prices at or below that of our fast causal and casual dining competitors.

During the third quarter, we generated income from continued operations of $2.1 million, excluding after tax professional fees related to the integration of Fuddruckers totaling $210,000. Our adjusted after tax income from continuing operations was $2.3 million. Our store level profit rose to $126 million in the third quarter from $9.7 million in the comparable last quarter year. While the increase is primarily attributable to the addition of our Fuddruckers operations, our store level profit contribution from our cafeteria brand also improved after adjusting for one-time items.

Inflation on food prices continues to generate headwinds for our margins. Our food costs were 28.2% of restaurant sales in this year's third quarter compared to 27.4% last year. We estimate that in the third quarter, our basket of food commodities increased over 5% versus last year's third quarter at our Luby's Cafeterias.

At our Fuddruckers operation, the food commodity prices were up about 10% compared to September 2011, which was shortly after we completed the acquisition. The uptick at both of our brands was driven by higher beef, seafood, and produce prices, as well as the increased cost of oils and shortenings. We saw the greatest impact from increases in beef prices, which impacted our Fuddruckers' results the most.

We do not believe prices are likely to retreat in the near future. However, we continue to buy strategically and manage our menu mix effectively. At our Fuddruckers locations, we have expanded our use of CrunchTime, a food costing system. We are now using it at 23 locations up from six at the end of the second quarter. This software measures on a real-time basis actual cost versus optimal cost, giving our managers timely feedback aiding them in their efforts to eliminate waste. It also suggests the right amount to prepare each day based on anticipated demand.

We believe the software has the potential to reduce food cost by 50 to 100 basis points. We also plan on using CrunchTime in one of our Culinary [Contract] Services locations as well.

Now, I will speak to our three brands. First at our 96 Luby's Cafeterias, we continue to provide our customers with the home-style, classic, made-from-scratch quality food product offering and value pricing with a cafeteria delivery model.

Our weekend breakfast, as mentioned earlier, continues to contribute to the majority of the incremental traffic improvement. We have 65 of our cafeteria units serving an 'All You Can Eat Breakfast' every Saturday and Sunday throughout the quarter. Excluding breakfast, our customer traffic grew approximately 0.75%.

Another contributor to our traffic growth is our kids program. With a kids entrée, two sides, bread, drink, and Jell-O; all for just $2.99. It is perhaps the best value offering in the marketplace for budget-conscious families. We've also tested an all-day buffet at 10 of our locations offering a selection of salads, some of the most important entrées, as well as dessert items.

Generally, this option is available on Friday evenings and all day Saturday. Families seem to appreciate it most allowing each family member to have a taste of whatever they choose.

The majority of our increases in customer traffic during the third quarter was generated by these three initiatives. As we move towards the summer, we are implementing innovative local market promotions to drive traffic, including our $2 offerings such as our fried fish or chicken fried steak on Tuesdays and Thursdays.

Each of our locations is tailoring their promotion to their customer base and using the initiatives like the $2 offering to drive traffic during slower time periods. We are also experimenting with ways to communicate these promotions and our daily – on a store basis by store basis – on the web as we quickly enhance our guest enhancement tactics.

In a few weeks, we will be opening a Fuddruckers Express primarily within food-to-go area of one of cafeteria locations in Houston. This is an exciting way to leverage our two brands. In the cafeteria, the Fuddruckers Express will have its own ordering area and seating, but the cafeteria dining area will of course be opened to families or parties that choose to combine their selections.

We believe there could be a synergy by combining the two since the product offerings are distinct while we offer our customers a wider selection, yet we leverage our fixed cost and our kitchen and management team.

And before the end of the summer, we will open our newest cafeteria in Houston. This is a relocated unit that we're moving from its current location within a strip shopping center to a pad location in front of the shopping center. This is already a strong performing unit that we hope to see further enhanced sales by operating out of a brand new facility, which will incorporate some of the design elements of our new cafeteria prototype.

Now, let's move on to Luby's Culinary Contract Services segments, where we operate food service on behalf of healthcare, higher education and corporate dinning clients in an institutional setting. Our revenue is up 9.1% year-over-year due to an expanding number of locations. Last year at this time, we operated 17 locations, this year we're operating 18. This is an exciting time for our Culinary Contract Services operation.

We're receiving more inquiries, as we gain size and stature in our Texas regional market. We are now one of the top three or four contenders that are invited to be at on large operations, including multi-location systems such as hospitals, medical centers, and universities. We are pleased at how far we have come with our Culinary Contract Services operation, building a strong team, developing a strong brand and landing strong important accounts. We are approaching an inflexion point, we believe we are well positioned to continue to earn even more business.

With regard to new business, since the end of the third quarter, we opened two new Culinary Contract units, a 50-bed hospital and a 150-bed hospital. At the larger hospital, we will have a food court operations that will include a Luby's station serving select favorites from our cafeterias, and a Fuddruckers station serving the world's best hamburgers.

We continue to build on our living smart and stealth health programs, believing that healthy eating alternatives are not a bad, but a concerted choice consumers are embracing, using healthy ingredients are made from scratch cooking stands out both for its taste and its nutrition. We have also created a strategic alliance with a highly respected healthcare consulting firm to extend our reach and target markets.

One of our newest operations is at the West Campus of Texas Children's Hospital. This location represents the largest suburban children's hospital in the United States. We ramped up our presence beginning in December 2010 with a coffee kiosk at this location. In February, we opened a retail Bistro and on March 9, we began feeding patients. This fully demonstrates our ability to successfully ramp up and run a large operation. As always, we remain focused on expanding our Luby's Culinary Contract Services brand and we'll continue to compete for contract opportunities primarily in our core Texas market.

Now, on to Fuddruckers, we're focusing on driving quality, frequency, sales and profitability for our company-owned stores, as well as our franchise restaurants. During the third quarter, we held our first franchise meeting here in Houston. The majority of our franchisees were well represented. During our meetings, we solicited our franchisees feedback on a host of decisions facing the brand.

We expanded our dialogue on growth, potential menu enhancements, as well as improvements to operation. We discussed with them the plans for our 2,500 to 3,500 square foot prototype and our evolving decor package. The franchisees' goals are aligned with ours to grow same-store sales and build new units. We've received positive feedback on the progress we're making together. Ultimately, we came away with a greater appreciation for each other, as well as a long list of potential opportunities for the future.

From a product standpoint, we continue to develop and test new menu items in a limited number of location, including appetizers, new specialty burgers, salads, and new chicken sandwiches. Through these enhancement products we seek to attract new customers and keep the ones we have returning much more often. This summer as we determine which items have the greatest customer appeal and profit potential when added into our menu mix, we'll roll them out to more units and share our results with our franchise community.

One exciting test we have undertaken at Fuddruckers is the Coca-Cola free style program. Coca-Cola free style is a touch screen soda fountain unit, which features over 100 different Coca-Cola drink products and custom flavors. With a touch or two, customers can pick out a combination of flavors building their own soft drink of flavored sparkling water or still water.

Each time they visit us, they can try out a new combination or mix and match on every visit. We tested these high-tech soda fountains in seven restaurants within San Antonio, Austin and Houston and we are now installing to seven more Fuddruckers in Houston with these innovate confirmed beverage dispensers. Guest comments have been positive. We thought the kids would love these new machines, but it's the adults that have really enjoyed the opportunities to customize their soft drinks.

We continue to develop plans for new Fuddruckers unit openings. As mentioned on our last conference call, we plan to open at least two units before the end of August fiscal year. These units include the 3,500 square foot location in downtown Houston, as well as the Fudds Express in the cafeteria location we mentioned earlier. The downtown Houston unit will be opened to the public next week and will be located in the underground that connects numerous office buildings in Houston.

We will operate limited hours in this high traffic location concentrating on lunch crowd initially. Another benefit of this location is that it will also act as a reminder to those passing by that there is a Fuddruckers in their suburban communities just waiting for them to return. In addition, we'll use an online ordering option for this location

And the second Fuddruckers to open the Fudds Express that will be located within one of our existing cafeterias, we'll also be testing out the first ever Fuddruckers drive-thru, a potential opportunity to further increase customer traffic and benefit the system as a whole. Along with adding the Fudds Express in one of our owned Houston cafeterias, we're also experimenting with other ways of integrating the Fuddruckers brand into a few of our Luby's Cafeterias and Culinary Contract Services location.

During the third quarter, one of our Luby's Cafeteria locations began serving a few Fuddruckers items, including our signature hamburgers and fries and shakes. The additional menu choices have been a hit with many of our customers and our adding incremental traffic with very little investments.

Additional local store marketing efforts are being developed to drive increased awareness designed to drive incremental traffic from an expanded menu for our guest. We continue to visit and identify the markets where we wish to expand our brands with company-operated restaurants. We have also been sharpening our pencil on getting the best design and unit economics to ensure that we can offer an excellent investment opportunity to existing and prospective franchisees to build out the Fuddruckers brand.

Next year, we plan to dedicate more of our capital to expand our company-operated Fuddruckers restaurant by opening three to five new locations in our existing markets, primarily in Texas. In addition, through conversations with existing and potential franchisees, we currently believe that we'll have at least 5 to 10 new franchise locations opening in 2010 – I'm sorry, 2012.

Depending on the level of success we find with the various prototypes, we would determine our future growth plans, including the number and type of units. We also see several opportunities over the next several years to relocate some of our cafeteria units, build a handful of new units in our existing markets, and reinvest capital in our existing cafeterias so that each cafeteria's maximum potential is realized. As always, we will focus on all the key ingredients that add to our success.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott Gray, our CFO. Scott?

Thank you, Chris. Good morning, everyone. I'll be discussing our fiscal third quarter and year-to-date results. Our 12-week third quarter ended May 4, 2011. I'll revisit a few details Chris mentioned earlier, as well as provide further insight into our restaurants financial results by brand as I cover the combined results for the quarter.

Let's begin with our income statement. As Chris mentioned, we reported income from continuing operations in the third quarter of $2.1 million or $0.07 per share, compared to $1.2 million or $0.04 per share in the same quarter last year.

In our press release, we've included a reconciliation table outlining special items in the comparative quarters. Excluding special items, our operations generated income from continuing operations of $2.3 million in the third quarter fiscal 2011 compared to $1.1 million in income from continuing operations in the prior fiscal year.

The year-over-year increase was primarily generated by Fuddruckers assets. Our 96 Luby's Cafeterias generated a 3.5% same-store sales gain in the third quarter, the third consecutive quarterly increase. Luby's Cafeterias locations accounted for 71% of total restaurant sales in the quarter.

Our sales at Luby's Cafeterias benefited from our 'All You Can Eat Breakfast' on the weekend as well as other local marketing initiatives, and the kids program. Sequentially, restaurant sales increased the last quarter – over the last quarter at our cafeteria locations by approximately 7%. The third quarter is seasonally our strongest quarter, as our seafood offerings during Lent typically encourage increased customer frequency.

Please keep in my mind, while you're building your models and expectations, that our same-store sales comparisons get tougher as we begin our fourth quarter and look forward to 2012.

Now moving on to our Fuddruckers units, our company owned 56 Fuddruckers locations and three Koo Koo Roo locations added $22.2 million to our restaurant sales in the third quarter, up from the second quarter when we generated $19.6 million restaurant sales.

On a year-over-year basis, sales at Fuddruckers units that we operate are up 3.2% compared to the prior year operated under the previous owner. This represents a 14% sales increase sequentially as well from the second quarter and similar to the sequential sales increase experienced last year under the operation of the previous owner. This illustrates the typical seasonality of the sales performance of the Fuddruckers brand between our fiscal second and third quarters ending in early February and early May respectively.

Culinary Contract Service sales in the third quarter were up 9.1% versus last year to $3.6 million. We ended the third quarter with 18 culinary locations, up from 17 at the end of the same quarter last year. Our franchise revenue totaled $1.6 million for the quarter and vending revenue came in at $160,000.

Store level profit, which we define as restaurant sales minus cost of food, payroll and related cost and other operating expenses, rose to $12.6 million. That was a number Chris had quoted earlier, I think he may have misspoke on that one, it's $12.6 million for store level profit in the current quarter or 16.1% of restaurant sales compared to $9.7 million or 18% of restaurant sales in the third quarter last year.

Fuddruckers units contributed approximately 22% of the total company store level restaurant profit dollars this quarter. And this compares to 18% of the total company store level restaurant profit in the second quarter.

Now moving on to our restaurant-related cost, starting with cost of food as a percentage of restaurant sales rose to 28.2% in the third fiscal quarter, compared to 27.4% last year without Fuddruckers, up 80 basis points.

We calculated the inflation from our basket of food commodities to be over 5% on a year-over-year basis at our cafeterias. We also calculated that our basket of food commodities at Fuddruckers had risen approximately 10% since we acquired the brand in July of 2010, driving largely – driven largely by the heavy weighting of beef in the product mix, but also influenced by very dramatic increases in oils and shortenings.

The increase in food commodity cost more than accounts for the 80 basis points rise in food cost as a percentage of restaurant sales year-over-year. Careful food cost control through menu management at the cafeterias and operational efficiencies at both brands partially offset what otherwise would have been 100 to 150 basis point rise in food cost as a percentage of sales.

Cafeteria units cost of food as a percentage of cafeteria sales in the quarter was 27.6% compared to 27.4% last year, which did not include any Fuddruckers activity. Fuddruckers company-operated units cost of food as a percentage of Fuddruckers sales was 29.7% this quarter compared to 28.7% in the second quarter, an increase of 100 basis points sequentially as a result of higher beef prices without any change in menu prices, partially offset by tools in place to manage food cost.

Management's action plan to address rising food cost over the short term remains the following. Selected menu price increases, further localization of cafeteria menus and offerings and implementation of food cost management tool at Fuddruckers locations, currently, as Chris mentioned, deployed in over 20 Fuddruckers company-operated stores.

The selected menu increases have been taken in the third quarter at Luby's and we were under plans of looking at Fuddruckers in the fourth quarter.

As Chris mentioned earlier, on our last conference call, we announced some moderate price increases on selected menu items at our cafeteria units. These increases positively impacted our per-person average or average check spent by about 2% without noticeable declines in customer traffic during most of the third quarter.

However, as we wrapped up the third quarter and started the fourth, that we're currently in, we're seeing some slowing in the traffic trend, which we believe to be the impact of sustained high gas prices – gasoline prices, and their impact on our customers' discretionary spending. This is more noticeable in the dinner day-part than during the lunch day-part.

At our cafeteria units, we have been proactively and aggressively increasing our limited time offers, including our $2 entrée offers on Tuesdays and Thursdays featuring a couple of our most popular entrées as Chris mentioned, Luby's fried fish and Luby's chicken fried steak. Our guests appreciate this $2 protein entrée only special. Those guests choosing this offer typically select the offer and add à la carte sides or add this offer to their other meal selection. This promotion is being offered to maintain and stimulate guest visits at our cafeterias.

In the fourth quarter, at our Fuddruckers restaurants, due to the significant inflation of beef prices, we've planned to take moderate price increases on a limited number of menu items that we expect to translate with our mix into an approximate 2.5% increase in the per-person average spend. While we feel comfortable doing so, we also recognize that we will not be able to recover the full impact of higher beef prices in the short term, and we will be mindful to the impact on traffic.

Our payroll and related cost as a percentage of restaurant sales declined to 33.6% in the fiscal year's third quarter compared to 35.1% last year. This decline is due to the blending of lower restaurant labor cost at our Fuddruckers units into this year's results, as well as leveraging our store management labor expense due to our increased sales base during this quarter.

Our payroll and related costs by restaurant brand are as follows during the quarter; cafeterias, 35.2%, that compares to 36.4% in the second quarter and at Fuddruckers 29.6% compared to 31.6% in the second quarter as a percentage of their respective restaurant sales in the quarter.

Moving on to operating expenses, other operating expenses as a percentage of restaurant sales rose approximately 260 basis points to 22.1% compared to 19.5% in the same quarter last year without Fuddruckers. The components of this line that declined year-over-year in the quarter were as follows. As a percentage of restaurant revenue, our marketing and advertising expense declined 30 basis points versus last year, as we relied more heavily on local market initiatives to drive higher traffic. Our utilities expense declined 70 basis points as rates were more favorable in the current year.

The decline in marketing and utilities were offset by the following; occupancy cost rose approximately 160 basis points, due to our newly acquired Fuddruckers and Koo Koo Roo locations where we lease – rather than own – 44 of our 59 locations.

Our repairs and maintenance costs were up 50 basis points, as we invested in the units at both of our brands to ensure that they continue to meet our standards. Supplies were up about 30 basis points, as our year-over-year food-to-go orders increased.

Insurance costs were up 100 basis points due to last year's results, including a $475,000 insurance recovery credit for Hurricane Ike. Excluding last year's insurance recovery, insurance cost as a percentage of restaurant sales rose approximately 25 basis points versus last year.

We estimate approximately $0.3 million in integration operating expenses were incurred during the quarter related to Fuddruckers. This compares to a similar amount of $0.4 million in the first and second quarter of this year.

General and administrative expenses rose $1.8 million in the third quarter compared to the same quarter last year due to the additional overhead associated with Fuddruckers. During the quarter, there were approximately $0.3 million of first year Fuddruckers related, integration related legal and professional fees included in our G&A expense.

As a percentage of total sales, our general and administrative expenses declined to 8.4% from 9% last year, as we were able to leverage much of our existing infrastructure to manage the acquired Fuddruckers assets. As a percentage of total sales, depreciation expense declined to 4.7% in the third quarter compared to 6% last year.

Now, I'll take a quick look at our year-to-date results for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2011. Our same store sales year-to-date are up 3.9%, driven by increases in traffic, offset by lower average customer spend. Store level profit rose to $27.1 million during the first three quarters of fiscal 2011, up from $22.6 million in fiscal 2010.

As a percentage of restaurant sales, store level profit declined to 12.3% in fiscal 2011 year-to-date, compared to 14.7% in the first three quarters of last year or fiscal year 2010. This decline is primarily due to the higher food cost as a percentage of sales, which have increased 190 basis points for the first three quarters ended year-over-year.

Year-to-date, we have generated a loss from continuing operations of $256,000 or $0.01 per diluted share, an improvement from the loss of $1.7 million or $0.06 per share last year. Excluding special items, we reported income from continuing operations of positive $622,000 in the first three quarters of fiscal 2011 compared to a loss of $1.2 million from continuing operations in the first three quarters of the prior fiscal year.

Year-to-date net income this year was $119,000 positive compared to a loss of $3.4 million year-to-date for the comparable three quarters last fiscal year. We continue to estimate that Fuddruckers will produce earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA between $8 million to $10 million this year. The reconciling items between Fuddruckers estimated EBITDA and non-GAAP measure and Fuddruckers estimated income before income taxes are $2 million for interest expense and $4 million for estimated depreciation and amortization.

Our projected results for Fuddruckers for fiscal year 2011 are closer to the top end of this range as of the end of this year. Our projected EBITDA and net income results are sensitive to declines in sales volumes. We remain cautious as we face the potential impact of gasoline prices on our guest frequencies.

Now moving on to our balance sheet, we ended our second quarter with $1.2 million in cash, $161.9 million in shareholders' equity which is a book value per share of $5.72, $31 million in debt and $11.9 million in assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations.

As of May 4, we have $16.6 million in available credit under our credit facility. As of June 7, 2011, we had outstanding $29.8 million outstanding under our credit facility. $1.2 million in letters of credit outstanding and $12.9 million available credit due to $5 million scheduled reduction in the credit facility to $43.9 million.

This is a reminder we're reflecting, our credit facility debt is current. Our current credit agreement comes due this September 1. We're currently in talks with our bank group and we expect to refinance the remaining portion of the debt to renew our existing credit facility prior to September 1, 2011. Our banking partners are pleased with how quickly we have reduced our debts since the Fuddruckers acquisition, as well as a positive earnings in this quarter as we had planned. As I mentioned before, we continue to progress towards execution of a renewal with our existing bank group in the coming months.

During the quarter, we sold one property for total net proceeds of approximately $1 million. At the end of fiscal 2011 third quarter, we had a total of 13 properties, fee-on properties remaining for sale. We're actively marketing these properties and plan to utilize future proceeds to pay down debt.

One of the most significant changes we've realized this year versus last year is the increase in cash flow provided by operating activities. During the first three quarters of 2011, we generated $6.6 million in cash from operations, last year we generated $0.2 million, during the comparable period.

Year-to-date, our capital expenditures were just over $5 million. We expect to spend $8 million to $10 million on capital expenditures by the end of the year. These expenditures will be made to enhance our current locations, develop new locations and relocate one cafeteria unit and grow Culinary Contract Services.

And to finish out, we're very excited about our new unit development and are working hard on planning the pipeline for growth of our great brand Fuddruckers Hamburgers, the original better burger.

Looking forward, we currently expect unit growth to come initially and primarily from additional Fuddruckers franchisee and company-operated Fuddruckers units and secondarily Culinary Contract Services and Luby's Cafeterias over the next several years. Given the challenging environment we are in, we remain cautious and we will be continuing our focus on the basics of the restaurant business to improve store level profit margin, which drives value, through operational best practices, menu innovation and facility updates.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Chris.

Thank you, Scott. Although the economic conditions are slowly improving, increases in gasoline prices are impacting our customers, reducing their disposable income. We continue to remain cautious on any improvements in our profit margins as food commodity prices continue to rise. As always, we will remain focused on driving customers to our restaurants, generating an exciting and compelling menu items and local market promotions.

As we move into our planning for the next fiscal year and see results from our initial new unit openings, we look forward to developing more extensive plans for 2012 and beyond. In our next call, we plan to share with you our new store opening plan in more detail. Our primary goal for 2011 and beyond is to grow operating cash flow and return to profitability. We see opportunities for our brands to grow even in this environment. We believe we are on the right path towards achieving our goals and we will focus on driving our results through our local marketing initiatives and carefully managing our expenses.

We will continue to find better ways to serve our guests and to realize better margins without compromise. As you know, our brands stand for fresh, great high quality food and at a great value to our guests. As we move forward, we will continue to nurture our brand always keeping what we stand for at the forefront of our decisions.

Now at this time, I'd like to open the floor up for questions. Operator?

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Stas Kiselev with Capstone Investments. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Congrats on the solid quarter here.

Thank you, Stas. How are you?

Good. Good. Just a couple of quick follow-up questions. Scott, you mentioned in Q4 you are seeing a slightly slower traffic trend. I am wondering if you could expand a little a bit on that, are you talking about sequential or year-over-year basis?

On a year-over-year basis.

And how long has it been in Q4, how many weeks have you already seen this for?

We have only completed one of our four-week periods. We have actually seen that it was soft in that – the first four weeks of the fourth quarter. However, as we mentioned, the LTOs [limited-time offers] that we are offering now seem also to be showing some positive signs.

Okay. Do you mostly attribute that to the pricing that you guys are taking?

I think that overall it has to do with everyone looking at the cost of filling up their gas tank. And so what we've seen is when we offer the guest another reason to come back, they are taking us up on it and it's already like I said subsequent to that first period, we are starting to see things start to move in the right direction.

Got it. Okay, that's helpful. And I have a question about the new Fuddruckers prototype that you guys are about to open up. I wonder if you can expand a little bit on that and maybe tell us what kind of investment you're putting into this Fuddruckers, and maybe what kind of cash flow, what kind of return on investment you guys at least want to see with this unit?

Oh sure, happy to talk about that one. That was unique, I would say that it's not going to be the cookie-cutter one that will be the model to expand with. Again, we are still in the early stages of experimenting with the size. We have a lot of large units. This is the first time that we and our management we're going to do a smaller one. This space is an existing space that's approximately 3,400 square feet and it's a very – very limited time of day offered. Our capital investment is minimal. We have a tenant improvement allowance that's being provided on that.

And so our number is for this one is under 400,000, before the tenant allowance of about 100. So we don't have very much capital at risk on this site. But we're working very hard on all the details to see that we can maximize the fact that we are putting our brand down in the center of Houston to use as an advertising piece as well.

So we're still working on the new prototype, although we do have some parameters on that and as we get them open, we'll be able to share more details with you.

Got it. So, I'm guessing on the fourth quarter call, you'll probably give us a little bit more detail because you'll probably operate it for a few months at that point?

Yeah, we'll have some operations to speak to, to see how it comes out. This – again, this one is not a typical one, because your meal period is just lunch. So, we have a lunch and we're also already actively working at looking at breakfast part and then being downtown to looking at using the online ordering feature to capture some office meeting and other take-out – so to speak – business from that location. All these things are elements that can be – give us some insight into our guest and our product and how we deliver it for other sites.

Stas, this is Chris Pappas. What we actually have going on is, that site has a – it really will allow us to hone in and work with high-speed delivery I think in a short timeframe, which it'll really give us some good testing ground for that; and that's why – one of the reasons we took it up. Then the drive-thru component that we are adding and taking over in an existing Luby's and converting that will give us a little feel for how our product goes through a drive-thru. So give us a test in that regard. And then putting some of the product into existing stores will allow us to see how we can cross-market the brand and see if we can develop that cross-market piece that a number of the fast food guys have been able to incorporate successfully.

We don't know how much of each of these will bear fruit, but that's – we – they're pretty – there are very low cost investments to test the market waters on these and get a sense of how to incorporate the brand and look at what does the Fuddruckers, and the extent of Fuddruckers that guests are looking for in different prototypes. It will vary a little bit from prototype to prototype on size of the operations and what are going to be the elements that we feature in various sizes of prototypes, it'll give us a good feel for that.

Also, the – and in line prototype that we've mentioned before, the 2,500 to 3,500 square foot model, we're going to get a lot of learning experience from these test operations that we're doing over the next several months. We'll have some feedback to be able to incorporate into the smaller units that we do that'll probably be – a number of them will be in line, in cap, and might incorporate drive-thru as well. So we've got a multipronged approach to this effort that's going to be taking place over the next three months.

That's very helpful. And the number for the growth that you mentioned, three to five units for 2012, is that already set in stone or are you still – is that going to be up in the air based on how the test markets go?

Stas, I'll say that's – for our team right now that's a comfortable range for us and for a year or two.

Got it. And just one more question, just to clarify the same restaurant sales number at Fuddruckers for Q3, was that 3.5

3.2%.

3.2%.

3.2%.

Got it. All right, thanks guys.

Very good.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] James Fano with Sidoti & Company (47:10). Please go ahead.

Hey, guys, how are you.

Good. [ph] Sam, good, (47:14) how are you?

I just want to know in general, I mean, do you think that the Fuddruckers acquisition, is that going to bring you down your total operating costs as a percent of revenue or you hope it will?

We feel that there is a opportunity obviously with the existing stores to improve sales at the existing location the better it levers our cost, as well as expansion of the franchise and leveraging the G&A to support that; as well as the – the G&A just to run the company to leverage the folks that are here now that are supporting Luby's and Culinary Contract Services. So we feel that it's definitely a way for us to – for the company to expand its top line and leverage its cost.

All right, okay. And in terms of the summer, do you guys have any promotions going on that might increase the sales for the summer time?

We've got an active process of communicating via social media in our e-Clubs. We're working to continue to have better guest engagement through those medias. And we've got individual store promotions that are – we've mentioned earlier on the call that we're focused on to be more store specific.

And in terms of the cash flow that you're getting, I mean, is that just going to be used going forward to pay down the debt or do you have any other plans to use with it.

Can you repeat the question?

In terms of the cash flow, what are you guys going to do with the cash, you guys are going to continue to pay down debt or is there anything else on the horizon?

We view the cash flow that'll help fund our maintenance capital, the recurring capital expenditures, as well as our growth capital. And for purposes of the asset sales to help de-lever further and provide more availability just under the line.

Okay, sounds good. All right, thanks guys, good quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And I show no further questions in the queue, at this time I would like to turn the conference back to management for closing remarks.

I'd like to thank you for your interest and investments in Luby's, and we look forward to visiting and updating again on our year-end conference call that we plan in October. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Luby's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions]