corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Luby’s


Incorporated First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be


in a listen only mode, following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions]. This conference is being recorded today Thursday, December 17, 2009.


And I’d now like to turn the conference over to Ben Burnham of DRG&E. Please go ahead sir.


Ben Burnham, Assistant Vice President, IR Counsel, DRG&E


Thank you, Mikela and welcome everyone to the Luby’s first quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings


conference call. This call is also being webcast and you can access the audio replay on our website


at lubys.com.


Before we continue, I would like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including


statements made during the question and answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected


financial performance of the company’s prototype restaurant and future openings are forward-


looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, general


business conditions; the impact of competition; the success of operating initiatives; changes in the


cost and supply of food and labor; the seasonality of the company’s business; taxes; inflation;


governmental regulations; and the availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties


disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Ben. And welcome, everyone, to our first-quarter fiscal 2010 conference call. As we


announced in our fourth quarter release we began the new fiscal year with the implementation of


our 2010 cash flow improvement and capital redeployment plan, which we announced on October


15. Our strengthening in our core operations, we’re now focused on weathering this current


economic downturn coming out a stronger and leaner operation thereby generating positive cash


flow and ultimately profitability.


The elements of the plan include the immediate closure of 25 of the company’s underperforming


assets, which we closed 24; the disposition of those assets to through sale or lease to third parties


and reallocation of the capital; three, continued focus on food, labor and operating cost


management at the remaining core locations; four, maintaining the company’s stable capital


structure moving forward; five, continued emphasis on expansion of the Culinary Contract Services


business; and six, our continued focus on customer and sales development at our retail units.


I’ll touch on our progress to date on each of these items later. By October 22, we closed 24


locations as part of the plan, nine in the Dallas Fort Metroplex area, nine in the Houston


metropolitan area and six in smaller markets. We currently still operate 96 restaurants and 14


Culinary Contract Service locations. The distance between our locations has increased in Houston


and Dallas-Fort Worth as a result of store closures. However, we continue to maintain a strong


presence in both these major markets.


Overall our industry is crowded with many newer restaurants having opened in the past several


years. Like most everyone in our industry, we have been impacted by higher unemployment rates


and a downturn in consumer sentiment. The lack of visibility on an economic turnaround impacting
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the job market has taken its toll on consumers. Our customers have been hard hit and as a result,


they’re eating out less often and taking advantage of value items when they do.


Our primary goal for fiscal 2010 is to become cash flow positive. We are heading in that direction by


continuing to improve the management of our food, labor and other costs both at the store level and


at the corporate office. During the first quarter, we demonstrated our ability to bring down our costs


as food costs declined 50 basis points as a percentage of restaurant sales versus last year,9 and


payroll and other related costs were down 2.4 million including a reduction of $600,000 in overtime


expense and $300,000 in claim reserves during the year’s first quarter.


Our management teams continue to successfully focus on labor needs by day-part, making sure we


are staffed appropriately during the time periods when customer volume is the highest and reducing


during potential lows in traffic. Thanks has to go out to our store managers and area leaders, they


are the keys to making Luby’s profitable and are the – executing on the initiatives and goals we’ve


laid out for them. Although improvements in cost management would get us part of the way, alone


they will not take us where we need to be. We need more customers to come into our restaurants


and we need them to come more often. I’ll address these efforts later in the call.


Our Culinary Contract Services business continues to be an area of growth with 15 client locations.


In the quarter we continued to grow our year-over-year sales, which were up 9.7% in the first


quarter of 2010. We continue to pursue additional clients and believe we will continue to


successfully obtain new account locations in the future based on our competitive proposition.


Today, we are seeing more interest in our Culinary Contract Service business I believe as a result


of the continued difficulties in the economy that all operators in institutional and healthcare are


experiencing.


Regarding the disposition of our excess properties consisting of our closed stores, we sold two


properties for $3 million. With regard to strengthening our capital structure on November 9, 2009,


we entered into an amended and restated revolving credit facility with our bank. As of November


18, 2009, we had 600,000 outstanding under the facility. As of today, we have no outstanding


borrowing under the facility.


At this point I’d like to turn the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray, where he’ll be reporting on our


financial results for the first quarter 2010 and walking you through some of the charges associated


with implementation of the plan to date.


After Scott’s remarks, I’ll review the marketing and promotional initiatives that we have underway


and discuss future plans aimed at increasing cash flow from operations. Scott?


Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Chris, and good afternoon, everyone. I’ll now take you through our financial results for


the first quarter, which was a 12-week period that ended November 18, 2009. Please note, as a


result of the company’s business plan, our cash flow improvement and capital redeployment plan,


which included the closure of 24 underperforming stores, we have reclassified the closed stores


results to discontinued operations for the current and prior fiscal years for comparability.


And with that, starting with the income statement, we reported a loss from continuing operations in


the first quarter of 2.9 million or $0.10 per share compared to a loss from continuing operations of


1.3 million or $0.05 per share in the same quarter last year restated.


Comparing quarter-to-quarter, year-over-year, our loss from continuing operations increased by


$1.6 million. Total sales decreased 8.3 million or 13.8% in our first quarter fiscal 2010 to 51.7