corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Luby’s


Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be


placed in listen-only mode, following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, June 9 of 2010. And I


would now like to turn the conference over to Sheila Stuewe of DRG&E. Please go ahead ma’am.


Sheila Stuewe, Vice President, IR Counsel, DRG&E


Thank you, Miquela and welcome everyone to the Luby’s third quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings


conference call. This call is also being webcast and can be accessed through the audio replay on


our website, lubys.com.


Before we continue, I would like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including


statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected


financial performance of the company’s prototype restaurant and future openings are forward-


looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, general


business conditions; the impact of competition; the success of operating initiatives; changes in the


cost and supply of food and labor and seasonality of the company’s business, taxes, inflation,


governmental regulations, and the availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties


disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sheila. Welcome to all of you joining us today on our third quarter fiscal 2010


conference call. With me today is Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as


well as Peter Tropoli, Senior Vice President and General Counsel.


During the quarter, our customer traffic improved versus the prior year, this is a positive indication


that consumers are feeling better about the situation. Although there were numerous external


forces that may have led to our increasing customer traffic, we believe that our local marketing and


promotions had a significant impact on our customer frequency.


As we stated last quarter, we are tailoring our promotional efforts to each market and in many


cases each restaurant, allowing us to better serve our customers, offering them the meals and


options most meaningful to them. Plus it adds excitement as we launch new promotions and


continue with those that our customers have responded to most favorably. We would also like to


point out that as we have rolled out our local market initiatives we’ve also reduced our advertising


and marketing expenses.


Our third quarter 2010 advertising and marketing expense declined by $0.7 million, compared to


last year’s third quarter. Although our traffic is up, our sales are still down against last year.


During the third quarter, our same-store sales were down 4.8%, an improvement over the double-


digit declines experienced in the first two 2010 fiscal quarters. We believe the sales decline in the


third quarter was driven in part by lower menu prices and menu mix as evident in a lower per


person average spent this year compared to last year. Given our guest’s response to limited time
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


offers at low prices, we continue to believe that it is a tough environment out there for restaurants


serving the consumer who is worried about jobs and their future.


Although traffic and sales trends are improving, we remain cautious. Unemployment continues to


hover near 10% until we have greater visibility we will refrain from issuing a sales guidance. We will


say that it is possible for our same-store sales trend to be close to flat in the fourth quarter


assuming that our traffic improvement continues throughout the quarter. In addition, we will lap our


menu price [inaudible] reductions in the last 6 weeks of our fourth fiscal quarter ending August 25,


2010.


One of the highlights in the third quarter was improved cash flow. In the quarter, we generated 5.9


million in operating cash flow as well as 1.3 million in income from continuing operations. This


positive cash flow and booked profitability are clear indications that our cash flow and our capital


redeployment plan is generating results.


When we rolled out the plan at the beginning of our fiscal 2010 fiscal year, we outlined our key


goals as generating positive cash flow and return the company to profitability. We’re pleased with


our improved results. However our team continues to focus on driving guest satisfaction and


frequency along with increasing long-term shareholder value. We are encouraged by the impact of


our local promotional efforts on our same-store sales trends. Along with our efforts to stimulate


traffic, we also continue to focus on managing our expenses.


All of our key expense lines saw a decline in dollar spent versus last year. Our cost of food and


payroll expenses improved as a percentage of sales and our other operating expense and G&A


expenses improved over compared to the third fiscal quarter last year. Although Scott will go into


more detail on each of these line items, these expense reductions are clear indications that our


efforts are generating results.


At this time, I’d like to discuss improvements in our balance sheet. We ended the 2010 fiscal


second quarter, last quarter with 754,000 in cash on our balance sheet. During the third quarter, we


generated 5.9 million in operating cash flow and spent less than 1 million in capital expenditures


and generated approximately 2 million in proceeds from the sale of properties. At the end of our


third quarter, we had 7.7 million in cash on our balance sheet, no debt and 22 owned properties for


sale. In addition after the quarter ended, we were notified that an arbitration panel ordered Credit


Suisse Securities to buyback our auction rate securities at par. On June 2, we received the full 7.1


million par value.


As we noted in our press release on May 27, we also expect to report a pre-tax gain of


approximately 1.8 million net of expenses, on the sale of these investments in the fourth quarter.


We’re also making progress marking our closed properties. All the properties sold thus far during


the fiscal year have been done so at a book value.


K. Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Above book value there.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


As we have stated in our previous calls, we are working to realize the greatest value upon the


disposition of these properties and to reallocate the capital to better uses.


After Scott’s remarks, I’ll discuss our Culinary Contract Services operation and our outlook for the


remainder of the year. Scott?