corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Luby’s


Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a


listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Friday, March 11, 2011.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Steve Goodweather, Vice President of Financial


Planning and Analysis. Please go ahead, sir.


Steve Goodweather, Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis


Thank you. And welcome everyone to Luby’s second quarter results conference call. This call is


also being webcast and can be accessed through the audio replay on the Luby’s website,


lubys.com.


Before we continue, I’d like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including


statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected


financial performance of the company’s prototype restaurants and future openings are forward-


looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, general


business conditions, the impact of competition, success of operating initiatives, changes in the cost


and supply of food and labor and seasonality of the company’s business, taxes, inflation,


governmental regulations, and availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties


disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I will now turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas.


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Steve. Welcome to all of you joining us on our 2011 second fiscal quarter conference


call. With me today is Scott Gray, Senior Vice President, CFO; and Peter Tropoli, Senior Vice


President and General Counsel; as well as our senior operations team. On the call this morning we


will discuss our financial results and our operational initiatives for our Luby’s Fuddruckers and


Culinary Contract Services brands. We will also discuss our outlook.


First, a couple of overall comments. We generated our second consecutive positive increase in


same-store sales in the second quarter, where same-stores sales were up 2.7% compared to 5.5%


in the first quarter. Through the second quarter, our comparable sales performance continue to


move in a positive direction despite the impact of cold weather especially in the last week of the


quarter.


During that week, our Texas markets, specifically Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, experienced


ice or snow. We estimate that the severe weather cost us approximately $900,000 in restaurant


sales during the last week due to operating limited hours at some locations and full store closures


at others. If our quarter would have ended a week earlier, our same-store sales increase would


have been 4.5%. We are pleased with our continued trend and positive same-store sales.


Our same-store restaurant traffic has also continued to be positive, up 8%. While our traffic is up,


our per person average, or our PPA, is down 4.9%, largely due to the impact of the lower Kids Meal


price, expansion of our Saturday, Sunday All You Can Eat Breakfast, and limited time offers.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We reported a net loss from continuing operations of $211,000 in the quarter. Excluding special


items in the quarter totaling $238,000 and after-tax expenses, mainly professional fees related to


the integration of Fuddruckers, our adjusted after-tax income from continuous operations was


$27,000, essentially a breakeven for the quarter. With our same-store restaurant traffic and sales


now continuing positive, we’ll work to improve our margins by continuing to better execute on the


basics of the restaurant business quality customer service and food and labor costs. We are aware


of the challenges present in the current marketplace and our operations team continues to focus on


incremental profitability improvements as we progress through this fiscal year.


I would like to take a moment to discuss the impact of inflation on our results. Inflation and food


prices is clearly impacting us, along with the rest of the industry. We estimate that in the second


quarter, our basket of food commodities was up 5% versus last year’s second quarter, driven by


increases in the cost of beef, seafood and produce. This uptick in prices added approximately 140


basis points to our cost of food to restaurant sales ratio or approximately $800,000 to our food cost


dollars. We do not believe prices are likely to retreat in the near future. However, we are buying


strategically and using the menu flexibility we have within our cafeteria units to respond to this


challenge.


Now I’ll speak to our three brands. First, at our 96 Luby’s Cafeterias, we continue to provide our


customers with home-style, classic, made-from-scratch quality food, product offerings and value


pricing with a cafeteria delivery model. We built a strong reputation with our customers, so strong


that this year we served over 57,000 holiday meals on Christmas at our Luby’s Cafeteria units. We


opened 70 of our Luby’s Cafeteria locations on Christmas day, up from 15 last year. Over 14% of


the meals we served were for in-home dining. Many of our customers also took home a holiday


cake or pie, a promotion we have expanded to other special days such as New Year’s and


Valentine’s Day. When our guests think about cakes or pies, we want them to keep heading to our


cafeterias.


On Valentine’s Day’s, which fell in the first week of the third quarter, we also offered holiday cakes


and pies as well as a two-for-$24.99 meal including new desert duo, driving traffic to our locations.


However, the most successful traffic driver has been our weekend breakfast. We have two-thirds of


our cafeteria unit serving an All You Can Eat breakfast for just $4.99 every Saturday and Sunday


throughout the quarter. Half of the increase in our customer traffic count in the second quarter was


generated by this initiative. As we move forward, we will continue to offer our customers selective


marketing initiatives to drive traffic. As always, we will continue to find exciting solutions for our


guests, including take-home and group dining.


During the past quarter, we established processes that reduce the time it takes to execute a food-


to-go order, both inside our cafeteria units and at the drive-thru window. We know our customers


are pressured by time constraints and we want them to know that when they choose Luby’s, they’ll


drive away with a healthy made-from-scratch meal.


We have new menu boards at our drive-thru units and at our walk-in food-to-go rooms were


available. These new menu boards greatly simplify the ordering process by letting the customers


order by number. We’ve selected our most popular 10 items for these menu boards and these 10


menu items represent over 85% of our typical dine-in customer orders. Of course, the days full


selection of items is always displayed and available on the cafeteria line. As a result, our food-to-go


sales in the second quarter were up 3.5% and represented 10% of the same-store sales dollars


increase compared to last year.


Recently, we passed on a small portion of our food cost increases to our guest, raising the prices


on a handful of selected menu items. At this time, we do not believe it’s prudent to try and fully


recoup the impact of food inflation through menu pricing. Our menu prices remain and will continue


to remain at or below that of our fast casual dining competitors. Our fresh made-from-scratch


recipes present our guests with terrific value.