raw transcript


Lubys, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Luby's Second Quarter Fiscal 2005 Earnings


Release Conference Call. Today’s conference call will begin with a presentation followed by


question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. At this point I would like to turn the call over


to Luby’s Communications Director Mr. Adam Carter. Please go ahead sir.


Adam Carter, Communication’s Director


Thank you very much. Before I read the forward-looking statement I wanted to let you know that


the press release that we released this morning is available on our website www.lubys.com. Thank


you all for call in this morning. The replay of the call will be available through April 5th. You can


reach that replay by dialing 866-453-660 and entering ID 159978. With that aside, let me say this


conference call may contain statements that are forward looking, actual results may differ materially


from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information relating to the


factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-


looking statement is contained in publically available documents that the company has previously


filed with Securities and Exchange Commission, including Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs. I will now like to


turn the over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Paps.


Christopher Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and welcome to our second quarter conference call. As you can imagine from our press


release this morning the team here at Luby’s is proud of the results the company posted for the


second quarter by achieving same-store sales increases for the fifth quarter in a row we are


showing that the combination of startup operations, exciting new products and a targeted


advertising message can consistently grow sales even against positive comparisons in the prior


year. Our term debt balance continues to shrink as our real estate department sells closed


restaurant properties unlocking the value of those assets. And because of the increased sales and


lower cost figures we were able to post a profit for the quarter and the year-to-date, the third quarter


profit in 4 quarters. It’s an exciting time for everyone involved here at Luby’s.


Before I turn the call over to Ernest, I wanted to talk to you about why we reschedule this call and


the filing of our 10-Q. Most of you probably follow the retail and restaurant industries and therefore


are aware of the issue of straight line leases and the recent guidance from the SEC. As we’ve


discussed and disclosed before in our 10-Ks and 10-Qs, we did not use the straight-line method


when calculating our lease expense entry. We were using the actual cash expense as our entry.


During the first quarter or during the first week of February though some new guidance came out


from the SEC in the form of a letter to the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts, because


of this new guidance and after discussions with our auditors Ernest & Young, we changed to the


straight-line method on lease expense and land [ph] depreciation in line with our lease terms.


Because of this, this was a fairly complicated undertaking we decided best we needed to some


extra time to make the calculations which is why we filed for the week long extension. Most of our


restaurant and retail peers have gone through this type of restatement or soon to face it. The


adjustments are just accounting entries they don’t have any cash effect. Ernie will go into more


detail on the changes and what impact it had to our financial statements but I wanted to address


that issue before we got started. After Ernie is done, I’ll talk more about what we’ve been doing out


in the restaurants.
raw transcript


Lubys, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Ernest Pekmezaris, Chief Financial Officer, and Senior Vice President


Thank you, Chris. It is quite a good quarter for Luby's and one that we are very proud of. Before I


walk you through the details of the financial statements, I would like to take a moment to address


the impact of the restatement which we undertook as part of adopting straight-line expenses for


leases and making related adjustments to depreciation. As Chris mentioned, these restatements


have become a regular occurrence over the past few months as retail and restaurant companies


were required to revisit how they accounted for their leases because of the new guidance from the


SEC. For us, like many of our peers the impact of adjustments was non-cash in nature; instead


they involved adjusting our historical lease and depreciation expense which in some cases went


back decades. Ultimately, the impacts on our financial statements were fairly small. For example


the second quarter of 2004, income statement adjusted for, adjusted was in our favor, decreasing


the net loss for the quarter by $13,000. For the first two quarters of 2004 combined the


adjustments was also in our favor in amount of $146,000. Adjustments to net income typically


involved lease and depreciation expense much of the change related to the lease stores we have


already closed and as a result flowed through discontinued operations. The restatement also


impacted the balance sheet including a $2.5 million adjustment to our fiscal year end balance sheet


which included a $3.5 million decrease in retained earnings. We’ve outlined all the changes in our


10-Q for the second quarter of 2005, our 10-Q/A for the first quarter of 2005 and our 10-K/A for


fiscal 2004. I am happy to answer questions on this matter during the Q&A session, but at this


point, I would like to talk about the great results we’ve posted this quarter.


First the balance sheet. We had approximately $10.4 million in cash and short-term investments


and the end of the second quarter compared to 5.6 million at the end of the fourth quarter. The


increase was due to cash generated from the stronger operations during the second quarter. On


the term debt, because we sold a number of properties during the second quarter, we were able to


reduce our term debt by $6.1 million. The term debt is down from 27.9 million when we completed


the refinancing in June 2004 to 14.6 million at the end of the second quarter. On our balance


sheet, we show 17 million in properties held for sale, all of which is earmarked to pay down the


term debt. This property held us sale includes 15 restaurant properties, one parcel of undeveloped


land and the San Antonio office building. I can tell you, tell you that earlier this month during the


third quarter, we finalized the sale of the office building and we used the proceeds to pay down our


term debt. I am not going to go into detail anymore than, on this transaction. The revolver balance


on the balance at the end of the quarter was $32 million. We made our first draw in our revolver


since its inception, borrowing $4 million for our property taxes which in Texas was due in January.


On the income statement, sales for the second quarter was up 5.6%. Chris will talk more about


some of the things that we believe helped drive the increase. Ultimately, the increased sales


combined with lower cost helped us achieve a profit there in the quarter, which I’d like discuss. Our


food costs in the second quarter remained flat as a percent of sales at 26.9%. And our labor cost


came down over the prior year to 26.1% of sales from 27.8% in the second quarter last year. Part


of this is due to some leverage we gained in the increasing sales. Labor is not a strict variable cost


that must be ratcheted up by dollar by dollar.


On the other operating expenses we’re higher than in prior year, by approximately $900,000. The


majority of this can be tracked to 2 specific increases; advertising expenses was higher this year at


$1.1 million, due to the expansion of our television campaign, also utilities were higher than last


year, due to the higher commodity prices, $294,000 higher. Theses increases were offset by


smaller decreases in a number of other areas. Our general administrative expenses were lower


this year, than in the prior year by approximately $384,000. The most significant decrease was in


consulting fees. Separate from G&A, we also had expenses this quarter relating to the relocation of


our corporate offices from San Antonio to Houston, of approximately $380,000. The actual


relocation of new office occurred in early December at the beginning of the second quarter. Our


interest expense was lower this year versus last year by $1.1 million. This was due to a lower