corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 15, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Luby’s


Incorporated fourth quarter earnings conference call.


Operator Instructions]. This conference is being recorded today Thursday, October 15 of 2009. And


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Ken Dennard of DRG&E. Please go ahead, sir.


Ken Dennard, Founder and Managing Partner, Investor Relations Counsel, DRG&E


Thank you, Michelle, and welcome everyone to Luby’s fourth quarter fiscal year 2009 conference


call. This call is also being webcast and you can access the audio replay on our website at


lubys.com.


Before we continue, I’d like to remind you that statements in this discussion, including the


statements made during the question-and-answer session, regarding Luby’s future financial and


operating results, plans for expansion of the company’s business, including expected financial


performance of the company’s prototype restaurant and future openings of new or replacement


restaurants are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not


limited to, general business conditions; the impact of competition; the success of operating


initiatives; changes in the cost and supply of food and labor; the seasonality of the company’s


business; taxes; inflation; governmental regulations; and the availability of credit, as well as other


risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


I would now like to turn the call over to Luby’s President and CEO, Chris Pappas. Chris?


Christopher J. Pappas, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Ken, and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call. In the fourth quarter,


we continued to feel the impact of an extremely challenging macroeconomic environment that has


affected both the frequency and amounts our customers are spending with us. With a high level of


unemployment, consumers are spending their hard-earned dollar judiciously. Grocery stores are


picking up market share, as families are choosing to eat and more often. These factors, as well as


increased foreclosure rates and low consumer confidence, have resulted in industry-wide soft


sales. Over the spring and summer in response to this phenomenon, we saw our competitors


reducing prices and aggressively discounting to improve traffic. Like our competitors we did not


stand still. We worked diligently to address our decline in customer traffic.


Our first step over the summer was to launch a number of value initiatives to build goodwill with our


customers and to be more competitive in this new marketplace. I will describe these initiatives later


on in the call. We also took this challenging time to conduct a thorough review of our operations


and to make a few tough decisions; decisions that ultimately we felt were in the best interest of our


shareholders and for the company.


As explained in our press release today, after thoroughly evaluating each of our stores near and


long-term potential, we are closing 25 stores. This strategic initiative is designed to stabilize and


strengthen our core operations and thereby improve our cash flow from operations. By focusing on


our core store base, we believe that over time we will be better positioned when appropriate for


future growth. The review examined each of our stores and determined whether it was best for the


long-term value of our company and our shareholders to continue operating each of them or


whether the capital we had invested in them should be reallocated. As a result of this analysis, we


made a decision to close 25 stores. Two of these stores are leased and 23 are owned stores, which


we will be actively marketing for sale.
corrected transcript


Luby's, Inc.
 
LUB
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 15, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Since the beginning of our new fiscal year, we’ve already closed six locations and the remaining 19


we’ll be closing over the next few weeks. We’re waiting to release the names of the remaining


closing units until we have a chance to speak with our employees. I’d like to express my sincere


appreciation to the employees at each of these stores for their dedicated service. As you might


imagine, this has been a very difficult decision for us, but one we concluded that we had to make.


As we mentioned in our press release, in conjunction with the closing of these stores, we took a


$19 million asset impairment charge in the fourth quarter; 13.8 million was related to the store


closure plan and 5.3 million associated with continuing operations.


In the first quarter fiscal 2010, the company will discontinue operations at these locations and will


dispose of them through property sales, property leases or lease settlement with landlords. Our


preliminary estimate of future cash expenditures related to these store closings is approximately


four to 4.6 million for employee severance, payment of remaining accounts payable and other


liabilities, as well as other cost. We believe that removing these restaurants from our portfolio puts


us in a better position to increase EBITDA, given that these locations either had low or negative


cash flow in the most recent fiscal year. Collectively, we hope to realize approximately 25 to $30


million from the sale of the 22 currently owned locations now closing over the next 36 months. Our


intention in the long term is to reinvest the proceeds from the sale of the closed properties such as


expanding our culinary contract service businesses, upgrading our existing retail units and/or


building new retail units. In the near term, we may have to use some of the proceeds to fund our


operations. Once we’ve closed these 25 units, we will have a stronger core of 95 retail locations, as


well as 15 culinary contract service locations and 27 properties held for sale.


As we move through the next year, we will be closely monitoring an additional five to 10 locations,


which may close depending on future cash flow performance. These additional closures would take


place over the next 24 months. With these efforts, we hope to become even stronger operationally


in terms of our capital structure. In most of the markets with a closed unit, there is another open


Luby’s unit within the same trade area. Therefore, we’re putting ourselves in a position to be able to


capture some of the sales that might be lost. We will still have a strong presence throughout Texas,


especially in our core markets of Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin and the Rio Grande Valley.


We will continue to keep you up-to-date on our progress over the implementation of the plan. At this


point, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott Gray. He’ll be reporting on our financial results for the


quarter and year, and walking you through some of the charges associated with the implementation


of the plan to date. After Scott’s remarks, I will review the marketing and promotion initiatives that


we have underway and discuss future plans aimed at increasing cash flow from operations. Scott?


Scott Gray, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon everyone. I will now take you through our financial results for the


fourth quarter, which was a 16-week period that ended August 26, 2009. I will also touch on our


results for the fiscal year, as well as some more details on our business plan, which Chris


discussed.


Starting with the income statement, we reported a loss from continuing operations in the fourth


quarter of 23.3 million or $0.83 per share, compared to a loss from continuing operations of 3.7


million or $0.13 per share in the same quarter last year. Basically, we had two charges in the


quarter. One, Chris mentioned, related to asset impairments, which was a pre-tax asset impairment


charge of approximately 19 million or $0.45 per share after tax associated with asset impairments.


And two, a deferred tax asset valuation allowance recorded at 5.1 million or $0.18 per share after


tax.