Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steve Goodweather — Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis & Investor Relations, Luby's, Inc.
Christopher James Pappas — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Luby's, Inc.
Benjamin T. Coutee — Chief Operating Officer, Luby's, Inc.
K. Scott Gray — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Luby's, Inc.
Soraya Benitez — Analyst, Cougar Trading LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Luby's Fiscal 2019 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Steve Goodweather, Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis. Thank you, sir. You may begin.

Thank you, and again, welcome everyone to Luby's 2019 fiscal first quarter earnings conference call. This call is also being webcast and can be accessed through the audio link on Luby's website, lubysinc.com. Information recorded on this call speaks only as of today, January 28, 2019.

Before we continue, I'd like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including statements made during the question-and-answer session regarding Luby's future financial and operating results are forward-looking statements. Those statements include risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, general business conditions, the impact of competition, success of operating initiatives, changes in commodity costs, and supply of food and labor, as well as seasonality of the company's business, taxes, inflation, governmental regulations, and availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q.

With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Luby's President and CEO, Chris Pappas.

Thanks, Steve. Good morning, everyone and thank you, all for joining us on today's conference call. I'll begin with an update on the quarter and our turnaround plan, followed by a recap of our Annual Shareholder Meeting that was held on Friday. And, we'll then turn the call over to our COO, Todd Coutee, followed by remarks of our CFO, Scott Gray.

We continue to navigate through a challenging competitive environment during the first quarter and experienced pressure on the top-line with a 3% same-store sales decline in our cafeteria brand and a 5.5% same-store sales decline in total company sales. However, our culinary contract service business remained strong and we increased sales in the first quarter by $2.6 million to $9.5 million, which represents a 10.4% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 versus 6.6% in the prior-year quarter.

From an expense perspective, we reduced our food and operating cost at a greater percentage than the sales declined. In addition, we've taken substantial actions to restructure our corporate overhead that will result in more than a $3 million saving at selling, G&A administrative costs. We know we have a lot of work to do. While sales pressures persist, we continue to make progress on a turnaround plan to generate consistent and sustainable same-store sales growth and a prudent store profitability, all with a goal of increasing [indiscernible] (00:03:19) shareholder value.

The four pillars of our strategic plan include; first, raising awareness of our brands, lot of marketing; second, strengthening our core operations; and third, optimizing the business for the future; and fourth, that we maintain strong corporate governance. We are taking targeted actions to keep up with the evolving restaurant industry, which includes raising the level of execution and the quality standards that have always been the core of Luby's, rightsizing our corporate overhead, and pursuing plans to refranchise many of company-owned Fuddruckers.

Ultimately, our goal is to capitalize on what people love about the Luby's brand, great-tasting food and service, and a friendly environment for lunch and dinner, while focusing on how to innovate and grow in ways that connect with today's consumer, a lot of digital aspects of it. We'll continue to further enhance the guest experience at each of our restaurants to remain relevant and appealing to keep loyal guests coming back and to draw new ones.

We're taking steps to improve our financial flexibility, including a property asset sales program which has generated proceeds of $26.8 million to-date or about 60% of our $45 million target. We also refinanced our debt, closing on a $60 million worth of refinancing on December 13, 2018, which, at the same time, put almost $20 million in cash on the balance sheet. Scott will provide more detail later in the call.

Now, I'd like to turn to a discussion of our Annual Shareholder Meeting that was held last Friday. I'd like to thank all our shareholders, who participated in voting for the directors at the Annual Meeting. We believe that [ph] they're significant at value to be (00:05:17) realized at Luby's. Based on the preliminary vote count, we are pleased that our shareholders have chosen to elect the company's slate of highly qualified directors to charge the path forward for Luby's.

With this annual election now completed, our real focus returns to executing our turnaround plan. We will be working tirelessly helping Luby's reach its full potential in order to grow our value for all of you, our shareholders. As we move forward, I'd like to say a few words about where we've been and where we are going as a company. The reality is that our restaurants have adapted to a great number of changes over the decades, and this leadership team has a successful track record of steering the company through previous difficult periods in the restaurant industry cycle.

Through each of these shifts, Luby's has maintained its purpose, culture, and vision. Today, our primary brands; Luby's Cafeteria, Fuddruckers are iconic American brands with legions of loyal guests. The business of operating these mature brands in highly competitive market places is tough, but we believe that we have the experience and dedicated people to operate our company to the highest standards and manage the business to return to operability and ultimately more growth.

We believe that our company has tremendous value, both from these iconic brands and their operations, as well as our company assets. The Luby's Fuddruckers brand [indiscernible] (00:06:54) millions of guests each year have tremendously loyal dedicated followers as reported in recent restaurant surveys that take place both brands as best-in-class when raised against their pure popularity.

In addition, the real estate has value and offers us flexibility that many of our competitors don't have. The real estate offers greater flexibility when their time comes to relocate or exit a location as capital can be redeployed or used to repay the debt especially. In 2000, when we came onboard, we had to close underperforming stores and take decisive action for Luby's debt and operations. By 2006, that debt was paid off. We were profitable and growth started back with new stores. By 2009 and the financial crisis, we again had to follow a similar strategy. And by 2013, our stock had doubled. Here we are today, and some of that strategy is put in place and is needed to get operations turned around with right people in positions, close underperforming locations, pay down our debt, rightsize our overhead costs, and reestablish the foundation needed for future growth.

We strongly believe that our future is large. The story of Luby's today is [indiscernible] (00:08:15) especially when it comes to delighting our guests with a unique experience and delicious comfort food that has always made Luby's Cafeteria and Fuddruckers great. We are proud to be part of this community of family and friends that enjoy making Luby's Fuddruckers a part of their daily live, and we look forward to serving generations to come as we work to enhance shareholder value.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over Todd Coutee for some comments. Todd?

Yes. Thank you, Chris. I'm pleased to join the call today. Since I last spoke with you, I've been hard at work, realigning our organization by getting the right people in the right positions, coaching our restaurant managers, and inspiring our front-line employees by setting the right tone and leading by example. In just a few months, I've witnessed positive changes in all aspects of our operations, but particularly with staff engagement with our guests.

As we work on repositioning our brands, our marketing team is utilizing more measurable digital marketing campaigns in conjunction with traditional media outlets. Our intention is to highlight the differentiation with respect to our competitors. Within our Luby's Cafeteria business, we continue to provide guests convenient, great-tasting, homestyle meals at an excellent value in a comfortable environment. We have an intense focus on product execution and menu innovation in order to keep our Texas comfort food up on trends.

Luby's Culinary Services, our contract food service brand, continues to be an amenity to healthcare, senior living communities, and corporate dining facilities, along with sales through our retail grocery outlets. Fuddruckers remains a strong brand. We plan to refranchise many of our company-owned Fuddruckers as we transition to a primarily franchise model, while retaining company-owned stores in our core market of Houston. I'm excited to be working alongside Chris, with our executive team, and most importantly, our dedicated team members and loyal guests.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray. Scott?

Thank you, Todd. And before I begin, I just want to give extended thanks to all of our employees who we serve and who represent our team here at Luby's, Inc., for their dedication, their efforts, and their trust. Just prior to the end of our first fiscal quarter, 12/18 – or 12/19/2018, we completed our debt refinancing that Chris mentioned. This funding provides the company the necessary liquidity as we execute on our turnaround plans to enhance our operating performance.

The new debt agreement with MSD Partners which is Michael Dell Partners, is comprised of three elements, a $60 million five-year term loan, a $10 million delayed draw term loan; and a $10 million revolving credit facility. The $60 million term loan closed on December 13th, which was a refinancing of our existing outstanding just below – around $40 million outstanding. As a result of that draw at the close, we had a $19.8 million in cash on the balance sheet subsequent to the close at the end of the quarter on December 19, 2018.

Of this cash balance, a $11.1 million is classified as restricted cash that is earmarked for interest expense payments, as well as other cash balance commitments. As previously discussed in our – it is our intent and desire to reduce the debt balance as soon as we can. We have our asset sale plan that we've announced back in April, and, as it's listed in our press release, we're 60% complete with that plan, and we plan to utilize the sale of those property sales to lower the debt.

I'll quickly touch on the first quarter financial results next. Adjusted EBITDA was a positive $1.2 million, down $0.8 million from first quarter last year. The decrease was primarily the result of a $1.9 million decline in restaurant level profits, partially offset by increases in franchise segment profit and culinary services segment profit, as well as a decrease in SG&A expenses. It is worth noting that the SG&A cost in the first quarter did include this year approximately $1 million and one-time proxy solicitation and communication cost, as well as one-time employee severance cost.

Normalizing that impact, SG&A cost decreased $1.3 million and EBITDA increased modestly year-over-year, about $200,000. We look forward to improve results year-over-year next quarter. While the first quarter results are hardly an acceptable result on their own, relative to our trend, it does represent sequential improvement. In fact, food cost and operating expenses as a percentage of restaurant sales improved, despite a 3% cafeteria same-store sales decline, and an overall 5.5% same-store sales decline.

We realized 100 basis points improvement in food cost as a percentage of restaurant sales, due in large part to an increased average menu price. Operating cost as a percentage of restaurant sales also improved due to improved cost controls and restaurant supplies. These improvements were partially offset by higher payroll or related costs as a percentage of restaurant sales.

Our capital spend was also curtailed as planned at $1.1 million in the first quarter, down from $4.3 million last year in the first quarter. We are on track to keep our maintenance CapEx spend below $8 million, which is targeted for fiscal 2019. Our sales trends after the first quarter ended December 19, 2019 – 2018 have improved. We did have a few days of easy comps last year [ph] related to (00:14:34) severe weather in the prior year though. But, even normalizing that impact, sales trends have improved from the first quarter performance.

In our last call, we indicated that our projected EBITDA for fiscal 2019 was projected at the low-end to be $5 million for the year. Based on our current outlook, including the improved sales trends, we reaffirm that that continues to be the low-end at $5 million, and we look forward to it improving as this year progresses that we'll keep you updated on our calls at each quarter.

And with that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Chris.

Thank you, Scott. Here at Luby's, we believe the right team and leadership is in place to grow our sales and margin, improve our corporate costs, reduce our debt, and enhance our returns. Each step we're taking is the goal of returning to profitability.

With that, operator, we're now open for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from [ph] George Green (00:16:25), a private investor. Please proceed with your question.

In the $80 million credit facility with MSD Partners, what was the evaluation of that MSD use of Luby's real estate?

I'd – in regard to that, I'm not sure where they were showing that in the credit facility. I don't think it's – it's not disclosed in the credit facility and it's something that we don't disclose to the public.

In what way would it harm Luby's or Luby's shareholders if the estimate of you – of Luby's real estate evaluation, either by Luby's or by MSD Partners was made available to Luby's shareholders?

The – it's just a practice that we've chosen over the years. We're running the business as an operating company and such, and we believe, the value is driven and looked at oftentimes [indiscernible] (00:17:50) how we're operating this company.

No further questions. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Soraya Benitez with Cougar Capital. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Just two quick ones for me. One, on the maintenance CapEx that [ph] we see, you plan to leave at sort of the $8 million level (00:18:20). I'm just curious, how many of the Luby's Cafeteria or any of the other brands need remodeling? How old is that sort of remodel life and at what point might you need to sort of raise it from that level, how much flexibility do you have is my first question?

Thanks, thanks for being on call today. The maintenance CapEx is – that we show, I believe it's...

It is $1.1 million a quarter.

...$1.1 million, and we have [indiscernible] (00:18:51) estimate for the year...

Yeah. We've estimated that there were $8 million – could be less than $8 million as our high side...

And that would be going for just the normal repairs that are capitalized and such air conditioners and things that are multi-year [ph] write-off (00:19:16) that have to be capitalized. Over and above that, we have the right to go ahead and do some remodeling and such like that we need to and those – that's what would raise that number up above [indiscernible] (00:19:35).

Yeah. We're primarily focused on trying to increase the operating – the cash flows from operations [indiscernible] (00:19:40) then we can start remodeling...

Right, right. And we – and over the years, we've attended to a lot of that updating as well that we felt like were just really necessary over and above the normal run rate of things [indiscernible] (00:19:58) repair that were capitalized. So, we've done a lot of that over the years, and it'd be nice to some more, but at this time, current situation, we're going to focus on maintaining a little more level that will just take care of most of the day-to-day capital, normal capital expenditures that fall in this range that we've described.

Thank you. And then just on the – in the marketing. I think, you said it in your comments a little bit earlier and you were talking about these pretty mature brands in a pretty competitive environment. I'm just curious to know what specifically are you doing in marketing? I mean, it sounds to me, you're doing a lot of controlling, a lot of the controllables within your P&L. My question would be just sort of stem the hemorrhaging and the decreases in traffic, what exactly – how do you exactly plan to stop that hemorrhaging?

Thank you. Todd, do you want to speak...

Sure.

...to our marketing side?

Yeah. In respect to Luby's, we're going to work on connecting the brand back to Texans. We're going to talk about our food in terms of being Texas comfort food. We're going to talk about all of our local partners in Texas. We're going to look at towns we've been in the past, of course, as a brand and use the normal medians of advertising billboards, potentially some television. We're also looking heavy at digital campaigns to talk about Luby's and Fuddruckers in regards to how we differentiate ourselves, with the guest ability to build their own special burger, as well as we're working on some more market trend burgers in different varieties.

Okay. One last one for me, so you have this one outlying Cheeseburger in Paradise sort of chain, is this a drag on the P&L? What do you plan to do with that sort of standalone? I mean, you've been negative comping there for quite some time.

We've gotten it down to just one location that is profitable. And so, we've taken the actions this last year to go ahead and get down to this level, and – where it's not going to be a drag on us. So, thank you, that was very good.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Sandra Danielle (00:22:35), a private investor. Please proceed with your question.

It appears we have no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.

Thank you, all for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. We're going to be working hard to maintain your confidence in us, and we look forward to visiting with you again next quarter in regard to our Luby's brands. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.