Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Steve Goodweather — Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis & Investor Relations, Luby's, Inc.
Christopher James Pappas — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Luby's, Inc.
K. Scott Gray — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Luby's, Inc.
Peter Tropoli — Chief Operating Officer & Director, Luby's, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Luby's Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Steve Goodweather, VP of Financial Planning and Investor Relations. Thank you; Mr. Goodweather, you may begin.

Thank you. And, again, welcome everyone to Luby's 2017 fiscal third quarter earnings conference call. This call is also being webcast, and can be accessed through the audio link on Luby's website, lubysinc.com. Information recorded on this call speaks only as of today, July 13, 2017. Before we continue, I'd like to remind you that the statements in this discussion, including statements made during the question-and-answer session regarding Luby's future financial and operating results, as well as plans for expansion of the company's business, including the expected financial performance of the company's prototype restaurants, and future openings are forward-looking statements.

Those statements include risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to general business conditions, the impact of competition, success of operating initiatives, changes in commodity costs and supply of food and labor, as well as seasonality of the company's business, taxes, inflation, governmental regulations, and availability of credit, as well as other risks and uncertainties disclosed in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q.

With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Luby's President and CEO, Chris Pappas. Chris?

Thanks, Steve. Good morning, everyone and thank you all for joining us today on the conference call. With me today are Scott Gray, our Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Tropoli, our Chief Operating Officer.

Our third quarter represented a mix of positive new developments and achievements offset by some continued challenges that are pressuring restaurant sales. Industry pressures persist and consumers continue to have a broad range of choices, two factors contributing to a very competitive restaurant space. With this backdrop, our same store sales declined 2.7% in the quarter. However, we did see improvement sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2017.

Despite the sales challenge, we did continue to exercise solid cost controls in many areas of our operations, including corporate overhead, certain restaurant operating cost and a decreased level of capital spending. Additional achievements included the addition of three new Culinary Contract Service locations, which have contributed more than $1 million in revenue in this business segment here in the quarter. In addition, retail product sales added $0.4 million in revenue in the third quarter. We also opened a new company-operated Fuddruckers location with our first self-ordering kiosks near The Woodlands, Texas.

I'd now like to turn the call over to our CFO, Scott Gray, to review our key financial metrics from the third quarter. Scott?

Thank you, Chris. Before I get started, please note that we have posted an investor presentation on our website which can be found at lubysinc.com under the Investor Relations Events section. The presentation contains additional information that we believe will be helpful to our investors.

Beginning with our company-operated Restaurant business segment, restaurant sales in the third quarter decreased 4.5% to $82.6 million, primarily due to store closures and to a lesser extent, same store sales declines of 2.7%. In our Restaurant business segment, the Luby's brand generates the majority of our revenue, and is one of our key focused areas with the largest potential for increased profit dollars through sales growth at existing units.

Luby's Cafeterias same-store sales in the quarter decreased 2.5% from the prior year. This decrease was a result of a 7.1% decrease in traffic partially offset by a 4.6% increase in average spend per guest primarily due to less discounting and a modest price increase. We believe it is important to know that a year ago, from our advertising and marketing perspective during the third quarter, we were presenting our guests with more frequent incentives. In particular, we made extensive use of BOGOs, buy one get one free offers, to drive our guest traffic. In fact, we estimate that the guest traffic increased by 2.9% last year in the third quarter, as a result of these BOGO offers. We have limited the BOGO offers and are focusing on designing a new loyalty enhancement program for our Restaurant business segment.

Luby's Cafeterias' average weekly sales per unit in the quarter were $48,000 per week, with 70% of our Restaurant segment profit generated from the Cafeteria brand. It remains our biggest opportunity for improving company profitability as we work on growing sales and improving margins. Fuddruckers restaurant's same-store sales decreased 0.9% in the third quarter. The 0.9% decrease was the result of a 5.6% decrease in guest traffic, offset by a 4.7% increase in average spend per guest. Fuddruckers' average weekly sales per unit was $33,000 in the quarter.

Combo location's same-store sales representing six Combo Luby's Fuddruckers locations declined 9.8% in the second quarter against prior year. The Combo weekly average sales per unit was $83,000 in the quarter. Approximately 70% of the decline in sales at our Combos occurred at one Combo location. Two of our six Combo locations increased sales in the quarter by 5.5% and 1.2% respectively versus prior year.

Cheeseburger in Paradise representing eight Cheeseburger in Paradise locations decreased 5.5% in the second quarter. The average weekly sales of Cheeseburger units was $43,000 in the quarter. It is important to point out that both Cheeseburger in Paradise and Combo locations are contributing to EBITDA in the third quarter despite negative same-store sales comps.

Our store-level profit defined as restaurant sales plus vending revenue, less cost of food, payroll and related costs, and other operating expenses and occupancy costs was $11.6 million or 14% of restaurant sales in the third quarter, compared to $13 million or 15% of restaurant sales during the third quarter fiscal 2016.

Store level profit dollars declined in the quarter year-over-year $1.4 million in the quarter on a $2.2 million decline in same-store sales. In our Culinary Contract Service business segment, revenues increased to $4.5 million with 25 operating locations at the end of the quarter, compared to $3.9 million with 26 operating locations at the end of the third quarter last year. The Culinary segment profit in the quarter was 7.2% this year in the third quarter, down from 9.2% in the third quarter last year, due in part to a change in the mix of locations in the quarter. However, we continue to expect the business segment to exceed its profit targets on a full-year basis at 8% to 10% of Culinary sales.

Turning to the Fuddruckers franchise business segment, revenue decreased $109,000 compared to the third quarter last year, due to a reduction in franchise fee income that was earned when new franchise locations opened for business.

We ended the third quarter with 112 franchise Fuddruckers restaurants, down from 114 at the end of the third quarter last year. In this business segment, our Fuddruckers franchise business segment, we are focused on growing our franchise portfolio that represents a lower cost to capital for improving shareholder value. In our Culinary segment, where we have virtually no capital expenditures, we continue to strive to increase service locations to grow our top-line and profit to maintain 8% to 10% margin on that segment.

Overall, our adjusted EBITDA decreased $0.2 million, so $200,000 to $5.4 million in the third quarter, compared to – approximately $5.5 million in the third quarter compared to $5.7 million in the third quarter last year. The modest decline in EBITDA was the result of a $1.4-million reduction in the store-level profits and [indiscernible] (09:12) offset by lower corporate overhead expenses. The lower store-level profit was driven primarily by a lower sales volume, along with higher utility costs and certain restaurant service costs, primarily offset by favorability in our food cost line.

The lower corporate overhead included reductions in overall compensation expense, corporate travel, marketing and advertising expense and outside professional services. Other components of EBITDA include our Culinary Contract Service business and our Fuddruckers franchise business segment, which contributed to EBITDA similarly to the prior year.

The underperformance difference to prior year's EBITDA has improved sequentially each quarter. If you remember, the first quarter, we were down against prior-year $4.4 million, and in the second quarter, we were down $1.7 million versus prior year, and in this quarter, our deficit to prior year has been limited down to $0.2 million. We expect our results to continue to be highly sensitive to the restaurant sales performance going forward. We attribute this sequential improvement in EBITDA to management's actions, taken recently in response to the negative sales trends in the industry. Peter will be covering operations action plans to improve restaurant sales in a moment.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the third quarter with a debt balance outstanding of $40.4 million, up slightly from $37 million at the end of fiscal year 2016 in August. After the third quarter ended, we made $1.8-million required term loan prepayment as a result of cash proceeds generated from the sale of real estate subsequent to the quarter. As a result of this payment, our current portion of our credit facility was reduced to zero. This prepayment also reduced our required calendar quarterly principal payments amounts from $612,500 per calendar quarter, down to $525,000 per quarter.

As we evaluate and act upon selling selected underperforming locations such as this one, we mentioned, we will be freeing up capital to be reinvested for higher returns in the future. In the interim, proceeds from property sales will be applied to our debt balance to allow for an increased margin of safety in the current and projected business environment.

In the third quarter, our capital expenditures were $2.2 million compared to $3.4 million in the third quarter last year, as we've continued to curtail our capital investments that they have declined in current year. We expect our FY 2017 CapEx to be approximately $13 million or 28% less than prior year.

And with that, I will now turn the call over to Peter Tropoli, our Chief Operating Officer for an update on operations and marketing.

Thank you, Scott and Chris. We are quickly progressing on several focus areas of improvement that we began earlier this year. Number one, menu innovation and variety, especially at Luby's. Our current menu enhancements at Luby's were rolled out in early July and we are already seeing benefits. First and foremost, we are highlighting for the foreseeable future, new and fresh colorful vegetable presentations. Our stores have a list to choose from daily, which includes roasted carrots, cauliflower, braised purple cabbage, roasted mushrooms, fresh green beans, fresh kale and sweet potatoes. This aligns with our brand pillars; Luby's is one of the only restaurants you can go to, to get such an abundant selection of fresh veggies and salads every day. We believe this really differentiates us. We are expanding our cold sides to include several new or at least refreshed selections: Brussels sprouts, roasted beets, rosemary potatoes, kale and cranberry salad.

Finally, we are highlighting new carved turkey, roast beef recipes as well as highlighting several new salmon and chicken dishes. We have enhanced our culinary team with additional resources as well. We will continue to vigorously pursue culinary innovation enhancements moving forward. At the heart of our current marketing initiatives is developing an even better understanding of our guests and their behavior, focusing on the customer experience loop, leveraging technology to improve and personalize their experience, targeting potential guests with profiles, and finally targeting potential guests with profiles similar to our best guests. We will use these insights to refine our brand positioning and brand strategies going forward.

Next, enhancing digital branding and marketing efforts and leveraging technology in our restaurants. This includes the development of digital loyalty and recognition, digital outreach, mobile ordering, third-party delivery aggregators, self-order abilities in the restaurants as well as touch-less pay. In this regard, we have made a great deal of progress entering into an enterprise agreement with our POS provider to provide the framework to create the next phase of our loyalty platform by early 2018.

We are also underway in the engagement of a third-party to help us craft the next phase of our loyalty and recognition platform at all of our brands moving forward. Again, this will allow us to better understand all of our guests, strengthen our relationship with casual guests, make new relationships with new guests as well.

Finally, we continue to search and hunt down new sales channels at all of our brands, whether it is an upgraded coffee or tea program, a grab-and-go offering at the point of sale, a family pack to pickup for consumption at home, a catering to an outside group or even a plastic souvenir cup with our logo on it. We started using third-party delivery aggregators at select Fuddruckers last fall and have expanded that program to several Luby's recently.

Moving to Fuddruckers. Our new Fuddruckers unit north of Houston, near The Woodlands is an exciting location that truly showcases the future of our brand. The restaurant features two self-order stations in addition to the traditional cashier-led points of sale. This is the first of its kind in our restaurants. We continue to introduce new specialty burgers and other offerings at our new Fuddruckers in all our locations to generate enthusiasm and increase frequency as the originator of the better-burger concept.

We also continue to pursue opportunities to refranchise company-owned Fuddruckers locations as a part of our strategy to grow franchise revenues as we have done in certain circumstances over the past few years. After the end of the third quarter, we sold one company-owned Fuddruckers to one of our existing franchises to operate. Our partnership with HEB, a Texas-born retailer selling our famous Macaroni And Cheese and Fried Fish has continued to exceed our expectations. This has been a great opportunity to provide additional awareness of our brand and our beloved products.

I would say in summary, everyone knows the state of our industry that it is experiencing significant disruption right now and that one of core markets, Texas, has been a weak performing market in recent surveys, but we know that our adaptation and success is going to come from executing the keys to restaurant relevance, high-quality food, great service, emotional connection with guests, providing convenience, sharing our story, having attractive and comfortable restaurant appearances in environments, and of course, the effective use of technology. I'm pleased with the progress that our team is achieving to very quickly reverse recent negative year-over-year results and to position our company for much success moving forward.

Operator, we're ready for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] There are no questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Chris Pappas for closing remarks.

Thank you and we look forward to having you on our fourth quarter conference call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day.