corrected transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome, to the Second Quarter 2007 Maxygen,


Incorporated Conference Call. My name is Danielle and I will be your coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I


would now like to turn the presentation over to Ms. Michelle Boudreaux, Director, Investor


Relations. Please proceed.


Michelle Boudreaux, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Danielle. Good morning everyone and welcome to Maxygen’s Second Quarter 2007


Financial Results Conference call. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that the matters


discussed on this call contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties


including those relating to the potential results or future research, our ability to commercialize


products, the timing of the commercialization of such products and our projected revenue and


expenses. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted and reported results should


not be considered an indication of future performance.


The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, our ability produce viable product


candidates and to commercialize those candidates. These and other risk factors are more fully


discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, including under the caption risk


factors and our other periodic reports all of which are available from Maxygen at


www.maxygen.com. Maxygen disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statement made on this call as a result of new information or future developments.


This call will also include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of the non-


GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found


on our website under the news tab. I will now turn the call over to Russell Howard, CEO of


Maxygen.


Russell J. Howard, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the line with me are Larry Briscoe, CFO, and


Michael Rabson, our General Counsel. I am going to start today’s call by reviewing progress in


each of our most advanced programs, Maxy-G34, our next generation G-CSF for the treatment of


chemotherapy induced neutropenia; Maxy-Alpha, our Novo PEGylated interferon for the treatment


of HCV this molecule partnered with Roche; and Maxy-VII, then we will open up the call for Q&A.


So first to Maxy-G34, each of our programs made steady progress during the quarter with the most


important milestone being the commencement of a Phase IIa study of Maxy-G34 in patients


initiated in late June. Approximately 30 breast cancer patients will be enrolled in the trial, which is


being conducted at multiple centers in Eastern Europe. Patients will undergo 6 cycles of tack


chemotherapy. Each cycle is 21 days with patients receiving tack on day 1 of Maxy-G34 or


Neulasta as a control on day 2 of each cycle.


The starting dose of Maxy-G34 is 10 microgram per kilogram, after which we plan to ascend


through doses of 30, 60 and 100 microgram per kilogram. The control population will receive


Neulasta at its labeled dose of 6 milligram fixed. This is our first trial in chemotherapy induced


neutropenia patients. Our goal is to identify one or more doses of Maxy-G34 that could be studied


in a more extensive Phase IIb trial. We hope to update you on the status of this trial in the first


quarter of 2008 either at the annual JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in January or the


subsequent Cowen Conference in March. We expect the full trial to conclude later in 2008. We will
corrected transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


also plan to report later this quarter on the results of the additional Phase I extension studies in


healthy volunteers, which we recently completed.


Now to Maxy-Alpha, our Novo form of PEGylated interferon alfa for the treatment of Hepatitis C is


partnered with Roche under the partner name or program name R7025. During the second quarter,


Roche continued with their Phase Ia trial, a single ascending dose study in healthy volunteers. Last


quarter, we relayed Roche’s preliminary report that the first three dose levels were well tolerated


and that the study was proceeding to the next higher dose. This information is potentially exciting


since the highest of the three doses tested at that time, represents approximately 5 times the anti-


viral activity in vitro versus the standard dose of PEGASYS with no dose limiting side effects. We


expect that there will be an announcement regarding the completion of the Phase Ia trial this half-


year.


Second, we plan to share the results of the Phase Ia trial later this year at scientific conferences


and third, we hope to announce the initiation by Roche of a Phase Ib trial of Maxy-Alpha in HCV


patients before the end of 2007.


Now to Maxy-VII, another important milestone for the second quarter 2007 was our decision to


pursue Maxy-VII, our novel Factor VIIa, for the treatment of hemophilia. Currently there is only one


Factor VIIa drug product on the market Novo VII sold by Novo Nordisk. Novo VII is a recombinant


form of wild type Factor VIIa. Sales of this drug in 2006 were just under $1 billion. We currently plan


to file an IND for Maxy-VII in hemophilia in the first half of 2008. Factor VIIa is indicated for


hemophiliacs who have developed antibodies to Factor VII and Factor VIII and Factor IX, the first


line treatments for hemophilias A and B respectively. Novo VII is a valuable therapy for these


patients but there are some deficiencies in its efficacy, its dosing frequency and safety. Upon


experiencing a bleeding episode, patients generally receive Novo VII every two to three hours and


need at least 2 to 3 doses to achieve clotting. The average wholesale US


price of Novo VII is approximately $8,000 per dose, but varies widely depending on factors such as


dose label and patient weight.


We developed Novo VII to address the deficiency of Novo VII as follows. First using DNA shuffling,


we created thousands of new Factor VIIa variance and screened them for enhanced Factor VV


activating activity to keep out of the clotting mechanism. We then used our in-house protein


modification expertise to create a highly glycosylated version of the molecule in order to increase


it’s circulating half-life. The result was Maxy-VII, a drug candidate that may form clots faster and


may have an improved dosing profile based on its increased half-life.


And now in affiliated models, we saw a five-fold improvement in clotting with Maxy-VII versus Novo


VII. With also engineered Maxy-VII with the intent to increase the potential for unwanted clot


formation when Factor VVII is administered at very high dosed.


Pre-clinical data, regarding Maxy-Seven, was presented in early July at the ISDH Meeting in


Geneva. Copies of the presentation are available on our website or through our IR Department. We


invite you to learn more about the compelling data coming up this program.


One last footnote before I turn the call over to Larry. In 2001, Maxygen entered into an agreement


with InterMune that provided InterMune with exclusive rights to develop and commercialize


Maxygen’s next generation in interferon gamma products.


In March 2007, InterMune announced it was discontinuing development of Actimmune, its first


generation interferon gamma products for impacted pulmonary fibrosis. Subsequently, InterMune


notified us that its also intended to reduce its activities for advancement in our interferon gamma


products consistent with its changed priorities for interferon gamma.