raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Maxygen Second Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. And every


question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. And as a


reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms.


Jeannine Medeiros, Investor Relations for Maxygen Company. Thank you Ms. Medeiros, you may


begin.


Jeannine Medeiros, Investor Relations


Good morning and welcome to the Maxygen conference call to discuss our operating and financial


results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. Before we get started, I'd like to remind you


that the matters discussed on this call contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and


uncertainties, including those relating to the potential results of future research, our ability to


commercialize products, the timing of the commercialization of such products, and our projected


revenue and expenses. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted and reported


results should not be considered an indication of future performance.


The potential risks and uncertainties include among others our ability to produce viable product


candidates and to commercialize those candidates. These and other risk factors are more fully


discussed in our form 10-K including under the caption risk factors and in our other periodic reports,


all of which are available from Maxygen at www.maxygen.com. Maxygen disclaims any obligation


to update or revise any forward-looking statement made on this call as a result of new information


or future developments. I will now turn the call over to Simba Gill, President of Maxygen.


Simba Gill, President


Thanks, Jeannine. Thanks to everyone for joining us the Maxygen's second quarter 2005


conference call. With me today are Larry Briscoe, our CFO, and Michael Rabson, our General


Counsel. I'm pleased to say that Maxygen continues to make great progress on advancing the key


areas of our business. Our product development programs are advancing towards clinical


development and we have maintained a strong financial position of approximately $200 million in


cash. During this call, I will briefly go through an update of our product development programs and


recent events and then turn the call over to Larry for a review of our financials.


Starting with Maxygen's improved version of alpha interferon. This is one of our key development


programs and is being developed for the treatment of hepatitis C and hepatitis B viral infections,


together with Roche. Roche as you know is a leader in the alpha interferon market with that product


Pegasys. The market for alpha interferon products is growing rapidly and worldwide sales are


estimated to reach $5.8 billion by 2010. Maxygen's improved interferon alpha compounds are


designed to succeed Roche's Pegasys with a better product profile and superior efficacy. Last


quarter, we were pleased to announce the achievement of a significant pre-clinical milestone


associated with progress of the program. Roche has informed us that the program is on track for


clinical development in 2006.


Now to Maxygen's GCSF compound. A novelty GCSF for the treatment of neutropenia is designed


to provide superior performance over the currently-marketed GCSF products of Neprogen and


Elasta, worldwide sales of GCSF products exceeded $3 billion in 2004 and are expected to exceed


$4 billion in 2005. This year, we plan to complete manufacturing scale up, initiate the required
raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


regulatory toxicology studies and commence CGMP manufacturing in preparation for the filing of an


IND for the product in 2006. This program is on track for all of these important goals.


Next, to MAXY-FACTOR VII program. We're very excited about the factor VII program and with the


expanded market opportunities we see for this product in the indications of trauma and intracranial


hemorrhage, we see worldwide sales for factor VII expanding dramatically and we see the potential


for the product to be a multibillion dollar market going forward. Worldwide sales for factor VII were


approximately $800 million in 2004.


MAXY's noble factor VII drug candidates have been designed to provide improved effectiveness,


that translates into stronger faster clot formation as well as having an improved safety profile over


the currently marketed factor VII product. This year, we plan to continue the pre-clinical


development of the program and to complete the product profile differentiation in preparation for


further pre-clinical studies.


Moving from products to our patents, a brief update on Maxygen's intellectual property position.


Earlier this month, one of Maxygen's European patents, covering its first-generation directive


molecular evolution technologies was the subject of an opposition proceeding before the European


Patent Office. Despite arguments raised by four opponents for the patent, including Diversa and


Genencor, all claims of the patent were upheld as valid with only minor amendments. This ruling


confirms Maxygen's pioneering intellectual property position in the field of directive molecular


evolution. A strong patent position in the U.S. and abroad remains one of our core assets.


Lastly, a brief word about our recent consolidation. In June, we announced a consolidation of our


organization to increase focus on product development. The consolidation reflects Maxygen's


strategic shift from an early discovery research and collaborative partner funding organization to an


increased focus on internal product development. We anticipate that the resulting cost savings of


approximately $3 million a year starting in 2006 and related efficiencies will provide us with an


increased stability to advance our product candidates further through clinical development.


In summary, we are pleased that all of our programs are moving forward as planned and look


forward to updating you on our progress on future calls.


I'd now like to turn the call over to Larry for a summary of our financials.


Lawrence Briscoe, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President


Thanks, Simba. Before I review the financials for the quarter, I'd like to remind you that as a result


of the change in Maxygen's accounting for its investment in Codexis to equity accounting, Maxygen


does not consolidate the operating results for Codexis in its financial statements after February 28,


2005. The financial results for 2004 reported do include the operating results of Codexis for the full


period shown.


For the second quarter of 2005, Maxygen reported a loss applicable to common shareholders of


9.9 million or $0.28 per share compared to a loss applicable to common stockholders of 13.6 million


or $0.39 per share in the second quarter of 2004. Revenues for the second quarter of 2005 were


1.9 million compared to 3.6 million for the same period in 2004. The decrease in revenues is


primarily attributable to the exclusion of Codexis' revenue from Maxygen's results during the


second quarter of 2005 and completion of the research and development funding in terms of some


of our collaborations.


Expenses relating to research and development from continuing operations decreased in the


second quarter of 2005 to 9.9 million from 11.8 million in the same period in 2004, due principally to


the exclusion of Codexis expenses during the second quarter of 2005. Excluding the expenses for