corrected transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2008 Maxygen


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kamisha and I will be your operator for today.


At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Russell Howard, Chief


Executive of Maxygen. Please proceed, sir.


Russell J. Howard, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. I’ll start today’s call by reminding you that our


discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding our


business prospects and financial condition. Actual results could differ materially from those


projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are


discussed in Maxygen’s 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the caption Risk


Factors and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. These reports are available on our website


at www.maxygen.com in the Investors’ SEC filings section.


Now I’m going to recap business highlights for the fourth quarter and full year 2008, and then


provide an update regarding the recently announced changes to our corporate strategy. I’ll then


turn the call over to Larry Briscoe, our CFO, to discuss the quarterly and year-end financials. And


after that, we’ll open up the call for Q&A.


First, a brief chronology of significant events during 2008. To reduce our forward cash burn in Q1


2008, we closed our facility in Denmark, terminating all but a few employees who came to our U.S.


site, and we moved all of our Denmark programs to our U.S. based preclinical and clinical


development teams. All programs were kept on track during this closure.


In the second half of 2008, we announced three achievements for our discovery programs. First,


we sold MAXY-VII, our factor VII program, and granted certain licenses to our technology platform


to Bayer in a $120 million transaction in which we received $90 million cash upfront. Second, we


received a $3.4 million government grant to continue work on our HIV vaccine programs. And third,


we signed a MAXY-4 collaboration agreement with Astellas Pharma. This latter agreement


represents an attractive arrangement for sharing development costs for MAXY-4. We received $10


million cash upfront and are eligible for future milestones under this agreement with Astellas.


In October, we announced that we would begin evaluating strategic alternatives with respect to all


aspects of our business. We announced that Maxygen had retained Lazard to assist us in this


process.


In connection with our revised corporate strategy, we also made the decision to delay Phase III


manufacturing activities and Phase IIb clinical trials of our MAXY-G34 program until we identify a


partner who would share these costs. As you may recall, we expected the Phase IIb trial of MAXY-


G34 to begin in the second half of 2009.


In December, we completed the Phase IIa clinical trial of MAXY-G34. Initial results from the trial


were reported in November of 2008. Our results indicated that MAXY-G34 is safe and well tolerated


in breast cancer patients with no drug-related serious adverse events, no drug-related grade 3 or


grade 4 adverse events and no immunogenicity reported in any patient receiving MAXY-G34.


Today, we reiterate all of these results and confirm the program is on track to complete final quality


assurance and database lock later this month, February.
corrected transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


One final note regarding our MAXY-G34 program today. As you are aware, Amgen patent number


7381804 granted in 2008 related to various G-CSF mutants. As we’ve noted previously, this patent


expires in 2015. We have previously indicated that we do not think this patent should have been


granted. Accordingly, I can report today that we have filed a request for an interparties


reexamination of this patent in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.


While I can give no assurances that the PTO will grant our request for reexamination, or if granted,


that we will ultimately prevail; we believe that this is an important step in our attempts to protect our


intellectual property position. The request should be soon be published and available through the


website of the U.S Patent and Trademark Office. We intend to also provide a link to the filing on our


website at www.maxygen.com once it is published.


As a consequence of our decreasing investment in the MAXY-G34 program and in order to


preserve cash while we evaluate our strategic options, at the end of 2008 we also implemented a


restructuring plan that will result in the termination of approximately 30% of our workforce. At


Maxygen, we currently plan to retain approximately 65 employees with a primarily focus on


maintaining our MAXY-4 collaboration with Astellas, continuing minimal activities on our MAXY-G34


program, and protein drug discovery activities for autoimmune disease therapies. These actions


have reduced spending considerably.


We believe the above decisions, which you’ll appreciate were difficult, were the wisest course of


action given the current environment and its impact on the biotechnology industry. Our goal now is


to continue our work with Lazard to secure maximum value of the company’s assets for our


shareholders, through the sale of the company, the sale of individual company assets, a merger or


other strategic transactions. We are currently fully engaged in this process and will provide you with


additional updates as appropriate.


I’d now like to turn the floor over to Larry, who will review the financials for the quarter. Thank you,


Larry.


Lawrence W. Briscoe, M.S., MBA, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thanks, Russell. Maxygen reported a GAAP net loss of 7.7 million or $0.21 per basic share for the


fourth quarter of 2008, compared to a GAAP net loss of 11.3 million or $0.31 per basic share in the


fourth quarter of 2007. The change in net loss was primarily due to a decrease in research and


development expense and restructuring charges, offset in part by a decrease in revenue.


Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $6 million compared to 11 million for the same period in


2007. The decrease in revenue resulted from a decrease in revenue under Maxygen’s license


agreement with Codexis related to biofuels, offset in part by revenue received under the company’s


collaboration agreement with Astellas for its MAXY-4 program which began in September 2008.


Total expenses were 14.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to 23.7 million in the


fourth quarter of 2007. The decrease in expense was primarily due to reduced salaries and benefits


resulting from the closure of our Denmark operation in the first quarter of 2008; decreased external


expenses associated with the cost to manufacture MAXY-VII for clinical trials; and decreased


restructuring charges.


For 2008, we reported net income of 30.3 million or $0.82 per basic share compared to a 2007 net


loss of 49.3 million or $1.34 per basic share. The main component of this year-over-year change


was the $90 million we received from Bayer in July 2008 for the sale of our hematology assets and


grant of certain of license rights.