raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome and thank you for standing by for the Maxygen Third Quarter 2005 Financial


Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator


Instructions]. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect


at this time. Now I will turn the meeting over to Ms. Jeannine Medeiros, Investor Relation for


Maxygen. You may begin.


Jeannine Medeiros, Investor and Public Relations


Good morning, and welcome to the Maxygen conference call to discuss our operating and financial


results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. Before we get started I would like to remind


you that the matters discussed on this call contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and


uncertainties, including those relating to the potential results, the future research, our ability to


commercialize products, the timing of the commercialization of such products and projected


revenue and expenses. Actual results may differ materially from the results projects and reported


results should not be considered an indication of future performance. The potential risks and


uncertainties include among others our ability to produce viable product candidate and to


commercialize this candidate. These and other risk factors are more fully discussed in our Form 10-


K, including under the caption 'Risk Factors' and in our other periodic reports, all of which are


available from Maxygen at www.maxygen.com. Maxygen disclaims any obligation to update or


revise any forward-looking statement made on this call as a result of new information or future


development. This call will also include disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation


of non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be


found on our website under the News tab.


I will now turn the call over to Russell Howard, CEO of Maxygen.


Russell J. Howard, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Maxygen's third quarter 2005 conference call. With


me today are Michael Rabson, our General Counsel; and Braden Rippetoe, our Director of


Finance.


Maxygen continues to make steady progress on advancing the key areas of our business. This


year we have worked very hard to ensure that the necessary work is being performed to prepare for


the two IND filings we expect in 2006. Our product development programs are advancing on


schedule towards clinical development, and we have maintained a strong financial position of


approximately $190 million in cash as of September 30, 2005.


During this call, I will briefly go through an update of our product development programs and recent


events, and then I will turn the call over to Braden for a review of the financials.


Today Maxygen is focused on the advancement of three major protein therapeutic programs


towards clinical development. For each product candidate there is a large target market, a clear


unmet clinical need, an opportunity for Maxygen to engineer the desired clinical properties for


differentiated product, and a precedented pathway to demonstrate proof-of-concept in a clinical


setting in the short term.


We believe that each of these product candidates offer the potential to contribute significant value


to Maxygen in the short term. We are very pleased with our progress to date, and believe that 2006
raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


will be an exciting year for Maxygen. I will now spend a few minutes updating you on each of the


product development programs.


First, Maxy Alpha. Maxygen's next general interferon alpha in development with Roche for the


treatment of hepatitis C and hepatitis B viral infections is one of our key development programs.


Roche is the leader in the interferon alpha market with their product Pegasus. The market for


interferon alpha product is growing rapidly, and worldwide sales are estimated to reach $5.8 billion


by 2010.


Maxygen's next generation interferon alpha compound is designed to succeed Roche's Pegasus


with a better product profile and superior efficacy. In March, we announced the achievement of a


significant preclinical milestone in this collaboration and we are very pleased with the progress of


this program. Maxygen anticipates one additional preclinical milestone before the file filing of IND.


Roche has informed us that it is on track to meet to advance Maxygen's next generation interferon


alpha into cynical development in 2006.


Next Maxy-G-CSF. Maxygen's G-CSF program is on track for IND filing in 2006. Our next


generation G-CSF, for the treatment of neutropenia, is designed to provide superior performance


over the current market of G-CSF product of Neupogen and Neulasta. Worldwide sales of G-CSF


products exceeded $3 billion in 2004 and are expected to exceed $4 billion in 2005.


This year we commenced manufacturing scale up and cGMP manufacturing and initiated the


required regulatory toxicology studies in preparation for the IND filing. Maxygen's G-CSF is being


manufactured at Rentschler in Germany, and we are very pleased that Rentschler has been able to


meet our prime lines to produce our next generation G-CSF with the required quality. They have


proven to be an ideal manufacturing partner.


Now to Maxy-Factor VII. Our next generation Factor VII program offer significant market


opportunities in the indications of hemophilia, trauma and intracerebral hemorrhage. Worldwide


sales for the currently marketed Factor VII product were approximately $800 million in 2004. With


the recent published date on the potential use of Factor VII for treatment of intracerebral


hemorrhage and trauma, it is becoming clear that factor VII has the potential to be a multi-billion


dollar product. Maxygen's next generation factor VII drug candidates have been designed to


provide improved efficacy, improved drug dosing and an improved safety profile over the currently


marketed factor VII product. As we advised earlier, we continue to perform important preclinical


studies and assessment of leads for the specific indications we are pursuing.


Next to vaccine brands. As announced last week, Maxygen was recently awarded over $14 million


in U.S. government grant and contract funding to conduct research on a novel prophylactic HIV


vaccine. As we indicated previously, the advancement of our vaccine research is being funded


through external sources of philanthropic and government grants and contracts. In this recent


award, the NIH awarded Maxygen two competitive grants, including $11.7 million over five years as


part of the HIV research and development program or HIVRED and a $300,000 Phase I grant from


the NIH Small Business Innovation Research program or SBIR.


Maxygen was also awarded a contract of $2.4 million from the Department of Defense for HIV


vaccine discovery. Maxygen anticipates working in collaboration with Monogram Biosciences,


formerly Virologic and Aldevron LLC with respect to these government-funded projects. While


Maxygen is focusing its sources on the advancement of our protein pharmaceutical product


candidates, we believe that are our molecular breeding, directed molecular evolution technologies


hold great promise for the development of novel vaccines.


And now on a separate note, our patent estate continues to grow. Maxygen recently successfully


defended its first Australian patent covering it's core DNA shuffling technologies in an opposition


proceeding before the Australian Patent Office. The Australian Patent Office found 89 claims of the