raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to your Maxygen First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and the


floor will be open for questions following today's presentation. It's now my pleasure to introduce


your host Dr. Russell Howard. Sir, you may begin.


Jeannine Medeiros, Investor Relations


Hello. This is Jeannine Medeiros Investor Relations for Maxygen. I'll start with the Safe Harbor


statement and then I'll turn the call over to Dr. Howard, CEO of Maxygen. Good morning and


welcome to the Maxygen conference call to discuss our operating and financial results for the first


quarter ended March 31, 2005.


Before, we get started I'd like to remind you that the matters discussed on this call contains


forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including those relating to the


potential results of future research, our ability to commercialize products, the timing of the


commercialization research products and our projected revenue and expenses. Actual results may


differ materially from the results predicted and reported results should not be considered an


indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties include among others our


ability to produce viable product candidate and to commercialize this candidate. These and other


risk factors are more fully discussed in our Form 10-K – [indiscernible]


Company Representative


Hello Perry? Hello Perry? Is this the operator? Hello Perry?


Jeannine Medeiros, Investor Relations


Statement made on this call as a result of new information or future developments. This call will


also include disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial


measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found on our website


under the News tab.


I will now turn the call over to Russell Howard, CEO of Maxygen.


Russell Howard, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jeannine, and good morning everyone. With me today are Larry Brisoce, our CFO and


Michael Rabson, our General Counsel. Before Larry discusses our financial results for the year I


am going to provide a brief overview of our accomplishments during the first quarter and our goals


for 2005.


In March we were pleased to announce the achievement of multimillion dollar milestone in our


collaboration with Roche for the development of an improved interferon alpha to treat Hepatitis C


virus infection. Our own candidates [ph]. And Maxygen stands to receive significant value from the


program. Roche has an outstanding track record as the world’s leader in the development of


Hepatitis C – [indiscernible]
raw transcript


Maxygen, Inc.
 
MAXY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Company Representative


Hello Perry? Hello Perry?


Russell Howard, Chief Executive Officer


interferon. We are pleased that they are moving the program forward.


During the remainder of 2005 we expect Roche to complete the required pharmacokinetic and


pharmacodynamic studies and they will move our interferon alpha forward into cGMP


manufacturing. Based on the stage of developments to the program at Roche today, Roche is on


track to file an IND on Maxygen's alpha interferon product in 2006. Next to our G-CSF program. We


expect to complete the scale up and manufacturing of our G-CSF in collaboration with our contract


manufacturer, Rentschler, in preparation for the regulatory toxicology studies that we plan to initiate


this year. We also plan to initiate cGMP manufacturing in preparation for the filing of the IND for our


improved G-CSF in 2006.


Now our factor VII program. Maxygen has generated a series of improved factor VII molecules. We


will continue our preclinical studies and perform product profile differentiation studies in 2005 to


evaluate targeted indications and alternative potential clinical trial designs for these improved factor


VIIs. And now our interferon gamma program in development with InterMune. We expect that


InterMune will continue preclinical studies in preparation for future IND filing. We are pleased that


all of our programs are moving forward as planned. And we look forward to updating on their


progress in the future calls.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Larry for summary of the numbers.


Lawrence Briscoe, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Russell. Before I review the financial results I would like to remind everyone that in prior


period the company has consolidated financial statements including the operating results of


Codexis. The Codexis's acquisition of Julich Fine Chemicals and certain other developments,


Maxygen's holding rights in Codexis have fallen below 50%. As a result beginning February 28,


2005, Maxygen no longer consolidates the Codexis operating results, but reflects Codexis results in


their financial statement on the equity accounting basis.


Through February 28, 2005, Maxygen have recorded losses of Codexis of 26.4 million, which was


in excess of it's investment basis of 9.8 million. To adjust the company's investment basis and


Codexis to zero, the company has recorded a one-time positive adjustment of 16.6 million for the


three month ended March 31, 2005. The adjustment has shown as a separate line item in


Maxygen's income statement for the quarter.


Now for the numbers. Maxygen reported income applicable to common stockholders of 7.7 million


or $0.22 per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, as compared to a loss applicable to


common stockholders of 10.1 million or $0.29 per share for the comparable period in 2004. Income


applicable to common stockholders in the first quarter of 2005 includes the adjustment of 16.6


million resulting from the change in the company's accounting for its investment in Codexis to the


equity accounting method, as I just discussed.


For the quarter ended March 31, 2005, Maxygen reported a loss from continuing operations of 8.7


million or $0.25 per share, compared to a loss of 8.3 million or $0.24 per share in 2004. Revenues


in the first quarter of 2005 were 5.5 million compared to 4.9 million for the same period in 2004. The


increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the achievement of our multimillion dollar milestone