raw transcript


Milacron, Inc.
 
MZ
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Milacron Third Quarter 2005 Conference Call.


Today's call is being recorded. All participants will be in a listen-only mode for the presentation. At


this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to the


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Milacron, Mr. Ron Brown. Please go ahead.


Ron Brown, Chairman and CEO


Thank you. And good afternoon and thanks for everybody joining us today. In the room with me


today is Ross Anderson, our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, John Francy,


our Vice President and Treasurer, and Al Beaupre our Director of Investor Relations. Hopefully


most of you've had a chance to read the earnings release we issued this morning. If I had to


summarize our results in the current conditions I would have to say they are mixed.


Europe continues to be soft. It's down about 6% from a year ago: while orders from Asia continue


to be strong, up over 15% from a year ago. And in North America the recovery in our market


continues. Orders for plastic machinery continue to show solid strength up over 10% from a year


ago. The biggest factors impacting our bottom line were the continued high energy and material


costs. However, we remain optimistic about the future and I'll elaborate on this a little bit later.


But at this time I would like ask Ross to run through the quarterly results. Ross?


Ross Anderson, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ron. Good afternoon. Before I get started, I would like to remind anyone that should


we make any forward-looking statements on the call you should refer to our cautionary statement in


our most recently filed 10-Q for a detailed description of the risks, assumptions and factors that


could impact our actual future results. Also in our release as well as on this call there are certain


non-GAAP measures such as primary working capital or operating EBIT, operating cash flow


EBITDA which are likely to be discussed. For these I refer you to the reconciliation tables which


we've included in our release and which are also posted on our Web site.


As for the third quarter results as Ron noted they were definitely mixed. Certainly not as good as


we had planned on earlier in the year but also not as negative as one might expect given the recent


spade of dampening factors which have influenced the economy and our industry such as high


energy and raw material costs, instability in the automotive sector and the impacts of the hurricanes


in the south. With respect to our bottom line we had a net loss in the third quarter of 6.9 million, or


$0.18 a share. This compared to a net loss of 5.5 million, also $0.18 a share in the third quarter of


2004.


Sales in the quarter were 191 million, which is up 6% from the year ago quarter. And that was with


very little impact of currency fluctuations which were really less than $1 million. Sales gain came


entirely from North American machinery segment as our other segment were either flat or


experience to moderate decline versus the third quarter of 2004.


Despite the modest increases in sales several factors held back our bottom line results in the


quarter. We were able to recover most but not all of the more than $5 million we incurred in higher


material, energy and transportation costs this quarter versus a year ago. Through our diligent but


very difficult efforts to increase prices in our highly competitive markets, though, we are trying to


recover that. We also incurred more than 3 million in increased pension and insurance expenses
raw transcript


Milacron, Inc.
 
MZ
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and we absorbed a million in incremental Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance expense compared to


the year ago quarter.


On the positive side earnings were helped by higher sales volumes as well as our continued focus


on controllable costs through our lean initiatives, strategic sourcing and other productivity


programs. New orders of 191 million were up 4% versus a year ago with virtually all of this


improvement coming from our North American machinery segment.


I would also tell you that our intake of new orders started off slowly in the early weeks of the quarter


and really gained some nice momentum through the month of September especially in our plastics


and industrial fluids operations in North America.


With respect to liquidity net cash provided by operations was 15 million in the third quarter. That


thanks main to the strong collections of receivables and our continued focus on working Capital


Management.


As we noted in our release this morning we drove our primary working capital down to 23% of sales


and that's a full point improvement versus last quarter. We finished the quarter with 48 million in


cash on the balance sheet, up from 37 million in June, and our revolver is virtually unutilized. We


had drawn less than 1 million by quarter end and we had approximately 35 million of availability


under that facility.


Our major coupon payments on our 11.5% notes are semi-annual and we have a 13 million


payment to make this quarter. But despite this fact we expect to continue to generate cash from


primary working capital and we expect to enter the new year with liquidity comparable to the level


we had at the end of the third quarter.


Looking at our results by segment machinery technologies North America continued to show solid


growth. New orders in the quarter increased by 11% to 89 million on a year-over-year basis. This


reflected really ongoing strength and resiliency in US economy across several end markets


including automotive. Sales were 87 million, 13% higher than the same period last year. And


segment earnings came in at 4.3 million versus 4.1 last year. And they were dampened by higher


material and pension costs and SOX 404 compliance expenses.


Machinery technologies in Europe compared to the third quarter a year ago, new orders in this


segment sell by 2 million as demand in western Europe remain soft. Sales of 37 million were flat


with the year ago period. The segment lost 1.5 million in the third quarter compared to a slight loss


in the year ago quarter. The persistent lack of sustainable growth in year land economies has


made for highly competitive market conditions for our products and we were hurt by the inability to


pass along the very real material cost increases we've absorbed for casting, fabrications and other


components.


In mold technologies sales in the third quarter of 41 million improved slightly from 40 million a year


ago. The segment did however have an operating loss of $700,000 compared to earnings of 1.1


million in the third quarter of 2004. While our mold technologies business in North America grew by


nearly 4% year-over-year the same week market conditions and pricing pressures that impact our


machinery businesses in Europe are impacting our European mold technology business; making it


increasingly difficult to pass along higher steel costs. In addition to these pressures the segment


also absorbed some increased expenses for product liability.


Moving to our fourth segment, industrial fluids, sales of 27 million were essentially flat with the third


quarter a year ago. Escalating material costs in this case raw materials for our chemical


formulations, along with increased insurance expenses held back earnings to 1.8 million, a decline


of about 1 million from a year ago. That concludes my remarks on the third quarter results.