raw transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Neose Technologies' Third Quarter 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. With us today, we have


Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Boyd Clarke; and Senior Vice President, and Chief


Financial Officer, Mr. A. Brian Davis.


Before turning this call over to Mr. Clarke, I would like to mention that certain statements in today's


management presentation and Q&A session will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities laws. These include statements concerning management's


current expectations, estimates, and projections about Neose's business and results of operations.


Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. For


additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled "Factors


Affecting the Company's Perspective" (sic) [Prospects] in the Company's Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31, 2004, and discussion of risk factors in the Company's subsequent SEC


filings.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Clarke. Please go ahead, sir.


C. Boyd Clarke, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our


quarterly financial and operating results. As is our custom, I'll begin by discussing our operations.


So I may begin by describing where we are on NE-180. We continue to sustain our view that we


can address the concerns of the agency, the FDA, by year end to begin clinical trials next quarter.


Let me share with you some of what we have been doing on that front. We have already improved


the precision of the cell based potency assay that is used in releasing material for clinical use. The


basic redevelopment of this assay has been completed and this new assay is being – it will be


used, and is being used to provide final batch release for our Phase I and Phase II clinical lots, all


of this, we have plenty of time to meet our objectives. At the same time we continue to develop


further our clinical immunogenesity assays and develop additional information from our primary


toxicokinetic, so as to satisfy the clinical hold items that were described to as Food and Drug


Administration. These initiatives are also on schedule. In addition, as we've noted early – in the


earlier presentations, while we remain confidant we can address the FDA issues in a timely


manner, we continue to pursue in parallel the commencement of clinical trials in a sophisticated


European regulatory jurisdiction early next year. We will commence a Phase I trial, wherever we


first receive authorization. In terms of our second major pre-clinical program the long acting GCSF,


we are co-developing with BioGeneriX. And that too is on schedule. We continue to sustain the


target of the first quarter of 2006 for the submission by our partner of European equivalent of an


IND. Manufacture of consistency locks in preparation for the clinical production is beginning this


quarter, so we are clearly very anxious to move this program along to its next stage, where it enters


the clinic.


Our three-protein collaboration with Novo Nordisk continues to progress, as we've noted earlier we


anticipate receiving a modest milestone payment from Novo this quarter, and that will represent the


achievement of planned progress towards a product candidate on one of the proteins.


We continue to apply our technology to other peptides and in the last quarter, we have been able


to generate human growth hormone candidates that behave impressively in relevant pre-clinical


models. Early data suggest the development of a once a week formulation is indeed feasible. Given


the size of the market, currently about $2 billion, and the number of players who have already


expressed an interest in developing a long-acting formulation, we believe that there is an
raw transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


opportunity to pursue aggressively a partner for this protein. So, together with NE-180, previously


mentioned long acting Interferon-alpha and now this human growth hormone we have three


proteins available for partnerships that could bring additional funds potentially into the company.


Of course, we have never lacked interesting product candidate, but we have had to manage our


resource allocation carefully to ensure that we have adequate financial runway to get the key points


of value inflection. Last quarter, we announced a program of restructuring targeted to reduce our


burn rate while sustaining our key internal competencies in pursuing our critical strategic objective.


I can now report that we have essentially completed the reductions in the employee base that we


foresaw at that time. While our employee base was originally over a 170 at the end of the first


quarter it is now under 120. Our net cash utilization, even taking into consideration the cash effects


of the restructuring is expected to be in the range of 7.5 million to $8.5 million in this particular


quarter compared to a net utilization of almost $11 million in the first quarter of 2005.


Net cash utilization I will remind you does not include the impact of any monies coming in either


from the sale of our facility or revenue from additional partnering activity and Brian will have a bit


more detail on this later.


In addition, we continue to evaluate additional non-dilute options to bring cash in or alternatively to


reduce cash outlays. As noted, we are considering options that include the disposition of our clinical


manufacturing facility and the spin-out of non-core technology. We can note that these efforts


continue to ramp [ph] and as they are completed over the next six months or so. They will give us


additional flexibility in achieving our developmental objectives, obviously using less capital than we


otherwise would have.


Now let me turn things to over to Brian Davis for a more precise description of our financial results.


A. Brian Davis, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon everyone. This afternoon we recorded a net loss of $22.6 million or $0.69 per


share for the third quarter compared to a net loss of $10.8 million or $0.44 per share in the third


quarter of last year. As expected our financial results in the third quarter were significantly impacted


by the restructuring that we announced and implemented in August. The primary reason for the


increase in net loss was a $14 million restructuring charge taken during the quarter and that


restructuring charge included $13.2 million of non-cash impairment charge of property and


equipment related to – primarily to the Witmer Road facility. It also included $800,000 of expected


payments for employee severance. Excluding the impact of the restructuring charge, our net loss


would have been $8.6 million or 2.2 million less than the 2004 third quarter.


Our collaborative revenues for the third quarter were $1.5 million, relatively the same as in the third


quarter of '04. The slight increase was due to revenues under our two BioGeneriX agreements and


continued revenues from our Novo Nordisk agreements. Our total operating expenses for the


quarter were $24.2 million, an increase of 12 million over the third quarter of '04. Again the $14


million restructuring charge is primarily responsible for that increase. We did have lower reduced


R&D expenses of $1.8 million in the third quarter, primarily due to lower personnel cost and


recruiting and relocation cost, as well as reduced depreciation expense.


Our G&A expenses decreased by 200,000 over the prior year, and that was primarily due to


decreased payroll, consulting and depreciation expenses. We ended the quarter with $45.5 million


in cash and investments. As Boyd mentioned earlier, we anticipate net cash utilization in the range


of $7.5 million to $8.5 million for the fourth quarter, and this estimate excludes the impact of any


monies coming in from the sales of facility or from other partnering activity.