raw transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. And welcome to today’s Neose Technologies’ First Quarter 2006


Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. With us today, we have the


President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. George J. Vergis and Senior Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer, Mr. A. Brian Davis.


Before turning the call over to Dr. Vergis, I would like to mention that certain statements in today’s


management presentation and Q&A session will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities laws. These include statements concerning management’s


current expectations, estimates, and projections about Neose’s business and results for operations.


Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. For


additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Factors


Affecting the Company’s Prospects” in the Company’s Forms 10-K for the year ended December


31, 2005, and discussions of the risk factors in the Company’s subsequent SEC filings. At this


time, I would like to turn the call over to Dr. Vergis. Please go ahead sir.


George Vergis, Chief Executive Office, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you operator. Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our


operating and financial results for the first quarter of 2006. As many of you know, today I officially


assume the role of CEO and I’m pleased to have this opportunity to speak with you. I’d like to take


a moment to mention the planned changes that took place today at the Executive and Board levels.


As announced in February, Boyd Clarke stepped down as CEO and Chairman of the Board


effective at our annual meeting of stockholders this morning. I would like again thank Boyd for the


significant contributions he has made during his four years at Neose and wish him well in his future


endeavors. Boyd will remain as Director of the company and we are pleased that we will continue


to have access to his expertise. In addition, at today’s Board meeting, Dr. Patrick Gage was


elected to serve as Non-Executive Chairman. Since Pat joined the Neose’s Board in 2002, we


have been well served by his 30 plus years of industry experience and I look forward to working


with Pat in his expanded role.


At this point, I will move on to the corporate update beginning with our long-acting GlycoPEGylated


EPO or what we call our NE-180 program. Our Phase I trial in a Western European country which


began in February is proceeding as expected. We have mentioned previously that this open label


trial allows us to review subject response data in real time. Data from the first two dose groups so


far show that NE-180 is safe and well tolerated.
 
At this early stage, we have seen the expected


reticulocyte site and hemoglobin changes in both the intervenous and subcutaneous dose groups.


Assuming NE-180 continues to show expected activity and is safe and well tolerated through the


remainder of the trial, we plan to commence a Phase IIa trial in the fourth quarter of 2006.


In the US, our investigational new drug application IND remains on clinical hold. We previously


indicated that we would finalize our response to the FDA in early 2006 and we have. In dialog with


the FDA, we have been informed that our recently submitted response has successfully addressed


all of the initial hold issues. However, they have requested additional information which we are


actively working to provide. While we will not provide updates on our ongoing interactions with any


regulatory group, we will keep you apprised of any material change in our status with the FDA.


Now, I will shift focus to our other program GlycoPEGylated GCSF, which we are codeveloping with


our partner BioGeneriX. Preclinical studies are complete and manufacture of initial clinical material


is on going. Our partner expects to initiate a Phase I clinical trial during the middle of 2006 in a


Western European country. With regard to our partner programs, both our three-protein license
raw transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


agreement with Novo Nordisk and our license agreement with BioGeneriX on a second undisclosed


protein continued to progress as expected. In addition, we continue our work on additional proteins


including GlycoPEGylated human growth hormone which may form the basis for future


partnerships. We continue to expand our intellectual property protection. We have recently


received a notice of allowance from the US Patent and Trademark office for a pending application


related to our glyco-conjugation technology. This is a second allowed patent application in a series


of pending patent applications directed towards the company’s broad glyco-conjugation technology


platform. With that I will turn the call over to Brian Davis for the financial report after which we’d be


happy to take your questions.


Brian Davis, Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon everyone. Today, we reported a net loss of $7.8 million or 24 cents per share for


the first quarter of 2006 compared to a net loss of $11.3 million or 40 cents per share in the first


quarter of 2005. Our collaborative revenues were $2.4 million in the first quarter or $1 million more


than in the first quarter of 2005. The increase in revenues is due to an increase in scope of work


under our Novo Nordisk agreements.


Our total operating expenses for the quarter were $10.2 million or a decrease of $2.4 million from


the first quarter of 2005. This decrease was almost entirely driven by a $2.3 million decrease in our


research and development expenses over the prior year, primarily due to lower payroll and


operational cost resulting from our August 2005 restructuring.


Reduction in expenses related to the restructuring was partially offset by $800,000 of stock based


compensation expense primarily due to the adoption of FAS 123R in January as well as clinical


study costs associated with the initiation of our Phase I trial in February in Western Europe.


Our G&A expenses for the first quarter which included $500,000 of stock based compensation


expense overall were in line with the first quarter of 2005. We ended the quarter with $30.2 million


in cash and cash equivalents.


And with respect to our financial outlook, we maintain our guidance that net cash utilization in 2006


will average $8 million to $8.5 million per quarter. This assessment does not take into account any


proceeds from non-dilutive sources of capital, such as new partnering activities or the disposition of


our Witmer Road facility which we announced we would dispose as a result of the August 2005


restructuring. This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we are ready for questions.