corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this Neose Technologies’ Fourth Quarter and Year


End 2004 Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. With us today we have


President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Boyd Clarke, and Senior Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer, Mr. Brian Davis, also, Mr. George Vergis, Executive VP – Vice President,


Commercial and Clinical Development.


Before turning the call over to Mr. Clarke, I would like to mention that certain statements in today’s


management and presentation and Q&A session will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the federal securities laws. These include statements concerning management’s


current expectations, estimates, and projections about Neose’s business and results of operations.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. For


additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Factors


Affecting the Company’s Prospects” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December


31st, 2003, and discussion of risk factors in the Company’s subsequent SEC filings. At this time, I


would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Clarke. Please go ahead sir.


C. Boyd Clarke, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you operator. Well, good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.


I am pleased to have this opportunity to share with you outlining our accomplishments of financial


results for the year 2004 as well as to give a brief review of our progress to operational objectives


for 2005. Since this conference covers the results for the full year of 2004, let me just first begin by


reviewing briefly our performance to objectives for that year. I will then turn to 2005.


Now we completed many, but not all of our 2004 objectives. And our misses, which are outlined


before, are reflected in reduced variable compensation for senior management. Nevertheless,


during 2004 we made significant progress in advancing our NE-180 or what we referred to earlier


as GlycoPEG-EPO, our NE-180 program toward the clinic. We selected our product candidate and


we defined and scaled up our manufacturing process and we initiated acute toxicology studies. We


did, however, shift the timing for the filing of the IND into 2005 due to manufacturing challenges we


incurred earlier in the year, challenges that have since been overcome.


We also made important advances in our GlycoPEG-GCSF program including selecting a product


candidate and defining and commencing scale up of our manufacturing process. As you will recall,


we established a co-development agreement with BioGeneriX for GlycoPEG-GCSF, which allows


us to off lay significant expenses of clinical development or retaining commercialization rights in


major markets.


Now we did not complete a second major collaboration by around year end, but rather we supplied,


signed and announced just a few weeks ago, a supply and option agreement with BioGeneriX. This


agreement covers a long-acting next generation protein. Under that agreement, BioGeneriX has an


option to enter into pre-negotiated research, license and option agreement by April 28, 2005. If the


option is exercised, we would receive upfront and research payments and could receive milestone


payments totaling up to $61.5 million, as well as royalties on product sales that go into the double


digits.


Next, I would like to focus on our 2005 operational objectives since that’s what many of you are


going to be properly focused on. A pivotal objective is the submission of an IND for NE-180 by the


end of the second quarter. We then expect to commence a Phase I clinical trial in the third quarter
corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and complete it in the fourth quarter. I want to talk about how we are making progress towards this


objective.


First, in the past few months we have successfully manufactured the protein on 5 consecutive


occasions at the 100 to 150 liter scale. We intend to commence manufacture of clinical lots for all


Phase I and Phase II clinical trials before the end of this month. Second, while all the data have not


been analyzed, we have completed the in-life component of all GLP IND enabling toxicology


studies, including multiple dose studies in both rodents and primates.


Third, we’ve scheduled our pre-IND meeting with the FDA at the end of April. We’ve drafted a


clinical protocol for discussion with the FDA and we’ve selected a Phase I clinical site for timely


commencement of the trial once we’re cleared to proceed. In other words, while success is not


guaranteed either in the data that we are analyzing or in the response of the agency to those data,


we currently believe that all systems are go for submitting our IND by the end of the second


quarter.


Now, another key operational objective is the submission of the IND or its European equivalent for


GlycoPEG-GCSF by the end of the fourth quarter. We continue to work with our partner,


BioGeneriX, in defining the process, the manufacturing process, and in the producing necessary


amounts of compounds so that we can commence IND enabling toxicology in pharmacokinetic


studies in the third quarter. We are in the process of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic


studies in rats and primates already to help us design these IND enabling studies. Again, at the risk


of seeming overly dramatic, all systems are go for filing an IND or its equivalent submission by year


end.


On the partner front, as I noted before, we’ve received a payment and the supply of a second


protein from BioGeneriX under the agreement we signed in January. We’re using our technologies


to modify this protein at this very moment to enable them to evaluate our technology expeditiously


in advance of the April 28, go/no go date for entering into a pre-negotiated research license and


option agreement for the proteins.


Finally, as you know, we completed a public offering in February of 2005 raising approximately $30


million which Brian Davis will be -- discuss in further detail.


Now with that I’d like to turn the call over to Brian for the financial report, and at the conclusion of


his remarks we will be happy to take questions.


A. Brian Davis, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon everyone.


This afternoon we reported a net loss of approximately $11 million or $0.44 cents per share for the


fourth quarter of 2004 compared to a net loss of $9.7 million or $0.49 cents per share in the fourth


quarter of 2003. You will recall that in May of ’04, we issued 4.7 million shares in a registered direct


offering, thereby reducing the loss per share for 2004. For the full year of 2004, our net loss was


$41.6 million or $1.82 per share compared to a net loss of $37.7 million or $2.14 per share in 2003.


Our collaborative revenues for the fourth quarter ’04 were approximately $1.5 million compared to


$600,000 in the fourth quarter of ’03. And again, for the full year, collaborative revenues were $5.1


million in ’04 compared to $1.4 million in 2003. In both periods, the 2004 increases were due to


increased revenues under our Novo Nordisk agreements as well as revenues received under our


BioGeneriX agreement, which we entered into in May of ’04.


Our operating expenses for the quarter were $12.4 million, or an increase of $2.1 million from the


fourth quarter of ’03. And for the full year 2004, operating expenses were $46.4 million, or an