corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Neose Technologies Second Quarter 2007


and Yearend Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded.


With us today, we have President and Chief Executive Operating Officer, Dr. George J. Vergis; and


Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Brian Davis.


Before turning the call over to Mr. Vergis, I would like to mention that certain statements in today’s


management presentation and Q&A session will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities laws. These include statements concerning management’s


current expectations, estimates and projections about Neose’s business and results of operations.


Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.


For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Factors


Affecting the Company’s Prospects” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December


31st, 2006, and discussion of risk factors in the Company’s subsequent SEC filings.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Vergis. Please go ahead, sir.


George J. Vergis, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. In today’s call,


we’ll discuss our operating and financial results for the second quarter of 2007. I’ll begin our


operational update with a discussion of our long-acting GlycoPEGylated EPO or NE-180 program


Enrollment in our multi-center Phase II chemotherapy-induced anemia trial in Switzerland has been


slower than originally anticipated, primarily due to evolving chemotherapy regimens in that country


that have made it more difficult for patients to meet the original enrollment criteria for the trial.


Our original protocol called for six platinum-based chemotherapy cycles in order to have sufficient


time to evaluate a long-acting erythropoietic stimulating agent such as NE-180. In Switzerland, we


have seen a change since commencing the trial in platinum-based chemotherapy regimens from


six to four cycles of chemotherapy for the treatment of lung cancer.


The majority of patients screened for this trial were receiving this therapy for lung cancer. And by


the time these patients became anemic, there were too few chemotherapy cycles remaining to


adequately evaluate the effect of NE-180. Accordingly, we have amended the enrollment criteria in


the protocol to include additional bone marrow-suppressive chemotherapy regimens with a


standard treatment in six cycles of chemotherapy such as rituximab CHOP for non-Hodgkin’s


lymphoma.


In addition, we are expanding a trial to include up to six countries with multiple investigator sites in


each country. Although we do not expect to complete this trial by year end as planned, we


anticipate presenting a data from the trial in the first quarter of 2008 and they further present the


data at the June 2008 annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology or the


European Hematology Association.


With respect to our Phase II renal program, we are pleased to announced that we have received


approval to commence our Phase II renal trial in Europe. We expect regulatory approvals from


additional countries throughout the third quarter. Although we will target in May 2008 annual


meeting of European Renal Association as a likely venue for presentation of data, we may also


present interim data in early 2008.
corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As a reminder, this study is an open-label, multi-center, multi-country trial in Europe. The trial will


evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of sequential ascending subcutaneous doses of NE-180


dosed every four weeks and up to 60 patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis.


I’d like to comment on our cash position in context of timing and availability of data from our NE-180


trials. We expect our current cash to be sufficient to fund our operations through the third quarter of


2008 as compared to our prior estimate of the second quarter of 2008, based on our ability to defer


certain clinical and process development activities planned in early ‘08.


Let me now shift to GlycoPEG-GCSF, which we are codeveloping with our partner BioGeneriX. We


are pleased with the continued progress in this collaboration and continue to expect final summary


reports for both Phase I trials of this product candidate to be completed in 2007. All patients for


both of these trials have been dosed and completed safety evaluations.


Final review of the data and study analytics, including pharmacokinetic assessments are ongoing.


We expect data from these two trials to be presented at the ASH annual meeting in December


2007.


We had an eventful second quarter in terms of our Novo Nordisk collaboration to develop long-


acting versions of a recombinant blood factors VII, VIII and IX. And most importantly, Novo


commenced a Phase I trial of GlycoPEGylated factor VIIa, which triggered a milestone payment. In


addition, positive data on GlycoPEGylated factor VIIa was presented at the congress of the


International Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis in July.


With regard to the Factor IX program, we received a milestone payment marking progress there as


well. These events demonstrate the progress and promise of this important collaboration.


At this point, I’ll turn things over to Brian Davis, for the financial discussion. And at the conclusion of


his remarks, we’ll be happy to take questions.


A. Brian Davis, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer


Good afternoon everyone. We reported a net loss of $5.2 million or 9 cents per share today for the


second quarter of 2007 compared to a net loss of $8.4 million or 26 cents per share in the second


quarter of 2006.


The decrease in our net loss for the 2007 period was largely due to a $1.9 million non-cash income


item related to the warrants issued in our March 2007 equity financing. In addition, we have a


$500,000 increase in revenues and a $500,000 income tax benefit resulting from the sale of some


of Pennsylvania Research and Development tax credits.


Our collaborative revenues for the second quarter of 2007 were $2.2 million approximately


$500,000 higher in the second quarter of ‘06. This increase was due to additional research and


development funding received under our Novo Nordisk and BioGeneriX agreements.


Our operating expenses for the quarter were $10.3 million and increase of $200,000 in the second


quarter of 2006. This increase was primarily due to $700,000 of increase clinical and process


development cost of NE-180, as well as higher cost associated with our collaborations with Novo


Nordisk and BioGeneriX.


These increases were partly offset by $500,000 of lower general and administrative cost in the


second quarter of 2006. Those decreases largely due to lower legal cost associated with our