corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone. And welcome to this Neose Technologies’ First Quarter 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. With us today we have President


and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Boyd Clarke; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer, Mr. A. Brian Davis.


Before turning the call over to Mr. Clarke, I would like to mention that certain statements in today’s


management presentation and Q&A session will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities laws. These include statements concerning management’s


current expectations, estimates, and projections about Neose’s business and results of operations.


Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. For


additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Factors


Affecting the Company’s Prospects” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,


2004, and discussion of risk factors in the Company’s subsequent SEC filings.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Boyd Clarke. Please go ahead sir.


C. Boyd Clarke, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.


As you are aware, 2005 is a critical year in the implementation of our protein-based strategy at


Neose, and we are in the midst of driving towards the completion of those important objectives


which, if realized, will make this a transformative year indeed for Neose.


Let me begin by reviewing for you our performance to operational objectives. First and most


importantly, the submission of the IND for NE-180, our GlycoPEGylated EPO to the FDA in June


remains on track. We expect to commence our initial clinical trial this summer and complete it by


year end. Indeed, by this time next year, we expect to be in a phase II clinical trial for NE-180 if all


goes well. Excuse me.


What has happened thus far this year that has nurtured our confidence? Although some analytical


and documentary work remains to be done, we have completed our pre-clinical pharmacology and


toxicology tests. Of note -- excuse me, in primates NE-180 demonstrated the hemodynamic


parameters, for example, sustained increases in hemoglobin that we would have expected based


on earlier studies in rodents. In other words, we’ve had consistent pharmacodynamics now across


three species.


In addition, we recently held a formal, a pre-IND meeting with the FDA in which we discussed the


content of the pre-clinical, clinical, and manufacturing and control section of our IND. Of course, we


can't discuss any of the specifics of the meeting, but we can say that after it, we remain confident


that we are on schedule to file our IND in June and subject to their review of all of the data we will


submit at that time, we remain comfortable with the timeline for initiation of clinical trials.


Finally, in order to commence clinical trials, we need to be able to manufacture cGMP material for


those clinical trials, and this is actually underway as we speak. In sum, unless something currently


unforeseen occurs, at our next quarterly conference call, we anticipate we will have crossed a


significant threshold in the development of NE-180.


Let me now move to our next product candidate, the long-acting GlycoPEGylated-GCSF, which we


are developing with our partner BioGeneriX. We've transferred our technology for modification of
corrected transcript


Neose Technologies, Inc.
 
NTEC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the base protein to a contract manufacturer in Europe, we've begun the process of manufacturing


the protein for animal pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies later this summer that will enable the


submission of the European equivalent of an IND before year end. Early animal data remains


encouraging and this program also is on track.


On the partnership front, we continued to make significant progress in the last quarter. Our alliance


with BioGeneriX broadened to include a second, as yet unnamed, but important marketed protein


that participates in a market that had sales in excess of $1 billion in 2004. Over the next year,


BioGeneriX will fund all of our research and development on this protein. Assuming they continue


with the development program, we will conduct a technology transfer, and they will pay all further


costs and potentially pay over $60 million in milestones as well as meaningful royalties on


worldwide sales.


We are gratified particularly because as a result of our earlier G-CSF partnership with them,


BioGeneriX understands our technology very well and this extending -- extensive and important


commitment to another protein speaks volumes as to what they think of our technology’s potential.


Our three-protein relationship with Novo Nordisk continues to make progress and as noted in our


corporate objectives, which I have discussed with you in earlier calls, we expect to receive a


modest milestone from Novo this quarter.


In sum, we are progressing nicely on our operational objectives. We now have six protein programs


in preclinical development, five of which are partnered with most or all of the current cost funded by


our partners and a 100% of the clinical cost to be eventually funded by our partners. Moreover, we


expect to complete preliminary packages for two other proteins, which may also serve as the basis


of partnership discussions with others.


Finally, our work to apply our technology in new applications continues to be very promising.


On the financial side, we are delighted to note that in the last quarter, we raised over $30 million


and reduced our net cash burn to an average of about $9 million a quarter for at least the next three


quarters. And that is absent a cash infusion as a result of any further partnering activity. This


reduction has been achieved in large part through the reduction of cash required for our bonus


program and a 1-year reduction of officers' salaries by instead issuing restricted stock units to


executives.


Let me now turn to Brian, who will pass the financial numbers more thoroughly. And at the


conclusion of his remarks we’ll happy to take any questions.


A. Brian Davis, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon everyone. This afternoon we reported a net loss of approximately $11.3 million or


$0.40 per share for the first quarter of 2005 compared to a net loss of $9.5 million or $0.48 per


share in the first quarter of 2004. You will recall that in February, we issued approximately 8 million


shares in our public offering, thereby reducing the net loss per share for 2005.


Our collaborative revenues for the first quarter were approximately $1.3 million, or nearly $100,000


higher than the first quarter of 2004. That increase is due to revenues received under our two


BioGeneriX agreements, neither of which was in effect in the first quarter of 2004. Our revenues in


the first quarter also reflected activities under our Novo Nordisk agreements.


Our total operating expenses for the quarter were $12.6 million, an increase of approximately of


$1.9 million from the first quarter of 2004. Contributing to this increase was $1.7 million related to


research and development expenses, and those were primarily due to increased personnel,