corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to NexCen Brands Conference Call


to discuss it’s Financial Results for the Third Quarter of 2009. At this time, all participants are in a


listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will follow at


that time. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that reproduction of this call in whole or in part


is not permitted without prior written authorization of NexCen Brands Incorporated. And as a


reminder ladies and gentlemen, this conference is being recorded.


I’d like to introduce your host for today’s conference, Ms. Leigh Parrish of FD. Please go ahead


Leigh.


S. Leigh Parrish, Managing Director, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us. We appreciate your participation


and interest. With us on the call are Chief Executive Officer, Ken Hall; and Chief Financial Officer,


Mark Stanko. NexCen issued a press release and filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009. The


release and the quarterly report are available on the company’s website at


www.nexcenbrands.com.


Before we begin, please keep in mind that this call will contain forward-looking statements. All


forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to


differ materially from certain expectations discussed here today. These risk factors are explained in


detail in the company’s SEC filing. NexCen does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or


revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or


otherwise.


And now, I’m pleased to introduce Ken Hall, Chief Executive Officer. Ken?


Kenneth J. Hall, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Leigh. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for today’s call. Also joining


me today is Mark Stanko, the Chief Financial Officer of NexCen Brands. As you know, we held our


last earnings call just 11 days ago and there have not been substantial events in the business since


that time. We will therefore review our results for the third quarter and nine months period of 2009


and briefly discuss where the business stands today.


We’re delighted that after much hard work over the last year and half we are able to file our third


quarter results on time and in compliance with the SEC’s reporting requirements. Now that we have


returned to a normalized reporting schedule we expect to continue reporting our financial results on


a timely basis going forward.


We’re pleased to report that many of the positives trends that we discussed with you in relation to


the first half of the year have continued into the third quarter. For the third consecutive quarter this


year we have generated positive cash flow from operations, achieved operating income instead of


an operating loss and significantly decreased our net loss.


Our results continue to reflect our ability to execute our many of the initiatives that we put in place


in the second half of 2009 and we are delighted that these programs are yielding ongoing benefits


to our business.
corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I recall that by the end of 2008, we had improved our cash management, reduced operating


expenses, restructured our credit facility, sold our Waverly and Bill Blass businesses, reduced our


outstanding debt and seized all activities of UCC Capital. At that time we kept our core franchise


operations intact and refined our go forward strategy to focus solely on the franchising business.


The positive results we have generated to-date in 2009 are indicative of the substantial changes we


have made to our business in the past year, yielding improved efficiencies across our organization,


and our commitment to enhancing our franchise operations.


Now, turning to a few of the highlights of our financial results. First, let me address what we are


seeing from a top line perspective. Our revenues have been pressured throughout the year as we


continue to navigate a challenging economic environment that has impacted mall traffic and


consumer spending.


In addition, our revenues in the third quarter declined as a result of reduced Athlete’s Foot revenue


recorded in the second quarter versus the prior year following the completion of our license


agreement for Australia and New Zealand with the TAF brand.


Recall that we received a one-time licensing fee in August of 2009, in lieu of ongoing royalties,


which we used to pay down debt and to reinvest in our franchise businesses. In line with what we


reported in the second quarter, we incurred some material special charges and expenses in the


third quarter of 2008, which skew our year-over-year comparison of results.


So in our press release, and here in today’s call we refer to certain adjusted results, which back out


these special items. As we have stated previously, we believe the adjusted non-GAAP numbers


provide a more meaningful comparison of the performance of our business.


So on an adjusted year-over-year comparison we reduced operating expenses by 19% to $8.9


million in the third quarter of 2009, and 20% to 29.2 million for the first nine months of 2009. We


generated our third consecutive quarter of operating income and increased operating income by


66% to 1.9 million for the quarter and by 336% to 5.4 million for the year-to-date period.


We reduced our operating -- we reduced our loss from continuing operations by 66% to a loss of


$800,000 or $0.01 per diluted share for the quarter, and by 82% to a loss of $2.2 million or $0.04


per diluted share for the first nine months of the year.


As I mentioned earlier, we generated positive cash flow from continuing operations for the third


consecutive quarter this year. Cash provided by operations was $600,000 in the third quarter of


2009, compared to cash used in operations of $3.7 million in the third quarter last year. For the first


nine months of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 we generated $1.3 million of cash flow


from operations, an improvement of $10.6 million, and we anticipate further improvements in


operating cash flow going forward.


Also, we paid down a portion of our debt by approximately $5 million in August with a portion of the


proceeds from the grant of long-term exclusive licenses for the TAF brand in Australia and New


Zealand. While this is progress in the right direction, we recognize that we still have much work to


do to address the total amount of our debt.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark to go over our results in more detail. Mark?