corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to NexCen Brands’ Conference Call


to discuss its Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results for 2009. At this time, all participants


are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions


will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that reproduction of this call in


whole or in part is not permitted without prior written authorization of NexCen Brands. And just as a


reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference, Ms. Leigh Parrish of FD. Please go


ahead, Leigh.


S. Leigh Parrish, Managing Director, Retail & Consumer Sector Leader (USA), Financial


Dynamics


Thank you. Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. We appreciate your


participation and interest. With us on the call are Chief Executive Officer, Ken Hall and Chief


Financial Officer, Mark Stanko. NexCen issued a press release and filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,


2009. The release and the annual report are available on our Web site at www.nexcenbrands.com.


Before we begin, please keep in mind that this call will contain forward-looking statements. All


forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to


differ materially from certain expectations discussed here today. These risk factors are explained in


detail in the company’s SEC filings. NexCen does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or


revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or


otherwise.


Now I’m pleased to introduce Ken Hall, CEO. Ken?


Kenneth J. Hall, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Leigh. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for today’s call. As we ended


2009, we’re very pleased to have maintained many of the positive performance trends that we


established at the start of the year. For four consecutive quarters, we generated operating income


and cash flow from operations and we significantly decreased our net loss compared to the prior


year.


We right-sized our expense structure, remediated all material weaknesses in internal controls,


returned to a normalized SEC reporting schedule, and made investments in our business for future


organic revenue growth. Overall, we are pleased with the milestones we reached in 2009 in our


efforts to improve and stabilize the business.


However, as we’ve previously discussed, we recognize that the company’s current debt and capital


structure does not support the company’s long-term growth, viability, and shareholder value.


Addressing this issue continues to be our priority for the near future. I’ll speak more about our


efforts in this area later on the call.


First, I’d like to review selected results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as the progress we


have made towards strengthening and enhancing our franchise operations. Turning now to our top


line; revenues decreased 17% in the fourth quarter and 4% for the full year. The decline in revenue


over the course of 2009 is due to several factors.
corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


First, our revenues were pressured by the broader economic environment including the continued


weak credit markets for franchisees, and softness in consumer spending and retail traffic. Second,


some of our revenue decline is attributable to the exit of underperforming and non-compliant


franchisees from our system, as we focused on the enforcement of compliance standards.


Third, starting in August 2009, our revenues no longer include royalties from The Athlete’s Foot


stores in Australia and New Zealand. As you will recall, we entered into a licensing transaction in


those countries, whereby NexCen received a one-time payment of $6.2 million in August 2009, in


lieu of recurring TAF royalties from these territories.


A bright spot to our revenues has been that international revenues, while comprising less than 10%


of total revenues, did grow by 45% in 2009. To offset these declines in revenues, we continue to


reduce our cost structure and improve efficiencies across our organization.


We reduced operating expenses 37% for the fourth quarter and 80% for the full year. The proactive


steps we’ve taken to manage expenses, especially at the corporate level, have enabled us to


generate operating income of $1.1 million for the fourth quarter and $6.2 million for the full year


compared to operating losses in the prior periods.


We also dramatically narrowed our loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter by 60% to


a loss of only $800,000 or $0.02 per diluted share, and narrowed our loss by 98% for the full year to


a loss of $3.3 million or $0.06 per diluted share.


In addition, cash provided by operations was $900,000 in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to


cash used in operations of $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year, we generated


$2.1 million of cash flow from operations compared to cash used in operations of $10.4 million.


That’s a year-over-year improvement of $12.5 million or 120%.


Turning to our franchise operations. This was our first full year operating with only our core


franchise operations and we continued to enhance this business in 2009. Let me run through some


of the highlights. We launched an Innovation Lab to introduce exciting new products across all of


our QSR brands, including most recently MaggieMia Ice Cream Pizza and mini pretzel dogs.


We began deploying the $1.2 million of capital proceeds from the TAF licensing transaction to


expand the production capability of our factory. We’re tracking to plan and expect to begin


producing and selling pretzel mix to our franchisees in the near term, which should organically grow


our factory revenues.


We developed a new Web site in English and Spanish to globally drive the sale of new franchises.


And despite store counts being down 6% year-over-year, we opened 143 new stores in 2009. And


finally, we expanded NexCen Brands’ global presence by entering 11 new international markets


including Shoebox New York in Aruba and Kuwait; Great American Cookies in Bahrain and Mexico;


TAF in Botswana and Lebanon; Pretzelmaker in Mexico; Marble Slab Creamery in Singapore and


the United Kingdom. We believe our international growth demonstrates the broad appeal of our


brands across diverse markets.


Our entire NexCen team has worked very hard and I appreciate their commitment and contributions


as we focused on turning around our business. I believe we’ve demonstrated that a multi-concept,


vertically integrated franchise model is sound, even in a challenging economic environment.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark to go over our results in more detail.