corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to NexCen Brands’ Conference Call


to discuss its First Quarter Financial Results and Recent Transaction Announcement. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and


instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions].


Please be advised that reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without written


authorization of NexCen Brands. And as a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference is being


recorded.


Additionally, this call will conclude at 9:25 AM Eastern Time today prior to the stock market opening


at 9:30 AM. Should you have additional questions, you may contact FD at 212-850-5600.


I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference, Ms. Leigh Parrish of FD. Please go


ahead, Leigh.


Leigh Parrish, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We appreciate your participation


and interest. With us on the call today are Chief Executive Officer, Ken Hall and Chief Financial


Officer, Mark Stanko. NexCen issued a press release and filed with the SEC its quarterly report on


Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. The release and quarterly report are available on


the company’s website at www.nexcenbrands.com.


Before we begin, please keep in mind that this call will contain forward-looking statements. Such


forward-looking statements include those regarding the transaction between the company and


Levine Leichtman, the expected timing and completion of the transaction, estimates of retained


proceeds from the pending transactions and the process and anticipated results of a future


dissolution of the company. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, may, will, expect, and


similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.


Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject


to risks and uncertainties. These risk factors are explained in the company’s filings with the SEC,


including the current report on Form 8-K that the company filed this morning. And the Risk Factors


discussed in Item 1A of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, which


the company also filed this morning.


NexCen does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. During this call,


management will also discuss the pending transaction between the company and Levine


Leichtman, as well as a possible plan of dissolution for the company. None of the statements


regarding these matters are a solicitation of a proxy from any stockholder of the company. The


company intends to file with the SEC a proxy statement and other relevant documents to be mailed


to stockholders in connection with the pending transactions and any plan of dissolution that is


proposed to stockholders.


Stockholders are encouraged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents when


they become available because they will contain important information about the company, the


pending transaction and any plan of dissolution that is proposed to stockholders. Stockholders will


be able to obtain these materials when they are available, and other documents filed with the SEC,


free of charge at the SEC’s website, at www.sec.gov. In addition, these materials, when they are


available, may be obtained free of charge by directing a request to the company’s proxy solicitor,


Innisfree M&A Incorporated, toll-free at 877-456-3488.
corrected transcript


NexCen Brands, Inc.
 
NEXC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Before I turn the call over to Ken Hall, Chief Executive Officer, I’d like to also ask everyone to limit


themselves to one question during our Q&A session to allow everyone a chance to speak. Once


we’ve gone through a round of questions, we will go back and you may queue up again at that time.


And now, I’d like to turn the call over to Ken.


Kenneth J. Hall, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Leigh, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, we’d like to share


the details of last Thursday’s announcement that we entered into an agreement to sell our franchise


business to an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners or as I’ll refer to them as LLCP, as well


as discuss our first quarter results and answer any questions you may have. I’d like to begin with an


overview of the proposed transaction, and then Mark will briefly review the results for the first


quarter. Hopefully, you’ve had an opportunity to read the press releases and also review the 8-K


and 10-Q filing this morning with the SEC.


Now let’s turn to Thursday’s announcement. We’ve taken a number of significant actions over the


course of the last two years, in an effort to turnaround and to stabilize NexCen Brands. We return


the company to a position where we are generating operating income and positive cash flow from


operations, and we’ve significantly decreased, but not eliminated, the company’s net loss.


However, as we’ve discussed over the past few quarters, the company’s current debt and capital


structure is not sustainable, and does not support the company’s long-term growth, viability, or


shareholder value. While we’ve returned almost $60 million in principal and interest payments to


our lender, BTMU Capital Corp., since the restructuring, almost two years ago, it’s become


increasingly difficult to operate within the financial covenants required under our credit agreement.


In addition, a $34.5 million principal payment is coming due in July, 2011. Therefore, addressing


the company’s debt and capital structure has been a priority. In the third quarter of 2009, we


commenced a strategic review process to identify and evaluate potential alternatives to the


company’s current debt and capital structure. This agreement with LLCP represents the culmination


of a thorough process that we’ve conducted over the past nine months.


During this time, we have had ongoing and extensive discussions with our lender and explored


various alternative solutions, including further restructuring of our existing credit agreement and


refinancing it. We’ve also received in excess multiple offers in relation to a sale of the franchise


business or selected brands. We believe this transaction with LLCP represents the most favorable


option for all of our stakeholders.


Now to provide an overview of the transaction and rationale. LLCP is an independent investment


firm with significant franchise management experience. Their franchise concept experience


includes, Quizno’s, Wetzel’s Pretzels, Beef ‘O’Brady's and CiCi’s Pizza.


LLCP has agreed to pay $112.5 million in cash to acquire our franchise business. Under the terms


of the acquisition agreement, LLCP’s affiliate, Global Franchise Group, LLC, will acquire the


subsidiaries of NexCen Brands that own the franchise business, including all of our interest in Great


American Cookies, MaggieMoo’s, Marble Slab Creamery, Pretzelmaker, Pretzel Time, TAF and


Shoebox New York.


The agreement provides for the management and personnel of NexCen franchise management


and our manufacturing facility in Atlanta to continue with the business. Closing of the sale is subject


to various conditions, including approval of the stockholders of the NexCen Brands. This


transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2010.