corrected transcript


Northstar Neuroscience, Inc.
 
NSTR
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, and thank you for joining Northstar Neuroscience’s Conference Call to


discuss 2007 third quarter results. A copy of the press release related to today’s call is available in


the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at www.northstarneuro.com or


alternatively as furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available


on the commission’s web site at www.sec.co. Today’s call is being recorded and will be available


for replay for 30 days shortly after the call in the Investor Relation section of the company’s web


site.


Hosting today’s call is John Bowers, Northstar’s President and Chief Executive Officer,


accompanied by the company’s Chief Financial Officer, Ray Calvert. All participants on today’s call


are advised that the discussion may include forward-looking statements reflecting management’s


current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future. Forward-looking statements are


subject to risks and are denoted by such phrases as will, believe, expect, estimate, plan, and other


expressions that look to future events and performance.


Forward-looking statements are also – pardon me -- also include statements regarding the


Company’s current or planned clinical trials, safety and efficacy results of the EVEREST and other


clinical trial, enrollment rates, the status of FDA and regulatory processes or approvals, future


financial results, expected profitability, and the markets for the company’s proposed products.


The company may also make forward-looking statements in response to your questions. These


statements are based on current information that management has accessed, which by its nature is


dynamic and subject to rapid and even abrupt changes. The company’s actual results could differ


materially from those stated in or implied by management’s forward-looking statements due to risks


and uncertainties associated with the company’s business that include but are not limited to the


risks that the EVEREST trial may not demonstrate efficacy, that the company may not secure FDA


approval, and other risks related to the EVEREST trial, and the final data from the trial, and the


other risk factors disclosed in the company’s most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and


quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We refer you to our SEC filings for more information concerning


these risks. The company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking


statements.


I will now turn the call over to Mr. John Bowers, Northstar’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Mr. Bowers, please proceed.


John S. Bowers, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, and welcome to our third quarter call. This is an exciting time for Northstar


Neuroscience. We continue to make important progress in our clinical programs, and we are now


just weeks away from sharing primary endpoint results from our EVEREST pivotal trail for stroke


motor recovery.


As many of you know, Northstar is one of a very small number of pure-play public companies in the


neuromodulation industry. Neuromodulation, which is a targeted delivery of energy or drugs to


treat disorders of the brain and nervous system, is already a multi-billion dollar device market, and


is estimated to be growing at close to 20% a year. There are millions of people suffering from


neurological diseases and disorders, and in many cases there are limited or no effective therapies


available to them. We believe our singular focus on neuromodulation therapies will allow Northstar,


to deliver and develop solutions for many of these underserved patient populations.


Our platform technology, the Renova Cortical Stimulation System, is based upon targeted electrical


stimulation of the cortex, the outermost layer of the brain. The various areas of the cortex control or
corrected transcript


Northstar Neuroscience, Inc.
 
NSTR
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


influence many important neurological functions, making the cortex a rich target for therapeutic


stimulation.


Northstar is built on a foundation of science, clinical research, and intellectual property


development, and we are excited to be on the doorstep of having clinical results from our


EVEREST pivotal trail. In the year and a half since we’ve become a public company, we have


effectively executed on our strategic plan, and have brought our stroke recovery program to this


important juncture, while simultaneously making advances in three additional indications: aphasia,


tinnitus, and depression.


Now, I would like to provide you with an update on this clinical progress, and then Ray will recap


our financial position, and related results for the third quarter.


Stroke is one of the biggest health challenges facing society today. Based on data from the


American Stroke Association, we estimate that approximately 2.5 million people suffer from some


form of hand or arm disability as a result of ischemic stroke, and we believe many of these patients


may benefit from Northstar’s Cortical Stimulation Therapy.


The EVEREST clinical trial is our pivotal trial, evaluating Northstar’s proprietary Renova-ST Cortical


Stimulation System for stroke motor recovery. EVEREST is truly a landmark study. It’s the largest


randomized controlled study of an implanted device therapy for people affected by upper-extremity


hemiparesis months and even years post-stroke. We believe that EVEREST will yield a wealth of


information for the clinical and scientific community, and will be the basis for our pre-market


approval submission to the FDA. If successful, we see EVEREST and Renova-ST as setting a new


standard of care for a large and growing patient population.


Our Renova-ST therapy is based on a strong scientific foundation, including extensive preclinical


research documenting our ability to achieve lasting functional improvement by delivering targeted


cortical stimulation in conjunction with rehabilitation activities. Additionally, our two human


feasibility studies, Adams and Baker, showed the safety of cortical stimulation, and also achieved


statistically significant improvements in function compared to control.


As we shared in a press release last week, the final patient in the EVEREST trial recently


completed their four week follow-up, which is a time point at which we assess the primary end


point. The completion of primary end point follow-up on all the EVEREST study subjects keeps us


on schedule to have the data ready for inclusion in our PMA submission to the FDA by the end of


this year.


We remain blinded to the data, as our data and management and biostatistics team is in the final


stages of preparing to conduct EVEREST data analysis. We expect to be in a position to share the


primary efficacy results, and safety data, in a press release, followed by a conference call in the


first half of December.


While our stroke recovery therapy is currently our primary focus, the Renova Cortical Stimulation


System is a technology platform that we are investigating for a number of neurological disorders.


We are currently actively investigating three additional clinical indications including stroke-related


aphasia, which is the impaired ability to speak after stroke; tinnitus, which is a perception of sound


in the absence of an external stimulus; and depression. During the third quarter, we released initial


data on our depression program, and I would like to spend a few minutes discussing these results.


There’s clinical evidence suggesting that targeted stimulation of certain areas of the dorsolateral


prefrontal cortex with specific stimulation parameters, may help treat major depressive disorder.


The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is the area of the cortex involved with reasoning and emotion. In


the US alone, nearly 20 million suffer from major depressive disorder. According to the NIH