corrected transcript


REMEC, Inc.
 
REMC
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this REMEC Conference Call. Today’s call is being


recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the conference over to Tom


Waechter. Please go ahead sir.


Thomas H. Waechter, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and welcome to REMEC’s Q1 fiscal year ‘06 earnings call. I am Tom Waechter,


CEO of REMEC. With me today is Winston Hickman, our Chief Financial Officer. We’ll start the


meeting by Winston reading our Safe Harbor statement.


Winston E. Hickman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


The statements made – statements we may make and we have made that are not historical are


forward-looking statements, which involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual


results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to a


variety of factors including general and industry economic conditions, competition, development


factors, operating cost, our ability to successfully complete certain sale transactions, unanticipated


changes in our financial condition and other risks and uncertainties that are detailed from time to


time in our filings with the SEC.


Thomas H. Waechter, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Winston. First, I will provide you an overview of the business. Winston will then review


REMEC’s financial results, followed by an update of the strategic activities by myself, and then we


will end the meeting with a Q&A session hosted by Winston and me.


It is important to note that the information I will present includes the Defense and Space business


that was recently sold. In looking at Q1 fiscal year ’06, we achieved EBITDA profitability for the


third quarter in a row. The balance sheet remained strong and gross margins were up 1.5


percentage points from last quarter. Sales of zero value inventory were 1.3 million this quarter, up


slightly from Quarter 1 a year ago and plus a half a million from Q4.


Cash and short term investments increased 1 million over last quarter and net inventory decreased


by 5.5 million. Revenues were stronger than expected at 112.1 million, an 8% increase from Q4.


REMEC Defense and Space business experienced strong top line growth both on a sequential


quarter on quarter basis and compared to the same quarter last year at 5% and 17%, respectively.


Sales for the wireless business were up 9% quarter on quarter with the strongest growth in filters


up 4.1 million followed by manufacturing services, which increased 2 million and power amplifiers,


which increased 1 million. Operating expenses were lower in Q1 and in Q4 by nearly 1 million with


both SG&A and R&D costs down, even though SOX 404 implementation, audit, and legal fees


remained at high level. Winston will now go through the financial results in detail followed by a


discussion related to our strategic activities.
corrected transcript


REMEC, Inc.
 
REMC
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Winston E. Hickman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Tom. Before commenting on the financials, I’ve got to build a little bit on the comments


Tom made about the fact that defense and space are included in our financials, even though the


business has been sold. What I would like to point out is that what we have done in the


attachments is we’ve – with the financials is, we have included on both the income statements –


from both the income statements and for the balance sheet a breakout of the defense and space


from the commercial business. So you can see the two business segments coming over to a total


for the company. I think this will help everyone better understand the financials and make things


make a little bit more sense as we go forward.


Now looking first at the income statement – and I’ll be talking primarily on a consolidated basis – we


had $112 million from continuing operations on sales as Tom indicated, which is up about 8%. As


you compare that – if you look at that on the regional basis about 53%, about 48% of our $53


million is in North America, which is swayed heavily by the defense business, obviously. Europe


was about just short of $40 million or about 36%. Asia was about another – about $16 million or


14% of total sales and the rest of world was about just short of $3 million or about $3.6 million in


sales. Now keep in mind as we’ve reported before these are two ship destinations not necessarily


where the product is being used by the customer. For the first quarter our top ten customers


accounted for about $77 million of sales or about 69% of total. And we had two customers in the


top ten category. This compares to about 64 million dollars in the prior quarter and about 62% of


total sales, where we had about $104 million in sales.


Our backlog, which was swayed very, very heavily by the defense business, was $150 million, $122


million of which was defense and space. As indicated in the earnings release both our fourth


quarter net loss and our operating losses were $3.3 million. And as you can tell by the financials,


the attachments, the – our quarterly results benefited from the continuing strong performance by


the defense and space business and improvements in the commercial business.


Gross profit was 20.9 million or 18.6% of sales. For the commercial business; that was 15.1%,


about 15% in the defense business – was about 29% of sales.


Operating expenses as Tom indicated were down about $1 million about 2/3rds of that coming out


of SG&A and the other third coming out of R&D expenses. Our loss, we’ve already talked about


the loss in continuing operations being 3.2 million which compares to a 7.1 million loss in the same


period a year ago and $6.4 million loss in the fourth quarter.


Looking at cash, as Tom indicated – our cash on the balance sheet – is up about $1 million for the


quarter, just short of $38 million and that really, primarily, came from inventory reductions and the


EBITDA break-even position that we achieved on overall profit. Tom?


Thomas H. Waechter, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Winston. I will now turn to our strategic activities and provide a status of the actions that


either have been completed or are in process. The sale of REMEC defense and space to Chelton


Microwave for 253 million in cash, net of intercompany adjustment, was concluded in May. The


shareholder vote took place on May 18, and the deal was closed on 20th of May. REMEC also


concluded the reclassification of its common stock to allow the company to distribute approximately


177 million in cash to its shareholders. In addition to the $2.80 per share pay-out, shareholders


received 0.446 of the share of common stock per each share owned on May 20, 2005.


The transaction process related to commercial wireless businesses continues to progress. I know


there are a lot of detailed questions related to this activity, since our target is to release a draft


proxy to the SEC for their review within the next 2 weeks, I will keep my comments brief. We are in