corrected transcript


REMEC, Inc.
 
REMC
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 14, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this REMEC’s Fourth Quarter Fiscal ‘05 Conference


Call. Just to remind that today’s call is being recorded. And at this time, for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Tom Waechter, President and CEO of REMEC.


Please go ahead sir.


Thomas H. Waechter, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and welcome to REMEC’s Q4 and fiscal year ‘05 earnings call. I am Tom


Waechter, CEO of REMEC. With me today are Winston Hickman, our Chief Financial Officer; and


Don Wilkins, our General Counsel. We’ll start the meeting by Don reading our Safe Harbor


statement.


Donald J. Wilkins, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Thank you, Tom. Statements we make and we have made that are not historical are forward-


looking statements which involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results could


differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors


including general and industry economic conditions, competition, development factors, operating


cost, our ability to successfully complete certain sale transactions, unanticipated changes in our


financial condition and other risks and uncertainties that are detailed from time to time in our filings


with the SEC.


Thomas H. Waechter, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Don. Since our last earnings call in early December, there has been a lot of activity at


REMEC both from a normal course of business as well as strategic action. In today’s conference,


we will provide an update of the major undertakings in these various areas. First, I will provide an


overview of the business. Winston will then review REMEC’s financial results, followed by an


update of the strategic activities by myself, and then we will end the meeting with a Q&A session


hosted by Winston, Don and me.


In looking at Q4 FY ’05, we achieved EBITDA profitability for the second quarter in a row. The


balance sheet remained strong and gross margins held up better than expected. Revenues for


ongoing business were flat sequentially with Q3. Although filter revenue grew 28% sequentially


from Q3, we did not achieve as much upside on the new integrated filter products as expected.


This also caused a large growth of finished goods inventory in our distribution center for one of our


largest customers. Most of this growth in finished goods inventory however was offset by a


significant reduction in raw material inventory as the benefits of lean manufacturing and vendor


managed inventory are taking hold. We are seeing reductions in the distribution center inventory


as we progress through Q1 and expect total inventory to be below the beginning balance as we exit


the quarter.


Comparing sales of ongoing businesses for the full year FY ’05 versus fiscal year ’04, we achieved


a 20.5% growth. The major contributors to this growth were power amplifier sales to OEMs at 68%


growth, followed by ODUs with 42% growth and tower-mounted amplifiers at 20%. REMEC’s


Defense and Space business experienced strong top-line growth both on a sequential quarter-on-


quarter basis and year-on-year at 20% and 21% respectively.
corrected transcript


REMEC, Inc.
 
REMC
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 14, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Operating expenses for ongoing businesses in Q4 were higher than Q3 by approximately 2.5


million due primarily to SOX, audit fees and year-end adjustments. Year-on-year operating


expenses for the ongoing businesses were down approximately 11 million, or from 30% of revenue


to 22% of revenue, after removing the one-time non-cash goodwill charge of $62 million taken in


Q2 of fiscal year ’05.


Looking forward to Q1 fiscal year ’06, we do expect modest top-line growth with tower-mounted


amplifiers and ODU sales leading the way. Continued traction with the new integrated filter and


power amplifier products are also expected to help the top line. Operating expenses will be helped


somewhat in Q1 by a reduction in public company costs and should drop more in Q2. Winston will


now go through the financial results in detail followed by a discussion related to our strategic


activities. Winston?


Winston E. Hickman, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President


Well, thanks Tom. As Tom indicated, fourth quarter sales of 104 million were essentially flat with


both, with the third quarter and also with the fourth quarter a year ago. In our conference call at the


end of the third quarter, we indicated we expected to get some growth in the quarter but that did not


occur for two reasons. First, as Tom alluded to with respect to the new filter products, those polls


did not occur as expected late in the quarter. And secondly, there was some slippage versus what


the customers were forecasting on some of the existing programs.


On a sales by region basis, North America continues to be the strongest area of sales with over


50% of our sales occurring there. Europe is second at about 1/3rd of our sales. Asia is just short


of 15% and the balance is in other parts around the world. The only thing that’s changed much in


terms of the mix from the third quarter was Europe was up from about 27% or so to 33 or 34% and


Asia was down kind of a corresponding amount. Again, you need to keep in mind that’s where we


shipped to, not necessarily where those products were used.


We had two top 10 customers in the third quarter and we’ve had 3 customers moving back and


forth between – on the 10% line for the year. And so we had 3 customers on a full year basis that


accounted for 10% or more of the sales. Our backlog at the end of the quarter was a 158 million.


129 of that was Defense and Space and that Defense and Space was up from the prior quarter by


about $8 million in their backlog. As indicated in our earnings release, our net loss for the quarter


was $3.7 million and the operating loss was 6.4. The difference between those 2 numbers is a gain


that we realized on the sale of our China Network business of about $2.7 million.


Gross profit on a composite basis was 17.2% of sales. Commercial was 13.2 and the Defense was


29.1. That was a little bit down for the Space and Defense business from the third quarter, which


was very, very strong. On operating expense basis, as Tom indicated, we are up about $2.5 million


from the third quarter, which as a percentage of sales it was 23.7% and we did have an increase.


The increase from quarter-over-quarter, as Tom indicated, was public company cost.


So looking quickly at the balance sheet, cash and the balance sheet, our cash position, cash, cash


equivalents at the end of the quarter was 36.8. That’s down about $6 million from the third quarter.


The main drivers of that were the operating loss of 6.4 million, some inventory increase just short of


$3 million and then a number of other fixed asset and balance sheet changes. As noted in the


earnings release, we did increase our factoring capability by about $10 million and this had the net


effect of reducing our receivables by about 7.4 million, which accounts for most of the $9 million


reduction between trade receivables and other receivables and notes payable. And when you look


at our receivables, you need to kind of keep those two together, because there are some pieces of


our trade receivables that really fall into the notes and other receivables.