corrected transcript


TXCO Resources, Inc.
 
TXCO
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Brandy, and I will be your conference facilitator today. I


would like to welcome everyone to this Quarterly Conference Call of TXCO Resources to Discuss


the Company’s Second Quarter and First-Half Earnings and to Review Current Operations.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions] I


would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Thomae, Vice President, Capital Markets.


Roberto R. Thomae, Vice President, Capital Markets and Corporate Secretary


Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to TXCO’s second quarter 2007


conference call. Joining us this morning are Jim Sigmon, our CEO; Jeff Bookout, our Chief


Operating Officer; Mark Stark, our CFO; and Gary Grinsfelder, our Vice President of Exploration.


We will be discussing TXCO’s financial results for the quarter and half, as well as briefly updating


you on operating activities and taking a look forward. After some brief prepared remarks, we will


have a few minutes for questions-and-answers. I would like to remind you that this conference call


is being recorded and will be available for replay approximately one hour after we complete it. The


archived conference call, press releases, and all other investor information can be found on our


TXCO Resources website at www.txco.com for your convenience.


Please be advised that our remarks including answers to your questions may include statements


that we believe to be forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause


actual results to be materially different from those currently anticipated. Those risks include matters


we have already described in our past filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form


10-K for the year ended ‘06 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, ‘07. We disclaim


any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.


During this conference call, we may also make references to EBITDA, EBITDAX, and other non-


GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP


measures can be found with yesterday’s earnings release.


With that background, I would like to turn things over to Jim Sigmon now. Jim?


James E. Sigmon, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Bob, and good morning everyone. We have a lot going on right now, and I welcome this


opportunity to visit with you about it. The second quarter and the first half were unusual periods for


us as we completed our acquisition of Output Exploration, which has created a new company with


more growth opportunities than ever. We even changed our name to TXCO Resources from The


Exploration Company to reflect this new company.


I trust everyone has a copy of our earnings release in front of you, so we won’t take time here to


repeat all those numbers. Instead, we want to provide you with the some comments about the


quarter and take a few minutes to update you on our operations, and then we will answer some of


your questions. I think it is also important to note that our second quarter results were in line with


the pro forma numbers we provided in the 8-K we filed earlier regarding the acquisition of Output.


I will discuss operations in a few moments, but first I would like to ask our CFO, Mark Stark, to


provide some background on our financials.
corrected transcript


TXCO Resources, Inc.
 
TXCO
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


P. Mark Stark, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everybody. As a result of the Output acquisition, we have truly


reset the bar of financial performance for TXCO Resources. Financial results – the financial metrics


for this quarter and quarters to come will reflect the performance of the combined operations of


TXCO and Output Exploration. Therefore, comparisons to the same periods a year ago or even last


quarter will not be as meaningful as they have been in the past. Our revenues and expenses are up


in practically every category, mostly as a function of the Output acquisition. We’ll just take a


moment to review some of the key metrics. Looking at revenues, oil and gas sales increased by


$3.3 million over the second quarter of 2006 and by as much as $10.4 million over the first quarter


of 2007. Our gas gathering revenues decreased by $0.5 million from quarter two of 2006, while


increasing by almost $700,000 from the first quarter of 2007.


Just to talk a little bit about product pricing for a moment, our average realized prices for oil for the


quarter were $61.58 per barrel of oil, down $4.77 per barrel compared to this quarter a year ago,


while increasing by as much as $6.60 per barrel from the first quarter of 2007. Average realized


prices for gas for the quarter were $7.44 per mcf, and that’s up $0.41 per mcf as compared to a


year ago and up $0.18 per mcf from last quarter.


Let me just briefly go over volume numbers for just a moment. During the second quarter of 2007,


we produced right out 241,000 barrels of oil for the quarter, and we produced 644 million cubic feet


of natural gas. On a 6:1 conversion basis, that is a 2.1 bcfe for the quarter. That compares to 1.5


bcfe in the second quarter of 2006 and compares very favorably to the 1.1 bcfe in the first quarter


of 2007.


Turing to costs and expenses for a moment, as we’ve said, the bar has been reset as a result of the


Output acquisition, and as such all categories of costs and expenses saw resultant increases with


the exception of gas-gathering expenses, which declined when compared to this quarter a year ago


due to lower throughput in our system. Total costs and expenses increased 70% from a year ago


and 55% from last quarter, but more importantly however total costs and expresses increased only


7% when compared to our pro forma first quarter results for the combined entities.


To touch on financing costs for just a moment, for the quarter – we incurred $2.9 million of interest


expense for the quarter related to our long-term financing. When you boil all that down, we


recorded a net loss of $1.3 million or $0.04 per basic share for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.


And again, based on a comparison to our pro forma financial statements for quarter one of 2007 for


the combined operations, which imply the loss of $0.11 per share, we are really enthusiastic about


our actual results for quarter two. Just as a benchmark, in the prior year we recorded net income of


$4 million or $0.12 per basic share – basic and diluted share.


Our business is much more about cash flow, and let me review our liquidity metrics for you. Our


cash flow metrics for the first two quarters were strong by any measure. Our net cash provided by


operating activities through June of 2007 were $7.5 million as compared to net cash provided by


operating activities of 9.9 million for the first half of 2006. However, net cash provided by operating


activity excluding changes in operating assets and liabilities, working capital items I should say,


were – was $18 million for the first half of the 2007, up from $13 million from the comparable 2006


period.


Let me touch on EBITDA and EBITDAX for a moment. For the second quarter of 2007, our EBITDA


was $11 million approximately, a little below than $11 million, and we had EBITDA margin of


49.3%. EBITDAX was right at $11.3 million and a margin of 50.5%. That compares to – on an


actual basis, it is roughly equivalent to the second quarter of 2006. However, on an absolute basis,


we saw a 152% and a 138% increase in our absolute level of EBITDA and EBITDAX over quarter


one of 2007. In addition to that, we saw our EBITDA margin take a 10 percentage point jump over