corrected transcript


TXCO Resources, Inc.
 
TXCO
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference facilitator today. I


would like to welcome everyone to this Quarterly Conference Call of TXCO Resources to discuss


the company’s Third Quarter and Ninth-Month Earnings, and to review current operations. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will


be a question-and-answer period if time permits. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the


call over to Mr. Bob Thomae, Vice President, Capital Markets.


Roberto R. Thomae, Vice President – Capital Markets and Corporate Secretary


Good morning everyone and welcome to TXCO’s third quarter 2007 conference call. Joining me


this morning are Jim Sigmon, our Chairman, CEO; Jeff Bookout, our Chief Operating Officer; Mark


Stark, our CFO; and Gary Grinsfelder, our Vice President of Exploration. This morning we will be


discussing our latest financial results as well as briefly updating you on our operating activities and


we hope to look forward to that as well. And after some brief prepared remarks, we should time for


a few questions and answers.


I’d like to remind you that this conference call is being recorded and will be available for replay


approximately one hour after the completion. The archived conference call, press releases, and all


other investor information can be found on our TXCO Resources website at www.txco.com for your


future reference. Please also be revised that including answers to your questions may include


statements that we believe to be forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that


could cause actual results to be materially different from those currently anticipated. Those risks


include matters we have described in our past fillings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission; including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and


our latest Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. We disclaim any obligation to update


those forward-looking statements.


During this conference call, we also may make references to EBITDA, EBITDAX and other non-


GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable


generally accepted accounting principle measures can be found with yesterday’s earnings release.


With that -- with that background, I would like to turn things over to Jim Sigmon. Jim?


James E. Sigmon, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Bob, and good morning everyone. I am happy to report that TXCO had a good third


quarter. It’s been a busy time for us as we continue to assimilate our acquisition of Output


Exploration. I trust everyone has a copy of the earnings release. If not, it’s available on the news


release page of our website. We won’t take time here to repeat all of those numbers. However, we


will take time to provide you with some commentary on the quarter and the first nine months of


2007. Then I expect we will have a few minutes left to answer some questions.


We had a record amount of drilling activity in the third quarter and I will take a few moments to


discuss those both with you later after Mark Stark goes over our financials. Mark?
corrected transcript


TXCO Resources, Inc.
 
TXCO
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


P. Mark Stark, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Jim, and good morning everyone. On our August conference call, you may remember that I


made the comment that our Output acquisition reset the bar of financial performance for TXCO. So,


comparisons to earlier periods won’t be as meaningful. We really saw that in the third quarter when


we go back and look back to a year ago or even the second quarter of this year. Let’s take a few


minutes to review some of the key metrics.


In terms of revenues, our oil and gas sales increased by $7 million over the third quarter of 2006,


which, by the way, was an extremely good quarter for us. Gas gathering revenues declined slightly


from the third quarter of 2006 due to lower throughput.


Talking about product pricing for just a moment, average realized prices for oil for the quarter were


$71.59 per barrel of oil, excluding hedges. That’s an increase of $5.08 per barrel of oil when


compared to this quarter a year ago. Offsetting that somewhat, the average realized price for gas,


natural gas that is, for the quarter was $6.77 per mcf, excluding hedges. That’s down $0.25, or a


quarter per mcf when compared to a year ago.


Looking at sales volumes for just a moment, in the third quarter of 2007, we produced roughly and


sold approximately 2.4 bcfe in natural gas equivalent. That compares to 1.7 bcfe roughly in the


same period in 2006. That’s a net increase of 7 bcfe approximately on a year-over-year


comparison. Looking at that same information with respect to the second quarter of 2007, in the


second quarter of 2007 we sold 2.1 bcfe, and again compared to our current production and sales,


that’s about a 0.3 bcfe increase or a 14% increase on a gas equivalent basis.


Taking a look at our costs and expenses for a moment, consistent with our acquisition, most costs


and expenses saw increases in the period with the exception of gas gathering, which declined


slightly due to lower throughput. Total costs and expenses increased 66% above the third quarter a


year ago. Simply put, we are a bigger operation now.


More importantly, however, total costs and expenses increased only 10% when compared to our


pro forma first quarter results for the combined operations included on our Form 8-K/A filed on April


2, 2007. This increase in our total costs and expenses is especially consistent when considering


our current activity levels.


Taking a look at interest expense for a moment, we incurred $3.2 million of interest expense for the


quarter and that’s solely related to our long-term financing program. Net income, when we take


everything down to the bottom line, we had net income of $2.4 million or $0.07 per basic share for


the third quarter.


I want to take some time and talk about liquidity metrics. While I am pleased to have net income to


report, most of you know that our business is much more about cash flow and liquidity. And we


have an excellent story to tell on our liquidity metrics for the quarter and the nine months. Net cash


provided by operating activities through September 2007, for the nine-month period was $27.3


million, nearly double from just under $14 million for the same period in 2006. That’s a extremely


good result.


Taking a look at EBITDA and EBITDAX for a moment, from the standpoint of EBITDA and


EBITDAX, we had a record quarter. In fact we eclipsed all other quarters in the measures of


EBITDA and EBITDAX. For example, in Q3 of 2007, we generated $17.5 million of EBITDA


compared to $13.3 million in the same quarter a year ago. The EBITDAX, we generated right at


$17.8 million of EBITDAX and that compares to $13.6 million roughly in the same quarter a year


ago.