corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals
 
SVNT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning everyone and welcome to the Savient Pharmaceuticals First Quarter 2005


Earnings Release Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn


the call over to Ms. Jenene Thomas, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Jenene Thomas, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Before I introduce our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr.


Christopher Clement, please bear with me as I provide the requisite Safe Harbor Statement.


Statements in this discussion concerning our business strategy, business outlook, our future


economic performance, product developments, anticipated profitability, revenues, expenses,


earnings, or other financial items and statements concerning assumptions made, or expectations


as to any future events, conditions, performance, competitive position, strategic alliances, plans


and objectives of management, including without limitation the completion of the divestiture of our


global biologics manufacturing business or other matters are forward-looking statements, as that


term is defined under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from those stated in such statements. Such risks, uncertainties and


factors include, those detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do


not assume any obligations to update any forward-looking statements.


Joining Mr. Clement on the call today are members of Savient’s management team. Larry Gyenes,


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David Fink, Senior Vice President of Commercial


Operations; Dr. Zeb Horowitz, Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer; and Philip


Yachmetz, Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and General Counsel. And now I will turn


the call over to Mr. Clement.


Christopher G. Clement, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone and welcome to Savient's first quarter 2005 conference call. I will begin by


reviewing the quarter we completed on March 31st, followed by a discussion of our recent


accomplishments and an outline of our plans for the remainder of 2005.


The global biologics manufacturing business is being reclassified as assets held for sale, rather


than discontinued operation as we thought it would be when we filed our 10-K. We were alerted for


the first time last Friday via external accountants of an EITF clarifying, or revising FASB statement


#144, with respect to new rules for what classifies as a discontinued operation. After further


research, which I will not bore you with here, we determined yesterday that because of the ongoing


co-promotion agreement with Ferring, the business could not be deemed as discontinued. We are


working quickly on revising the 10-Q to reflect this and anticipate completing these revisions in time


for filing today.


Our first quarter results were marked by a number of milestone accomplishments related to our


strategy of positioning Savient as a specialty pharmaceutical company. I will touch on these


accomplishments shortly. On the revenue side, we continue to be very pleased with the


performance of Rosemont Pharmaceuticals, our UK oral liquids business, but disappointed in the


US sales of Oxandrin, which were adversely affected by a number of market factors. Revenues for


the first quarter were $23 million, down from $33.4 million a year ago.
corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals
 
SVNT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net product sales were $22.6 million compared to $32.2 million last year. While net product sales


from Rosemont increased substantially due to strong demands in the UK, the decline in Oxandrin


sales can be attributable to three key factors. Number one, $4.8 million in first quarter credits and


reserves for product returns, rebates and newly instituted wholesaler distribution fees. This figure


also includes a more conservative assumption of wholesalers not selling products with less than 12


months dating. Previously, wholesalers would shift product with at least 7 months of dating.


Number two, $4.2 million purchase reduction in the wholesalers product level to meet an agreed


upon inventory target. And number three, a softness in the overall demand for involuntary weight


loss products and a further reduction in total prescriptions for Oxandrin. However, in March we did


see our first uptick in prescriptions, ending a six months decline. We continue to closely monitor the


market for a potential Oxandrin generic as well as re-evaluating how we best optimize Oxandrin


sales until the generic becomes available.


Our net loss was $3.9 million, or $0.06 a share, compared to net income in the first quarter of 2004


of $1.2 million or $0.02 a share. Our net loss for the quarter included a one-time credit and


payments in other income of $3 million for the settlement of our patent litigation with Novo.


Our cash position remained strong and will continue to improve. Cash equivalents at the end of the


quarter were $26.7 million. We should further increase our cash position late in the second quarter


or early in the third quarter with the anticipated closing of our previously announced sale of our


global biologics manufacturing business with Ferring. Furthermore, prior to the closing of the sale of


the global biologics manufacturing business, we will eliminate all outstanding debts.


Now let me take you through our non-financial operational highlights for the quarter. We achieved a


major milestone in the first quarter with the announced agreements to sell our global biologics


manufacturing business to subsidiaries of Ferring SA for $80 million in cash. As I discussed with


you when we announced the deal in March, the sale of this asset now provides us with the


resources to advance our pipeline, expand our geographic reach with respect to Rosemont, and


expand our branded product portfolio by taking advantage of opportunities by acquiring and in-


licensing marketed products, and clinical stage development projects, that match our scientific


research and commercialization strengths.


We are still on target to close this transaction before the end of June, inline with what we have


previously communicated. In parallel with the signing of the Ferring acquisition agreement, we also


signed an agreement to co-promote Nuflexxa to rheumatologists for the treatment of osteoarthritis


of the knee in the United States, while Ferring will focus on orthopedic surgeons in the US and all


sales outside of the United States. Targeting the rheumatologist not only provides a very unique


position for Savient, but it is a manageable market in terms of resource requirements since there


are approximately 3,200 rheumatologists in the United States.


This agreement is an important strategic move for Savient for the following reasons. Number one, it


offers Savient the potential to create near-term revenues, particularly when the company is at


revenue risk from the US business if Oxandrin goes generic. Number two, it will allow Savient to


position itself as a specialist to the rheumatologist and establish important relationships in advance


of the filing and eventual approval of the Puricase NDA. And three, it allows Savient to seek other


near-term revenue opportunities from product co-promotion, co-marketing, or late stage licensing


transactions.


Let me turn to Rosemont, our UK based oral liquids pharmaceutical business. Rosemont continues


to provide strong sales results and for the quarter reported a 26% increase in sales, or 22%


excluding the effects of the British pound, over the first quarter of 2004, and cash based operating


margins of around 40%. Most impressive is that Rosemont continues to execute operationally while


undertaking the necessary modifications to its manufacturing plants to meet FDA's standards to