corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
SVNT
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Savient Pharmaceuticals 2007 second quarter financial results


conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a


reminder this conference is being recorded today August 1st, 2007. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Brian Hayden. Please go ahead, sir.


Brian J. Hayden, Senior Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Good morning and thank you for participating in today’s quarterly conference call. We issued a


press release late yesterday providing results for the second quarter and for the six months ended


June 30th, 2007 describing the company’s financial results and highlights. This press release is


available on our website at www.savient.com. Before we begin, I would like to read our Safe Harbor


statement. Comments made by management during this conference call will contain forward-


looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties regarding the operations and future results


of Savient Pharmaceuticals.


We encourage you to review the company’s past and future filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission, including without limitation the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q


and our annual report on Form 10-K, which identifies specific factors that may cause actual results


or events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In particular


we need to stress that when we discuss the possibility of obtaining regulatory approval for our


products in the United States and outside of the United States, that approval cannot be guaranteed


in the subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Furthermore the content of this conference call contains time-sensitive information that is accurate


only as of the date of the live broadcast, August 1st, 2007. We undertake no obligation to revise or


update any statements to reflect the events or circumstances after the date of this conference call.


Joining us on the call this morning are other members of our senior management team including


Philip Yachmetz, our Chief Business Officer; Paul Hamelin, our Head of Commercial Operations;


Dr. Zeb Horowitz, our Chief Medical Officer; and Dr. Robert Lamm, our Head of Quality &


Regulatory Affairs. With that said, I would like to turn the call over to Christopher Clement, our


President and Chief Executive Officer.


Christopher G. Clement, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Brian. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. As we have now completed the


second quarter of this year I will provide an overview of the key highlights for this period. Following


the key highlights, Brian Hayden will then discuss our second quarter and year-to-date financial


results, and Paul Hamelin will provide a commercial overview on some of our plans as we prepare


for the approval of Puricase.


We continued to make strong progress during the second quarter of 2007 on the Phase III


development program for Puricase which we believe will address significant unmet medical needs


for treatment-failure gout patients. As you may remember, last quarter we reported that we reached


our goal of completing patient recruitment with the total of 225 patients randomized in the Phase III


studies. We continue to remain on track for all patients to complete these studies by early October,


which will keep us on track to announce top line results by the end of this year probably mid


December.


To date, more than 2000 infusions had been administered in this program with more than half of the


patients completing the Phase III studies. To better understand the regulatory requirements to
corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
SVNT
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


register Puricase outside the US, particularly in Europe, we have held informal non-binding


meetings with the Swedish and UK national health authorities. We selected health authorities who


have expertise in the area of biologics and rheumatic diseases. In both meetings, there was a


general agreement that the data package for Puricase that we plan to file with the FDA would likely


suffice for an EMEA filing. Therefore, we do not anticipate that any new pre-clinical or clinical


studies would be required for an EMEA filing. This means that we would possibly be able to file our


registration package in Europe, approximately six months after the US filing.


However, I would like to point out that we would not file as an orphan drug in Europe due to the


difference in European Orphan Regulations as compared to the US orphan regulation. We also


continue to see positive interest in patient enrollment into our open label expansion program. If you


recall, one patient spend six months of treatments in the Phase III program, they can elect to


continue in the open label expansion receiving drug for an additional 12 months or they can instead


elect no further treatment but remain in an observational arm.


To date, virtually all Phase III completed patients have elected to continue in the open label


extension receiving drug. We continue to make steady progress in the validation activities related to


the manufacturing processes for our bulk drug or API and the fill in finish processes for our final


products in the US as well as compilation of the data, materials and analytical assays required for


the technical section of our planned BLA submission.


As we move towards anticipated completion of our pivotal trials and plans for commercialization, we


are adding key functions critical to our future success, I am pleased to report that we have hired Dr.


Marla Hawksfeld as Vice President of Medical Affairs reporting to Dr Horowitz. Marla is a


rheumatologist with long industry experience in medical affairs in support of marketed products and


she will work closely with our commercial operations team.


So at this point let me turn the call over to Brain to take you through our financial performance for


quarter two in detail.


Brian J. Hayden, Senior Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks Chris, I am going to focus on the results for the second quarter of 2007 and will briefly


touch on some of the highlights of the first six months of 2007, which results in explanations of fairly


consistent with those of the second quarter.


Total revenues for the second quarter were $.3.1 million, reduction of $10.8 million from same


period of 2006. You will recall in January 2007, we experienced generic competition for our product


Oxandrin and as we previously indicated, we expected our revenues to decline from 2006 levels


and continue to erode during 2007 due to the generics. The rate of decline in revenues has been


less than we had forecasted but still a bit significant in relation to the 2006 levels. We did however


take steps to try to retain a portion of the market by launching our authorized generic through our


marketing partner Watson Pharmaceuticals and also by cutting costs in which we have eliminated


our promotional activities and terminated our sales force in 2007.


Cost of goods sold for the quarter was $645,000 down from $716,000 from the same period at


2006 due to the decline in sales of Oxandrin. As anticipated we continued to increase our research


and development expenses due to the clinical and manufacturing activities of Puricase in 2007 in


anticipation of filing a BLA upon completion of the clinical trials. R&D expenses were $11.2 million


in the second quarter up from $4.2 million in Q2, 2006.


Selling general and administrative expenses were $7.1 million, a reduction of $1.4 million from Q2,


2006. The lower SG&A expenses were the result of the aforementioned reduction in sales and


marketing activities for Oxandrin including the elimination of our sales force as well as reduction of