corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals
 
SVNT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning everyone and welcome to the Savient Pharmaceuticals Fourth Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the


call over to Ms. Jenene Thomas, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, madam.


Jenene Thomas, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Before I introduce Mr. Clement please bear with me as I provide the


requisite Safe Harbor Statement. Statements in this discussion concerning our business strategy,


business outlook, our future economic performance, product developments, anticipated profitability,


revenues, expenses, earnings or other financial items including completion of the audit of our


financial statements for the year ended December 31st, 2004 and statements concerning


assumptions made or expectations as to any future events, conditions, performance, competitive


position, strategic alliances, plans and objectives of management including without limitation the


planned divestiture of our global biologics manufacturing business or other matters are forward-


looking statements, as that term is defined under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of


1934.


Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause


actual results to differ materially from those stated in such statements. Such risks, uncertainties


and factors include, but are not limited to, the timing of the introduction of a generic version of


Oxandrin, changes and delays in our product development plans and schedules, the identification


and completion of strategic transactions in support of our business plans, the development,


introduction or consumer acceptance of competing products, customer acceptance of new


products, changes in pricing or other actions by competitors, patents owned or licensed by us and


our competitors, our ability to complete the divestiture of our global biologics manufacturing


business on favorable terms and general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in our


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligations to update


any forward-looking statements.


I would now like to introduce Christopher Clement, President and Chief Executive Officer of Savient


Pharmaceuticals.


Christopher G. Clement, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well good morning everyone and welcome to Savient's Fourth Quarter 2004 conference call. I will


begin by reviewing the quarter we completed on December 31st as well as a discussion of our


recent accomplishments and future milestones for 2005.


First let's turn to the financial highlights. Our fourth quarter showed signs of momentum as


earnings improved compared to the third quarter and we approached profitability. As we'd


indicated back in October, we took a $2 million one-time restructuring charge as part of the


downsizing and reorientation of our staff in connection with our new strategic focus. After


accounting for a $3 million reserve established for the settlement of a long standing patent


infringement lawsuit on hGH with Genentech, our net income was $647,000 or $0.01 per share.


Revenues in the fourth quarter 2004 were 43% higher than the preceding quarter and reached


$36.6 million. Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales for the fourth quarter increased from


27% a year-ago to 32%, reflecting first year's depreciation expenses on our new state-of-the-art


biologics manufacturing facility. Our cash position is strong and continues to improve. Cash, cash
corrected transcript


Savient Pharmaceuticals
 
SVNT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


equivalents and short-term investments at the end of 2004 was 25.2 million compared to 24.7


million last quarter and 22.8 million one year ago. Our debt position was reduced by 7 million with


total debt outstanding as of December 31
 
st


, 2004 of $5.9 million.


Now let me outline for you the key results for the fourth quarter and full year and other major


developments with respect to sales of our branded Pharmaceuticals, our oral liquids business and


the biologics manufacturing business. Sales of Oxandrin, our largest selling brand were 15.2


million in the fourth quarter up 61% from the previous quarter which was burdened by returned


goods reserves and 3% from the quarter one year ago. The full year results for Oxandrin were


lower due to reductions in wholesaler held inventories earlier in 2004, and an increase in the


provision for future product returns.


Today, Oxandrin has no generic competition, however, as we have mentioned before, we fully


expect that a generic competitor could enter the market at any time. Nevertheless, we continue to


support Oxandrin in the market to HIV specialists and clinical oncologists through our field force


comprised of Savient sales representatives and Innovex sales representatives.


Since August of 2004 when the FDA informed us they were evaluating the arguments, detailed in


our citizens petition, we’ve had no further communication with FDA. However, we continue to


support the petition and most recently filed a supplement on February 25


th


, 2005. This supplement


builds on our concerns outlined in the petition and advocates the adoption of appropriately rigorous


impurity standards for oxandrolone consistent with those published in a recent USP in-process


review article.


Last month, we announced the US launch of TEV-TROPIN™, which is manufactured by Savient


and marketed in the United States by Teva. Sales for human growth hormone in 2004 were down


from 2003, primarily due to lower sales from JCR, our distributor in Japan, as they continued to


match inventory to demands. However, fourth quarter results were positively impacted in


preparation for the introduction of TEV-TROPIN™.


Net sales of Delatestryl declined in 2004 from 5.5 million to 4.3 million from a year ago. In the


fourth quarter of 2004 after approximately nine months on the market, generics captured


approximately 40% of all units for the male hypogonadism market. While Delatestryl will likely


continue to erode, this decline has been less than expected given that a generic has been in the


marketplace for over a year.


Let me now turn to our oral liquids business where I am pleased to report that Rosemont achieved


double-digit sales for the fourth quarter and for the full year. Net sales for the year were up 25% to


$34 million. After giving effect to foreign exchange translation, sales were up 12% over 2003.


Let me now discuss the delay in filing our 10-K to March 31st, 2005 as noted in the earnings


release. This delay was caused by the effort devoted to our restatement in February of the


financial restatements for the first three quarters of 2004 in connection with a recognition of


revenues for 2003 and 2004. In addition, like many companies, the preparations for our evaluation


of effectiveness of our internal controls for Sarbanes-Oxley compliance also contributed to the


delay, as we needed to address certain material weaknesses, which I will discuss in a moment.


And finally, our efforts with respect to the divestiture of our global biologics manufacturing business


placed a huge burden on both our folks here at headquarters and in Israel.


Prior to today's deadline, we've been unable to complete all the information requested by our


independent auditors in connection with their audit of our financial statements for fiscal year ended


December 31st, 2004. The material weaknesses I mentioned relates primarily to our financial


reporting process, internal communications and lack of expertise in areas including revenue


recognition and accounting for income taxes.