corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christina , and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Seahawk Drilling’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year


2009 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions.] After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a


question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Patricia Gil. You may begin.


Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager


Thank you, Christina. Welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s fourth quarter and full year 2009 earnings


conference call. Before we begin, I’d like to remind everyone that any statements we make today


about our plans, expectations, estimates, predictions or similar expressions for the future, including


those concerning financial performance, operating results and the drilling business, are forward-


looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties.


Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are posted on our website,


discuss these risks and uncertainties in our business and industry and the various factors that could


keep outcomes of any forward-looking statements from being realized. Our actual results could


differ materially from expectations.


I’ll now turn the call over to Randy Stilley, Seahawk Drilling’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Randall D. Stilley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Patricia. Good morning, and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s fourth quarter and year end


earnings call. With me today are: William Evans, our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer;


and Patricia Gil, our Manager of Investor Relations. Steve Manz, our Chief Financial Officer, and


Kurt Hoffman, our Chief Operating Officer, are both in Mexico today in meetings with customers


and to finalize the scale down of our operations there.


Also, as disclosed in our press release earlier today, Steve Manz has indicated that he intends to


retire from Seahawk sometime during the second quarter of 2010. As a result, we have begun the


search for a new CFO, and we have mutually agreed that Steve will continue as CFO during the


interim period and assist us in an orderly transition. All of us at Seahawk wish Steve success in his


future endeavors, and we sincerely appreciate his contributions to Seahawk both before and after


the spinoff from Pride.


I’ll start the call today with some comments on our results for the fourth quarter and for the full year


and then discuss the market for our rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. William will now – will then discuss


our financial results and provide some information on our current and projected cost before we


open up the call for Q&A.


As announced, we reported a net loss of 16.6 million or $1.42 per diluted share for the fourth


quarter of 2009. This compares to net income of 21.5 million or $1.86 per diluted share for the


same period in 2008. Revenue for the quarter totaled 31.3 million, compared to 152.1 million in


2008.


For the 12 months ending December 31, 2009, we incurred a loss of 41.7 million or $3.59 per


diluted share. During the prior year, income was 176 million or $15.19 per diluted share. Revenue


for the 12 months ending December 31, 2009, totaled 291.1 million, compared to 681.8 million in


2008. Seahawk’s balance sheet at the end of 2009 included cash and cash equivalents of 78.3
corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


million and net working capital of 58.5 million. Net working capital includes approximately 18.1


million owed to Pride International as part of our transition agreements.


Our results for the quarter again included some nonrecurring costs associated with our recent


spinoff from Pride. However, as we enter 2010, these transition costs should be eliminated from our


results.


During the fourth quarter, we began to see an increase in customer inquiries in U.S. Gulf of Mexico,


and this trend has continued in 2010. We received a total of 30 bid requests for jackups during the


fourth quarter, compared to only 10 requests in the third quarter. So far during the first quarter, we


have already received about 30 bid requests.


The U.S. Gulf of Mexico marketed jackup utilization has followed this same trend. At the end of the


third quarter of 2009, utilization stood at 47%. At the end of the fourth quarter, utilization had


increased to 66%, and today we are at 80% utilization. We received reactivate – we recently


reactivated three rigs in the U.S.: the Seahawk 2504, 2004 and 2001 rigs at rates between 32 and


35,000 per day. At the end of Q3, we had only four rigs under contract in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,


and today we have eight rigs under contract. And we may have opportunities to put two more rigs


back to work in the near future. This is consistent with our strategy for reactivating our rigs only


when the right contract opportunities appear.


Reduced well costs, better access to capital and more favorable commodity prices should result in


a steady improvement in demand during the remainder of 2010. Should this occur, as our backlog


builds, we’ll look for additional opportunities to reactivate idle and stacked rigs, supported by longer


term and higher contract day rates.


As many of you are aware, PEMEX released the Seahawk 3000, a 300-foot mat cantilever jackup,


in February, and the rig is currently under tow back to the U.S. I am pleased to report that we


received a contract with Hillcorp for an estimated 100-day term with options at a day rate of 55,000.


The rig is mobilizing directly to Hillcorp’s location in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and will spend about


two weeks preparing for the new contract once it arrives.


With the departure of the Seahawk 3000, we no longer have any rigs in Mexico. As a result, we are


currently downsizing our operations in Mexico, and we will only maintain a small local staff to


manage the wind down of our existing contracts and the defense of our tax dispute with Hacienda


and other administrative items.


Since there have been no new jackup tenders issued by PEMEX in over a year, they have


continued to release jackups of all types once they run out of contract extension opportunities. If


this trend continues, it may be late 2010 or 2011 before we have an opportunity to return to Mexico.


While it is difficult to predict what PEMEX will do, they remain an important potential customer for


Seahawk, and we will continue to look for opportunities to reestablish a presence in Mexico at


some point in the future.


Reflecting on 2009, our safety and operational performance were both excellent. Our total


recordable incident rate for the year was below one, and our nonproductive downtime was less


than 1.5% for our working fleet. Both of these metrics are better than industry norms.


As noted on our third quarter call, our post-spinoff focus on reducing costs and rightsizing our


operations continued in the fourth quarter, and today we are a leaner and more efficient


organization.


Our rig based costs are some of the lowest in the industry, making us more competitive in any


market environment. While we had planned to maintain a significant presence in Mexico with two to