corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Courtney and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I’d like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for


Seahawk Drilling. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instruction]


Thank you.


I would now like to turn today’s call over to Ms. Patricia Gil, Manager of Investor Relations. You


may begin your conference.


Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager


Thank you, Courtney. Welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference


Call.


Before we begin, I’d like to remind everyone that any statements we make today about our plans,


expectations, estimates, predictions or similar expressions for the future including those concerning


financial performance, operating results, spending guidance and the drilling business are forward-


looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties.


Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission which are posted on our website


discuss these risks and uncertainties in our business and industry and the various factors that could


keep outcomes of any forward-looking statements from being realized. Our actual results could


differ materially from these forward-looking statements.


I’ll now turn the call over to Randy Stilley, Seahawk Drilling’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Randall D. Stilley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Patricia. Good morning and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s Second Quarter Earnings call.


Joining me on the call today are Kurt Hoffman, our Chief Operating Officer; and Jim Easter our


Chief Financial Officer.


I’ll begin today’s call with remarks about our second quarter results and give an update on the


shallow water Gulf of Mexico regulatory and business environment. Then hand the call over to Jim


who will provide more detail on our financial results and give some guidance on our current and


projected cost and cash flow. Kurt will then discuss our fleet’s operations during the quarter before


we open up the call for Q&A.


As announced this morning, we reported a net loss of 19.8 million or $1.67 per diluted share for the


second quarter of 2010 from continuing operations, compared to a loss of 8.8 million or $0.76 per


diluted share for the same period in 2009.


Revenue for the quarter totaled 22 million, compared to 76.5 million in 2009. Essentially all


revenues for the quarter were from our U.S. operations and we are not currently expecting any


revenues from our Mexico segment for the remainder of the year.


Seahawk’s balance sheet at June 30, 2010 included cash and cash equivalents of 47.9 million and


net working capital of 17.6 million. We are currently marketing eight jack-ups in the Gulf of Mexico
corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


and the Seahawk 3000 has just been cold stacked and has entered the shipyard for additional work


on the jacking system before re-entering service later this year. This rig has contracts in place at


rates of 55 to 60,000 per day for approximately six months of work that will begin once the rig


leaves the shipyard and is reactivated later this year.


We currently have four rigs under contract with four idle and available for work and 12 cold stacked.


Only one of our idle rigs is fully crewed at this time.


Currently in the Gulf of Mexico there are a total of 32 jack-up rigs under contract out of a total


marketed fleet of 47. But only 25 are actually drilling due to permit delays. Bid activity for our fleet


during the second quarter started strong in April with marketed jack-up utilization in the Gulf of


Mexico nearing 90% and day rates improving before the initial 30-day pause in drilling permits was


implemented by Interior Secretary, Salazar. Seahawk and several of the shallow water service


providers formed the Shallow Water Energy Security Coalition and were successful in convincing


the Secretary to lift the moratorium on shallow water drilling after the 30-day pause.


Several of our shallow water E&P customers have also recently joined the coalition and we are


continuing to work towards normalized drilling operations in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico.


Unfortunately, the new requirements for drilling permits issued by the Bureau of Ocean Energy


Management, the new name for the Minerals Management Service, as a result the Macondo


blowout have resulted in significant delays in the permitting process as our customers and the


regulators work to understand these new, hastily implemented regulations.


Seahawk and most other drilling contractors were able to quickly comply with a new safety


inspection and certification requirements imposed on the shallow water industry. However, the new


environmental requirements based on worst case discharge scenarios have been problematic for


many of our customers to comply with due to a lack of clarity, and in some cases, unreasonable


regulatory requirements.


While still slow, permits are finally being issued primarily for workovers and re-entry drilling due to


the less onerous requirements and two permits for new wells in shallow water had been issued


recently. We are optimistic that the permitting process will continue to improve and that current and


new applications will be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. So that we can start putting


some of our idle rigs back to work.


Our employees have performed admirably during this period of uncertainty, working safely and


efficiently, while successfully responding to new regulations and increased scrutiny by regulators.


Unfortunately, a number of our rig-based personnel have been furloughed as rigs have gone idle


due to lack of drilling permits, but I am hopeful that we will be able to put them back to work in the


very near future. We thank our employees for their continued patience as we work through this


process.


Natural gas prices have been fairly stable recently and are much stronger at this point than in 2009.


With the likelihood of natural gas demand improving later this year, demand for our rigs should also


improve if our customers are able to get drilling permits approved.


We’re also optimistic about future drilling activity in Mexico. It appears that Pemex may issue


tenders for approximately 21 jack-ups before year end for work starting in early 2011. Up to 10 of


these tenders could be for incremental rigs, many of which would likely come from the U.S. Gulf of


Mexico thus further reducing the available supply in the U.S. While it is currently unclear whether


any of the Pemex tenders will include Mat-supported rigs, we should still benefit from a more


favorable supply demand environment in the U.S.


M&A activity in the offshore drilling sector will likely continue as contractors attempt to consolidate


their strategic positions and take advantage of good buying opportunities. Larger, deep water