corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Erika and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute


to prevent any background noise. After the speaker’s remarks, there will be a question and answer


session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Ms. Gil, you may begin your conference.


Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager


Thank you, Erika and welcome to the Seahawk Drilling Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference


Call. Before we begin, I’d like to remind everyone that any statements we make today about our


plans, expectations, estimates, predictions or similar expressions for the future including those


concerning financial performance, operating results and the drilling business are forward-looking


statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our filings with the U.S. Securities and


Exchange Commission, which are posted on our website to discuss these risks and uncertainties in


our business and industry and the various factors that could cause outcomes of any forward-


looking statements from being realized. Our actual results could differ materially from expectations


and now I will turn the call over to Randy Stilley, Seahawk Drilling’s President and Chief Executive


Officer.


Randall D. Stilley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Patricia. Good morning and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s third quarter earnings call.


With me today Steve Manz, our Chief Financial Officer, Conrad Hoffman, our Chief Operating


Officer is currently traveling or he would be on the call as well. As announced we reported a net


loss from continuing operations of 32.5 million for the third quarter of 2009. This compares to net


income from continuing operations of 41.8 million for the third quarter of 2008. Revenue for the


quarter was 67.6 million compared to 164 million the prior year. Seahawk’s balance sheet at


September 30, 2009 included cash and cash equivalents of 89.4 million and 63.7 million in net


working capital. We recorded an impairment charge of 32.1 million during the quarter to reflect a


charge taken by Pride at the time of the spin-off regarding the fair value of our rigs.


Our results for the quarter include a number of one-time cost and transition expenses due to our


spin-off from Pride on August 24, such that it’s difficult to compare the previous quarters. However,


even those some transition cost will carry over into Q4, we expect to enter 2010 without these


additional costs. Now due to the number of questions we continue to receive, I want to spend a few


minutes on the Hacienda tax situation in Mexico. As you recall, we received approximately 118


million in tax assessments for the years 2001 and 2004. The majority of these assessments were


based on a dispute related to the depreciable lives of our rigs. The first assessment of 41 million,


we received two years ago. Pride contested the assessment in the courts and posted surety bonds


as collateral.


At the time the bonds where posted, subsidiaries receiving the assessments were active


companies and had tangible assets. Earlier this year, we received another 77 million in


assessments for three of our Mexican subsidiaries. Two of the entities are dormant and the other is


active. The active entity holds the contract on one of our rigs and has a substantial amount of


working capital. However, none of these three entities own any of our rigs because they’re owned


by separate U.S. subsidiaries and chartered to our Mexican subsidiaries.


After the recent assessment, we filed an administrative appeal and we are waiting for Hacienda, the


Mexican Tax Authority to rule on it. If we lose the appeal, we have a couple of options. We have


the capacity to post additional surety bonds for the full assessment. However, this will require us to


invoke Pride’s guarantee pursuant to the tax support agreement. The cost of the bonds and the
corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


guarantee from Pride together would be about 7 to 8 million annually. And we will have to live with


the bonds and guarantees until the case is resolved in the Mexican court system, which could take


several years.


Another option is for us to post the bond only for the active entity, which would be approximately


40% of the 77 million assessments. We will continue to contest the assessments on all three


entities, but we would save approximately 60% of the collateral cost. We are currently reviewing


the risk of not posting collateral on the dormant entities, but we also want to make sure we remain


in good standing in Mexico. Access to the Mexican market is very important to our future.


Now I’ll spend a few minutes on the current market for jackups in the Gulf of Mexico and briefly


review the results of our cost reduction activities. Steve will then address our third quarter financial


performance and provide some general guidance on cost and the transition process before we


open up the call for Q&A.


Over the past several weeks, there has been a gradual increase in activity on the U.S. Gulf of


Mexico shelf and these near term improvements make us cautiously optimistic. Currently we have


four rigs working in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and two rigs working in Mexico for PEMEX.


I’ll begin with U.S. Gulf of Mexico. During the third quarter of 2009, natural gas prices weakened


before recovering somewhat over the past several weeks, the spot prices deeply dropping below


$2. While low natural gas prices and a weak capital markets has forced many of our historical US


customers to reduce their drilling plans during the year, I believe we’ve seen the bottom and we


should see demand improve throughout the remainder of 2009 and into 2010. In July, the


utilization rate for marketed jackups in U.S. Gulf of Mexico dropped to 34%. But, by the end of the


quarter, utilization had recovered to 42% and has been climbing ever since to 50% where it is


today. Additionally, our domestic bid proposals in both September and October have increased


and we are seeing continued customer interest so far in November.


As mentioned in our last call, our strategy during this downturn has been the stack rigs with no


visible demand. And market our most capable rigs at day rate to above cash operating cost. I


believe this strategy has been successful. As we’ve been able to keep our day rates in 32 to


40,000 per day rates during recent months while some of our competitors have been working in the


high 20s. Our marketing efforts in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during the third quarter were largely


successful as GoMex exercised its option from an additional well with the Seahawk 2600 at 40,000


per day.


And Encore exercised an auction for an additional well with the Seahawk 2602 also at a rate of


40,000 per day. In addition to these option wells, we secured a one well term plus an option well


for Mariner with the Seahawk 2007 at 32,000 per day. We also received a 90-day term plus


options with Arena for the Seahawk 2602 at a rate of 35,000 per day. We continue to have positive


dialog with several of our customers and believe we will be successful in contracting our current


working rigs well into 2010. We plan to add backlog to our whole working rig first and then look to


contract our available, stacked rigs as the market improves.


It now appears that some customers want to take advantage of reduced well cost. And


improvements in natural gas prices could result in a more dramatic improvement in jackup demand


in the US during 2010. In Mexico, the PEMEX has continued to struggle with their E&P budget for


2009, resulting in a release of additional jackups during the third quarter, both mass supported and


independent leg rigs that they released and the long awaited tender for incremental jackups as yet


to materialize. We currently have two rigs working in Mexico, PEMEX elected to assume the


Seahawk 3000 through the end December at a rate of 62,500 per day, and the Seahawk 2501


through December 2, at a rate of 83,000 per day.