corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Selena , and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Seahawk’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I will now turn the conference call over to Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager.


Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager


Thank you, Selena. Welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s third quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


Before we begin, I’d like to remind everyone that any statements we make today about our plans,


expectations, estimates, predictions or similar expressions for the future, including those


concerning financial performance, operating results, spending guidance and the drilling business


are forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties.


Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are posted on our website


discuss these risks and uncertainties in our business and industry and the various factors that could


keep outcomes of any forward-looking statements from being realized. Our actual results could


differ materially from those forward-looking statements.


I’ll now turn the call over to Randy Stilley, Seahawk Drilling’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Randall D. Stilley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Patricia. Good morning, and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s – actually it’s afternoon, I’m


sorry, we always do it in the morning – and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s third quarter earnings


call. Joining me on the call today are Kurt Hoffman, our Chief Operating Officer and Jim Easter, our


Chief Financial Officer.


I’ll begin today’s call with remarks about our third quarter results, give a brief update on the shallow


water Gulf of Mexico regulatory and business environment, and comment on our November 2nd


press release. Then I’ll hand the call over to Jim, who will offer more detail on our financial results,


give an update on our tax dispute in Mexico, and provide some guidance on our current and


projected cost and cash flow. Kurt will then discuss our fleet’s operations during the quarter before


we open up the call for Q&A.


As announced this morning, we reported a net loss of 32.1 million or $2.69 per diluted share for the


third quarter of 2010 from continuing operations, compared to a loss of 32.4 million or $2.80 per


diluted share for the same period in 2009. Revenue for the quarter totaled 18.6 million, compared to


67.6 million in 2009. All revenues for the third quarter were from U.S. operations.


During the quarter, we announced the pending sale of the Seahawk 2505 for 14.6 million, resulting


in an impairment charge of 28.2 million. We will continue to look for opportunities to sell additional


idle jack-ups in a disciplined manner.


Seahawk’s balance sheet at June 30, 2010 included cash and cash equivalents of 41.4 million and


net working capital of 11.4 million. We are currently marketing eight jack-ups in the Gulf Mexico and


the Seahawk 3000 is nearing completion of its shipyard project. We expect the rig to be on location


and on contract during the first week of December. This rig has contracts in place at rates of 55,000


to 60,000 per day for approximately six months of work.
corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We currently have six rigs under contract with three idle and available for work and 11 cold stacks,


not including the Seahawk 3000. Only one of our idle rigs is fully crewed at this time. There are


currently a total of 31 jack-up rigs under contract in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico out of a total marketed


fleet of 44 with only 27 actually working due to permit delays.


While still slow, shallow water industry drilling permit issuance for new wells improved significantly


in October, and we’re hopeful that this process will continue to improve over the next several


months. Most of the permits issued since the Macondo incident in April have been for workovers


and reentry drilling, for operators do not have to comply with NTL-06.


Recent discussions with the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management have been somewhat


productive, and it appears that a tiered risk format may be implemented in the near future for


shallow water gas wells to be followed by a similar process for oil wells at a later date. This is


significant in that such a change would speed up the permit approval process.


While U.S. natural gas prices have been weak recently due to high storage levels and an


increasing production on land, base levels of drilling activity on-the-shelf for routine maintenance


workover and reentry drilling would translate into more demand for rigs if permits were issued in a


more timely fashion. Therefore, as the permitting process improves, we expect demand to improve


even without a significant increase in gas prices. Furthermore, the BOEM recently issued NTL-G05


from the BOEM that will require the plug and abandonment of wells and the decommissioning of


associated platforms in pipelines, which has not been used within the past five years.


Operators have only three years to complete this work with approximately 3,500 wells and 650


platforms currently affected. This requirement should lead to additional demand for jack-up rigs


over the next three years. Regarding rig demand in Mexico, it appears that PEMEX will issue


tenders for approximately 20 jack-ups for long-term contracts starting in 2011, in addition to the four


short-term jack-up contracts previously announced. Up to 10 of these tenders could be for


incremental rigs and is highly likely that PEMEX will relax it’s 10-year age restrictions on these


tenders. Some of these rigs will likely come from the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, thus further reducing the


available supply. While it doesn’t currently appear that any of the PEMEX tenders will include mat-


supported rigs, our business in U.S. Gulf of Mexico should still benefit from a more favorable


supply/demand environment.


On November 2, 2010, we issued a press release stating that our Board of Directors has initiated a


process to explore possible strategic alternatives for the company, and we have retained Simmons


& Company International as financial advisers in order to best realize the potential of our assets


and maximize shareholder value. The unexpected and dramatic slowdown in the issuance of


shallow water drilling permits following the Macondo blowout, low natural gas prices and other


factors beyond our control have adversely affected our liquidity and revenue generation.


However, we continue to believe that our strategy is sound and that opportunities for international


growth remain very attractive. We believe the current market value of Seahawk as indicated by our


stock price does not reflect the true value of the company, and coupled with our expected liquidity


needs we feel undertaking this review that this is the best course of action to maximize shareholder


value.


Everything is on the table, and we will consider all possible alternatives but not limit it to a sale of


assets, a recapitalization or sale or merger of Seahawk. We had not set a definitive timetable for


this process though we expect to move as quickly as possible. However, we do not plan to disclose


any developments until our Board approves a transaction or otherwise concludes its review of


strategic alternatives.


Now, I’ll turn the call over to our CFO, Jim Easter.