corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Tasha and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I’d like to welcome everyone to the Seahawk’s Drilling First Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instruction] Thank you. I


would now like to turn the call over to Patricia Gil, Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Patricia Gil, Patricia Gil, Investor Relations Manager


Thank you, Tasha. Welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s first quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


Before we begin, I’d like to remind everyone that any statements we make today about our plans,


expectations, estimate, predictions or similar expressions for the future including those concerning


financial performance, operating results and the drilling business are forward-looking statements


and are subject to risks and uncertainties.


Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission which are posted on our website


discuss these risks and uncertainties in our business and industry and the various factors that could


keep outcomes of any forward-looking statements from being realized. Our actual results could


differ materially from expectations.


I’ll now turn the call over to Randy Stilley, Seahawk Drilling’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Randall D. Stilley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Patricia. Good morning and welcome to Seahawk Drilling’s first quarter earnings call. I’d


like to begin today’s call by saying that our thoughts and prayers go out to the employees and


family members of the Deepwater Horizon.


Joining me on the call today are Kurt Hoffman, our Chief Operating Officer; and Patricia Gil, our


Manager of Investor Relations. As previously announced, Steve Manz, our CFO will be leaving the


company on May 7, and has agreed to remain available to ensure smooth transition. We are


confident that we will be bringing in a new CFO in the very near future.


I’ll begin today’s call with remarks about our first quarter financial results, provide some guidance


on our current and projected cost, and give an update on the shallow-water Gulf of Mexico. Before


handing the call over to Kurt, we will talk about our fleets operations during the quarter and later


open up the call for Q&A.


As announced this morning, we reported a net loss of 22.3 million or $1.90 per diluted share for the


first quarter of 2010 from continuing operations, compared to net income of 13.1 million or $1.13


per diluted share for the same period in 2009. Revenue for the quarter totaled 25.3 million


compared to 115.7 million in 2009. Total revenues for the first quarter included 18.4 million from our


U.S. operations and 6.9 million from our Mexico operations. Given the downsizing of our Mexico


operations, we are not expecting any revenues for our Mexico segment for the rest of the year.


First quarter operating cost, not including corporate SG&A or depreciation were 34.7 million. This


included 2.2 million in mobilization cost and repairs for the Seahawk 3000, 1.9 million that was


expensed for the reactivation of four rigs, and 700,000 in charges for downsizing our Mexico


operations. These costs exclude the capitalized reactivation cost of 3.8 million.
corrected transcript


Seahawk Drilling, Inc.
 
HAWK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our first quarter operating cost also included approximately six million of shore-based expense.


SG&A expense for the quarter was 12.1 million including approximately 2.3 million in stock


compensation, 200,000 for ERP system implementation and 900,000 in severance cost.


Looking forward to the second quarter of 2010, we expect to have eight rigs earning day rate in the


U.S., and could possibly contract two available rigs by the end of June. We expect operating cost


excluding SG&A and depreciation in the second quarter to be similar to the first quarter ranging


between 29 and 31 million. This included approximately two to three million in repair cost for the


Seahawk 3000.


Operating cost for working rigs in the second quarter will be 25 to 27,000 per day excluding the


repair cost for the Seahawk 3000, which is essentially the same as the first quarter. Operating cost


for cold stacked rigs will be four to $5,000. We expect shore-based cost for the second quarter to


be four to five million; depreciation expense should be approximately 13 to 14 million in the second


quarter. Second quarter SG&A cost will be essentially the same as the first quarter, and we will


include approximately 2.3 million in non-cash stock compensation.


Seahawk balance sheet at March 31, 2010 included cash and cash equivalents of 73.4 million and


networking capital of 35.8 million. We’ll pride a net balance of about 13 million. And during the first


quarter we borrowed 6.4 million under our revolving credit facility to fund the reactivation of three


rigs, and received 8.1 million in net proceeds from the sale of 10 cementing units in Mexico and


other excess equipment.


Assuming the transfer of all amounts owed to Pride, we anticipate our cash balance at the end of


the second quarter will be in the range of 35 to 45 million. Bid activity for our fleet during the first


quarter has continued to improve, and its marketed jackup utilization in the Gulf of Mexico


surpassed 80%. We began to experience positive day rate momentum. During the first quarter, we


were able to secure contracts with four of our auto jackups and we continue to search for attractive


opportunities for our marketed rigs beyond the third quarter.


Natural gas prices had come under pressure in the last couple of months dropping below $4 per


Mcf. Numerous E&P companies have commented that they are shifting their land drilling focus to oil


plays from gas shale plays. This change coupled with natural gas hedges rolling off later this year,


we have to believe that it’s just a matter of time before the natural gas market recovers and gas


prices rebound.


As many of you are aware, President Obama announced in March that he was considering lifting


the ban on drilling in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, an area that is approximately the same size as the


Western Gulf of Mexico, which is under-development today. This area was available for drilling in


the 80s and early 90s and large natural gas deposit such as Destin Dome are known to exist. Mat-


supported jackups such as ours have operated in the Eastern Gulf in the past and as the ban were


lifted, Seahawk would likely benefit from this opportunity.


Unfortunately, last week some new concerns appeared due to comments from Washington that


they’ll not restrict further exploration drilling off the U.S. coast until a complete review of the


Deepwater Horizon incident have been carried out. Well, it is unclear whether these comments


referred to new exploration drilling in deepwater or just opening up new areas for drilling in the


Eastern Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Basin. We believe that Seahawk’s operation is in the Gulf of


Mexico shelf will not be negatively affected.


In the past few months there have been a few jackup rig sales announced, and it appears that


momentum for additional sales of jackup rigs is picking up. Rig values for older rigs have reached


attractive levels, and we are currently evaluating opportunities for international rig acquisitions as


they elected to high grader fleet and increased our geographic exposure in international locations.