raw transcript


Selective Insurance Group Inc
 
SIGI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Selective Insurance Group Third Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like


to turn the call over to the Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, Ms. Jennifer DiBerardino.


Please go ahead.


Jennifer W. DiBerardino, Vice President & Assistant Treasurer


Thank you. Good morning, and again welcome to Selective Insurance Group's third-quarter 2005


conference call. A supplemental investor packet, which includes GAAP reconciliations of non-


GAAP financial measures, referred to on this call, is available on the "Investors" page of our


website, at "www.selective.com." This call is being simulcast on our website, and the replay will be


available through November 25th 2005.


Some of the statements and projections that will be made during this call are forward-looking


statements, as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking


statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.


We refer you to Selective's periodic filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a


detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Please note that Selective undertakes no


obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.


With us today are several members of Selective's senior management team. At this time, I'd like to


turn the call over to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dale Thatcher.


Dale A. Thatcher, Executive Vice President, Treasurer & Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Jennifer. Good morning. This was another quarter for Selective. Compared with the third


quarter of 2004, net income was up 39% to $39.3 million, or $1.25 per diluted share. Operating


income increased 34% to $36.4 million, establishing a new quarterly record of $1.16 per diluted


share. Total net premiums written increased 8% to $383.4 million. Our GAAP combined ratio


improved 3.1 points to 95%. The statutory combined ratio improved almost 2 points to 94.3%. And


our annualized operating return on equity for the quarter was 15.4%.


Selective uses operating income, a non-GAAP measure, to analyze trends and operations.


Operating income differs from net income by excluding the realized gains and losses net of taxes


and the cumulative effect of accounting changes net of taxes. GAAP reconciliations are included in


the supplemental investor packet on our website.


Weather-related catastrophe losses accounted for only 0.1 points of the GAAP and statutory


combined ratio for the third quarter 2005, or $0.3 million after-tax. That compares favorably to 3.6


points, or $7.9 million after-tax, for the third quarter 2004. It's estimated that hurricanes Rita and


Katrina may cost the insurance industry between $35 billion and $50 billion, plus additional losses


from Hurricane Wilma. Although our hurricane losses were minor, we believe, these storms may


negatively impact reinsurance pricing and availability for the industry but stabilize or even have a


positive effect on property pricing in the primary market.


Our commercial lines operation delivered a solid 94% statutory combined ratio for the quarter, a


2.5-point improvement over third-quarter 2004. For the same period, commercial lines' net


premiums written grew a strong 11%, driven by broad-based new business growth of 11%, or $63.1


million. Commercial renewal prices were up 2.4%, primarily from increased exposure, while policy
raw transcript


Selective Insurance Group Inc
 
SIGI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


retention remained stable. On a fiscal-year basis, net premium earned for commercial lines policy


was up 4%, while loss cost increased only 1%. This was due to a 6% drop in claims' frequency and


an 8% increase in severity.


Commercial auto, our largest single line of business, continued to perform well, with a statutory


combined ratio of 79.4% for the quarter, including 7 points of favorable reserve development. Our


property business came in at 68.6% for the period, reflecting continued low catastrophe losses and


consistent profitability across all six of our regional offices. Excluding worker's compensation,


almost every commercial line of business generated an underwriting profit during the quarter.


We've begun to implement a more aggressive program to improve our worker's compensation


business, which had a statutory combined ratio of 117.9% for the quarter, including 7 points of


adverse reserve development.


Our multi-facility approach will focus on a number of key deliverables that combined underwriting


execution tactics with the use of predictive modeling. The plan includes enhanced identification


and recruitment of premium loss leakage, particularly from wage misclassification; increased use of


medical networks and discounts; ongoing implementation of knowledge management tools and


decision support systems designed to equip our field teams and business managers with better


information to better price and underwrite our business; and a stronger alignment between


Selective's successful loss control operation and targeted worker's compensation accounts.


Although it will take time to improve results in this highly regulated line, we are refocusing our


efforts to make worker's compensation a stronger component of the overall commercial account.


Excluding flood business, our personal lines operation had a statutory combined ratio of 103.1


compared to 99.9% in 2004. This reflects heavy competition from New Jersey personal auto, which


led to an 11% decline in personal lines' net premiums written. We continue to see steady


improvements in our homeowners business, along with ongoing progress in the personal lines'


expansion stakes. On a fiscal-year basis, net premium earned for personal lines' policy was up 7%.


Loss costs also increased 7%, driven by an 11% increase in severity, partially offset by a 4%


decrease in claims frequency.


Recently, we've begun to see an increase in New Jersey personal auto business submissions and


policy cancellations have flowed. This is due in part to rate and tier changes implemented over the


last 18 months, our enhanced use of credit history, and improved process flows with our agents –


all designed to write and retain the best account and stabilize the number of cars we insure. New


Jersey personal auto now represents 7% of overall premium volume. Underlying trends in the eight


expansion states continued to improve, as premiums increased 10% and new business was up


66% for the quarter.


We expect ongoing improvements across the personal lines operation from targeted pricing tier


changes by state that will take effect beginning December 2005. In addition, agent use of our


automated personal line system continues to rise. At the end of the third quarter, agents originated


almost 85% of new personal lines business, 62% of auto endorsements, and 38% of homeowner


endorsements. To better service personal lines business and create a competitive advantage, we


plan to open a personal lines service center next year. The rollout will begin in New Jersey and


extend the personal lines' expansion states in 2007.


Our Diversified Insurance Services turned in a strong quarter, contributing 13 cents in earnings per


diluted share. Compared to third quarter 2004, revenue was up 13% to $31.3 million, and return on


revenue increased 1.8 points to 13.1%. Favorable results were driven by the fee-based flood


operation, which is only written by the National Flood Insurance program. This business generated


a 19% increase in revenue, to $10.7 million, for the quarter including $1.4 million from the


processing of 1,500 flood claims. New flood premium increased 25%. Selective is the eighth


largest flood carrier in the federal program with total flood premium serviced of $89 million.