corrected transcript


Selective Insurance Group,


Inc.
 
SIGI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone. Welcome to the Selective Insurance Group’s Fourth Quarter and


Year-End 2009 Earnings Release Conference Call.


At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Vice


President, Investor Relations, Ms. Jennifer DiBerardino. You may begin.


Jennifer DiBerardino, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning and welcome to Selective Insurance Group’s fourth quarter 2009


conference call. This call is being simulcast on our website and a replay will be available through


March 5, 2009.


A supplemental investor package, which includes GAAP reconciliations of non-GAAP financial


measures referred to on this call, is available on the Investors page of our website at


www.selective.com.


Selective uses operating income, a non-GAAP measure to analyze trends in operations. Operating


income is net income excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains or losses as


well as the after-tax results of discontinued operations. We believe that providing this non-GAAP


measure makes it easier for investors to evaluate our Insurance business.


As a reminder, some of the statements and projections that will be made during this call are


forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and


uncertainties. We refer you to Selective’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Form 10-Q


filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a detailed discussion of these risks and


uncertainties. Please note that Selective undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-


looking statements.


Joining me today on the call are the following members of Selective’s executive management team.


Greg Murphy, CEO; Dale Thatcher, CFO; John Marchioni, Chief Underwriting and Field Operations


Officer; Ron Zaleski, Chief Actuary; and Kerry Guthrie, Chief Investment Officer.


Now, I’ll turn the call over to Dale to review the quarter results.


Dale A. Thatcher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Jen. Good morning. 2009 was a challenging year given the economy, volatile financial


markets and soft market conditions. In spite of those difficult headwinds, we are pleased with our


fourth quarter and full year results and all of that we have accomplished. Surplus was up to $982


million, GAAP equity was back over $1 billion, commercial pricing was a positive 2.7% for the


quarter as it continues to move higher and investment income improved 78% in the fourth quarter


from a year ago.


For the fourth quarter, we reported strong operating income for diluted share of $0.47, more than


triple last year. Earnings were driven by a significant improvement in alternative investment income,


good property results and favorable prior year liability reserve development. The fourth quarter


statutory combined ratio was 103.7%, a point higher than a year ago. I’ll remind you that the normal


seasonality of premium written is such that the fourth quarter is always lower than the other three
corrected transcript


Selective Insurance Group,


Inc.
 
SIGI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


putting pressure on the statutory expense ratio. By comparison, the GAAP combined ratio was


100.2% for the quarter, down slightly from a year ago. For the year, the statutory combined ratio


came in slightly better than our expectations at 100.5% and the GAAP combined ratio was 99.8%.


Overall, prior year statutory loss and LAE favorable reserve development on a pre-tax basis for the


quarter was approximately $11 million or 3.2 points on the combined ratio, compared to $9 million


or 2.3 points in the fourth quarter of 2008. For the year, favorable reserve development on a pre-tax


basis was approximately $29 million or 2 points on the combined ratio.


Commercial line’s premium growth continues to be a challenge given the tough economic and


competitive conditions. Commercial line’s premium declined 4% in the quarter, driven by the $17.5


million in return audit and endorsement premium compared to 13.2 million a year ago. We expect to


begin seeing easier year-over-year comparisons for audit and endorsement return premium and we


did see slight improvement from the third quarter. If unemployment rates don’t deteriorate from the


current 10% levels, we anticipate the return premium trend will reverse in 2010. New business


declined 10% in the quarter, while renewal premium increased 2% and retention improved to 76%.


We are one of the few carriers who have been successful getting positive commercial lines pure


price since the second quarter of 2009, when pricing increased 0.6%. We achieved 1.5% in the


third quarter and 2.7% in the fourth quarter which reaches a level where we are covering our


projected loss cost trends. We reported a commercial line statutory combined ratio of 103.3% in the


fourth quarter and 99.8% for the year.


Commercial property performed very well again in the fourth quarter with a 76.2% statutory


combined ratio and 83.9% for the year. The fourth quarter workers’ compensation statutory


combined ratio of 130.1% has a lot of moving parts related to reserves and audit and endorsement


premium, which makes it difficult to draw any conclusions. Workers’ compensation policies are


initially rated based on estimated exposed payroll and are then audited three months after the


policy expires to determine actual payroll.


Given the poor economy, particularly for contractors, we have substantial return premium this year.


The full year combined ratio of 107.6% gives a much better view to the performance of this line. For


the full year, the impacts of favorable development and excess audit and endorsement return


premium generally offset each other.


Personal Lines net premium written grew 11% in the quarter to $57 million. The Personal Lines


statutory combined ratio for the quarter was 107.1% compared to 105.6% a year ago and for the


year was 104.4% versus 103.7%.


Homeowner results were in line with expectations in the quarter. The Personal Lines combined


ratio was negatively impact in the quarter by 2.2 points, due to $1.2 million of unfavorable


development in personal auto. On the reinsurance front, we successfully renewed our Property


Catastrophe treaty, our Surety and Fidelity Excess of Loss treaty, and the National Workers


Compensation Reinsurance Pool Quota Share treaty, all on January 1, 2010.


The Surety and Fidelity treaty structure remained the same as 2009 and renewed with a moderate


price decrease. Due to our effective catastrophe management strategy, we are able to reduce the


rate online by 8% for our catastrophe program. We believe Selective’s reinsurance programs


continue to be well diversified with a slate of financially strong reinsurers, distributed between


broker and direct markets.


Turning to investments, the fourth quarter net investment income improvement was primarily driven


by after-tax alternative investment income, which increased $15 million from the fourth quarter of


2008 to a $3.3 million gain. The improvement in the equity and credit markets in the latter half of