raw transcript


Selective Insurance Group Inc
 
SIGI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Selective Insurance Group’s Second Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like


to turn the call over to Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, Ms. Jennifer DiBerardino. Please go


ahead.


Jennifer W. DiBerardino, Vice President and Assistant Treasurer


Thank you.


Good morning and welcome to Selective Insurance Group’s Second Quarter 2005 Conference Call.


A supplemental investor packet, which includes GAAP reconciliations of non-GAAP financial


measures referred to on this call is available on the Investors page of our website at


www.selective.com. This call is being simulcast on our website and the webcast replay will be


available through August 26, 2005, again, at www.selective.com. Some of the statements and


projections that will be made during this call are forward-looking statements as defined by the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of


future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We refer you to Selective’s periodic


filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a detailed discussion of these risks


and uncertainties. Please note that Selective undertakes no obligation to update or revise any


forward-looking statements.


With us today are several members of Selective’s senior management team. At this time, it is my


pleasure to introduce Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dale Thatcher.


Dale A. Thatcher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Good morning.


Our strong second quarter was driven by excellent results in our commercial lines operation and a


17% increase in after-tax investment income. For the second quarter of 2005 compared with the


second quarter of 2004, net income was up 11% to $32.1 million or $1.02 per diluted share.


Operating income increased 10% to $31.7 million or $1 per diluted share.


Total net premiums written increased 6%, just under $370 million led by 9% net premium written


growth in commercial lines. Our GAAP combined ratio improved was relatively flat at 96% and the


statutory combined ratio was steady at 94.9%. Annualized operating return on equity was 13.9%.


Selective uses the operating income, a non-GAAP measure, to analyze trends in our operations.


Operating income differs from net income by excluding the realized gains and losses, net of taxes


and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes. GAAP reconciliations are included in


the supplemental investor packet on our website.


Weather related catastrophe losses accounted for only 0.2 points of the GAAP and the statutory


combined ratios for the second quarter of 2005 or $0.5 million after-tax. That compared favorably to


0.8 points or $1.7 million after-tax for the second quarter of 2004. The only disappointment in an


otherwise strong quarter was the recent New Jersey Supreme Court’s decision that eliminated the


serious life impact standard of the personal auto verbal tort threshold. In light of the Court’s action,


we analyze our claim files and loss experience for pre and post acre, which resulted in an increase


to our estimate of New Jersey personal auto reserves of 13 million. This was partially offset by
raw transcript


Selective Insurance Group Inc
 
SIGI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


eliminating reserve of $5.5 million for estimated New Jersey personal auto excess profits, which is


no longer necessary given the expected higher claim costs. The $7.5 million net reserve increased,


reduced diluted earnings per share for the quarter by $0.15. For the balance of 2005, we no expect


our New Jersey personal auto business to generate a statutory combined ratio of 101%. We


continue to review market conditions and we’ll take additional actions as necessary. At present, we


are considering the potential withdrawal of certain previously filed New Jersey personal auto rate


decreases.


Commercial line which represents 85% of business delivered a solid 92.4% statutory combined


ratio for the quarter, a 3.1 point improvement over second quarter of 2004. For the same period,


commercial line net premiums written grew a strong 9% driven by a 16% increase in net new


business to $71 million. Commercial renewal price increases were just over 3%, primarily from


increases exposure, while policy retention remained stable.


Overall, strengths for commercial lines were up about 3% for the quarter, they were down 1%


excluding workers’ compensation loss trends, which were up 11%. Over the last six years, workers’


compensation loss trends have increased on an average of 4% per year driven by an average


increase of almost 7% per year in medical losses. The workers’ compensation segment remains an


important component of our highly profitable commercial account business. However, at a statutory


combined ratio of 115.7 for the quarter, it is not performing to our standards.


To address the challenges associated with this business, we’ve begun work on a more


comprehensive workers’ compensation strategy that combined basic underwriting execution tactics


with sophisticated automation. Our efforts include a profitability plan for each of our primary


operating states, to find appetites, and enhance guidelines within Selective classes, online tools


that enhance risk selection and ease of use, multidisciplinary teams to review loss drivers including


claims performance, loss control risk improvement, automation of premium audit, and loss leakage,


and new informational tools such as predictive modeling to price risks in a more granular fashion.


We’ve recognized workers’ compensation as a long tail line and improved results will take time. We


remain committed to making this segment a stronger component of our profitable commercial


package business. Our other commercial lines of business performed well this quarter.


Commercial property delivered a statutory combined ratio of 62.4% including the low catastrophe


losses. Commercial auto, our largest single line of business had a statutory combined ratio of


83.7%. Excluding workers’ compensation, every commercial line of business delivered an


underwriting profit. As part of our ongoing geographic diversification strategy, we continue to refine


our personal lines operation. For the quarter, the personal line statutory combined ratio was 109%


compared to 92.2% for the same period last year. The increase is mainly due to the New Jersey


Personal Auto Reserve Charge, which accounts for 40.4 points, as well as a few large fire losses.


Our flood business had a favorable impact of 4.1 points. Although the flood operation is fee-based,


it may include within our diversified insurance services business with no underwriting risk that’s


included here in our personal lines’ statutory combined ratio in accordance with statutory reporting


requirements.


Personal lines net premiums written declined about 11% for the quarter, primarily due to increased


personal auto competition in New Jersey. We now insure 9450 vehicles in New Jersey, down more


than 7% from year-end, and we continue to implement a series of rating and underwriting initiatives


targeting the best accounts. The percentage of accounts in our top two underwriting tiers is 69%,


up from 67% at year-end. New Jersey personal auto currently represents only 7% of companywide


premium, down from 22% a decade ago.


For the quarter, the overall homeowner statutory combined ratio was 94.8% compared to 91.9% for


the same period last year due to a few large fire losses.