corrected transcript


Selective Insurance
 
SIGI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Selective Insurance Group First Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like


to turn the call over to Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Ms. Michele Schumacher. Please


go ahead.


Michele Schumacher, Vice President and Corporate Secretary


Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Selective Insurance Group’s First Quarter Conference


Call. A supplemental investor packet that includes GAAP reconciliation of non-GAAP financial


measures we will refer to on this call is available on the Investors page of our website at


www.selective.com. This call is being simulcast on the internet at our website. The replay will be


available through May 27, 2005. Some of the statements and projections that will be made during


this call are forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to


risks and uncertainties. We refer you to Selective’s periodic filings with the US Securities and


Exchange Commission for a detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Please note that


Selective undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. With us


today are several members of Selective’s senior management team. At this time, it is my pleasure


to introduce Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dale Thatcher.


Dale A. Thatcher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Good morning. This was another quarter of outstanding profitability for Selective driven by the solid


performance of our insurance, investment, and diversified operations. For the first quarter of 2005


compared with the first quarter of 2004, net income was up 31% to $36.1 million or $1.15 per


diluted share. Operating income increased 36% to $32.6 million or $1.04 per diluted share.


Overall, net premiums written increased 6% to $396.8 million led by 9% net premium written growth


in commercial lines. Our GAAP combined ratio improved 2.8 points to 95.1%. The statutory


combined ratio improved 2.2 points to 93.5%. After-tax investment income increased 13% and


operating return on equity reached 14.7%.


Weather -related catastrophe losses accounted for only 0.1 points of the GAAP and the statutory


combined ratios for the first quarter of 2005 or $0.3 million after-tax. That compared favorably to 1.5


points or $3 million after-tax for the first quarter of 2004. Effective January 1, 2005, Selective began


expensing stock options with the adoption of FAS 123R. The adoption had no material impact on


net income for the quarter and is expected to have an approximated impact of $0.02 per share for


the full year. FAS 123R also requires that we estimate the impact of forfeitures for stock options


and restricted stock at the original grant date, which reduces the stock compensation expense. This


facet of the standard led to a positive $0.02 per share impact on net income for the first quarter as a


cumulative effect of the accounting change.


Selective uses operating income, which is a non-GAAP measure, to analyze trends in our


operations. Operating income differs from net income by the exclusion of realized gains and losses,


net of taxes and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes. GAAP reconciliations


are included in the supplemental investor packet on our website.


Our strong first quarter reflected excellent underwriting results and favorable growth in our core


commercial lines operations, which represents 84% of Selective’s business. Compared to first
corrected transcript


Selective Insurance
 
SIGI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
2


quarter of 2004, commercial lines net premiums written grew 9% driven by new business of $62.5


million, increased commercial renewal pricing of 6% including exposure of approximately 4% and


stable policy retention. Importantly, the commercial lines' statutory combined ratio improved 0.5


points to 92.9%. While increasingly competitive, we believe the commercial marketplace can still


provide opportunities for profitable growth. Regional carriers have increased market share 3 points


in 4 years and there is no commercial lines market leader. Our share of the commercial lines


market totals about 1% in our 20 primary operating states, including 4.3% in New Jersey, our oldest


and most profitable state. Ultimately, if we were to duplicate Selective’s New Jersey market share


throughout our existing territories, it would equate to over $4 billion in direct premiums.


Current stock market conditions provide a challenge to sell value-added services, not just price.


Selective is one of the few carriers to offer loss control services to accounts of all sizes. We do this


to support account retention and new business growth. Recently, a prospective client was so


pleased with the customized program presented by Selective’s loss control specialist that he moved


his account to our agent for premium of about $700,000.


Our flood, personal lines and human resources outsourcing products provide agents with added


client touch points and revenue streams. The Company’s strong commercial lines performance


reflected limited catastrophe losses in the results of five years of ongoing underwriting pricing and


loss control initiatives. Our commercial auto, commercial property, general liability and bond


business represent about 62% of total company premium and generated statutory combined ratios


for the quarter ranging from 76% to 95%. We continue actions to improve our workers’


compensation business, which had a statutory combined ratio of 108.9% for the quarter compared


to 101.6% for the first quarter of 2004 and 108.2% at year-end. While not yet performing at an


acceptable level that remains an important component of our highly profitable commercial account


business.


Over the last six years, loss trends for workers’ compensation increased an average of 4.2% per


year driven by an increase of 7.1% per year in medical losses. To address these escalating costs,


we are improving our service networks to achieve greater managed care discounts. We are


establishing a more aggressive back-to-work program to control claim costs and improving case


management processes to enhance medical bill review and increase the amount of care delivered


through more cost-effective network providers. We continue to implement loss control programs,


which include OSHA training and participation of Selective Loss Control representatives on client


work safety committees. We are using our knowledge management initiative to segment workers’


compensation risks and more precisely identify which are profitable and which should be reduced.


As a result, we are writing more non-contracting workers’ compensation accounts through our One


& Done system. This segment targets business which has traditionally performed about 10 points


better than the average. For the quarter, workers’ compensation policy count was flat whereas the


overall commercial lines policy count increased 6.2%. Workers’ compensation renewal price


increases were up 10.3% including a 9% pure rate increase in New Jersey.


In personal lines, our efforts to build a smaller and more profitable segment yielded a 9.8 point drop


in the statutory combined ratio for the quarter to 96.3%, including the favorable impact of 2.6 points


from our flood business. Although the flood operation is fee-based with no underwriting risk, it is


included in the personal lines’ statutory combined ratio in accordance with statutory reporting


requirements.


Personal lines net premiums written declined 12% for the quarter, primarily due to the New Jersey


personal auto market. After years of attempting the managed growth in an extremely difficult


marketplace, independent agents are clearly in transition as new direct writers and fewer regulatory


constraints have made the market far more competitive. We believe these changes, while


disruptive to us in the short-term, should lead to more long-term stability for this sector.