Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. Marchioni — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairperson of the Board, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Mark Alexander Wilcox — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Haley Chrobock — Investor Relations & Market Research Analyst, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Mike Zaremski — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Corp.
Grace H. Carter — Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Paul Newsome — Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Derek Han — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Matthew J. Carletti — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone. Welcome to Selective Insurance Group's First Quarter 2023 Earnings Call. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Investor Relations Analyst, Haley Chrobock.

Good morning. We are simulcasting this call on our website, selective.com. Replay is available until June 2nd. We use three measures to discuss our results and business operations. First, we use GAAP financial measures reported in our annual, quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC.

Second, we used non-GAAP operating measures, which we believe make it easier for investors to evaluate our insurance business. Non-GAAP operating income is net income available to common stockholders, excluding the after tax impact of net realized gains or losses on investments and unrealized gains or losses on equity securities. Non-GAAP operating return on common equity is non-GAAP operating income divided by average common stockholders' equity. Adjusted book value per common share differs from book value per common share by the exclusion of total after tax, unrealized gains and losses on investments included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. GAAP reconciliations to any referenced non-GAAP financial measures are in our supplemental investor package found on the investors page of our website.

Third, we make statements and projections about our future performance. These are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We discuss these risks and uncertainties in detail in our annual, quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Now I'll turn the call over to John Marchioni, our Chairman of the board, President and Chief Executive Officer, who will be followed by Mark Wilcox, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.

Thank you, Haley. Good morning and thank you for joining us. We've had an excellent start to the year. The headline for the quarter is that we continue to deliver strong earnings and remain very well-positioned to effectively navigate the economic uncertainty and elevated loss trends that our industry faces. In the quarter, we had strong growth in all three insurance segments. Our all-in combined ratio was 95.7% despite higher than expected catastrophe losses. After tax net investment income was up 25% over Q1 2022 driven by active management of our core fixed income portfolio over the past few quarters and we produced a non-GAAP operating ROE of 14.6%; outperforming the 12% average we generated over the past nine years.

Let me provide some additional color on our top line growth in the quarter. Net premiums written in our core business Standard Commercial Lines grew 10%. New business in this segment was up 15% as we continued finding opportunities within our traditional risk profile and pricing expectations. Renewal premium change was a positive 12% as pure pricing increased by 7% and exposure was up 4.7%. Our Standard Commercial Lines spread by eight states over the past five years and that expansion contributed 2 points of overall growth in the quarter.

Our early success in these markets is driven by the unique operating model we employ and the strength of the new distribution partnerships we established. In addition to bolstering top line growth, this expansion also benefits the bottom line through greater geographic diversification. We are working toward opening of an additional five states over the next two to three years. Net premiums written in our E&S segment grew 16% with new business growth of 9%, renewal pure rate of 7.4% and stable retention. Our mix of business has remained relatively stable in terms of limits profile and the lines of business and hazard mix. Net premiums written in our Standard Personal Lines segment grew 31% as we continued our transition to the mass affluent market. The mass affluent market now represents about half of our in-force book and we expect that target business allocation to increase over the next several quarters. I am particularly pleased with our profitability in the face of elevated catastrophe losses. In a quarter where industry losses were significantly above long-term averages, our catastrophe losses were 6 points on the combined ratio or about 1 point above expected. Our combined ratio of 95.7% was only slightly above our 95% long-term target. Our underlying combined ratio was 91%.

Let me make some further comments about profitability. Standard Commercial Lines produced a 94.7% combined ratio and a 91.3% underlying combined ratio. Non-cat losses were about three points lower than last year and our budget reversing the trend of increases we saw throughout 2022. Despite this favorable outcome, our view of overall loss trends remains in line with last quarter and continues to drive our pricing targets. Commercial Lines pricing moved meaningfully from 5.6% in Q4 2022 to 7% in the first quarter, driven by increases in the property and auto line. Retentions remained strong and stable. Commercial property renewal pure rate was up 11.8% in the quarter and exposure increased 5.1%, producing a renewal premium change of 17.5%. We expect this pricing trend to continue. Commercial auto renewal pure rate was up 10% and exposure grew by 4.9%, resulting in a total premium change of 15.4%.

E&S continued to deliver strong margins with a combined ratio of 85% and an underlying combined ratio of 84.3%. Like Standard Commercial Lines, non-cat property improved year-over-year and was better than expected for the quarter. The strong rate we've earned and underwriting improvement we've made over the past few years have favorably impacted E&S casualty loss ratios. Standard Personal Lines profitability remains challenged. Excess cat losses largely drove the quarter's 116% combined ratio, but the 95.7% underlying combined ratio was about 10 points over target. Profitability improvement will be driven primarily by price increases as we continue to transition to the mass affluent market. In the quarter, 15 file rate changes became effective across the auto and home lines, with an average increase of 9.4%. We expect this pace to continue over the next several months. While there is a lag impact on renewal pricing, new business pricing was up over 5% in Q1 and over 7% in the month of April.

Investments was another bright spot in the quarter. The portfolio produced $73 million of after tax income in the quarter, up 25% over Q1 2022. Our investment team has been actively positioning the portfolio to increase book yields which is up by 137 basis points since the start of 2022 while also moving up in credit quality. To reiterate a point made last quarter, when investment returns exceed their long-term average, as we are currently experiencing, we expect to outperform our 12% operating ROE target and we did that this quarter. While pleased with our strong start to 2023, we fully recognize that one quarter does not make a year. We continue to operate with great discipline in executing our growth and profitability initiatives.

Our team of highly skilled and fully aligned employees, leveraging our sophisticated tools and technologies, has positioned us as a market of choice for our topnotch distribution partners. Our executive and regional management teams hosted six regional agency council meetings in March, as we do each year. These sessions, each of which includes 12 to 15 agency principals, are a great opportunity to solicit feedback on our performance, understand the challenges they face in their local markets and align on opportunities for additional profitable growth. They routinely tell us that the strength of our talent, the uniqueness of our operating model, and the consistent approach we take to managing growth and profitability are the primary reasons why they make us their market of choice.

In closing, we in the industry continue to face headwind from economic and loss trend uncertainty. However, I am confident we have built the organizational muscle to successfully navigate through any potential economic and market challenges. Our long-term track record of consistent, strong performance along with industry low volatility backs up that claim.

Now, let me turn the call over to Mark.

Thank you, John, and good morning. We reported a strong start to the year with a $1.48 of fully diluted EPS in the first quarter and a $1.44 of non-GAAP operating EPS. Our non-GAAP operating ROE of 14.6% came in nicely ahead of our 12% target. The strong performance was driven by solid underwriting results and significant growth in after-tax net investment income.

Turning to our consolidated underwriting results. For the quarter, we reported $1 billion of net premiums written or a healthy 12% growth rate over the first quarter of 2022 with each of our three segments contributing to the growth. We reported a profitable consolidated combined ratio of 95.7% despite another active catastrophe quarter in the US. There were 18 individual [ph] PTS (00:10:25) events impacting our footprint in the first quarter, resulting in $55.3 million of net catastrophe losses or manageable 6.1 points on the combined ratio. The driver of the cat losses were two large storms in March and one in February, totaling $38.8 million or 70% of our first quarter cat losses. These losses were offset in part by $13 million or 1.4 points of net favorable prior year casualty reserve development. The favorable reserve development included $10 million in favorable claims emergent in our workers' compensation line of business and $5 million in E&S casualty. This was offset in part by $2 million of adverse development in personal auto. We have also adjusted our personal auto liability loss pack for 2023 compared to our original plan for the year.

The underlying combined ratio of 91% for the quarter was 2.1 points lower than in the prior year period, benefiting from lower non-cat property losses in our commercial property and E&S property lines of business. Non-cat property losses in total were 2.8 points better than expected, which drove underlying margin improvement compared to our expectations. Non-cat property auto physical damage loss both for commercial and personal auto remain elevated and above expectations.

Moving to expenses. Our expense ratio of 32.6% was up 50 basis points versus the year ago. As noted last quarter, we expect modest upward pressure on expense ratio in 2023, but have several cost containment initiatives in place. Over the medium and longer-term, we remain focused on lowering the expense ratio through various initiatives, while ensuring we are investing appropriately to support our longer-term strategic objective. Corporate expenses, which principally include holding company cost and long-term stock compensation, totaled $12.1 million in the quarter.

Moving to investments. Our portfolio remains well positioned. As of March 31st, 93% of our portfolio was in fixed income and short-term investments; with an average credit rating of AA minus and an effective duration of 4.1 years. Risk assets were approximately 9.9% of our portfolio as of March 31st in line with last quarter, but down from 11.8% a year ago; as we have modestly de-risked the portfolio against market expectations of a recession later this year. For the quarter, after tax net investment income was $73.1 million, up 25% relative to $58.5 million in the year ago period. Driven by significant growth in investment income from our core fixed income portfolio. This was partially offset by lower contribution from alternatives, which are reported on a one quarter lag and generated $6.1 million of after tax gains compared to $15.1 million a year ago. The strong growth in fixed income was driven by our active portfolio management [indiscernible] (00:13:23) we put $2.7 billion to work at higher yields.

The after tax yield of the total portfolio was 3.7% for the first quarter translating to a healthy 12.2 points of our re-contribution. In anticipation of a potential decline in short-term interest rates later this year, we've been lowering our allocation to floating rate securities. Approximately, 8.4% of our fixed income and short-term investment portfolio remains in floating rate securities, which is down from 10.4% at year-end and around 15% just over a year ago. As we've paired back our floaters, we've instead elected to lock in the current high new money rates for a longer period of time while managing our duration and credit quality target. In addition, consistent with 2022, we continued our theme of active portfolio management in the quarter and put $1.1 billion of new money to work at a pre-tax yield of 5.5%. Our current book yield now stands at 4.33%; up 20 basis points in the quarter and 137 basis points since the start of 2022.

As a reminder, every 100 basis point of high yield on our total investment portfolio translates to about 2.6 ROE points. I'd also like to highlight the strength of our investment portfolio in light of the recent turmoil, particularly within the banking sector. We have no direct exposure to the securities of the particular banks that have recently been wound down. Our exposure to bonds of financial institutions is well diversified across sectors, with a focus on large [indiscernible] (00:14:56) of banks within banking.

Given the recent focus on commercial real estate, I thought I'd also briefly highlight our exposure to this asset class. Commercial real estate represents about 11.8% of our investment portfolio and principally arises from our allocation to agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities, which totaled 8.1% of our portfolio. Just over 93% of these securities are invested in AAA and AA rated tranches and have a low likelihood of loss attachment, in part driven by the strong level of subordination in these higher rated tranches. We also have a 1.8% allocation to commercial mortgage loans, which are all performing with an underwritten loan to value of 58% and debt service coverage ratio of 1.8 times. Investment grade real estate investment trust that makes up 1.3% of the portfolio, our real estate investment trust equity represent 0.3% and commercial real estate debt and equity within our alternative portfolio makes up the remaining 0.3%. Overall, we feel good about the credit quality and liquidity profile of our investment portfolio. However, we are closely monitoring credit and liquidity conditions in the market and have a general bias to remain underweight risk assets at this time and to stay up in terms of credit quality and to maintain a strong liquidity position.

Turning to capital. Our capital position remains extremely strong, with $2.7 billion of GAAP equity and $2.5 billion of statutory capital in surplus as of quarter end. Book value per share increased 5.8% during the quarter. Adjusted book value per share was up 2.5% for the quarter or 3.1% adjusted for dividends. Our parent company cash and investment position stands at $497 million, which is above our longer-term target. Our net premiums written to surplus ratio of 1.46 times is in the middle of our target range and our debt to capital ratio of 15.9% is down the low end of our target range. These metrics provide us with significant financial flexibility to support our growth and execute on our strategic initiatives. We did not repurchase any shares during the first quarter. We have $84.2 million of remaining capacity under our share repurchase authorization, which we plan to use opportunistically in 2023.

Finally, turning to our outlook. For 2023, our full year expectations remained unchanged from last quarter and are as follows: A GAAP combined ratio of 96.5% inclusive of 4.5 points of catastrophe losses. This assumes no additional prior accident year reserve development. While our first quarter combined ratio came in better than expected, it's too early to adjust our full year expectations. After-tax investment income of $300 million, including $30 million in after tax gains from alternative investments; an overall effective tax rate of approximately 21% which includes an effective tax rate of 20% for net investment income and 21% for all other items and weighted average shares of 61 million on a diluted basis, which does not reflect any share repurchases we may make under our authorization. Overall, we're off to an excellent start to the year in terms of growth and profitability.

With that, I'll ask the operator to open up the call for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Zaremski with BMO. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning. Thanks. Maybe I might have missed this. I came in a few minutes late. Any color on the prior year development; the pluses and minuses. I did hear the commentary that I don't think your view of loss trend has changed meaningfully quarter-over-quarter, but I was just curious any color on PYD which did come a little light versus, I guess, at least our expectations in Commercial Lines?

Excuse me, Mike. It's Mark Wilcox. I'll start and John might jump in as well. So PYD for Q1 2023 was $13 million net and there're a couple of puts and takes in there. First off, really consistent with a year ago. We continue to see favorable [ph] client (00:20:00) emergence within the workers' compensation line of business, really driven by lower severity in years 2020 and prior. We also saw lower severities for active end use 2021 and prior within E&S casualty and so about $5 million of favorable reserve development there. But then the one other item in the quarter that went into the other direction was some pressure within personal auto liability for the 2022 year, and that was to the tune of $2 million from an adverse development. So $15 million favorable, $ million unfavorable, then $13 million; a $1.4 million benefit on the combined ratio during the quarter. And also I mentioned in my prepared comments which you may or may not have heard was we did actually on the back of the increase in the 2022 active year for first personal auto liability increased our [indiscernible] (00:20:53) expectations for the 2023 year and that's included in the current year numbers. It doesn't jump out to say, but we did make an adjustment there in light of the trend that we have seen.

Got it. That's helpful. I guess, stepping back and thinking about both the competitive environment and action [indiscernible] (00:21:20) maybe, in my words, get in front of elevated inflation on the property side. I noticed in the prepared remarks exposure was up close to 5%. Just curious is that something noteworthy or is that just pure new business or is that an element of kind of actions Selective has taken to proactively kind of reprice business maybe on the property side and maybe just I'll add in. Just the overall competitive environment it feels like Selective was earlier than peers kind of talking about some of the inflationary trends being higher. Pricing for the industry feels like it's moving north in the right direction but I'm just curious if you think the kind of – also the overall competitive environment is kind of moving more your way? Thanks.

Yeah. Sure, Mike. Thanks. I'll try to tackle all of the aspects of that question. With regard to exposure, so in Commercial Lines overall exposure in the quarter was up about 4.7%, which is pretty much in line with what we saw in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter for Commercial Lines was 4.2% and property was the same. Property was 5% exposure increase in Q4 and 5.1% in Q1. And I think to your questions, the starting point matters; and I think we've always had a lot of diligence around making sure our properties were properly insured to value and we've put a lot of work and effort into that and are always evaluating our portfolio account by account to make those adjustments.

And then what happened over the course of 2022 as inflation started to really accelerate, we did it to make sure we stayed ahead of that. And so I think that's always been our practice and will continue to be in practice. The pricing is also moving and moving pretty materially and we think that's appropriate in addition to the exposure change, because you really do want to understand both of those pieces as they both do impact profitability. The commercial property pricing for us was up almost [indiscernible] (00:23:35) a sequential basis to 11.8%. And we'll continue to push for more rate adequacy because that – the commercial property line, we've got a lower risk adjusted target combined ratio on that.

We need to continue to improve that performance. But I think the other important point, just relative to property in the quarter and I know it's been some commentary around the miss relative to expectations in the quarter driven by cats. Q1 tends to be a higher cat mode quarter for us relative to the full year. And you saw in the prepared comments, it was about a 1 point above expected at 6 points and you could see throughout the industry, the impact was much more significant on many others. And we do think that's a testament to how we've always managed our underwriting and pricing philosophy relative to commercial property. So I would suggest the market dynamic there will continue to be, as you've seen in Q1. We did try to stay ahead of it in 2022. I don't think we're ready to declare a shift in severity trends in property, but it is favorable or nice to have a quarter where property losses on a non-cat basis came in better than expected and down on a year-over-year basis. And Mike, I might not have hit all pieces of the questions. So, feel free to follow-up.

No. Yeah. You did. That was a long winded question. Maybe lastly on the enhanced kind of disclosure, the commentary from Mark on commercial real estate. You did mention, Mark, low likelihood of loss attachment. This is – you and everyone are obviously getting a lot of incoming on this asset class and exposure. Any commentary about the CMBS exposure you have, is the mark-to-market losses; are they being driven more by spreads, or just interest rates because there's plenty of, at least on my screen, kind of very high quality A, AAA, AA rated CMBS trading at a fairly substantial unrealized loss relative to your commentary about low likelihood of loss attachment. So just maybe any color you'd like to add there on what makes you comfortable?

Yeah. So let me give you a couple more statistics and a little bit more color on the commercial real estate exposure, particularly non-agency CMBS, which is about 81% of our total CMBS portfolio and put the agency piece to the side because that has the guarantees behind it. But we feel very good about commercial real estate exposure, particularly within CMBS but also in the other allocations as well. But we recognize that it's a moving market. And [indiscernible] (00:26:40) valuation varies by type of real estate and it varies by location and I think costs within the various commercial real estate sectors as well. So not all real estate is equal but I think there could be some pressures as we look ahead throughout 2023.

As it relates to our portfolio, I would say that the unrealized losses within non-agency CMBS is really driven by high benchmark interest rate and some widening of credit spreads on the back of concern to our commercial real estate, but we do feel good about the exposure. Our duration is 3.1 years for that asset class as I mentioned in my prepared comments. So 93% of it is AAA and AA rated. And with those five approaches, you have a level of subordination; and across our whole non-agency CMBS, we have about a 33% subordination which provides us quite a bit of protection in terms of losses that may come into the portfolio. The average loan to value across the whole non-agency CMBS portfolio is 56%. So what we would describe as an effective loan to value when you consider the loan to value plus the subordination is 36%. So pretty far removed from a dollar of loss. In terms of true losses there's clearly going to be some aftermarket losses as investors and others have concerns about commercial real estate, but in terms of true performance and credit losses, we feel pretty good about them.

Maybe just a couple of other quick statistics now. We've done quite a bit of work on this from a risk management perspective, but we have been stress testing the portfolio. And if you go back to the great financial crisis back in 2008, 2009 and go peak to trough in terms of commercial real estate from a property index perspective, which is calibrated to the Green Street's Commercial Property Index, it was about a 36.7% decrease peak to trough in terms of the value of real estate. So, a pretty healthy decrease. But when you think on a go forward basis, how much do you think commercial real estate is going to be down by? When we stress-tested our portfolio [indiscernible] (00:29:07) CMBS to get $1 of loss across the portfolio, we have to have a 40% decrease in the value of the real estate. So, we had a 50% decrease in the value of the real estate. We have about a $9 million loss. So those are just a couple of kind of risk management metrics we're taking a look at. So you have to have a worse situation than the great financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 from a valuation perspective to have any meaningful actual credit losses, but again there's always the mark-to-market impact and [indiscernible] (00:29:42) off and spreads too widen. So we're cautious now, but feel very good about from a loss perspective within non-agency CMBS.

We can take this offline, but as a follow-up, is it worth talking about your comment about subordination versus LTV and how you get to the 36% because another one of your peers has been saying something similar and I feel like there's some confusion, but we can take it offline too.

Yeah, but let's take that off line and we'll get into a little bit into the weeds here, but happy to follow-up with the conversation after the fact.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Grace Carter with Bank of America. Your line is now open.

Hi, everyone.

Good morning, Grace.

I was hoping we could talk a little bit about the components of the combined ratio guide for this year. I think last quarter you all had mentioned a 32.6% expense ratio target and I think 0.1% dividend ratio target. So I was just curious kind of using that 96.5% and backing all the expenses and the catastrophe load as well as the full year impact of reserve development in the quarter. I'm getting I think a 59.6% core loss ratio for the year, which is a little bit higher than the 59.3% that you all had mentioned last quarter. So I was just curious, I was trying to square that versus the favorable core loss ratio reported on 1Q 2023 or if any of the other components have moved around?

Yeah. Grace, it's Mark. You have it correct. And what I would say is it's just too early in the year to make a change to our full year guidance. So, if you take our full year guidance the 96.5% and 4.5 points to cat which clearly implies, to John's point, [indiscernible] (00:31:42) about 1 point above expectations, a little bit of favorable cat loss activity later in the year. That's a volatile line and there's some variability around that. And then if you kind of annualize the Q1 favorable development of 1.4 points through the rest of the year, still no more favorable reserve development. It's only getting to an underlying combined ratio of 92.3% for the full year to come back to the 96.5% and 4.5 points, assuming the expense ratio doesn't change.

And that actually implies, I think, an underlying combined of 92.8% for the rest of the year Q2 through Q4 to get there. So I would say as we feel really good about Q1. [indiscernible] (00:32:26) – didn't behave well. They were opened up bit heavy. But overall, we saw a non-GAAP property loss ratio coming in 2.8 points better than expected. The expense ratio came in right on track and feel really good about all the other components of the combined ratio, but it's just a little bit too soon for us to take that benefit and roll it through the rest of the year. We're just assuming things formalized back to our initial expectations for the full year, but we'll give you a further update and a little bit better insight into the full year when we report again in 90 days' time.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And on Personal Lines, I think last quarter you all had mentioned maybe needing to catch up a little bit on rate versus the industry just given some of the distraction from changing mix in the book over the past few quarters. Some of your peers have mentioned targeting reaching a target profitability by the end of 2024. I was just curious on the outlook for wins. You all think that Personal Lines both can reach target profitability; and if next year, your book as well.

Yeah. Grace, this is John. First of all, I think it's always dangerous to put a target out there, especially in an uncertain loss trend environment, because a big driver on what happens to margins in Personal Lines is what happens with regard to loss trends. I think all of us, Selective included, have a clear understanding of what our rate plan is in terms of [indiscernible] (00:34:01) over the next several quarters next year plus. And we have to make assumptions around the direction of loss trend. And I realize sometimes some of our peers do make pretty convicted statements around rate relative to loss trends, but I do think you have to put some qualifiers around that when you project out loss ratios that far in advance. We have our sights on achieving profitability. We have assumptions in that plan around where loss trends go in subsequent quarters, but all we have to do as an industry is look back in the last five quarters and realize that loss trends can surprise us.

So, I think that always is a reason to be somewhat hesitant about putting near-term profit improvement targets out there. That said, you have to remember our book and put this in context. Personal Lines was 8.5% of our premium in the quarter, but that book is also going through a significant transformation and the change in the in-force from mass market to mass affluent, which is a place that we think we're much better positioned to compete, is impacting a run rate profitability. We think long-term will impact it in a positive way, and then the rate changes which we've indicated do have a bit of a lag from new renewal as we get these filings approved and implemented. We'll start to come through on an earned rate basis as we move through recession quarters. We are on a path to profitability but I'm going to stop short of putting a specific quarter out there.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Paul Newsome from Piper Sandler. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for the call. Almost as a follow-up here, in the past, we've seen claim trends diverse between either passenger auto and commercial auto, but maybe it's converging now. Could you just kind of maybe contrast what you're seeing in those two books and where they may or may not be different from a [ph] claims inflation (00:36:18) perspective?

Yeah. So I think from an auto physical damage standpoint, I think the trends were fairly well aligned. Those were the ones that were driven by inflationary impacts; and I think you saw those stayed fairly aligned and continue to be fairly well aligned. I think from a liability perspective, you might have seen a little bit of the difference on the social inflationary impacts, whether generally with us and an industry got a higher limits profile on commercial auto BI. We do want personal auto BI and with moving in litigation rates. I do think you probably saw a little bit more of a lag where it impacted commercial auto more quickly than it might have impacted personal auto. So I think those are probably the two differences, but ultimately the societal factors that are driving social inflationary trends will ultimately impact both lines, Personal and Commercial similarly, but the magnitude might look a little bit different just because of a difference in limit profiles.

Yeah. That's all I had [indiscernible] (00:37:26). Always appreciate the help very much though.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Derek Han with KBW. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thank you. So just going back to the guidance. I completely understand your conservatism just given the uncertainty and elevated loss trends, but if we're thinking about just how should we think about the pricing reaccelerating to 7% in Commercial and adjust the assumed loss trends for the year? I think in last quarter you talked about 6.5% loss trends, and I'm just wondering if there is an update to that number?

So, the 6.5% we cited in January for the full year that broke down to 6% on casualty and 7% on property. And as Mark indicated earlier in his prepared comments and then in the subsequent question, we don't see the need to change those at this point. And I think – again, we always want to make sure we talk about loss trends, separating casualty from property because they're different. In casualty, that 6% trend that we mentioned is embedded in our loss picks. And a quarter into the year, we or anybody else would be very hard pressed to say there's enough reported activity in frequency and certainly not in severity to say that they're going to make an adjustment downward in loss trend and we're certainly not going to do that.

On the property side, the reason I think it is important to separate them out. Property is different and report on loss trend that we haven't assumed trend for our full year expectation for property on the non-cat side. But ultimately, what drives the variability is it's really what's the actual change in frequency and/or severity. So we had an assumed loss trend or an assumed change in frequency and severity that would equate to 7% in the beginning of the year. With three months in the books, we're seeing largely severities come in better than expected, but it's too early to assume that that will continue. To the extent it does, you'll see that come through in results relatively quickly, almost immediately. And I think that's how you want to think about it. We're generating significant weight on the commercial property line, plus additional exposure. And to the extent that severity trends come in better than we anticipated, you'll see that come through on reported results.

Got it. No, that's really helpful. And then my second question, you obviously had a nice core loss ratio improvement to 260 bps. You called out the non-cats were about 3 points lower in this quarter. I think last year 1Q 2022, it was about 2.6 points higher. Is this just a function of normalization for the quarter that led to the improvement or are you making kind of as you constantly do like underwriting mix changes or clean benefit where you're benefiting from those kind of changes that you're making on the underwriting side?

Yeah, I think it kind of ties back to the first questionnaire, which is so, the non-cat property better than expected and better than prior year is the primary driver in the underlying loss ratio that you're talking about here. But at this point I would equate it to all of those factors. There is inherent variability. We never lose sight of that, but we've also if you look at what we did in 2022, recognizing these trends were emerging, the pricing increases accelerated throughout the year. We've picked up exposure that's earning it's way in. And we always had a very disciplined approach to underwriting and risk selection on the property line that's also contributing, right. I'm not going to attempt to sub-segment that year-over-year improvement into those different areas variability versus underwriting and pricing, but they're all contributing to it.

Okay. And then last quick question on Personal Lines. New business was up $16.7 million. That's up quarter-over-quarter and significantly year-over-year. Is that just easy comps? And I'm just surprised by how much new business is growing given the struggles with pressures and Personal Lines.

Yeah. The prior-year comparison quarter – that was a quite a low quarter from a production perspective, but I think this is us starting to hit our stride in terms of the market repositioning that we've been working on, but again I think rate needs to start to earn its way in and it will start to earn its way in, but that was the two big drivers; tougher prior year comparison from the first quarter of 2022 but also starting to realize the success of repositioning into the mass-affluent market.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Carletti with JMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Hey thanks. Good morning. Just a model cleanup question and all I've got left. Mark, I apologize if I missed it early on. I was hoping you could break out the $35 million or so of cat losses in the Standard Commercial segment, your byline.

Sure. Certainly, Matt. So, just going by line in commercial order of it's $200,000. A commercial property, it was $27.7 million and in bond it was $7.2 million that gets you to the 35.1% or 4.8 points on the stated Commercial Lines and then just I guess within Personal Lines it really is our home and E&S property, total property so those are self-evident.

All right. Wonderful. Very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] At this time speakers we show no further questions. You may proceed.

Thank you all for joining us today. Please feel free to follow-up as always with any additional questions.

And that concludes today's conference. Thank you everyone for participating. You may now disconnect.