Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rohan Pai — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Treasurer, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Gregory Edward Murphy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Mark Alexander Wilcox — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
John J. Marchioni — President & Chief Operating Officer, Selective Insurance Group, Inc.
Christopher Campbell — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Michael Zaremski — Senior Equity Research Analyst, Credit Suisse
Scott Heleniak — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Bob Farnam — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone. Welcome to Selective Insurance Group's Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Call.

At this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer, Rohan Pai.

Thank you and good morning. This call is being simulcast on our website and the replay will be available through November 26, 2018. A supplemental investor package, which includes GAAP reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures referenced on this call is available on the Investors page of our website, www.selective.com.

Certain GAAP financial measures stated in today's call are also included in our previously filed annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q reports. To analyze trends in our operations, we use non-GAAP operating income, which is net income excluding the after-tax impact of net realized gains or losses on investments and unrealized gains or losses on equity securities. We believe that providing this non-GAAP measure makes it easier for investors to evaluate our insurance business.

As a reminder, some of the statements and projections made during this call are forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We refer you to Selective's annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Form 10-Qs filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Please note that Selective undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.

On today's call are the following members of Selective's executive management team: Greg Murphy, Chief Executive Officer; John Marchioni, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Wilcox, Chief Financial Officer.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Greg.

Thank you, Rohan, and good morning. I'll make some first introductory remarks and focus on some high-level themes for the quarter as well as those that continue to drive our strategy for profitable growth. Mark then will discuss our financial results, and John will review our insurance operations in more detail, providing additional color on key underwriting initiatives.

We generated excellent results in the third quarter, as each of our underwriting segments attributed the strong profitability. Our overall GAAP combined ratio of 94.6% generated 6.1 points of return on equity or ROE. Our investment department had a spectacular quarter with net investment income after tax of 45% to $43 million, which added 10 points of ROE.

Our third quarter results were particularly impressive in the context of elevated catastrophe losses highlighting the strength of our underlying business. For the quarter our annualized non-GAAP operating ROE was 13.8% about 200 basis points above our target of 12%. We established a high bar by targeting our return on equity of 300 over our weighted average cost of capital.

For the quarter, consolidated net premium written growth was robust 8% driven by renewal pure pricing momentum and strong retention rates. For the third quarter, the underlying combined ratio or after adjusting for catastrophe losses and prior year casualty reserve development was 92%. For the nine months of the year, we reported consolidated combined ratio of 95.8%.

Our investment results reflect, one, an effective tax rate of the 18% down 8.6 points from 2017; two, alternative investments added $6 million after-tax, and three tactical moves we've been making to optimize after-tax investment income on a risk adjusted basis.

Our investment portfolios conservatively managed from a credit and duration standpoint at $3.37 of investments per dollar of stockholders equity, generating a 10% return on equity. This year we've been executing on four major initiatives. One, achieving overall Standard Commercial Lines renewal pure price increases in excess of the expected claim inflation as well as improving the business mix.0 Two, continuing to deploy our customer experience strategy and value added services that should increase both retention and new business hit ratios. Three, improving profitability in our Excess and Surplus Lines segment. And four, building supplemental sources of growth, a, additional agents in our existing 22 states, and b, pursuing growth and diversification through geographic expansion.

We are an execution focused company, and we've made major strides in each of these areas. First, we achieved overall renewal pure price increase of 3.7 points in our Standard Commercial Lines segment for the third quarter closed to expecting claim inflation levels. We are pleased to see the Towers Watson CLIPS second quarter Commercial Lines renewal pure pricing survey up 130 basis points sequentially to 2.8 points, which should provide an additional amount of tailwind.

For the remainder of the year, we expect to continue to hedge pricing higher particularly in light of the ongoing industry pressures in commercial automobile and property lines which should help sustain our underwriting margins in 2019 as prices are earned.

We provide our frontline and inside underwriters with sophisticated tools that help improve the business mix while maintaining or even increasing retention levels. Second, as we discussed last quarter, we've made considerable progress in improving the overall customer experience strategy with the goals towards increasing customer switching costs. We are pleased with the adoption rates on our digital self-service platform and continue to enhance in customer engagement through initiatives such as proactive messaging.

We have begun to rollout our selective drive sensor and mobile application technologies to customers which will enhance their fleet management capability and monitory of driver behavior. The ability to access and service the business by utilizing technology solutions will be critical as we position ourselves for the future.

Third, we have been taking active steps to address profitability in our E&S segment where results in recent quarters have lagged our expectations. We continue to; one, implement target rate increase; two, eliminate challenge segments; and three, drive ongoing claim improvements.

Finally, our geographic expansion efforts remain well on track. We opened Arizona and New Hampshire in 2017 and entered Colorado earlier this year. As of the fourth quarter, we are now also operational in Utah and New Mexico which increases our Commercial Line states to 27.which increases our Commercial Lines stage to 27. We're looking forward to the long-term strategic partnerships and we're very happy with agent and customer receptivity in the new space.

I'd also like to share some thoughts on weather related losses which for the past two years have been elevated for the industry. While the damage from Hurricane Florence was certainly devastating to the affected communities, losses would have been far worse had it struck the coastline as a Category 3 Hurricane as initially projected. Hurricane Michael was the strongest hurricane making landfall in the Florida Panhandle at over a 150 as it approached as a strong Category 4 storm.

Series of the Atlantic storms over the past two year period serve as significant reminder of the potential for severe losses and the inherent volatility assumed in the property lines. Add to this the non-cat weather related losses which have also been running high for the industry for the past number of quarters. When you look at the context of the competitive pricing environment for property business in recent years, the industry certainly appears to be adopting a hope strategy rather than one that's based on fundamental trends.

Hurricane Michael, while still relatively early given the complexity of losses involved our initial estimate for losses from Hurricane Michael is approximately $10 million. We take an extremely conservative approach to managing our catastrophe aggregations and risk with a property cat program that limits losses from a single 0.4% probability event loss to approximately 5% of stockholders equity. Moreover our reinsurance program limits any losses in the non-footprint states such as Florida to $5 million.

Turing to guidance. After three quarters of results, we are increasing our full-year 2018 after-tax investment income guidance by $6 million to $156 million as well as increasing capacity losses by 0.5 points to four points. All other assumptions remain the same and our full-year expectations are as follows.

A GAAP combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses of 92%, this assumes no fourth quarter 2018 prior year casualty development. Catastrophe losses of four points reflecting two hurricanes; after-tax investment of $156 million and overall effective tax rate of approximately 18%, which includes an effective tax rate of 17% for net investment income reflecting a tax rate of 5.25% for tax advantage municipal bonds and a tax rate of 21% for all other investments and weighted average shares of $59.6 million.

Now I'll turn the call to Mark to review the results for the quarter.

Thank you, Greg and good morning. For the quarter, we reported fully diluted earnings per share of $0.93 and non-GAAP operating earnings per share of $0.99. The annualized ROE was 12.9% and the annualized non-GAAP operating ROE was at very strong 13.8%.

As a result of our solid financial results over the past two quarters, our year-to-date annualized non-GAAP operating ROE has improved to 11.3%. Although with strong results on a year-to-date basis particularly in light of the property losses we incurred in the first quarter and a major hurricane in our footprints in the third quarter, it is below our target of 12% for 2018.

Consolidated net premiums revenue increased8% in the third quarter driven by 6% growth in our Standard Commercial Lines segment, 4% growth in Personal Lines and 27% growth for that E&S segment. The growth in standard lines is driven by continued strong pure < increase and higher retention rates. New business was down on a comparative quarter basis. Growth in the E&S segment was the result of a new producer relationship that incepted during the quarter.

The consolidated combined ratio was the 94.6% in the third quarter. On an underlying basis or adjusting for catastrophe losses and prior year casualty reserve development, our combined ratio was 92%, mostly in line with the year ago level. For the first nine months of the year, our consolidated combined ratio was 95.8% and the underlying combined ratio was 93.1%. Our ex-cat combined ratio was 90% for the quarter and 91.8% year-to-date.

For the quarter, catastrophe losses added 4.6 percentage points to the combined ratio, losses from Hurricane Florence accounted for $15 million on a pre-tax basis or 2.4 combined ratio points. As a result of our participation in FEMA's National Flood Insurance Program, we recorded approximately 1 million of claims handling revenue from Hurricane Florence in the quarter.

Non-catastrophe property losses in the quarter accounted to 14.6 points on a combined ratio which was about 1.4 points above our expectation. Year-to-date non-cat property losses impacted the combined ratio by 15.4 percentage points which is 2.7 percentage points higher than the comparative period in 2017 and is also above our expectations.

During the third quarter, we experienced $12 million of net favorable prior year casualty reserve development, which reduced the quarters combined ratio by 2 percentage points. Better than expected claims emergence and workers compensation line totaling $20 million and General Liability Line totaling $8 million were partially offset by $10 million of adverse development in our commercial auto line of business, and $6 million of adverse prior year casualty reserve development for our E&S segment principally related to the 2015 accident year for E&S. We also experienced some pressure on 2000 accident year, principally driven by commercial auto which negatively impacted our consolidated combined ratio by 1.5 percentage points in the quarter.

Our expense ratio was 32.5% for the third quarter, which is down 1.4 percentage points compared to the year ago mainly due to ongoing expense discipline would been highlighted in recent quarters coupled with the modest decline of profit base incentive to our agents and employees due to a higher than expected combined ratio thus far in 2018.

For the first nine months of the year, the expense ratio of 33% is down 120 basis points from the comparative period of 2017. We remain focused on seeking out areas of efficiency and cost savings will continue to invest in our employees and key initiatives around geographic expansion enhancing our underwriting tools, technology and the customer experience. The profit base portion of our expense ratio is about 3.3 points thus far in 2018 compared to 3.8 points in 2017.

Corporate expenses which are principally comprised of holding company costs and long-term stock compensation totaled $7.5 million in the third quarter, and we're up $1.2 million on a pre-tax basis relative to the comparative quarter. The primary reason for the increase was higher long-term stock compensation expense resulting from the significant increase in our share price during the quarter. While we expect there to be quarterly volatility in this line item based on fluctuations in our share price, we have made some structural changes to our long-term share based compensation program back in early 2017, and that should lead to lower costs as well as lower volatility over time. Year-to-date corporate expenses are down $4.6 million.

Turning to investments, for the quarter net investment income after-tax was a very strong $43 million, which is up 45% from a year ago and is driven by higher yields of our fixed income investments, strong income from our alternative investments and the lower corporate tax rate.

Overall the after-tax yield on the fixed income portfolio was 2.84% during the third quarter compared to 2.2% a year ago. The new money yield on the fixed income portfolio during the third quarter was 2.9% after-tax. We continue to actively manage the investment portfolio, tactically seeking opportunities to increase the after-tax book yield on a risk adjusted basis.

Year-to-date the pre-tax book yield on our core fixed income portfolio is up 37 basis points as we pick up another 8 basis points of pre-tax book yield in the third quarter. The increase in book yield is driven by the two main factors, first approximately 17% of our fixed income portfolio is in floating rate securities which reset based principally on 90 day LIBOR. With the increase in interest rates this year, particularly in the front-end of the curve, the book yield for our fixed income portfolio has benefited from the 70 basis point increase and 90 day LIBOR and the portfolio is currently very well-positioned to benefit further and the front end of the curve continues to move up.

Secondly we've been actively managing our core fixed income portfolio, with 2 billion purchases this year increasing the book yield or keeping our risk profile consistent. Our average credit rating remains strong AA- and the effective duration of our fixed income and short-term investments portfolio is relatively unchanged at 3.7 years.

Risk assets, which principally include high yield fixed income security, public equity and alternate portfolio accounted for 7.3% of total invested assets at the end of the third quarter. We have been gradually diversifying our portfolio of risk assets and we'll work towards modestly increasing our allocation over time to about 10% depending on market conditions and opportunities.

However, thus far in 2018 high yield credit spreads have remained tight and equity valuations have remained elevated and we have modestly reduced our risk assets from 7.9% at year-end to 7.3% at the end of the quarter. We continue to diversify our alternative portfolio, by making targeted commitments. But these commitments will take some time to fund and impact our overall level of risk assets. Our other investment portfolio which primarily consists of limited partnerships in private equity, private credit, and real asset investments and reports on a one quarter lag, generated pre-tax income of $7.2 million for the quarter compared to $2.7 million in the year ago period.

Turning to capital, our balance sheet remained strong with $1.7 billion of GAAP equity, and we adequately capitalize to support our expected growth. We continue to adopt the conservative stance with respect to managing our underwriting risk appetite, investment portfolio, reserving processes, reinsurance by any catastrophe risk management. Our debt to capital ratio of 20.2% at the end of the third quarter is fairly below our longer-term target of approximately 25%.

With a 1.4 times premiums to surplus ratio, it means that each point of underwriting margin equates to 110 basis points of ROE. In addition, our 3.37 times investment leverage implies that every 100 basis points of pre-tax book yield from our investment portfolio results in 276 basis points of ROE. Based on our strong financial position and future earnings potential, we have increased our quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.20 per share.

With that, I'll turn the call over to John to discuss our insurance operations.

Thanks, Mark, and good morning. I'll begin with an overview of some of our strategic initiatives and then discuss the results of our insurance operations by segment.

In particular, we're focused on our geographic expansion plans and initiatives leveraging technology to enhance the overall customer experience. These are key areas that will drive our ability to generate sustained outperformance in the years to come. Our long-term Commercial Lines targets are to build distribution partner relationships, representing 25% of the markets and seek a 12% share of wallet in each agency. This translates to a goal of 3% market share on Commercial Lines on additional premium opportunity in excess of $2 billion in our existing footprint.

So far this year, we've appointed 90 new distribution partners, including our newly opened states of New Mexico and Utah bringing the total to over 1,300 and approximately 2,200 storefronts. We've been successfully executing on our geographic expansion plans which have been outlined in recent quarters. We've established a strong presence in the Southwest with the opening of Utah, New Mexico for Commercial Lines earlier this month complementing the recent expansion in Arizona and Colorado. We maintained our franchise distribution strategy in these states opening Arizona with 18 partners, Colorado with 10, Utah with eight and New Mexico with six. We are also moving forward with our plans to open Arizona and Utah for Personal Lines in the fourth quarter of this year.

Our early results are strong and we're pleased with the quality of new business opportunities being presented. We continue to invest in technologies that help us enhance the overall customer experience with a goal towards increasing retention rates over time. We strive to deliver superior omni-channel experience enabling our customers to interact with us in a 24x7 environment in the manner of their choosing. Policyholders who prefer a wholly digital experience now have that option available to them. Take up rates for our digital platform offerings are strong in both Personal and Commercial Lines.

Our master data management capabilities provide us with a 360 degree view of our customers enhancing our ability to service our policy holders and distribution partners effectively. This information allows us to engage with our customers through proactive messaging in relation to product recalls potential loss activity or policy changes in the manner of their choosing.

We are executing on this path in concert with our agency partners so that our customers will have a seamless experience regardless of how they choose to interact with us. As we mentioned on our last call, we are looking for ways to employ technology solutions to add value for our clients with a goal towards further increasing customer satisfaction. We expect these initiatives to over time help increase new business ratios and retention rates.

For example, we rolled out our Selective Drive program in a pilot phase to 20 commercialized policyholders with auto fleets. This platform uses connected telematics sensors to improve fleet management and driving behavior. Selected drive provides information such as driver's feed, location and route and harsh driving events such as sudden braking and turning. It can also detect distracted driving by measuring when the driver is [indiscernible] (00:23:09) access, while the vehicle is in motion. We expect that over time, this service which is currently offered free of charge to customers will add business value for our customers while also leading to improve driving behavior.

Turning to underwriting operations, our Standard Commercial Lines segment which represented 79% of premiums for the first nine months, generated 6% net premiums written growth for the growth driven by stable retention of 84%, and overall renewalof pure price increases of 3.7%.

Our ability to maintain stable retention rates, while achieving strong renewal pricing is a testament to our relationship with our distribution partners. The Commercial Lines segment generated a combined ratio of 94.5% on a reported basis and 93.6% on an underlying basis. For the first nine months of the year, the segment generated a 94.8% combined ratio on a reported basis and 93.6% on an underlying basis.

For the highest quality Standard Commercial Lines accounts, based on future profitability expectations, we achieved renewal pure rate of 2.2% for the first nine months of the year, and point of renewal retention of 91%. This cohort represented 49% of our Commercial Lines premium for the year-to-date.

On the lower quality accounts, which represent 11% of premium for the first nine months, we achieved renewal pure rate of 7.8%, while retaining 77% at point of renewal. This granular approach to administering our renewal pricing strategy allows us to achieve additional loss ratio improvement through mix of business changes, while continuing to deliver pure rate increases that equal or exceed expected claim inflation.

Direct new business premiums declined 7% for the third quarter or were up 2% for the first nine months of the year. The decline in new business in the quarter reflects the generally competitive market conditions as companies continue to seek out new growth opportunities. We remain focused on generating new business growth, but will do so within the context of our disciplined underwriting and pricing philosophy.

Drawing down to the results by line for Commercial Lines, our largest line of business, general liability generated a combined ratio of 84.3% in the quarter and 88.2% for the first nine months of the year. We see achieved year-to-date renewal pure price increases of 2.7% for this line.

Reserve releases totaled $8 million in the third quarter, primarily due to favorable development on loss adjustment expenses for accident years 2014 through 2017. Decrease in frequency trends had led to meaningful favorable reserve development over the past several years. While reserve releases have moderated substantially so far this year.

Workers compensation combined ratio is 70.3% in the third quarter and 74.1% for the first nine months of the year. This line experienced $20 million of favorable prior year reserve development for the quarter, as a result of lower than expected severities for accident years 2016 and prior. On a year-to-date basis, we achieved 0.1% of renewal pure price as we have worked to hold the line in the context of significant industry-wide pressure. While reported profitability remained strong due to favorable emergence on prior year reserves, current accident year margins do not support significant reductions in overall [indiscernible] (00:26:49).

In particular, while medical inflation has been modest in recent years, the reversal of those trends can lead to significant increase in loss cost, affecting both current and prior accident years. Commercial auto results remained challenged for the industry and for us, in the case of our book elevated loss experience has mainly been a result of higher liability frequencies. The commercial auto combined ratio was a 118.2% in the third quarter and a 112.8% for the first nine months of the year.

Results for the quarter included $10 million of unfavorable prior year casualty reserve development due to higher claim frequencies as well as increases in claims severities in accident years 2016 and 2017. In addition, we increased the current year loss estimate during the quarter by $30 million, take into account the elevated loss experience. We've been taking active steps to address profitability in this line by implementing price increases at an average 7.4% so far this year. This is on top of price increases of 6.7% in 2017 and 4.9% in 2016.

Unfortunately, we have seen a continued increase in loss frequencies and severities that have offset the benefit of earned price increases. As such, we believe that the elevated loss trend should support additional rate moving forward. In addition to price increases, we have also been actively managing our new and renewal books in targeted industry segments and reducing exposures to higher hazard classes. Our initiatives around the Selective drive-centric technology program should also help with loss experience by improving driving habits.

Our commercial property book generated 108.1% combined ratio for the third quarter and 103.8% combined ratio for the first nine months of the year. Results this year have been impacted by substantial catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather losses. This line remains generally competitive, but despite elevated levels of cat and non-cat losses for the industry over the past two years.

While industry pricing appears to be heading in the right direction, recent loss activity suggests more rain is needed to reflect the inherent volatility of this line. Renewal pure price increases for commercial property business averaged 4% so far this year and have climbed since the start of the year.

Our Personal Lines segment which represented 12% of premiums for the first nine months generated 4% growth in the quarter driven by growth in personal auto. The Personal Lines segment produced profitable combined ratios of 95.9% in the third quarter and 97.2% for the first nine months.

Weather-related losses were elevated, but manageable. We've made significant progress in lowering the expense ratio for this segment, which was $27.9 million for the first nine months, a significant 310 basis point improvement from the year ago. Lower data costs, reduced expenses for technology development and benefits from increased scale have all helped drive the expense ratio down.

The homeowners line generated a combined ratio of 102% during the third quarter, including 16.1 points of catastrophe losses. Net premiums written were approximately flat compared with the prior year, due to a competitive pricing environment and efforts we have been taking to limit catastrophe exposure. Our plans for 2018 incorporate rate filings averaging 3.4% for this line.

In personal auto, net premiums written increased 7% compared to the same prior year period driven by higher pricing and new business growth. Renewal pure price increases on our book averaged approximately 6.1% during the quarter. The combined ratio of personal auto was 101% in the third quarter and 103% for the first nine months of the year. Profitability for this line should improve with the benefits of greater scale and efficiencies, along with generating earn rate in excess of expected claim inflation. Our plans for 2018 incorporate rate filings averaging approximately 8%.

Our E&S segment, which represented 9% of total net premiums written for the first nine months generated 27% growth in third quarter compared with the year-ago period. For the first nine months, net premiums written increased 7%. Over the past year we have taken steps to exit some underperforming classes, while entering into new distribution relationships. The premium growth in the third quarter reflects the impact of one particularly large relationship that we reestablished in the second quarter of 2018.

The combined ratio was 93.7% for the quarter and 103% for the first nine months. Results in the third quarter, included $6 million of net unfavorable reserve development relating primarily to the 2015 accident year. Overall price increases in E&S casualty lines averaged 2.9% in the third quarter. We've been aggressively addressing profitability in this segment through targeted price increases, business mix shifts and improved underwriting standards.

We feel good about the pricing on the in-force book which is essentially at target levels. While the emergence of adverse development on prior year reserves has been a disappointment, we believe the steps we have been taking set us on the right path to profitability. Overall, we remain extremely pleased with our market position and execution of our plans for generating profitable growth. While maintaining a steadfast focus on underwriting discipline, we've been achieving pure price that is exceeding our current estimates for loss inflations. The investments, we're making today in our franchise distribution model, sophisticated underwriting tools and technology, and enhancing the overall customer experience in an omni-channel environment remain differentiating factors and position us well for sustained outperformance.

With that, we'll open the call up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christopher Campbell from KBW. Sir, your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

I guess, first question is just kind of on pricing in Commercial Lines, so you've got like 370 bps, which was up 20 bps. Whereas if I'm looking across kind of larger competitors, you guys would compete within that small commercial space, one was kind of flat, quarter-over-quarter and then another one was down 130 bps. So I guess just qualitative, why are SIGI's rates better than competitors, when we're looking across there? And what are you guys doing differently? And are you seeing a trend for kind of these larger national carriers. Are they resisting rate increases for retention. I guess so, what's the competitive dynamic you guys are seeing?

Thank you. This is John. First of all, I appreciate the question. And I'll explain our perspective on why we think we're able to continue to perform extremely well relative to that balance between rate and retention. And then we can get into a conversation about the competitive environment, but I can't really speak with confidence in terms of how other companies view that balance between rate retention. From our perspective, we've now established a very long track record dating back to 2009 in terms of managing to our overall rate targets and our rate targets relative to how we think about expected claim inflation or claims trends.

We really attributed to two factors that have been very consistent for us. Number one is we think that we have a high degree of sophistication in terms of the underwriting and pricing models that we utilize and the manner in which we deliver to our underwriters on both new and renewal business at a point of an individual transaction very specific pricing guidance relative to the expected profitability on the bucket of business that that account is placed into. So, very granular approach and we've been doing that now with modeling since 2005 timeframe. So very mature on that perspective to continue to enhance those capabilities.

But I'd say the second part of this, and I think this is what really makes our approach unique is that we're delivering this in a model that's supported by a high relationship, high franchise value, set of distribution partners. And I know, a lot of companies will talk about having that. I think, if you're looking for evidence of whether or not it's real, you'd have to look at retention rates relative to pricing. So our ability to have a conversation with an agency – individual people and agencies offices to control those books of business to explain what our pricing stance is on an account by account basis, manage the overall portfolio is a big point of differentiation.

By having a franchise model or a limited distribution model, we are on a significant position in every one of our agency partners. So our relationship is extremely important for them and it runs to both of our benefits to manage us effectively and therefore, we get the opportunity to have last look on accounts and really execute our strategy effectively.

So we continue to view it that way. I think there are certainly differences by line in the competitive environment and I think, what you're seeing in workers comp based on loss cost filings continue to be flat to negative across the country which would suggest that frequency and severity trends will continue on a downward trend that they've been on from a market perspective is putting a lot of pressure on that line from a pricing perspective. We continue to run that line in about zero which is probably better than what most companies will be reporting.

As we said in the prepared comments, commercial auto continues to support higher rate level. We continue to earn rate and have written rate in excess of 7% and we think that the trends continue to support that for us and for the industry. And we have seen some improvement sequentially on the property line for us and based on market surveys and I think that corresponds to the volatility we've seen and as Greg has indicated the entire market have seen on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis for property. So that's kind of how I would see both the external environment and we've managed the internal pricing strategy over the last several years.

And Chris, this is Greg. Let me just add a little bit to that in terms of – please don't be fooled by companies changing the definition of renewal pure price. Exposure is exposure, payroll is an exposure and you can't analyze your overall loss trends against the pricing number now that has all kinds of take outs in it. We're an industry that's been classic on playing take out. But when it comes to performance, the biggest measurement of how you're going to perform next year is renewal pure price up against the expected loss inflation or claim inflation, which I say, we're going through our budget process now, we're probably going to see that number elevate just based on what we select for frequency and in commercial auto.

But you've always heard me say, hope is not a strategy and arithmetic has no mercy and in the case of 2019 it's already done, 2019 is already finished because what you're going to earn rate wise is already in your inventory. So as John mentioned and you heard this through Mark's comments, we're very close to that renewal price at 4%. And that's kind of where my belief is, you're going to see claim inflation, so when you think about performance year-on-year 2019, 2019 to 2018 it's going to be – what are you doing in underwriting and claim improvement. And then how is your earned rate going to match up against your expected trend.

So, don't be fooled. I know you guys are focused on that and that's how we manage our organization. Let's also remember that when you look at 2019 to 2018 we're in a good position on all our lines, are we unsatisfied with our commercial auto results, yes. But I will tell you that things that we're seeing on comp in terms of what's being thrown out on the street in terms of credits, in terms of higher commissions, in terms of this is the longest tail with the longest medical inflation on it, that the price levels that this is being thrown out at is getting to the point of disturbing.

Got it. It is very helpful. So I guess digging in a little bit on workers comp. So I think John you had mentioned like maybe like 10 bps of positive rate. You guys are trying to manage that to like flat I guess just as pricing is coming in. I guess just what are you guys seeing in terms of like your loss cost trends now. I mean, we've got some competitors that I talked about higher frequency. You guys are getting lower severity and releasing about $20 million of reserves. I guess just how should we think about like – how are you feeling about the workers comp book overall? And then...

So – yeah Chris, this is John. I'll start. I guess we clearly have seen continued improvement in reserve development which would suggest that for both frequency and severity basis our actual reserve development has continued to run better than expected. And that has been the trend for a number of years. But we also recognized that trend can't go down forever. And this is in many cases similar to where commercial auto was 5 years to 10 years ago. And ultimately the trend did soften and ultimately reversed itself.

Without getting into too much specifics around actual frequencies from an overall perspective less so in terms of versus expected I think you are starting to see a little bit of a slowing of the downward trended frequency and I would describe an environment of more of a leveling off for us at this point from a workers comp perspective.

And Chris, so again, I would focus more on the underlying combined ratio than I would reported and when you look at our underlying at 90 – call it in the mid-96 range and our accident year and our internal targets that we sit there which are risk adjusted those are all fairly tight in the mid-90 range. And so what you're seeing pushing this around a little bit is very long-term and expected inflation rates versus actually what we're settling up some of the inventory now, some of the inventory is being pushed around.

As John stated frequency can't go to zero, right. I mean it's not going to go to zero. And the question is no different than what your actuaries are trying to figure out. When does the claim trend in commercial auto apex and start to level out or actually diminish. They're also looking at the comp line in terms of when does that flatten out to about five. So both of those trends can't go monotonically higher forever. So I just think I would keep that in line, keep focused about where we are more on our underlying and I would not – again and I also want to emphasize we are an account underwriter, we're not writing principally monoline, we're not writing monoline comp, that doesn't mean we don't have a new policies in the inventory, but as an account underwriter, we're focused on the overall experience on the account.

Yeah, that make sense. And then just one final one in the E&F segment. So you had about $6 million of adverse in development. So it's kind of some bad old business in there. But the total loss ratio is down like I guess – like 13% sequentially.so it looks like you're writing either some good new business or you shifting the mix maybe towards more property versus casualty. So I guess just given your history here like why are you confident and putting up like kind of a 51%

[indiscernible] (00:43:35)....

Let me start on that Chris, this I would not be – I would not put up the enormous amount of focus on that quarter number, that quarter number were significantly benefited by way lower non-cat property than expected, and catastrophe than expected. So, that number really adjusted is more in the upper 90s, which is where the books running, so that that is what I would keep the focus on.

Okay.

And then this is John, I'll just add to Greg's point, which is from a mix perspective there has been no significant shift from a casualty to property that continues to be in the 75% casualty range, and no real change in mix. But again as we've said for a number of quarters now, we continue to like where our new business pricing is coming in, and were the renewal inventories migrating to so, overall pricing levels on the existing in-force inventory we like where they are. And unfortunately we continue to see some adverse develop in some of the older accident years.

Okay. Very well. Thanks for all the answers. Best of luck throughout the year and then 2019.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski from Credit Suisse. Sir, your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Mike.

If we could move – I know it's not a huge volume for you, but personal auto, you said you're going to keep pushing for, it looks like high single-digit rate increases. It feels like competitors have seen kind of much improved results and are kind of saying that they don't need to push for what they were – the high singles that they were earlier in the year or last year. So just kind of curious is maybe your starting point was worse or what are you guys seeing in personal auto?

Mike, thank you. This is John. I'll start on the question. So, our reported combined ratio as you saw for the quarter was 101% and 103% for nine months. We have seen significant improvement over the last several years. And our rate level continues to be strong and as we said in the prepared comments, our current rate filings for 2018 are averaging about 8%. And when you think about where trends are from our perspective we need to continue to get rate in excess of trend.

Greg's comments earlier about the overall industry certainly apply to personal auto. So, I think even if there are industry participants reporting flattening or normalizing frequency trends, you still have an inflationary factor that's going to drive up loss costs on a go forward basis, even if there's no movements year-over-year and frequency.

And when you add to that the fact that a lot of the increase on the physical damage side of the line is driven, and also it influences PB liability, is driven by the increased cost of repairing vehicles, because of all of this advanced technology. That's not going to slow down, because the fleets continue to turn over, model years continue to turn over, and the percentage of vehicles on the road that have advanced technology and sensors and therefore are higher cost to repair. We don't assume that's going to stop. So our expectation is that we need more [indiscernible] (00:46:57) in our book, but our expectation is when you look at industry performance and assume just normal loss cost inflation going forward more aid is needed for the overall industry, and that's the stance we're taking on this line.

Okay. Great. Maybe sticking with auto, but to commercial auto you guys mentioned your telematics offering. Just curious if you think your agent partners like – it's kind of – this is different than what they're used to offering. Are they acceptive of – you think could be acceptive of telematics for a commercial auto because it seems like commercial auto is right for it given the industry's issues. But I don't know if the drivers or the agents want to push for telematics?

Yeah. Thanks, Mike. This is John again. So I would say our agents are excited about this. And as one point of clarification this product that we offer Selective Drive is not used for purposes of rating individual accounts. What we have here from an agent's perspective is a value-added product now that they can go out and offer to their customer that helps them better manage their organization, better manage their fleet not just from a safety perspective, [indiscernible] (00:48:22) benefits are clear on the safety side. But it also helps them in terms of logistics management understanding where their vehicles are at any point in time and to the extent they need to redirect vehicles to a job opportunity or a delivery opportunity, wherever it might be. They now are getting real time information about where their vehicles are, in addition to how they're being operated.

In terms of a loss benefit side of it, there's no question. If anybody's unhappy about this program or be the individual driver whose behavior is now being more closely monitored. But the business owner and the agent will get enormous value out of this and I think that's how they are viewing it and it's a real value added service offering.

Yeah. And I think, just to touch on that, I mean little bit also remember the type of book that we write, Mike which is you know contracting, it's manufacturing, and understand that we're not right along all, that's where the driver shortage is, that's where a lot of the push back could be where a driver turnover is high, you're talking about the two larger fleets that we dumped this in it's being landscapers. These were large fleets of – now that business owner knows where all their vehicles are, those fuel utilization can monitor and measure that, but also get an understanding and to beat on.

So this is a win, win. As a matter of fact, from a customer standpoint, we always are trying to find ways to measure what I'll call housekeeping. There's a level of risk management whether it's keeping their vehicles well serviced, keeping our employees well-paid, doing all the right things. I view this as another item that they could add in to better manage their business, but then also get a handle on all those distracted driving and all the other things that are happening in the marketplace.

So this is something that I clearly put in the square of increase in switching cost as one of our end customers has this product. You know it makes a little bit more difficult for them to move to another carrier that does not offer this type of product and also understand many of our customers are paying for this service now to other services that are provided.

Okay interesting. It sounds promising. Moving to the expense ratio the improvement has been – you guys have talked to the initiatives and it's been coming through clearly. If we're thinking about into 2019, is it fair to assume that the improvement will level off?

Yes. Mike. It's Mark Wilcox. Obviously, I'd say that's probably a good assumption going into 2019. As you've seen on the expense ratio aside, it was down about 140 basis points on a comparative quarter basis. Now both pointing towards the yet to day results. What was that, it's about 120 basis points, the 33%. You might remember the guidance we set forth, [indiscernible] (00:51:20) was for about 80 basis points of expense ratio improvement, so that was our expectations going into 2019. One element of the expense ratio improvement this year that I would expect to be sort of quite non-recurring, is the profit based element of the expense ratio.

So with the full-year guidance at 96% that was above our target when we went into the year of 94.5%. So we've seen about, and I mentioned in it my prepared comments about 50 basis points of reduction in the profit-based element of the expense ratio. So that leads to about 70 basis points of expense ratio improvement year-to-date. So some of that will probably unwind.

Going into 2019, it's suffice to say we're very focused on expense ratios, very focused on continue to drive operational efficiency throughout the organization and managing the expense ratio in the context of all the other niches that we spoke about, including the geo expansion and the significant investments we're making in underwriting technology and on the customer experience.

Okay, great. And one last one just to clarify, and I can read over the transcript too, but the non-cap whether, I thought you said it was above expectations. If you can clarify if that is correct in which segments, and is it a kind of 1 point or 2 points above?

Yeah, I mentioned that in my comments my – for the quarter we were about 140 basis points above expectations for the third quarter of 2018.

And that was our Commercial Lines mostly?

Commercial and personal, both.

That's commercial and personal both. We look at it kind of on the overall book of business, and then hits the commercial property both in – to some extent [indiscernible] (00:53:06) as well. So some of the physical damage [indiscernible] (00:53:10) but for the most part it hits the property book within, Commercial Lines and then Personal Lines as well.

Okay. Great. Thanks for all the insights.

A – [008317-E Mark Wilcox]>: Thank you. Operator, any..........

Yes sir, thank you. Our next question comes from Scott Heleniak from RBC Capital Markets. Sir, your line is open.

Good morning, Scott.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks. You guys mentioned in there really heightened competition in Commercial Lines. I was just wondering is that – are you seeing that more evident in particular either account size or industry class and are you seeing that pretty much across the board? Are there few select players? Wondering if you could flush it out a little bit. And then, along those lines, you're also referring to kind of more aggressive behavior or the examples you gave about credits or higher commissions and that being heightened competition that you're talking about.

Scott, this is John. Thanks for the question. And I would say, it's always more acute at the large end of the market, but I would say competition on new business has gotten fairly acute up and down the spectrum. And the comments that Greg was making, I think were specific to workers' comp and I think, completely accurate which is that's a line that despite the reported results, we think are running fairly close to target for us and the industry. But yet you've seen significant increases in commissions across the board that had historically been the lowest commission line for the industry and you're seeing companies raising base commissions and putting the short-term incentives in place that are five or more points above standard commissions to drive new business and you're seeing aggressive pricing especially on small, lower hazard worker's comp business from a number of competitors out in the marketplace.

And again, we think there's opportunities for us to grow new business overall and what we're going to do so with the same underwriting and pricing discipline that we've always exhibited and that we continue to exhibit on our renewal portfolio. Unfortunately it's harder to measure underwriting quality and pricing quality on new business accounts, we think we do a pretty good job of it that we think in many cases we're competing against players who don't really attempt to measure quality and the pricing aggressiveness of the new business and then have to deal with it as part of the renewal portfolio and that's a dynamic that we're seeing out there right now.

Okay. Thanks. And then on E&S, just, is it fair to say that a lot of the new business that you generated this quarter was from the new distribution relationship. Would you expect that that kind of revenue trend to continue and would you also look for other opportunities to announce different kind of partnerships just like the one you did as you sort of remix this business?

So, Scott, this is John again. A couple of answers there. You know clearly the reestablish relationship that we had for a number of years and then left because of a change in ownership and as now come back, I would view that from your perspective as more of a book transfer. We're there now moving the business to a few other partners from the paper that used to be written on that's within our appetite. It's similar to the business we write. I wouldn't really characterize it as a program and because it's a book transfer that is going to be – that won't have an impact in the near-term, but I will settle into more of a normal run rate just like every other agency would once they establish the core book of business they're going to move over upon appointment. But beside that we continue to add locations to our wholesale distribution plant within E&S where it makes sense for us on a geographic basis and we will continue to do that going forward. But it's a small book of business. This was a bigger relationship that impacted the quarter. We don't necessarily think of our growth rates at that kind of level continuing.

All right. Okay. That's helpful. And then just one last one, wondering if you could talk about just in general your construction and contractors book, I know you dial that back a few years ago and I'm sure it's obviously benefiting from a better economy. So I'm just wondering if you can touch on that book, how it's performing, and if you've seen any impact yet from higher interest rates on that book or anything else you can share?

Yeah. This is John again. We've always been a great contractors market. And just to clarify one of your points, I wouldn't describe us dialing it back a few years ago. We've been growing that segment. We've just been growing other segments historically a little bit of a faster clip. That's a segment that did get hit particularly hard back in the 2008 to 2010 timeframe, when the recession hit. But it's also been benefiting of late by higher growth as the housing market and construction opportunities have continued to run from an economic perspective at a pretty good clip.

Our book of business in that segment continues to be predominantly artisan contractors, small and mid-sized artisan contractors that bring a heavier casualty focus. So it's really GL and commercial auto driven, which in a lot of our footprint we view it as a big advantage for us in terms of how we manage our aggregations to property exposure. So we continue to see good economic growth there and we continue to really like that business and we'll continue to be focused on growing it. But we want to maintain a balanced portfolio and continue to write some of those other segments that we've had a lot of success right in as well.

And I'll just add to that. What surprises me on that book is the fact that our audit premium has not started to elevate over prior years relative to just trying to find a contractor in any market right now relative to getting things done. So the construction seems like it's fairly equivalent, that's something we had a very close eye on audit premium, make sure that we don't get into a situation where we get behind in audit premium. So, that's an area that we have a very close focus on as well.

But overall, we're comfortable with the profitability in that book. We don't put out combined ratios by SBU, but that's a book that really is a significant part of our overall commercial portfolio and is requested from that level profitability.

Is there any state you feel like you're a little bit overweight in compared to the other states obviously in the mid-Atlantic or bigger states but is there other states that...?

Our largest state obviously is New Jersey represents approximately 20% of our premium. I think you know you've heard us over the years, Scott, methodically talk about trying to get better diversification across the country that's why when we first stated E&S segmentation that was principally a casualty book, about 75/25 casualty property. It gave us diversification across the country and then as we started to migrate now in Arizona, Colorado, Utah, New Mexico eventually looking at the Northwest as well. You know that changes the catastrophic kind of exposure that we have and gives us a little bit more diversification as well. So, we've always been focused on diversification. We always try to manage our northeast wind or even southeast wind exposure and that's something that I feel we do an excellent job as an organization.

And Scott, just to clarify, were you talking overall geographic mix or contractor specifically?

Well, I was talking about contractors specifically but if there's anything else, it sounds like you're doing that across the board and that's that contractor is just one part of it?

Yes. We are.

Right. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Bob Farnam from Boenning & Scattergood. Sir, your line is open.

Thanks. Just a couple of questions. One is the other or alternative investment income. Just any details in there what types of investments generated that solid $7.2 million performance?

Yeah. Bob this is Mark Wilcox here. We've looked at our alternative investment portfolio in a couple different categories, one of which is the legacy portfolio versus the new kind of the newer commitment that was made post 2015. We did have one investment and that is related investment in the legacy portfolio that had a very strong income quarter in the third quarter that drove about, it was about $1.7 million. So that was part of the reason for that the increase. But overall when you look at the legacy portfolio versus the new commitments about, call it about $4 million of the $7.2 million came from new commitments, about $3.2 million came from the legacy commitments. So then within legacy half came from one relatively large investment that we've made a number of years ago.

Okay. Thanks Mark. And I think question for John, in your commentary you're talking about the take up on the digital platform but a small businesses. And I just wanted to know are you talking – are they going direct or the business owners making coverage decisions on their own, like I'm trying to get a feel for what types of businesses are doing that and how the process actually works?

Yes. Great question. And just to clarify, we're generally talking about non-coverage decisions here. What we – the digital take-up rates we're referring to are mostly around active utilization of our self-service platform and our self-service platform in addition to getting policies and bills on a digital delivery basis the self-service platform allows customers to access information about their accounts real time, but also to initiate basic transactions with regard to adding or deleting vehicles or getting auto ID cards or getting certificates of insurance on a commercial line side. But to the extent those need to be underwritten or produced by an agency, personal license agent that's handled traditionally. This is just a portal for them. It's not a new business acquisition and they're not making coverage changes on their own. We still have either one of our license professionals in the service center or the agency personnel who is a licensed individual to complete those transactions like they always would.

Okay. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify that because – that's what I figured was going to be the case. I didn't think that they're making the coverage decisions on their own, but I just wanted to verify that so.

Yeah. But at the same time we're also trying to continue to find ways to eliminate the need for that human interaction in instances where it's not adding value and only have that interaction where it's adding value, so more self-service all the way through. But when the coverage issues come up, that's something that definitely we'll involve a professional.

Okay. Thanks for your time.

Operator, any other questions on the line?

[Operator Instructions]

Operator if there is no further questions then we'll conclude the call, right now.

Yes. There's no questions in the queue.

All right. Thank you very much for participating in the call. If you have any other follow-up items, please contact Mark or Rohan. Thank you very much.

And that concludes today's conference, thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.