Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gary Klein — CFO, Sequential Brands Group, Inc.
Yehuda R. Shmidman — CEO, Sequential Brands Group, Inc.
Andrew Cooper — President, Sequential Brands Group, Inc.
Camilo Lyon — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Erinn E. Murphy — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co.
Steven L. Marotta — Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc.
David Michael King — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Bryan Caronia — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
David Buckley — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you and good morning. Before we begin I'd like to bring to your attention that statements that are not historical facts contained in this conference call are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict and many of which are beyond the control of the company.

This may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to materially differ from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. We refer you to our public filings and the press release we issued this morning for a summary of such factors. The words believe, anticipate, expect, may, will, should, estimate, project, plan, confident or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.

Listeners are cautioned to not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which may speak only as of the date the statement was made. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as a result of information, future events or otherwise.

Additionally, the terms adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are all non-GAAP metrics and reconciliation tables for each can be found in the press release distributed today in the Investor Relations portion of our website, www.sequentialbrandsgroup.com.

I will now turn the conference call over to Gary Klein, Chief Financial Officer of Sequential Brands Group. Mr. Klein, you may begin when you're ready.

Good morning and thank you for joining Sequential's fourth quarter and full year 2016 earnings conference call. I'm joined this morning by CEO Yehuda Schmidman, and President Andrew Cooper. I'll start by reviewing results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2016 and then turn the call over to Yehuda.

Total revenue for the fourth quarter increased 44% to $45.4 million compared to $31.4 million in the prior year's quarter. On a GAAP basis, net loss was $1 million for the fourth quarter of 2016, or $0.02 per diluted share compared to a loss of $5.7 million or $0.12 per diluted share from the prior-year period.

On a non-GAAP basis, net income for the quarter was $7.3 million or $0.12 per diluted share compared to $11 million or $0.23 per diluted share in the prior-year period, which included a non-cash benefit of $4.4 million or $0.09 per share related to taxes.

Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter 2016 was $24.2 million compared to $11.3 million in the prior year's quarter. Total revenue for the full year ended December 31, 2016 increased 76% to $155 million compared to $88.3 million in the prior year. On a GAAP basis, net loss was $0.8 million for the full year or $0.01 per diluted share compared to a loss of $2.9 million or $0.07 per diluted share in the prior year.

On a non-GAAP basis, net income for the full year 2016 was $21 million or $0.33 per diluted share compared to $20.6 million or $0.48 per diluted share in 2015. Adjusted EBITDA for 2016 was $83.1 million compared to $53.4 million in the prior year. We ended 2016 with approximately $640 million of net debt and we do not have any significant debt maturities over the next five years.

In addition, with interest rates starting to rise, we hedged $500 million of our debt by capping our LIBOR rate at 1.5%. We also ended the year with approximately $20.6 million of cash including restricted cash. Our cash flow from operating activities as reflected on the GAAP cash flow statement increased $43 million versus negative $5.9 million in the prior-year period. Approximately $30 million of this year-on-year increase was driven by changes in balance sheet items, which improved from negative $21.8 million last year to positive $8 million this year.

Changes in the balance sheet items will fluctuate from year-to-year depending on our company's organic growth and acquisition-related strategies. Given the year-on-year variability of those items, we focus on our adjusted free cash flow, which we believe more accurately reflects the cash profile of our underlying licensing business.

Adjusted free cash flow is calculated as adjusted EBITDA minus cash interest, cash taxes and capital expenditures and excludes both changes in balance sheet items and acquisition-related and other costs not related to our core licensing business. For 2016, our adjusted free cash flow was $34.3 million. Also of note, the average bad debt for the revenue that we have reported over the last four years is less than 1%.

For the full year 2017, we now expect revenue to be in the range of $170 million to $175 million and adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $98 million to $102 million, which Yehuda will take you through in just a moment.

Our contractual guarantee minimum royalties for 2017 are approximately $120 million or approximately two-thirds of our projected revenue. Similar to our historical results, we expect for 2017 – we expect revenue for 2017 to be weighted to the back half of the year given the natural seasonality of our businesses and many of our licensees.

As a result, we expect our revenues in the first half of the year will closely be in line with our minimum guaranteed revenues with overages being recognized in the second half of the year. For the full year 2017, we continue to expect to generate $42 million to $46 million of adjusted free cash flow and expect to pay down $28 million of debt.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Yehuda.

Thank you, and good morning to everyone joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2016 earnings call. Revenue for the full year 2016 was up 76% over the prior year. Organic growth was 5% and strength in the portfolio was most prominent with Avia, GAIAM, Jessica Simpson, Joe's, Heelys and Martha Stewart.

These results for full year 2016 were in line with the low-end of our guidance, but below our goal of high single-digit organic growth, reflecting the challenging retail landscape that our licensees operate in.

Overall 2016 was a productive year for our company. From an M&A standpoint, we completed the integration of one of the largest acquisitions in our industry, namely the Martha Stewart business. We acquired and integrated to GAIAM yoga and wellness business and most importantly we put into action the following organization growth initiatives.

We launched the Martha Stewart brand at Staples, we launched the Martha Stewart brand in Canada at Hudson's Bay and we also launched a new Martha Stewart meal-kit business with Marley Spoon. We commenced distributing Martha Stewart products on Alibaba in China. We signed a new partnership for Martha Stewart in South Korea. We premiered a new TV show called Martha & Snoop's Potluck Dinner on VH1, which has already been renewed for Season 2.

Martha was featured in a T-Mobile commercial on Super Bowl and continues to be the quote queen of Facebook Live. We also premiered the new show of Eat the World with Emeril Lagasse on Amazon. We expanded our AND1 brand internationally to Canada and we also expanded the AND1 brand to China.

We launched a new category of sporting goods for AND1. We launched the new category of active wear for the Jessica Simpson brand. We expanded the Joe's brand with a new launch of women's handbags, and we also expanded distribution of William Rast nationwide.

With 2016 behind us and as we look ahead to 2017, we believe it is prudent to adjust our outlook for the year to $170 million to $175 million of revenue and $98 million to $102 million of adjusted EBITDA. Our updated projections for the full year reflect low to mid-single digit organization growth. These estimates are reflective of the disappointing results reported by a number of U.S. retailers and the current outlook for traditional brick-and-mortar in more retailers in general.

Nonetheless, we continue to believe that our business model provides advantages that enable us to weather the macro challenges. Specifically we have the ability to drive positive growth by adding new licensees for our brands and by driving sales with high growth retailers and high growth ecommerce partners.

In this regard, we have a robust pipeline of new business opportunities and initiatives currently underway for 2017, and the roadmap that we have in place to achieve our updated forecast, which we believe will position us for future growth.

Now diving in deeper to a few of those revenue initiatives already underway for 2017. First, we announced this morning a new multiyear direct retail partnership for the Martha Stewart brand with Michaels, North America's largest arts and crafts company. As part of the partnership beginning this fall 2017, Martha Stewart Crafts will be available through Michaels retail stores and online at michaels.com. Crafting is a growing industry in the U.S. and a core element of the Martha Stewart brand DNA, which we believe will develop over time into a material business for the company.

We're also pleased to report that Macy's has renewed its license for the Martha Stewart brand for multiple years at substantially similar terms to our current agreement. Martha Stewart is one of the largest home brands at Macy's and we're excited to continue our long-standing partnership, which provides a strong base for the brand in our core home business with sizable GMRs. It also provides us with an opportunity to continue to build around that base with other retailers in different categories.

Other notable highlights include the launch of a new category of bath vanities at The Home Depot for the Martha Stewart brand, which we believe will complement our successful kitchen program. And in addition we are currently working with The Home Depot on a number of other category expansions.

In our Fashion division, we unveiled a new ad campaign for our Joe's brand, starring top model and social media influencer Taylor Hill. And we announced multiple new categories for the lifestyle brand including footwear and intimate apparel. For Jessica Simpson, we are working on a new beauty initiative, along with a number of other exciting initiatives throughout our portfolio, which we expect to be actionable this year.

In our Active division, we are broadening the distribution of the GAIAM hard goods business further into the drug store channel and we are focused on expanding distribution across the board for our apparel business. Additionally our recent additions of core programs for Avia, such as underwear and socks, continue to gain market share in Wal-Mart stores nationwide and we expect that to continue throughout the year in 2017.

Big picture as we think about our strategy going forward, we are laser-focused on growing our core business through revenue initiatives. We are focused on optimizing our expense structure and we are focused on improving our balance sheet. For revenue initiatives our focus continues to be in, number one, gaining e-commerce market share, and number two, in international growth.

E-commerce is even more important today as U.S. consumers continue to shift from in-store to online. We want to be able to capture that share and have already made headway. Our total e-commerce business is up 13% from last year driven by our Amazon business, which is up 60% year-on-year. We forged a relationship with Alibaba last year and we are very close to announcing another key partnership as well.

And we have made significant developments as well internationally, with the Martha Stewart brand in South Korea, which launches this year and with AND1 in Canada and in China and we'll soon be announcing another partnership to bring AND1 into another new and growing geography outside the United States.

On the expense side, we are pleased to announce today that we recently signed a favorable multi-year lease extension for our corporate headquarters. Resolving this has been a top priority for our team as we discussed on our third quarter call. Under the agreement we have a reduced footprint, which results in approximately $4 million of annual savings for us beginning in 2018 based on the combination of direct lease savings and related cost reductions.

This is a long-term structural fix to our SG&A and a significant step in our broader ongoing efforts to further reduce expenses and improve our margins. Furthermore, we signed an agreement to sub-lease a portion of our headquarter space to our operating partner in the Martha & Marley Spoon meal-kit business.

And third, as it relates to our balance sheet, the primary use of our free cash flow this year will be towards debt pay down. As Gary mentioned in his remarks we're anticipating about $42 million to $46 million of free cash flow this year, and $28 million of that will go to principle repayment.

We have terrific lenders who have helped us complete our previous acquisitions, but when we think about the go-forward balance sheet, we believe there is opportunity in early 2018 to significantly reduce that cost of debt, which could provide an additional $10 million to $15 million per annum of free cash flow.

All-in-all we're coming out of a productive 2016 and we're approaching this year, 2017, with achievable growth projections in the face of strong headwinds from the retail landscape and tailwinds from our unique business model and strong brand portfolio. As we look ahead, we're excited about the initiatives we have in the pipeline and have a laser-focused strategy to execute going forward.

Thank you for all joining us today and thank you for your continued support. I'll now turn over the line to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] . Our first question is from Camilo Lyon of Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Good morning everyone. How are you?

Good morning.

So Yehuda you talked about the challenges in retail and that's clear, everyone is facing similar headwinds. I was hoping you could delve into, remind us what your online penetration is and what is expected for the online and in-store growth relative to the guidance that you've laid out.

Just what I want to dig into is and understand how you were able to shift more of your business to the online channel, seemingly getting a lot of the traffic and a lot of the growth relative to the bigger piece of the business that is exposed to doors and traffic. And understanding how the offset there works relative to being able to ramp up the online piece?

Sure, sure, and that is, Camilo, a key focus for us because there's no question that that customer is shifting and we want to make sure to capture as much of that market share as possible. So to answer your question, e-commerce today as a total percentage for 2016 ended the year just over 8% of total sales. That was up about 13% year-over-year when comparing 2016 to 2015.

Most notably though in those numbers, our Amazon business was up 60%, so that was really the big driver of the growth within e-comm. And I think when you look at our total business we have a foundation of many different customers in terms of retail outlets of where our 200 licensees sell.

But when you think about clearly that department store channel, which is challenged, and you think about store closures which are taking place now across the board, we have to shift that market share even faster into 2017 and 2018 and 2019. So when we're now thinking about low to mid-single digit organic growth for this year versus our prior long-term goals of high single-digit, we're factoring that shift taking place. And the ability to sort of shift that even faster than that is what really we're hoping to accomplish.

Is there something that you can do to -- with the brands to have a more of a direct presence online, is there something that prohibits you from the way that the model is structured from doing that. Or can you start to elevate that, the brand more directly with the consumers that's clearly a piece of the business that's gaining momentum for many brands in the space?

Yes, no, I think interestingly I think in our model it's sort of the opposite where we really have a -- rather than being prohibitive I think there is really the ability to really capture that market share faster because we're not weighed down by sort of legacy, anchored issues that a typical operating company might have in terms of dealing with leases in malls without traffic and items of that nature.

So more specifically when we think about our business and if you think about those leading digital retailers, you think about of course Amazon, but you think about Wal-Mart's digital presence which is growing rapidly and we have a strong Wal-Mart business with AND1 and Avia. You think about our other digital businesses, whether that's homedepot.com with our Martha Stewart business. If you think about our macys.com business, which is growing nicely.

So in the aggregate there is a lot of opportunity for us. It's really about how fast we can make sure to capture that, get our products up there, make sure we're promoting the products up there, driving content that we create here, content from our brands, have that as part of the conversion process. And I think if we do all those things, that e-commerce percentage will continue to grow and it will become an even larger part of our business.

Okay. And then just finally how do we think about -- relative to your guidance how do we think about what the in-store component of – what the assumptions are around the in-store component of your business? So if we're thinking low to mid-single digital organic growth with a piece of that comprising online, are you thinking any growth within the bricks-and-mortar piece of your business or are there declines baked into that outlook?

Yes, so for the businesses that are -I think as you're describing that are tied to in-store locations that are experiencing difficulties in their general store base, we're planning them accordingly whether that requires flat planning or even slight down planning if need be.

But what allows us to, on a relative basis, outperform the overall growth rates, right, to achieve 5% last year, while that was not what we had hoped for, we had hoped for high single-digit last year; but even to achieve high single-digit last year, I look forward to achieve low to mid this year.

What we're baking in is the combination of e-commerce growth on top of the store assumptions. We're baking in new category growth, many of which those new categories are already announced and underway. We're baking in new geographical growth in the International segment of our business. And so it's really the ability to leverage the brands. How far can you take the brands beyond this sort of quote four walls of any given store?

Got it I'll turn it over to others in the queue. Thanks good luck, keep it up.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Erinn Murphy of Piper Jeffrey. Please go ahead.

Great Thanks. Good morning. I guess I wanted to focus first on the guidance, could you just maybe bracket what the biggest changes either from a business momentum perspective as you got into fourth quarter, just visibility that have led you to the guide down, I mean I recognize the challenges out there broadly. But are there one or two either brands that decelerated for you guys or just particular accounts that just weren't what you anticipated that made the guidance change kind of on this last quarter?

Sure, sure, so maybe it's easiest to start with 2016, as we think about how the year finally ended and when everything was fully tallied net-net, when we looked at the final sales analysis. The standouts we have called out earlier on the call, but the weak ones we would point to would be Ellen Tracy and Revo, which ended up in a weaker sales place than we had anticipated.

And we think about that and as we head into 2017, we are thinking that 2017 will be anchored in strength by the core brands, that includes AND1 and Avia at Wal-Mart, that includes Martha Stewart, that include Heelys, includes GAIAM, includes a number of other brands.

But when we are thinking about the general sort of exposure to especially that department store channel, but other just sort real based brick-and-mortar stores that maybe don't have as much online growth just yet, or are announcing store closures coming off of the 2016 numbers and looking at that in total, led us to say that we ought to adjust for this year and just make sure that we're in a place where we're 100% comfortable, and I can say to that okay, we are coming off of 2016, here is what was strong, here is what was weak, now how do we continue to perform in 2017. All the while managing expenses to ensure that our margins are strong, and then at the end of the day coming out and putting those right growth initiative securely in place for the future.

Okay, that's helpful. I guess that kind of leads to my next question. So of that 5% growth, brands above, in line or below that 5% organic growth of last year. I mean obviously you just said Ellen Tracy and Revo clearly sounded like they were below, how do you split out kind of the best performers, were there any that were meaningfully above that 5%?

Yes. The ones that really drove the organic overall, and really the standouts for the entire year, would be Avia, Heelys, Martha Stewart, the GAIAM business was terrific. And just looking at all those pieces coming together, and you think about the account basis, the Wal-Mart business was very strong. There was a lot of strength in 2016 and 2016 was a productive and eventful year for us; completing the integration of Martha Stewart business, completing the acquisition of GAIAM. Many different new initiatives put in place in 2016, but I think if you are just speaking directly to the organic growth and the 5% those would be the brands that most stood out on top.

Okay. And then on Avia and AND1, with their exposure Wal-Mart, are you concerned at all or are you kind of risking the guidance for 2017 with potential further destocking of apparel and just the stock lines category in general in 2017, how are you thinking about that account?

Yes, we participated in the Wal-Mart Annual Growth Summit just a couple of weeks ago with their top suppliers and I will tell you, we feel really energized about them in general and about our businesses there. I think, if you take a look at the floor space right now, you will see that we've introduced categories that have grown in market share space that we had talked about even a year ago.

So for example, if you look at the AND1 business and you start to see the basics categories around underwear or around socks, those have been standout performers. You look on the Avia side and you see some of the apparel, it's looking really good. So the new category of sporting goods into AND1, the basketballs and the like, you could see. So we actually feel really energized about Wal-Mart and they are a terrific partner, our brands are solid and we're excited about that account.

Okay. And then just last question from me. Last quarter you talked about kind of an incremental $5 million of investment that you were going to be phasing in this year. Can you just remind us kind of where you're at with progress of some of these strategic investments? And then on your lowered sales guidance, I recognize organic growth is now lower than you thought, but what are you assuming for the return of some of these investments to the top line? Thanks.

Sure, so the one I'll, Erinn, I'll comment on most in that regard is International, because the additional investments and where we are focusing our resources in large part of course are around organic growth and that includes a big drive for e-commerce, which we have touched on. But at this point maybe I'll comment on International to give you the full picture.

When it comes to International, our business, where it's been strong to date and continues to be has been predominantly from Heelys. We had talked about the addition of AND1 into Wal-Mart Canada, we've talked about Martha Stewart launching this year in South Korea. But we've also really just begun to see traction with people like Alibaba where we launched products on Singles' Day in November 2016 and continued our products there. And we're looking to grow that.

We have a new partnership in AND1 with a new geography in Latin America that we haven't yet announced in terms of the specifics, but we will shortly. And we have other new International deal flow in the pipeline. So I think if you combine the International growth that we have in front of us, with the e-commerce growth in front of us that's where we're looking to see ROI from those investments. And a lot of ROI by the way we believe will continue to pay out ahead of – outside of this year into 2018 and future years as those businesses grow.

Got it, thank you guys. I'll let someone else jump in.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Marotta of CL King. Please go ahead.

Morning.

Good morning Yehuda, Gary, and Andrew. Regarding the square foot office reduction, could you talk about what the reduction is on a gross basis. What was it before and I think its 68,000 square feet now. And the $4 million in savings, I'm assuming that includes both that net reduction as well as the incremental associated with the sublease.

That's correct, I think you said 68,000 square foot, the number is 63,000 square foot in the...

Excuse me, [indiscernible] (28:42), I was working from memory.

No problem, this is Andrew, in the renewals and that's down from 150,000 square feet on the main floor and a total of 170,000 square feet in the building, so a significant decrease. What was the second part of the question?

That the $4 million in savings is not only from that reduction in square footage but also...

Yes, correct, right. So right. So our total expense if you look at the direct lease plus related cost reduction is going to reduce from about $9 million to $5 million, starting in 2018 on an annualized basis. And that includes the sublease as well as the main lease.

And, Yehuda, you mentioned, just for a point of clarity, e-commerce was 8% penetration in fiscal 2016, that also includes traditional e-commerce channels, like the macys.com and the walmarts.com not just e-com only.

Yeah, Steve, you're completely correct. And the way we think about that is that for us, e-commerce sales will come from three basic places. That will be the biggest, which is the large distribution channels that have our brands and have relatively strong traffic. The Amazons, the macys.com. We have been starting with Marley Spoon for example with these direct commerce standalone businesses, that would be the second area. And the third would be our branded sites, which are licensed where you could buy products directly from say joesjeans.com. [indiscernible]

(30:30) and that was you just stole a little thunder, I was going to ask about Jessica Simpson, I believe that launched last year. Could you give us an update on the progress there and where that is to plan?

Sure. Sure, So on the third bucket which includes the Jessica Simpson, that has been the slowest for us and has been the toughest. Joe's Jean is actually the best of the direct sites that we have. Jessica Simpson not – as a direct site, not as strong. And the reason for that is not – the brand, because the brand overall was, I should have called it out earlier and I believe I did in the prepared remarks, was actually a standout for 2016 as a total organic growth driver.

But in the business model of getting licensees to operate standalone sites, we have not yet seen that be a material driver. And that I think relates to more who the partner is and what the exact business model, and we have different partners that run jessicasimpson.com versus joesjeans.com. So we've got to sort that out on our side, but what I would say is there is a real opportunity for that jessicasimpson.com to be strong over time, just as we think for all of our brands actually.

So I think just sort of recapping it, the number one priority in digital for us has got to be Amazon and all the digital sites of our big partners, that's number one. Number two is businesses like a Marley Spoon where it's pure play direct e-commerce. And then number three are the sites, such as the ones we were just describing.

That's great. My last question just pertains to China, can you talk a little bit about where, and I am sure it's very low, but where the penetration is now? Are there opportunities to sign exclusive agreement with Alibaba vis-à-vis some of your brands? And where you would expect, we're talking a year from now, to be with that particular geography?

Yeah, China is an enormous opportunity, there is no question. The partner that we're working with, GRN is name of the partner that we're working on AND1 with is incredibly resourceful and has big plans for the brand, and we are excited about that. We possibly may even look at other opportunities with them as a partnership. So, that's sort of one category of opportunity. And there are other partners like GRN we are speaking with for other brands.

And then the Alibaba , as you touched on, is a gigantic opportunity for anybody that works with them. I believe they say that they are in the middle of close to $0.5 trillion in retail transactions. We absolutely want to make sure our brands are featured there, we want to work with all the correct channels and partners that they have to make that happen successfully.

As I mentioned, we had started with Martha Stewart products on Singles' Day in November and that was extremely successful, even though it was small quantities, everything we had put on did sell-out. And we've continue to put new products on there.

So, I think Alibaba to us is an Amazon-like opportunity as it relates to Asia. And it's about developing it and working with the right people over there to make that happen. But ultimately they have the conversion. So, it's a big one.

Very helpful, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dave King with ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Morning.

I guess, maybe first off sticking with the Jessica Simpson brand. Yehuda, you mentioned beauty I think is a new category there, I guess what else can you tell us about that, when you expect it to launch, how material do you think it could be, I guess any other color would be helpful. Thank you.

Yes, sure. So, Dave, the brand, just for context, the brand overall has been a star for us since we acquired it, which was in the beginning of, I guess it was the very end of Q1 of 2015. So we're approximately two years in, let say. She has been a great partner, the licensees are terrific and overall the – as we've always talked about with that brand, it's about using our playbook.

So, beauty is one step of the playbook in terms of new category introduction. When we introduced the active wear category in the past year, which included the cover of Women's Health where Jessica was featured with over a dozen-page spread in there, and great retail placement, we've been of course thinking about the pipeline of new ideas.

So, there is a Jessica Simpson fragrance which exists. Complementing that, we see beauty opportunities around that in other like categories. And of course the whole beauty world has – seems to be exploding of late. So, if you can just imagine in the world of skin and wellness where that could go, that's sort of what we're thinking.

Okay, that's helpful. Thanks for the color there. And then what can you tell us about the new agreement with Macy's, how does the royalty rate or minimum compare to the prior agreement. How long did you renew it for? And then I guess more importantly to be clear, did that renewal have any effect on the guidance at all?

No. So, it didn't have an effect as it has to do with the future. It's a favorable renewal for both parties. We're really excited about it. In terms of the terms, they're all substantially the same as prior. Macy's is a strong partner. The brand is a strong – one of the largest in the entire Macy's in terms of home. What Jeff Gennette, Tim Baxter, [indiscernible] (36:00) and the entire executive team there is doing, we are excited about.

And in terms of the actual terms beyond that, we're subject to confidentiality around that. But to answer your question in terms of what we can say it is a multiyear agreement, substantially similar terms. And we see market share growth potential within Macy's, obviously the door count is changing there, that's old news. But what you will begin to see and have seen over the last year already with the introduction of home fragrance and other programs is an opportunity to continue to gain share within the box and within of course macys.com, which is growing steadily.

Okay, fantastic. And then in terms of the interest rate cap you just put in place, what does that mean for refinancing plans this year? Are you still planning to refinance some of your debt? How are you thinking about interest expense or interest cost for 2017 in particular, I guess any color there would be helpful.

Hey, Dave, it's Gary. So as far as – yes, we've put in an interest rate cap of 1.5%, one reason we chose that instrument is because it is very easy to get out of at the end of it, it's not a hedge where you have to unwind anything. So that will not be a [ph] gating factor to us refinancing (37:19) anything.

The interest rate for this year again has a weighted average of approximately 8%, we are going to begin looking at strategies to refinance to hopefully bring down our rates I'd say approximately hopefully 2%. And that 2% again on $600 million of debt could yield about $10 million to $15 million of cash flow benefit.

Okay, fantastic. And then maybe speaking of free cash flow, the $42 million to $46 million that you guys are effectively guiding to, that leaves probably $14 million to $18 million of delta versus the $28 million of principle amortization. I guess what keeps you from paying down that further than that, are the prepayment penalties too onerous, are there other areas that you are planning to invest that that would make a lot of sense. What can you share about those other areas? I guess I'm just curious why not pay down debt a little bit more significantly if you could. But what's keeping – there might be some things in place to keep you from doing that. So any color there would also be helpful. Thanks.

So you are correct, Dave, yes, on the more [ph] expensive (38:26) second lien debt there are prepayment penalties, we can pay down debt to the second lien, but again it has to be from an equity offering, so that's not what those [ph] proceeds (38:38) are. So yes we put it on the balance sheet and we are constantly evaluating what's the best use for that cash.

Okay, thanks for taking all my questions and good luck with 2017.

Thank you, Dave.

Thank you. The next question is from Eric Beder of Wunderlich Securities. Please go ahead.

Yes, good morning, everyone, this is Bryan Caronia on for Eric.

Morning.

Good morning. So the first question we had is that given your updated guidance and the touch points you gave in terms of your 2017 outlook factoring in the low single-digit to mid-single digit organic growth compared to that high single-digit we had certainly been talking about in the past, can you describe what you're thinking of in terms of your long-term organic growth opportunity?

Do you see that effectively with the weakness in the brick-and-mortar segment in the domestic retail market sort of mitigating or capping the organic growth potential across your brand portfolio or is there opportunity as you expand more into e-commerce, and certainly into additional regions and into additional product categories that the organic growth trend could restart and re-reach that level or just sort of how you look at it further from 2017?

Yes, it's a great question because these are very unique times that we're living through right now in terms of what is shifting within the retail landscape. And again as we've talked a lot about we think we're in a unique position around that. But to your point, the question of what are the long-term growth rates versus the current growth rates is a very, very interesting question.

So while we can't put out long-term range numbers at this time, what I will tell you is our hope is that this a temporary effect of headwinds which are happening in the macro environment. And as we get further placement into places that include Amazon and others that are high growth and that are capturing of share, we have an ability to continue to drive our brands in the high single-digit range, that was always, as you are correct, our goal.

And so tempering that to be relative to market today, where we still feel our rate is on the one hand exceeding the overall retail sales growth rate and many of the customers of our licensees. On the other hand, it's still not what our goal was, our goal was to be single-digit and our hope is to return to that growth rate in the future.

Great. And shifting gears, you've spoken about and particularly this is an offshoot of the acquisition and integration of the Martha Stewart brand and their capabilities there. But certainly over the course of 2016, a core operational component that you had at Sequential was to offer more support frankly across the board to many of your licensee and retail partners.

We were just curious as to how that's been achieved, is that something that your licensee partners are finding very attractive in these shifting times in terms of stronger brand support and sort of how do you look to that in regards to the benefits of those incremental investments or perhaps those incremental initiatives and the flow through to your success?

Yeah, again, you are right on target, where the value preposition that we always aim to provide, and continue to aim to provide, is to be different, right. And we want to add more value for our licensees, of which we approximately 200 licensees today, we want to add a lot of value to the retail channel partners. And I think one of the things that's most interesting, especially around this e-commerce discussion, is that one of the sort of tools to help drive e-commerce is real content.

And you think about the video content that that we are able to produce in-house for our brands and that we're able to provide to our partners. You think about the photography content, you think about the branded content. These are the differentiators for our partners that will help drive sales. E-commerce is amazing in that there is just so much selection and it's really consumer-driven in that regard.

But the sort of corollary to that is, with so much selection you have to make sure that your products are getting noticed. So our brands are strong and that's [ph] important (43:09), the products that our licensees are manufacturing are strong and that's critical. But overlaying the content as a value preposition in terms of what we're providing we think is an important unique factor in today's age, above the other services that we provide.

Great, that's very helpful. And then if I could just add in one more. Looking back towards the longer-term, could you potentially remind us what you are looking for internally in terms of your debt goals? Obviously you've spoken about a substantial amount of debt pay downs during 2017, but longer term what are you sort of looking for?

And then I guess perhaps dovetailing off of that, in terms of your brand portfolios that currently stand, you had mentioned a few brands that had been performing a little bit weaker in 2016. Any chance you would potentially look to reshaping your brand portfolio in terms of looking towards your capital structure?

Yes, so let me answer the second question first, and then I'll turn to Gary to address the first question. In terms of the brands and how we think about it, we have pruned before, we sold a brand a couple of years ago that was both immaterial and underperforming. We are not actively doing that at the moment, but we always would consider that as appropriate.

In terms of the specific brands that I called out earlier, we do have strategies in place with new investments to help those brands and help those particular brands rebound and get back to a growth path. But certainly we have done it before in terms of pruning and we would always evaluate that in the future, if it made sense for both the growth trajectory and the overall cap structure. But I'll turn to Gary for the first question.

Yes, the short-term goal would be again at the end of this year to get to about 6 times net debt to EBITDA, and I would tell you our long-term goal is still to get to something closer to 4 times. How you get there, obviously there is numerous strategies, it can be through an acquisition, a little bit more challenging today with the stock price to do some sort of equity offering to get there. But that would be the long-term goal to figure out how to get to 4 times.

Great, thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from John Kernan of Cowen and Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. This is David Buckley on for John, thanks for taking our questions.

Good morning.

Could you guys just discuss your International versus domestic sales growth last year and just remind us what percentage of total sales are coming from international at this point?

Sure, sure. So the International business today or as we closed out 2016, was approximately 8% of our business. The big drivers were Heelys, AND1, and Martha Stewart is becoming more and more of a driver. What's happening, as we are growing that and our goal is to get that to 15% of our business at least, and what's happening is we're combining that new traction that we're seeing with places like Alibaba, our new launch in South Korea from the Martha Stewart brand this year, our new launch with AND1 in China, and the new launch – the signing and new launch of a new geography in Latin America for AND1, which we haven't yet announced in specifics.

So the growth rate is solid, the sort of difference between the 8% and the 15% will be a combination of all these businesses getting, not just off the ground, but really helping work with them and ensuring their success. And I think in large part, if you just sort of go take it up 10,000 feet, really where the opportunities live for us are in Asia and Latin America and the Middle East.

Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. And then, Gary, could you just provide an update on your outlook on M&A both this year and moving forward?

Yes, so, maybe I'll take that, in terms of M&A, certainly we've been very acquisitive since our – since the beginning of our formation and especially leading into let's say 2014-2015, highly acquisitive. Last year that pace slowed to where we acquired one brand in 2016. And right now our focus in terms of capital allocation is really around debt pay down.

Our big focus in terms of where we're allocating our time is predominantly on organic growth activation, it's on expense management and then of course on long-term balance sheet opportunities. So, there are opportunities out there on the M&A side, but I would tell you our focus right now, especially from a capital allocation perspective, is on debt pay down.

Okay, great. Thanks, Yehuda. Best of luck, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Marotta of CL King. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Just one follow-up question, the revenue guidance for the first half includes basically the guaranteed minimum royalty streams, and I just want to ask is the $120 million of GMRs in fiscal 2017 straight lined across quarters or is there any weighting in the individual agreements that would be material to the model?

Yes, it's – minimums are always straight line. We're always recognizing the [ph] greater (48:46) of minimums or overages.

Great, that's what I needed, thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. We have no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schmidman for closing remarks.

Great. Well thank you all for joining this morning. We appreciate your time, we appreciate your support and we look forward to speaking with you on the next call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.