Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Cooper — President and Interim Chief Financial Officer, Sequential Brands Group, Inc.
Karen Murray — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Sequential Brands Group, Inc.
Steven L. Marotta — Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc.
Camilo Lyon — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Dave King — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you and good morning. Before we begin, I'd like to bring to your attention that statements that are not historical facts contained in this conference call are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict, and many of which are beyond the control of the company. This may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to materially differ from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

We refer you to our public filings and the press release we issued this morning for a summary of such factors. The words believe, anticipate, expect, may, will, should, estimate, project, plan, confident or similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which may speak only as of the date the statement was made. Other than this, as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of information, future events, or otherwise.

Additionally, the terms of EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are all non-GAAP metrics and reconciliation tables for each can be found in the press release distributed today in the Investor Relations portion of our website, www.sequentialbrandsgroup.com.

I'll now turn the conference over to Andrew Cooper, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Cooper, you may begin when ready.

Good morning. Thank you for joining Sequential's fourth quarter and full-year 2017 earnings conference call. Total revenue for the fourth quarter increased 3% to $46.9 million compared to $45.4 million in the prior year's quarter. On a GAAP basis, the net loss for the fourth quarter 2017 was $162.9 million or $2.58 per diluted share, which includes one-time net charges of $171.7 million related to both the recent federal tax reform legislation and the company's goodwill. The tax reform impact was a $132.4 million non-cash positive benefit in the fourth quarter. Specifically, the company revalued its deferred tax liabilities based on the new lower federal tax rates and released the valuation reserves on its federal deferred tax assets.

The goodwill adjustment represents a one-time, non-cash charge of $304.1 million that was driven by the company's stock price during the fourth quarter, as well as the increase in the company's book value related to tax reform, which resulted in an assessed fair value of equity that was below its net book value. This adjustment is unrelated to the carrying value of the company's trademarks, which have not been impaired and it is not in our view reflective of the underlying value of our brands. This compares to a GAAP net loss in the prior year fourth quarter of $1 million or $0.02 per diluted share.

On a non-GAAP basis, net income for the fourth quarter was $7.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share compared to $7.3 million, or $0.12 per diluted share in the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $27.4 million compared to $24.2 million in the prior year quarter. Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased 8% to $167.5 million, which includes approximately 4% organic growth. This compares to $155.5 million of revenue in the prior year.

On a GAAP basis, the net loss for the year was $185.7 million, or $2.95 per diluted share, which includes the previously mentioned one-time net charges in the fourth quarter of $171.7 million related to both the recent federal tax reform legislation and the goodwill adjustment. Also reflected in the net loss for 2017 were the non-core charges of $45.1 million highlighted on previous calls. This compares to a net loss in the prior year of $0.8 million or $0.01 per diluted share.

Non-GAAP net income for the year was $27.9 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $21.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, in the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA for 2017 was up 18% to $98.4 million compared to $83.1 million in the prior year.

We closed the full year of 2017 with approximately $20.4 million of cash including restricted cash and $624.3 million of net debt. Our adjusted free cash flow for 2017 was $39.4 million, which includes adjusted EBITDA less cash interest, cash taxes and capital expenditures and excludes both changes in balance sheet items and acquisition related and other costs not core to our licensing business.

Looking ahead for the full year 2018, we continue to expect mid- to high-single-digit revenue growth and low- to mid-single-digit adjusted EBITDA growth, reflecting additional marketing investment into our brands, as we described last quarter, but excluding the impact of any acquisitions. Similar to our historical results, we expect revenue for 2018 to be weighted to the back half of the year given the natural seasonality of our businesses and planned a new business. Additionally, we are coming up against certain expired Martha Stewart legacy licenses that were included in the first half of 2017.

Finally, our refinancing efforts continue to progress and remain on track for an early 2018 refinancing. We believe a successful refinancing will enable the company to reduce its weighted average interest rate, increase overall free cash flow and provide additional flexibility for the company to both continue to pay down debt and pursue accretive de-levering acquisition opportunities.

With that, let me turn the call over to Karen.

Thank you, and good morning to everyone, joining us for our fourth quarter and full-year 2017 earnings call. It's been a strong productive year and a solid fourth quarter. We ended 2017 in line with expectations with $167.5 million in revenue, up 8% over last year, an organic growth of 4%. Adjusted EBITDA was $98.4 million, up 18% over last year. It's worth noting that our adjusted EBITDA margin was particularly strong at 59% over last year's margin of 53% as the company lowered its expenses and demonstrated operating leverage.

For 2018, our team continues to build a leading global Brand Management and Media company with a powerful portfolio of consumer brands in home, active, and fashion. Sequential is focused on brand building, licensing and our activation capabilities which grow our revenues through existing diversified categories, as well as a prioritized focus on new business developments, which I'll talk more about in a moment.

We remain disciplined when it comes to managing our expenses and as Andrew mentioned, our refinancing plans are underway. We believe a successful refinancing will allow us more flexibility when it comes to our balance sheet and to be opportunistic on the acquisition front focusing on deals that are both de-levering and accretive to the company.

Prior to discussing the highlights of each division, as we announced in a press release this morning, I'm pleased to share that the company's CFO role will be filled by Peter Lops, a strong candidate who is an experienced public financial and operating leader. He joins us from Viacom Media Networks where he was CFO and COO for the content distribution division. We look forward to him joining the team. Andrew and our finance team have done a terrific job and we can't thank them enough.

Now taking a look at the highlights in each of our three divisions, the Active Division is up year-over-year due to a number of activities. This year marks the first full year with GAIAM which continues to be a success in our portfolio. As announced previously, Jessica Biel is the brand's global ambassador and plans are currently underway for a Jessica Biel capital collection to be distributed at better department stores starting this fall.

In November, we launched an experiential shop and shop inside New York City's Lord & Taylor which incorporates a health and wellness concept inclusive of yoga classes, chair massages and virtual reality meditation, as well as a GAIAM branded shop. The concept is off to a successful start and has been a terrific traffic and sales driver for Lord & Taylor. This is a great example of solutions we can provide to our retail partners as we continue to activate through experiential marketing and sales. There are several new categories where we can take the GAIAM brand going forward. Examples of those categories include home, food and nutrition, which is a space we recently entered with the launch of GAIAM branded organic supplements.

AND1 continues to be a key performer in Active with its core business performing well. Socks, underwear and sporting goods have grown dramatically over the past year. We've recently announced an exciting new partnership for the brand with NBA legend, Kevin Garnett as the brand's new global brand ambassador and creative director.

There are many new initiatives in the works that we have planned with Kevin including the launch of its capsule collection as well as other marketing activation opportunities, which will further escalate the brand in the marketplace. We also assigned a new brand ambassador for AVIA that we will plan to announce in the coming weeks. This soon to be announced the ambassador plus Jessica Biel and Kevin Garnett reach more than 60 million consumers on social media platforms. This vast reach coupled with our powerful group of credible, authentic influencers is impactful and raising the awareness of our brands and driving brand engagement, which ultimately drive sales.

The AVIA brand continues to show organic growth of existing categories including active sportswear, socks and footwear. We've also seen expanded square footage of selling space for the AVIA brand inside our retail partners.

Our second vertical is Fashion, which was up in 2017 versus the prior year. We just launched a new spring marketing campaign for the Jessica Simpson brand and have identified a number of growth opportunities in home, nutrition and beauty. In fact, we just signed a new partner for beauty accessories and have plans to further expand that category. The Joe's brand was a big performer in the fashion division and continues to be one of the leading premium denim brands in the market. Joe's has seen growth at both brick and mortar and online.

One of our key fashion brands, Ellen Tracy, recently launched its own spring campaign with Irina Shayk and we're presenting her co-branded capsule collection to retailers next week at fall market. Ellen Tracy continues to gain traction at retail and has seen nice results in categories including beauty.

Moving to our last vertical, Home continues to be our biggest growth opportunity for the company. However, it should be noted certain legacy Martha Stewart discontinued businesses, mask the true organic growth year-over-year. As previously discussed, these legacy businesses include the expected expiration of J.C. Penney and a [ph] former Crafts (00:13:10) partnership which has since been replaced with a direct to retail partnership with Michaels. In addition there was a pets business at PetSmart and now we have a new pets collection launching on Amazon and QVC this spring. Excluding these discontinued revenues from last year, our Home Division would have grown 14% year-over-year.

Martha on QVC continues to be a huge hit. The brand is unique on the QVC platform as it spans many different categories from skin care to apparel, garden and food. We're projecting significant growth this year with plans to expand our product assortment to include new garden products, household cleaning products, lighting, accessories, outerwear, loungewear, crafts and seasonal decor. At Macy's, the Martha Stewart collection remain strong and Macy's is projecting it to grow more than 15% in 2018.

Macy's is launching a new Martha Stewart Essentials collection in April at a new opening price point including categories such as bedding, bath, tabletop and cookware. And in the spring, we'll be debuting ready-to-assemble furniture on macys.com and we're in discussions for further category growth in the latter part of 2018.

New categories and licenses include a new line of packaged food that includes baking mixes, pastas, sauces, confections and more. At Home Depot, the brands business continues to perform well in focus categories such as kitchens, bath vanities and holiday.

Last, we're looking forward to the full launch of the Martha Stewart line at Michaels in early April. The Martha Stewart Celebrations line will include 25 [ph] feet (00:15:01) of party supplies spanning 10 different themes. We continue to feel bullish on our pipeline of new business activities for the Martha brand, which includes exciting, non-traditional, high margin partnership that we expect to update you on during our next call.

We are pleased with the momentum we're seeing with the Emeril brand as well. The brand is now at Sam's Club and Lowe's, on QVC and starting in August its cookware line will be launching an all Bed Bath & Beyond stores.

As I mentioned in my opening remarks, looking ahead, we are focused on growing organic growth through existing partners and new business development. To that end, we have bolstered our resources in the areas of business development and are particularly focused in the following areas.

Number one, international. We have a roadmap in place to build our brand's presence in the countries where we believe our brands resonate best. Those countries include China, Japan, Mexico and Latin America. In fact, I just returned from Shanghai where we met with trading partners, manufacturers and marketing companies. We signed a partnership for one of our active brands in Asia that we will be announcing soon. And our team just had a meeting in Mexico with key retail partners to discuss opportunities across our portfolio. One of the brands that has started to gain traction internationally is Joe's. The brand is particularly strong in Japan, Canada and Mexico.

Number two, e-commerce. Our strategy is a three-pronged approach that includes building out our own brand websites, growing our presence on our retail partner sites such as macy's.com and walmart.com and expanding on third-party sites such as Amazon. We've made progress. Our e-commerce business with our top brands Martha, Joe's and GAIAM are collectively up 24%. The Martha brand benefited from new pure play e-commerce partnerships such as our meal kits business with Marley Spoon and our Martha Wines business, while GAIAM experienced 69% growth on Amazon. We have a focused plan in place for 2018, which includes new growth activations such as the launch of our Martha Stewart branded shop on Amazon in May.

Number three, strategic brand integrations. Due to the authenticity and power of our brands, we believe we have the ability to further monetize our portfolio outside of the traditional product licensing partnerships. Examples include our Martha Stewart Connect partnership, endorsement opportunities for several of our celebrity brands, content distribution, experiential events, as well as numerous opportunities in the health and wellness space for GAIAM.

Number four, domestic category and distribution growth. As mentioned throughout my remarks, we have a number of untapped growth opportunities across our brands. Additionally, we have multiple discussions underway regarding the broadening of our distribution channels for our core brands. Some examples include our AND1 Kevin Garnett capsule collection that we plan to launch in specialty stores and boutiques, as well as the launch of Emeril Lagasse's cookware line and all Bed Bath & Beyond stores in August.

In closing, we are focused on executing across all of these opportunities as we drive towards our full year 2018 projections. We look forward to updating you throughout the year on our progress with these revenue initiatives and the refinancing activity.

Thank you all for joining the call. I'll now turn the call back over the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Steve Marotta with C.L. King & Associates. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Karen and Andrew.

Good morning, Steve.

Good morning.

As it relates to the sales and EBITDA targets for 2018, you'd previously discussed, I believe, mid- upper-single-digit growth for sales and low- to mid-single-digit growth for EBITDA, or at the very least sales growing faster than EBITDA, has that been reaffirmed today and can you talk a little bit about the puts and takes and investments necessary in order to generate those numbers?

Yes. Thanks, Steve. Yes, we are reaffirming that guidance framework of mid- to high-single-digit growth on revenue and low-to-mid on EBITDA. And Karen can touch on some of those drivers.

Regarding EBITDA, you're right, it's a little bit lower than revenue growth and that's due to investments that we are making for our key brands. As you know, we invest in brand ambassadors and that's part of the reason why our EBITDA growth is at slower rate than our revenue growth. But we think it's really important to do for the health of our brand.

Okay. And Karen, you were quite comprehensive in the prepared remarks. I just have one other question regarding the brand websites. Where do you stand in that process? How long do you think it'll take to have e-commerce related brand websites across the portfolio?

Right. Again, we think that's one of the – that we've been talking about this, but one of the most underpenetrated areas for our brands. And brand websites, I would tell you that the platform, our platform, it's unique in that we really need to – if we're going to grow our brand websites, we really need to work in partnership with an operator and we're very close to doing that. We have real growth on our partner retail sites such as macys.com and walmart.com and we're expanding greatly on Amazon.

Regardless, our e-commerce business is up for Martha, Joe's and GAIAM, about 24%. But the branded website is an absolute opportunity, but we need to do that in partnership with an operator. But we feel really good about our progress regardless in digital.

Terrifically helpful. Thank you.

You're welcome. Thanks Steve.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line Camilo Lyon with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Camilo.

Good morning. Karen you talked about the international roadmap and where you're getting some traction with some of the key brands and some of the key markets. Could you just delve into that roadmap and maybe the timeline around when some of the fruits of that labor, shall we say, will start to pay off and how do we think about that opportunity from a mix perspective, representing – what it represents today and what that can ultimately become?

Yes. Thanks Camilo. Yeah, I think we've been talking since I joined almost a year ago about digital being under-penetrated and real growth opportunities there and international is the second call out. And we do have a roadmap in place now for expansion into specifically China, Japan and then Mexico and Latin America, which wasn't on our radar screen as much as it is now. I would tell you that we already have nice growth in 2017 with Joe's, we had strong growth in Japan, Canada and Mexico.

But I did just return from Shanghai and we had several meetings with – we had meetings with Alibaba, but also potential suppliers and trading partners. It's just not that easy to do significant business overnight with Alibaba and Tmall and what we needed to do was meet with the suppliers, understand cross-border, work with trading partners and we now have also hired an agent to help us with that process. We're also doing business with [indiscernible] (00:24:01) and that continues to grow. And what we really need to do is bring the key brands there and penetrate that territory much more extensively than we are today. But we are meeting with agents, we hired an agent and they're helping us really lay out a plan for China.

And in addition, we will be announcing within the next week or so, a new partnership that we signed for one of our active brands. And then, last but not least, I mentioned Mexico, we had our teams in Mexico meeting with potential key retail partners and suppliers and that's pretty much across our portfolio of brands. So we're expecting to join forces with some of our retail partners in Mexico shortly.

So again, it's laying out the roadmap in place to expand and we've identified China, Japan, Mexico and Latin America and have hired some agents to help us move that agenda along and get that percentage as a bigger percentage to our total business.

Great. And just remind us what is international make-up and let's assume that all these initiatives come to fruition this year, what kind of growth trajectory does that set up for 2019?

Well, I think we talked about international being at approximately 10% of our business and some of these conversations that I just alluded to will happen for the latter part of 2018, but yes 2019 is the real growth. We expect that international could and should represent 25% of our business.

Got it. Great. Thanks very much guys. Good luck.

Thanks, Camilo.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dave King with ROTH Capital Partners. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Following up on an earlier question, how do you expect the first half of 2018 revenue growth compared to the mid high-single-digit target you gave for the years, is flat the right number or could that be down given the legacy Martha Stewart licenses that are expiring. How should we think about that?

Yeah. I think, from a framework perspective, you're thinking about it right. Overall, we're excited about the growth heading into 2018 or as we are now proceeding through 2018. But in the first half of the year, sure, you should think about our business from a seasonality perspective as being weighted towards the back half of the year. And again, as we highlighted in the prepared comments, the legacy expirations on the Martha Stewart business would also be a factor there. So yes, I do believe you've articulated it correctly.

Okay. So, I guess, maybe in terms of the legacy licenses that are expiring, what was the revenue contribution in 2017 or the first half of 2017 or how material is that dollar amount?

So those legacy expiration center around three things, the historical J.C. Penney revenue stream, the PetSmart business and the Craft business, which in both cases pets and crafts were transitioning to what we believe will be very successful partnerships. So, we haven't spoken about specific deals and specific numbers, so we're not going to do that on this call, but it was meaningful enough for us to call it out here as a comp item as we head into the first half of 2018.

Okay. Okay. And then in terms of Martha, the QVC, do you have what that generated in the quarter for the year and then more importantly can you talk about your expectations for that in 2018? How many more categories are you going to be doing versus previously? What's the planned increase in air time? And then just how much more revenue do you expect that business to contribute versus 2017?

I think, we talked on the last call about – it was a primarily a fourth quarter launch in 2017 where we introduced four categories; food, beauty, apparel and garden. And I will tell you that every single category has surpassed plans and have been really strong, I thought. For example, apparel was one of the categories we thought might be the weakest and it turned out to be the single best launch that QVC has ever had in their history, apparel launch.

So, all of them have surpassed plans and it was not a significant number for 2017. We talked about the fact that we're introducing many more categories for 2018, there is over 10 categories in addition to the four we just mentioned, and it's categories such as household cleaning, lighting and apparel, it's accessories and outerwear and activewear to add to the current sportswear portfolio.

We're adding crafts, seasonal decor. So, we expect this business to be very, very strong for 2018 without giving you exact numbers. But you can imagine that we have 48 dedicated segments, where Martha will be presenting product and our partnership with QVC is strong and growing. And we expect this to be a very big business for 2018.

That's great. And then that 48 number of deal with, do you have how many segments you did in the fourth quarter of 2017?

In the fourth quarter of 2017, we did about five to six segments, I think, somewhere around there.

Okay. Okay. That's great and really encouraging. Thanks, Karen.

Yeah. Yeah. Very exciting.

In terms of the goodwill write-down in the quarter, was that associated with any brands in particular?

No. So, it's an important distinction that you're making there. The goodwill impairment really was a result of our stock price in the fourth quarter, which resulted in a market cap that was well below our book value of the equity. So that just led us to re-evaluate the goodwill and ultimately determine to write-down the goodwill, but the goodwill is unrelated, completely unrelated to the strength of our brands, unrelated to any impairment or anything like that on brands, which we did not have this quarter.

So no, it does not reflect at all on the value of the trademarks, it's not associated with any of the trademarks and doesn't reflect at all on, as you know our positive view on the strength of the brands going forward.

Okay. And then, I guess, last one for me. What are Andrew your updated thoughts on the refi? I guess what sort of rate do you expect to get? How much do you think you can reduce your amortization requirement? And then where do you think your leverage might end up versus what I think is about 6.2 times, at least in that leverage currently? Thanks.

Yeah. Yeah. So it's progressing and it's progressing really well. And as we said in our remarks, we are still progressing towards our objective of early 2018 event. Just to give a little bit more color, we're finalizing preparations with our advisor. We've had productive discussions with rating agencies, and we are optimistic as we look and based on all of those conversations, we're optimistic as we look forward over the next 45 to 60 days here and getting going. So we feel good about that.

In terms of the objectives, our primary objectives are to reduce our weighted average interest rates. And when you look at other transactions in other similar profiles from companies, you see opportunities to reduce 150 basis points, 200 basis points on the interest rate in terms of how we're thinking about it. We certainly expect to be able to increase our cash flow profile as a result of a potential refinancing. And of course, provide additional flexibility in continuing to pursue accretive de-levering acquisitions.

Okay. Thanks. Thanks for the color. And good luck with rest of 2018.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Q&A session and thus concludes our call for today. Thank you for your participation and interest. You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.