corrected transcript


Soapstone Networks, Inc.
 
SOAP
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 17, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Inna Vyadro, Director of Investor Relations.


Please go ahead.


Inna Vyadro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Joining me today are Bill Leighton, Soapstone’s CEO; Bill Stuart,


our CFO; and T S Ramesh, our Vice President of Finance. This morning Soapstone issued a press


release that was distributed by Marketwire and First Call. A copy of the announcement and the


conference call are available on our website at www.soapstonenetworks.com.


I would like to remind you that during this call we may be making forward-looking statements,


including our plans and objectives for future operations, as well as our expectations for product


delivery, customer activity and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are neither


promises nor guarantees but are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results


to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and


uncertainties are further described in our press release and presented in detail in our Form 10-K


and 10-Q as filed with the SEC.


Additionally, during the call we will also discuss various non-GAAP financial measures. A


reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures is provided, along with the financial tables in our


earnings press release, which as previously mentioned is available on our website. Our press


release was also furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K this morning.


At this point I would like to turn the call over to Bill Leighton.


William Leighton, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Inna. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us.


This morning we reported second quarter revenue of $3.9 million which was all related to our


previous router business. We reported a GAAP net loss of $4.3 million, or $0.29 per share for the


second quarter ended June 30, 2008. We ended the quarter with $105.4 million in cash and cash


equivalents, up from 104.5 million as of March 31, 2008.


In the second quarter, our main focus was continued execution of the product road map to bring our


provider network controller, or PNC, to general availability, building a healthy funnel of opportunities


through our partners and creating pull for our product with carriers. I’m pleased to report that we


are succeeding on all three objectives. We are on track to meet the target for GA in Q3, and we


expect that the PNC will be deployed running live customer traffic in the second half of the year.


Our sales funnel is very healthy, and we are actively engaged with a variety of prospects, including


tier 1 and tier 2 carriers, large enterprises and utility companies. We are responding to an


increasing number of RF I/RFP opportunities. The role of a resource and service control plane


such as a PNC is well understood by customers as a required component of a complete Carrier


Ethernet solution.


Current market trends continue to validate the need for the Soapstone solution. Carriers have


recognized that the key to providing differentiated services is to make service offerings work better
corrected transcript


Soapstone Networks, Inc.
 
SOAP
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 17, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


by delivering a consistent quality of experience to their end customers while improving the ease of


doing business with a carrier. These factors are important to end customers as well as for doing


business with other carrier partners as part of a global service offering. Service quality needs to be


managed on internally supplied resources and also across resources owned by these other


providers.


The variability of the customer experience can only be reduced by precise control over resource


and services, which in turn requires predictable circuit-like connections, instrumentation to measure


quality, and a service control system such as the PNC to actively respond to deviations in


performance. Carriers have embraced Carrier Ethernet as a technology foundation to support long-


term cost reduction, circuit-like behavior, as well as rich OA&M, to support service party objectives


and the PNC provides the control system to enable all this.


These past few months, we have seen a number of vendors and carriers announce support for


either PBB or PBB-TE or both. This has included carriers and vendors whose endorsement of a


Carrier Ethernet technology represents a visible departure from their previous focus on MPLS. We


are excited about the new opportunities created for Soapstone through the continued adoption of


Carrier Ethernet.


The PNC’s ability to provide real-time provisioning and assurance functions for managing services


across heterogeneous networks is unique in the industry. For PBT, the PNC provides restoration


while solving the need for external path computation. For PBB, the PNC addresses weak


deterministic performance and provides service admission control functions that are higher order


functions tied to the services layer. The role of the PNC in PBT or PBB is to make Carrier Ethernet


service-ready.


Service providers depend on the full lifecycle process, and they want to integrate the service-ready


resources provided by the PNC into that lifecycle process. To this end we also focused this quarter


on demonstrate a pre-integrated solution from the OSS to a PNC controlled multi-vendor transport


network.


At Tele-Management World Nice in May we demonstrated the use of standards to facilitate the


connection from the OSS to a multi-vendor transport network with the PNC providing management


of the transport resources. Most recently at Nexcom, Soapstone continued the work we started at


TMW and demonstrated standards-based integration from OSS to network equipment. We aim to


solve the very real practical challenges faced by carriers, namely the need to rapidly introduce new


equipment into their networks that allows them to tap into the functionality and price points of


Carrier Ethernet platforms which requires integrating these solutions with their OSS back office


systems. This demonstration was the largest multi-vendor showcase at Nexcom and included


Amdocs Cramer OSS, Soapstone PNC, and a multi-vendor network comprised of Endo Networks,


Cisco, Extreme Networks, Hammerhead Systems, Nortel and Telco Systems.


The response from customers and partners to the showcase was very enthusiastic and validated


the need for pre-integrated off the shelf solutions to accelerate time to revenue for services. It also


confirmed the key role that Soapstone PNC plays in provisioning and monitoring transport


resources in adjusting the network in real-time to close the gap between the intended behavior of a


service and the actual behavior, enabling carriers to provide a consistent quality of experience to


end customers.


In summary, I am very excited about the opportunities that lay ahead for Soapstone and our


products, the acceptance of the PNC by partners and customers and our continued leadership in


this new market for a next-generation resource and service control framework.


I will now turn the call over to Bill Stuart.