raw transcript


Avici Systems, Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Avici Systems


third quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later,


we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time. If you


should require assistance during the call, please press star then zero and an operator will assist


you off-line. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call


over to our host, Director of Investor Relations Ms. Inna Vyadro. Please go ahead Ma'am.


Inna Vyadro, Director, IR


Thank you and good morning. Joining me today are Bill Leighton, Avici's CEO and Paul Brauneis,


Avici's CFO. The third quarter earnings press release was distributed at approximately 7:00 A.M.


this morning by Business Wire and First Call. A copy of the third quarter press release and the


conference call are available on our website at www.avici.com. I would like to remind you that


during this call we may be making forward-looking statements, including our expectations for


product delivery, customer activity, financial performance and our plans and objectives for future


operations. These forward-looking statements are neither promises nor guarantees, but are subject


to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in


the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties are further described in our press


release and presented in detail in our Form 8-K as filed with the SEC.


Additionally in the call, we will also discuss various non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation


of non-GAAP financial measures is provided along with the financial tables in our press release,


which as previously mentioned, is available on our website. Our press release was also furnished


to the SEC on Form 8-K this morning.


Lastly, I would like to add that Bill Leighton will be presenting at Prudential Technology Conference


on New York on October 27 and the Merriman Curhan and Ford's Annual Investor Conference also


held in New York on November 1.


At this point, I would like to turn the call over to Bill.


Bill Leighton, President & CEO


Thank you, Inna. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. Today we reported gross


revenues of $8.7 million compared to $11.6 million during the second quarter, and $3.7 million for


the third quarter of 2004. While we never beat most of our internal milestones for the quarter, we


failed to achieve our objective of continued quarter-over-quarter revenue growth. This was due


largely to being unable to recognize the differed revenue from SURFnet that we had anticipated for


Q3 due to the application of acknowledged revenue recognition rules around certain future


developments.


We have now successfully completed pre production testing of the network, the network is in


production mode and SURFnet has started to migrate their customer base onto the new Avici base


SURFnet's net routing core. We are on track for Q4 delivery of the additional features and if


successfully will recognize the topline benefit at that time. Also this quarter we saw a leveling out


within quarterly revenue from AT&T. That's a large increases in Q1and Q2 following reduced


spending in the second half of '04. I remain confident that the AT&T SBC merger represents a


significant upside opportunity for Avici.
raw transcript


Avici Systems, Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Also during the quarter, we received a cash pre-payment from AT&T for over $3 million for certain


services to be provided over the next two and a half years. In addition to the positive cash impact,


the prepayment demonstrates AT&T's continued support of and confidence in the Avici product.


Our non-GAAP net loss improved to $7.2 million, or $0.56 per share compared to a non-GAAP net


loss of 9.8 million or $0.77 per share in the prior year quarter ended September 30, 2004. We used


$200,000 in cash and finished the quarter with $62.1 million in cash. This low net usage is a result


of strong receivable collections and the prepayment by AT&T.


Paul will discuss additional details regarding our financial results later in the call. Our product


revenue came from two customers, AT&T and IP-only, while service revenue was spread over four


customers. Additionally, we shipped products to Limelight Networks this quarter and deferred the


revenue of ending finalization of a maintenance agreement. Both IP-only and Limelight, had its


revenue been currently recognizable, would have individually and in the aggregate been below


10% of gross revenue.


I am pleased to say this morning we announced Turk Telekom, the 13th largest operator in the


world has chosen Avici System's DSR core routers for deployment in its new IP MPLS based data


backed on network. This prime contract was awarded to Alcatel in response to a request to provide


an end-to-end solution for Turk Telekom. The winning solution featured Alcatel's 7750 Service


routers and Avici TSRs. Alcatel has turnkey responsibility for network design and planning,


integration deployment, training and service rollout, and ongoing maintenance. This network


upgrade and expansion will enable Turk Telekom to extend its service coverage throughout the


country and further strengthen the operators' position in the marketplace by providing increased


network capacity and reliability and meet customer demand for such services as high speed


Internet access, Voice-over-IP, Virtual Private Networks, and video. This network will go live early


in 2006 and we are shipping the first product deliveries today. Although as with SURFnet,


recognition of revenue in this contract will be delayed due to the application of revenue recognition


rules to our commitment for future deliveries.


Cash collections are based on typical payment terms and our product will be deployed in collaring


the Turk Telekom network. We are very excited to be working with Alcatel and Turk Telekom in


building the state-of-the-art network. We are continuing to pursue our single strategy in the


[indiscernible] results. Turk Telekom is an extra-based hit in that sense. Limelight is bringing its


Avici-powered core network into service rapidly. IP-Only is already planning network expansion.


And we have several other opportunities that we expect to close in the near term. We are seeing


increased activity through our Nortel channel recently as our MTE product completes testing


although we haven't closed any additional business in that channel yet. We only continue to discuss


opportunities with Walway [ph]. Until we further expand our customer base and more importantly


these new networks get deployed and operational, our revenue will likely remain somewhat


uneven. And as in previous quarters, we will not be providing forward-looking guidance at this time.


I will now turn the call over to Paul who will discuss our financial results in more detail.


Paul Brauneis, CFO


Thanks Bill and good morning. Today Avici reported gross revenues for its third quarter ended


September 30, 2005 of $8.7 million compared to 11.6 million in the preceding quarter ended June


30 and 3.7 million in the prior year's third quarter. Gross revenues for the nine-month period ended


September 30 were 31.1 million, a 36% year-to-date increase over 22.8 million reported in the


comparable nine-month period of 2004. Our GAAP net loss and GAAP net loss per share for the


third quarter was 7.8 million or $0.60 per share, compared to a loss of 10.4 million or $0.82 per


share in the prior year's third quarter. GAAP net loss and loss per share for the nine months ended


September 30 was 16.1 million or $1.25 per share, compared to a loss of 25.7 million or $2.04 per


share for the comparable nine-month period of last year. GAAP net loss in all periods presented


includes charges for common stock warrant discount, and in both nine-month periods certain stock-