raw transcript


Avici Systems, Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Avici Systems Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we


will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the


conference over to our host Ms. Inna Vyadro. You may begin your conference.


Inna Vyadro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Avici's third quarter conference call. Joining me today


are Bill Leighton, Avici's CEO; Bill Stuart, our CFO; and T. S. Ramesh, Avici's Vice President of


Finance. Avici issued a press release that was distributed at approximately 7.30 AM this morning


by Businesswire and First Call. A copy of the announcement and the conference call are available


on our website at www.avici.com. I would like to remind you that during this call we may be making


forward-looking statements including our plans and objectives for future operations as well as our


expectations for product delivery, customer activity, and some financial performance and our


exploration of operating of strategic alternatives. These forward-looking statements are neither


promises nor guarantees that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results


to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and


uncertainties that is further described in our press releases and presented in detail in our Forms 10-


K and 10-Q is filed with the SEC. Additionally during the call we will also discuss various non-GAAP


financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures is provided along with the


financial tables in our earnings press release which as previously mentioned is available on our


website. Our press release results are furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K this morning. At this point


I would like to turn the call over to Bill Leighton.


William Leighton, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Inna, good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us. I am very pleased to announce


that this morning Avici reported third quarter revenue of $20.2 million, a net income of $2.7 million


or $0.20 per share on a GAAP basis. This quarter Avici continued to report both positive GAAP as


well as non-GAAP results. We also generated a record $11 million of positive cash flow.


Throughout the quarter Avici continued to expand its presence in AT&T's global IP network. AT&T


has further increased network capacity to accommodate traffic growth and a migration of other


networks. AT&T continued its deployment of the Avici QoS routing system adding two more


systems to their network. As we have previously stated the significant volumes we have


experienced to date in 2006 have exceeded our expectations due to a surge in traffic and


acceleration of demand. We again stress caution that the business conditions driving this demand


can change significantly and accordingly shareholders should not necessarily expect that 2006


financial performance to date will be indicative of future performance. We have restructured our


business to be profitable of what we believe is a reasonable revenue baseline over the near term of


approximately 40 to $50 million annually, even though 2006 revenue will substantially exceed those


levels and we continue to aggressively manage our cost structure going forward.


The preponderous [ph] of our revenue comes from AT&T. Although we have benefited from the


increased demand and growth of AT&T's network this is clearly not sustainable in the long-term


given today's competitive environment and it will imprudent to plan that way. Hence we are


increasingly focused on furthering our strategic initiatives. Fortunately as a result of our


restructuring efforts earlier in the year, Avici's increasing cash balances, strong financial position


enable us to consider a wide range of strategic alternatives which we are pursuing vigorously. We
raw transcript


Avici Systems, Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


believe that future generations of network must place a greater emphasis on service oriented


functionality in a more seamless integration of network elements. We are seeing carriers confront


the challenges of complex network elements, forcing substantial customization and we continue to


believe in our vision for simple secure network. We will participate in the network from the future


leveraging our major capabilities namely our network technology and insight, carrier and industry


connections, highly talented engineering personnel, and dedicated management team. While


carriers and larger vendors focus on consolidation in addressing today's problems, we aim to


continue our early initiatives in developing solutions that will yield customer value as low as a return


on our investment network.


In line with our previously outlined strategy aimed at driving the profitability and positive cash flow


we announced last week that Avici has terminated its supply agreement with Alcatel Teletas. This


was a tactical move which we initiated since it was unlikely to disarrange with every week positive


contribution margin. Bill Stuart, will provide more detail on our financial arrangements and


termination later in the call.


At this point we are reiterating our 2006 annual guidance of $75-85 million of revenue for the year.


We will not be providing separate quarterly guidance. I will now turn the call over to Bill Stuart, who


will discuss our financial results in more detail.


William J. Stuart, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice-President Finance and Administration


Thanks Bill, and good morning. Today Avici reported gross revenues for it's third quarter ended


September 30, 2006 of 20.2 million compared to $25.3 million in the preceding quarter ended June


30, 2006 and $8.7 million in the prior years third quarter. On a GAAP basis the company reported


another profitable quarter with net income of $2.7 million up $0.20 per share in the third quarter of


2006 as compared to a loss of 7.8 million or $0.60 per share in the prior year third quarter. GAAP


net income and GAAP earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 were 5.3


million or $0.39 per share compared to the loss of 16.1 million or $1.25 per share for the


comparable nine months period of 2005. The calculating GAAP earnings per share the number of


shares used in the calculation for the 2006 period has been adjusted to include the dilutive effect of


stock option and restricted stock grants.


In the first quarter of 2006, the company announced a plan to restructure its business and realign


its cost to structure. Associated with such plan the company recorded ongoing costs towards the


company’s workforce reduction of 0.8 million which is included in the GAAP net income for the third


quarter of 2006. Also, included in the third quarter of 2006 is a charge of 1.7 million for the


inventory and inventory related effect of the termination of the Alcatel Teletas supply agreement.


GAAP net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 includes $10.2 million in special


charges of which 3.1 million is included in cost of sales. Special charges for the nine months ended


September 30, 2006 include costs associated with the company’s workforce reduction, charges for


certain inventory considered in excess of anticipated future requirements, the inventory and


inventory related effects of the termination of the company’s supply agreement with Alcatel Teletas,


the write-off of certain contract distribution rights been compared and certain other costs directly


associated with the company’s decision to restructure it's business and realign it's cost to structure.


Additionally, GAAP net income include common stock warrant discounts, certain non-cash equity


base charges relating to the prospective adoption of Financial Accounting Standard Board Opinion


123R which now requires the fair value of stock option at the expense in the Company’s 2006


GAAP financial statements and price for certain inventory utilization and assignment of claimant


bankruptcy. A comparative quarterly and year-to-date GAAP consolidated statements of operations


along with the comparative non-GAAP consolidated statements of operations excluding these


charges and credits and a reconciliation between them, the company’s – our press release can also