raw transcript


Avici Systems Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Avici First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants


are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session. [Operator


instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded today, April 21st 2005. I would now


like to turn the conference over to our host, Miss Inna Vyadro, Director of Investor Relations.


Please go ahead.


Inna Vyadro, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Andrew. Good morning everyone. Joining me today are Bill Leighton, Chief CEO and


Paul Brauneis, our CFO. The first quarter earnings press release was distributed at approximately


7.30 am this morning by Business Wire and Firs Call. A copy of the release and the conference


call are available on our website at www.avici.com.


I would like to remind you that during this call we may be making forward looking statements


including our expectations for product delivery, customer activities, financial performance and our


plans and objectives for future operations. These forward-looking statements are neither promises


nor guarantees but are subject to risks and uncertainties that could actual results to differ materially


from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties are further


described in our press release and presented in the form 10-K as filed with the SEC.


Additionally in the call we will also discuss various Non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation


of Non-GAAP financial measures is provided along with the financial tables in our press release


which as previously mentioned, is available on our website. Our press release was also furnished


to the SEC on Form 8-K this morning. Lastly I would like to add that Bill Leighton will be presenting


at JP Morgan’s 33rd annual technology conference in San Francisco on May 18th. In addition Avici


will be exhibiting at Supercomm in Chicago June 6th through 9th. We hope to see many of you at


our booth.
 
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Bill.


William Leighton, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks Inna. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. I’m very pleased to report that


the first quarter of 2005 was a solid quarter for the company. After several consecutive


disappointing quarters revenue has returned to double digit level. During the first quarter we


recorded revenues of $10.7 million compared to revenues of $3.8 million in the preceding quarter


ended December 31st and $7 million in the prior years first quarter. This represents an increase of


53% year over year.
 
Our Non-GAAP net loss improved to $5.2 million or $0.41 per share


compared to a Non-GAAP net loss of $8.6 million or $0.69 per share in the prior year quarter ended


March 31st 2004. We used $3.3 million in cash and finished the quarter with $65.7 million in cash


and marketable securities and no debt.


To end the discussion fiscal details regarding our financial results later in the call. [indiscernible]


from three customers this quarter although AT&T was the only customer in excess of 10%. We are


encouraged by AT&T’s return to healthy spending levels this quarter as they continue to grow and


expand their network and expand the services offered over it. We’re also excited about the first


ever 40 Gigabit per second trunk that AT&T has supplied using the Avici TSR and our Composite


Links technology. Avici’s Composite Links gives carriers a powerful tool for simplifying networks


and protecting their links. By aggregating up to 64 physical links into a single logical link carriers


can continuously expand link capacity and improve network utilization.
raw transcript


Avici Systems Inc.
 
AVCI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In addition I was especially pleased to see the last two AT&T major core nodes in the process of


converting to Avici TSRs as well as more sites converted to multichassis configurations bringing the


total number of multichassis cites to five. All of which follows the plan that I started several years


ago.


For our last earnings call, you might remember, the AT&T, FCC merger was fresh news. Despite


dire predictions by some we continue to see business as usual. In fact more than usual judging by


this quarters results. Well we’re not privy to either party’s plans we believe that FCC is buying


AT&T for three things primarily. Its brand, its customer base in its global network, the largest and


most reliable network in the world.


The Avici TSRs power that network, but we don’t believe there’s any valid business reason for that


to change. Part of our new approach to winning customers has been an effort to broaden our


opportunities stacked in market focus to include service providers other than the traditional tier one


carriers. I call this playing for singles rather than home runs, and we have actively been pursuing


several new targets and seeing increased levels of activity.


As a result of our renewed focus, we added a new customer during the first quarter, IP-Only, a


Swedish Telecom provider chose the Avici TSR offered deployment in their network, displacing the


incumbent. IP-Only is a carrier experiencing fast growth in its business with some very demanding


enterprise customers. Avici TSR is an ideal match to their needs. Avici is the only vendor that


combines the carrier grade features, technology, and reliability that IP-Only requires in a scalable


single shelf platform.


Also this quarter we announced the Telecom Value Lab – the research centre of Telecom Value


Group – has deployed the Avici system SSR carrier-class routing platform which we ship in Q4 in


its hardware IP optical network that leverages open standards singly across the optical and IP


domains.


Avici is the first router vendor to leverage the open standards to enable carriers to signal between


the IT and the optical domains. This capability allows networks to have greater efficiency and


flexibility. Avici maintains this advantage in the market in terms of proven system scalability plus a


significant lead with regard to actual verified reliability. Our task now is to extend our differentiation,


creating an order of magnitude competitive advantage. This applies not only to the products


themselves but also in our fundamental approach to how to build highly scalable, highly reliable and


highly secure networks.


I believe that today’s service provider networks are becoming far too complicated and far too


complex and as a result, far too costly to operate efficiently, reliably and securely. The goal has to


be what I call simple, secure networks.


Complexity breeds a number of problems, not the least of which is cost for a service provider at a


time when service providers are under tremendous pressure to reduce operational expenditures


and add new services to grow revenues. Our team, our products, and our business model are


uniquely qualified to address this challenge. We led the industry in scalability and again in reliability


because we designed it right the first time from the fundamental architectural principles. And since


we focused at the core, we don’t need to worry about cannibalizing the enterprise business by


changing the fundamentals of network designs. You can expect to hear more on the simple secure


networks approach in the coming months.


On a different note, Surya Panditi has informed the Board that he will resign as Director of the


Company immediately prior to the annual meeting. Surya has been a significant contributor to Avici


Systems, serving for many years as both Director and CEO. We are grateful for his leadership and


I am personally grateful for his friendship and confidence in me.