corrected transcript


Sycamore Networks Inc.
 
SCMR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Sycamore Networks


Second Quarter Fiscal 2005 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator instructions]. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, February 22, 2005. I would now like to turn


the conference over to Mr. Terry Adams, Vice President of Investor Relations for Sycamore


Networks. Please go ahead.


Terry Adams, Vice President, Investor Relations


Good morning everyone, thank you for joining us today. With me are Dan Smith, Sycamore’s


President and CEO; and Rick Gaynor, our Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of this call is to


discuss Sycamore’s fiscal second quarter 2005 financial results and related business matters.


Today’s press release was distributed prior to market opened at approximately 8 a.m. via Business


Wire. Throughout this conference call, we will be referencing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial


results. We have provided information related to both our GAAP and non-GAAP financial results


along with a reconciliation table in our press release. Additionally, please note we have provided


GAAP reconciliation information on our website located at www.sycamorenet.com, within the


Investor Relations section.


Before we get started, I’d like to note the following: Except for historical information, we wish to


caution you that certain matters discussed today may constitute forward-looking statements that


involve risks and uncertainties. The company’s actual results could differ materially from those


stated or implied in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, which are identified in


today’s press release and discussed in detail in the company’s most recently filed reports on Form


10-K and Form 10-Q, and the other reports filed by the company from time to time with the


Securities and Exchange Commission. The company disclaims any intention or obligation to


update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


results, or otherwise. Now, with that said, I’ll turn the call over to Dan Smith. Dan?


Daniel E. Smith, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks Terry. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. This morning,


Sycamore reported second quarter revenue of $14.9 million, a GAAP net loss of $5.3 million or a


GAAP loss per share of $0.02 and a non-GAAP net loss of $5.0 million or a non-GAAP loss per


share of $0.02. Rick Gaynor, will provide more details on our financial results later in the call.


Despite the challenges that Sycamore faces as a vendor focused exclusively in the optical


switching market segment, we were able to increase revenues and gross margin this quarter. This


was a direct result of our continuing focus on technology innovation tied directly to customer


requirements, superior performance of Sycamore’s products and services, and disciplined financial


management. During the quarter, we continued to focus our R&D development efforts on


technology initiatives tied directly to customer requirements. Key areas of focus include support for


traditional network features and functionality, advanced mesh protection and restoration, ring and


mesh inter-working, enhanced security and authentication and Ethernet service capabilities on our


SN 16000 intelligent optical switch.


We continue to have success with our Universal Service Card or USC, which we announced last


year and which is now installed in and supporting production networks and services. Sycamore


remains the first and only optical switch vendor to support SONET/SDH, Gigabit Ethernet and 10


Gigabit Ethernet on a single highly flexible service interface card, the modular design of the USC,
corrected transcript


Sycamore Networks Inc.
 
SCMR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


which also supports a broad range of optical transport options, increases the flexibility and


scalability of our SN 16000, and provides customers with significant benefits, including network


design flexibility, pay-as-you-grow scalability, and simplified network operations. The USC is an


excellent example of the results obtained from targeting our technology investments to customer


needs.


Sycamore also remains at the forefront of multivendor, multi-technology interoperability testing and


development. During the quarter, we continued to work with industry standard bodies, customers,


and other equipment vendors to further advance the practical application and testing of a unified


control plane. The benefits of an intelligent optical control plane include simplified provisioning,


improved resource management, lower operational costs, and the ability to deploy new services


such as high-speed bandwidth on demand and Optical Virtual Private Networks or OVPNs. Our


activities will be showcased in a number of public interoperability events in the coming months and


we look forward to sharing the results with you during our next call.


We continue to be pleased with the performance of our products and customer deployments


around the world. As you know, Sycamore has built some of the world’s largest and most


advanced optical switch networks. We continue to meet the highest standards of availability and


reliability in these networks. In addition, the proven scalability and performance of our intelligent


optical switching software is unequaled among our competitors. These achievements contributed


to increased revenue this quarter as customers confidently expanded their networks to Sycamore


solutions. These achievements also reflect the exceptional talents and unwavering commitment of


Sycamore’s employees, who continue to remain dedicated to delivering the highest degree of


customer support and product innovation.


In addition to our technology innovation and superior product performance, Sycamore continues to


emphasize disciplined expense control and maintaining our balance sheet strength. Sycamore


ended the quarter with approximately $949 million in cash and cash equivalents. Despite


Sycamore’s balance sheet, technological innovations and our customer satisfaction


accomplishments, we continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties in the market. As


we have discussed during prior conference calls, the optical networking market has undergone


significant change over the past several years. Tightened consolidation activity in recent months


indicates that change will be ongoing for some time.


Market trends will continue to shift towards fewer suppliers in the network and a greater emphasis


on strategic vendor relationships in which a single vendor will supply a broad set to the customer.


As a result, we believe that large incumbent suppliers will have increasingly greater competitive


vendors over smaller companies for the foreseeable future. These competitive advantages include


well-established customer relationships, broad product portfolios, pricing leverage, and large


service and support teams. Industry reports continue to remain cautious regarding capital spending


in this market.


In addition, Sycamore’s target market, the optical switching segment, represents a small


percentage of the overall optical networking market. Competition for limited switch opportunities is


intense and dominated by large incumbent equipment suppliers. Given these challenges and with


the goal of maximizing shareholder value, Senior Management and the Board of Directors remain


focused on the strategic alternative review process. With the assistance of Morgan Stanley, we


continued to examine a wide range of strategic and financial alternatives to determine which may


be in the best interest of our company and our shareholders.


As a reminder, these strategic and financial alternatives include, but are not limited to, alliances


with or a sale to another entity, acquisitions of, or mergers or other combinations with companies


with either complementary technologies or in adjacent market segments, recapitalization, remaining


a standalone entity, further restructuring, and other recapitalization alternatives including cash


distribution.