corrected transcript


Sycamore Networks, Inc.
 
SCMRE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 21 2. 9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 4 C al l S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Sycamore Networks


Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2005 Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will


be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions].


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, October 11, 2005.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Terry Adams, Vice President of Investor Relations.


Please go ahead, sir.


Terry Adams, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Pamela. Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us today. With


me are Dan Smith, Sycamore’s President and CEO; and Richard Gaynor, our Chief Financial


Officer. The purpose of this call is to discuss Sycamore’s fourth quarter 2005 and full year financial


results and related business matters. Today’s press release was distributed prior to market open at


approximately 7 a.m. via Business Wire. Throughout this conference call, we will be referencing


both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. We have provided information related to both our


GAAP and non-GAAP financial results along with a reconciliation table in our press release. The


non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with or an alternative for GAAP and maybe different


from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Finally, non-GAAP financial data should be


considered in addition to and not as a substitute or a more appropriate indicator than operating


losses, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.


Additionally, please note we have provided GAAP reconciliation information on our website and


that’s located at www.sycamorenet.com within the Investor Relations section.


Before we get started, I'd like to note the following. Except for historical information we wish to


caution you that certain matters discussed today constitute forward-looking statements that involve


risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those stated or


implied in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors which are identified in today’s


press release and discussed in detail in the Company’s most recently filed reports on Form 10-K,


10-K/A, 10-Q and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any


forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future results or otherwise.


Now with that said, I’ll turn the call over to Dan Smith. Dan.


Daniel E. Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Terry. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on this call today. Before I turn


to our most recent financial results, I would like to take a moment to address our recently


completed financial restatements that were filed on September 12. The integrity of our financial


reports is vital to our shareholders, critical to our business and is a responsibility that we take very


seriously. As soon as the historical stock option accounting issues were identified, we acted


promptly. During the course of the independent investigation, which was conducted under the


direction of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, we were diligent and thorough in


analyzing the impact of the findings on our previously issued financial statements. As you know, we


issued restatements of historical financial statements for the stock option-related accounting errors


we discovered, and we implemented what we believe are the appropriate corrections in our internal
corrected transcript


Sycamore Networks, Inc.
 
SCMRE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 21 2. 9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 4 C al l S tr ee t
 
2


controls and processes. These restatements did not have any impact on revenues, cash, or non-


stock option-related expenses for any prior periods. We are pleased that we were able to file our


restated financial statements and our third quarter report on Form 10-Q in an expeditious manner


and thus maintain our continued listing on NASDAQ.


On September 19, we reported our third quarter financial results. We are encouraged with the


continued progress that was demonstrated in our third quarter results, including revenue growth,


margin improvements and minimal cash utilization. Although we will focus today’s call on our fourth


quarter and year-end results, we will be glad to answer any questions regarding our third quarter


operating performance during the question-and-answer session later in this call.


I will now turn to the financial results released today.


This morning, Sycamore reported fourth quarter revenue of 18.5 million, a GAAP net income of 1.4


million or a GAAP income per share of $0.01, and a non-GAAP net income of 1.6 million or a non-


GAAP income per share of $0.01. For the full fiscal year, Sycamore reported revenue of 65.4


million, a GAAP net loss of 23.8 million or a GAAP loss per share of $0.09, and a non-GAAP net


loss of 11.0 million or a loss per share of $0.04. Rick will provide more details on our financial


results later in the call.


We were extremely pleased with a number of improvements in our fourth quarter operating


performance. Revenue for fourth quarter represented 3.5% sequential and 47% year-over-year


growth, respectively, while gross margins improved significantly as a result of favorable product mix


and ongoing initiatives designed to reduce product costs. In addition, we continued to emphasize


disciplined expense control with continued reduction in operating expenses. Our ongoing efforts to


maintain balance sheet strength yielded positive results. During the fourth quarter, this resulted in a


positive cash generation of 6.2 million. Sycamore ended the quarter with approximately 955 million


in cash and cash equivalents. These improvements were the direct results of disciplined focus and


diligent execution in our optical switching business.


On August 23, we were pleased to announce that KT, formerly known as Korea Telecom, selected


Sycamore products for deployment in a nationwide backbone network designed to support a variety


of next-generation voice and high-speed data services. The combination of our superior technology


and strategic alliance with Siemens enabled us to successfully compete for this business. As many


of you are aware, KT is recognized worldwide for their leading-edge broadband services. Our


solution for KT, which includes the SN 16000 intelligent optical switch and Universal Service Card,


or USC, will be deployed to increase the performance and scalability of their high-speed


communications infrastructure. Increased demand for broadband services was one of the key


drivers for the KT optical switch project. Similarly business and consumer demand for high-speed


connectivity services and next-generation wireless applications contributed to capacity expansion


requirements at some of our existing customers.


During the past year, for example, we were also pleased to build upon our strategic relationship


with Vodafone in the United Kingdom and Vodafone Netherlands by supplying additional equipment


for capacity upgrades. These network upgrades are being driven by increased demand for content-


rich wireless applications such as 3G. We remain committed to delivering our customers the most


innovative solutions and the highest level of reliability and availability as they build or expand their


network infrastructures.


Throughout the fiscal year, we continued to focus our R&D development efforts on technology


initiatives tied directly to customer requirements. These initiatives included the addition of Ethernet


Packet Intelligence on our USC, a Modular Service Interface Card for the SN 16000 intelligent


optical switch. This functionality provides a logical and efficient connection between the optical


domain and the ethernet service layer and enables our customers to cost effectively deploy flexible-