corrected transcript


THQ Inc
 
THQI
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentleman and welcome to the THQ Inc. Second Quarter, Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Jen and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I


would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference, Ms. Julie


MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed ma'am.


Julie MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, good afternoon everyone. Welcome to THQ's conference call for the second quarter of


our fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. I would like to remind everyone that statements and


projections made during this conference call regarding our expectations, estimates, and predictions


of the future are forward-looking statements. These statements about our business are based in


part on assumptions made by management and are not guarantees of future performance.


Therefore, actual results may differ materially from today's forward-looking statements, due to


several risk factors which are set forth in our March 31, 2005 Form 10-K. A copy of this filing may


be obtained from our website.


On today's call, Brian Farrell, THQ's President and Chief Executive Officer, will review our strategy


for the platform transition and plans for the holiday quarter, and will then turn the call over Ed Zinser


our Chief Financial Officer, who will review the Company's second quarter results and fiscal 2006


outlook. Brian will then close with the discussion of our plans for fiscal 2007 and long-term growth.


We will then conduct a question-and-answer session following prepared remarks.


I would now like to introduce Brian Farrell our President and Chief Executive Officer. Brian?


Brian J. Farrell, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Julie and good afternoon everyone. Our solid second quarter performance underscores


the strength of THQ’s global and diversified portfolio strategy. For the first nine months of calendar


2005, THQ was the number two independent videogame software publisher in North America, the


United Kingdom and Australia. Our U.S. market share is up 25% year-to-date and our ASPs are


actually up 3% year-to-date according to NPD. Our leading position reflects THQ’s execution on the


strategy we outlined for you last year: owning the mass-market and significantly increasing our


share against the core gamer.


I would like talk about how we planned for the platform transition and this holiday season in


particular. As was the case last year, THQ’s third quarter line up, consist of well-known brands:


WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW, SpongeBob SquarePants, The Incredibles and Bratz. We are


supporting our games with aggressive consumer marketing and in-store promotional campaigns.


For example, at Wal-Mart, we are continuing our leadership in displaying our games outside the


glass, with promotions for WWE, Tak and our value titles. At Toys R Us, our display of Nickelodeon


games will be first thing customers see when they walk in the door. We believe the value category


will be strong this holiday and our enviable catalog of value and Greatest Hits products continues to


sell very well.


In fact, life-to-date, we’ve shipped more than 8 million units of Finding Nemo, more than 5 million


units of The Incredibles, more than 3 million units of the SpongeBob Movie game and more than


2.5 million units of WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW. The strength of our mass-market brands year-to-


date underscores our confidence in our holiday lineup. We look forward to the launch of Xbox 360


this fall and view this as the beginning of a new high growth period for our industry. In the near term
corrected transcript


THQ Inc
 
THQI
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


however, with limited quantities and the announced price point for the Xbox 360, we expect the


mass-market consumer and casual gamer to remain focused on current-gen software this holiday.


In the March quarter, we plan to bring out strong titles targeted to core gamers on both current and


next-gen consoles. We plan to launch the sequel to our million-unit seller Full Spectrum Warrior on


PS2, Xbox and PC. For the Xbox 360 we have scheduled The Outfit from our internal studio Relic


in the March quarter and have moved MotoGP for the 360 into that quarter. We now plan to launch


Saint’s Row from our Volition studio in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. This scheduling enables us to


take advantage of the growing Xbox 360 installed base over the coming months and to select the


right launch window for the long-term success of these important THQ brands.


As we have discussed previously, we are confident that our development pipeline will drive our


leadership on next-gen consoles. We currently have 13 titles in development for next generation


hardware, up from the 7 we discussed on our last call. We have already announced several strong


new franchises for Xbox 360 that we intend to leverage over the life of that platform. We’re excited


about the very positive buzz these games are generating. In short, we are intent on navigating


through the console transition with proven mass-market brands for the important holiday season,


then aggressively attacking the growing installed base of next-gen hardware with new brands


starting in our fiscal 2006 fourth quarter.


Now, Ed Zinser, our Chief Financial Officer, will review our operating results and forecast for fiscal


2006. Ed?


Edward Zinser, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Brian and good afternoon. Today, I’ll review our Q2 financial results, provide initial


guidance for the upcoming December quarter, and provide guidance for our full year. Net sales for


the second quarter of fiscal 2006 were $143 million, ahead of our guidance of 125 million, and 48%


greater than the prior year quarter.


We reported a $0.02 per share loss favorable to our guidance of a $0.07 loss and favorable to the


$0.11 loss in the prior year quarter. As a reminder, all per share amounts we discuss today reflect a


three for two stock split effective September 1. Net sales in the second quarter were driven by our


new releases Tak 3, Scooby-Doo! Unmasked and WWE Day of Reckoning 2; the continued strong


worldwide performance of 2 owned and original properties, Juiced and Destroy All Humans!; and


strong catalog sales. From a geographic viewpoint, all regions posted significant growth versus the


prior year quarter. North America was up 41%, Europe was up 73% and Asia Pacific was up 24%.


Wireless revenues led by Star Wars, SpongeBob, Destroy All Humans! and Juiced were up 43%


versus the prior year quarter.


Gross margin for the quarter was 67%, down one point from the prior year quarter. This was due


primarily to the lower sales mix of PC product in Q2 this year of 13%, compared to 24% in the same


quarter last year, which included the Dawn of War release. Licensed amortization and royalty cost


of 8% of net sales decreased by 180 basis points compared to last year. The owned intellectual


properties Destroy All Humans! and Juiced and Tak 3 were 22% of net sales in Q2 this year,


whereas licensed properties WWE Day of Reckoning, Finding Nemo and Fairly OddParents


comprised 25% of the sales mix in the prior year quarter. Software development amortization of


17% was down 140 basis points compared to the prior year quarter. Leverage from the million unit


plus seller Destroy All Humans! to lower cost kids titled Tak 3 and Scooby-Doo! Unmasked and the


catalog accounted to the rate decline versus last year.


As expected, product development expenses of $21.3 million, increased by 6 million from the prior


year period. The key driver was a significant growth in studio headcount to nearly 1100, which


reflects the acquisitions of the Blue Tongue studio in Q3 last year, and the recent additions to the