corrected transcript


THQ, Inc.
 
THQI
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2006 THQ Inc.


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Christi and I will be your call coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question and answer session


towards the end of today's conference. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the


presentation over to your host for today's call, Ms. Julie MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations.


Ma'am please proceed.


Julie MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, good morning everyone. Welcome to THQ's conference call for the fourth quarter and


fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. I would like to remind everyone that statements and projections


made during this conference call regarding our expectations, estimates, and predictions of the


future are forward-looking statements. These statements about our business are based in part on


assumptions made by management and are not guarantees of future performance. Therefore,


actual results may differ materially from today's forward-looking statements due to several risk


factors, which are described in our March 31, 2005, Form 10-K. A copy of this filing may be


obtained from our website. The forward- looking statements made on today’s call are as of May 5,


2006 and we disclaim any duty to update them.


On today's call, Brian Farrell, THQ's President and Chief Executive Officer, will review our fiscal


2006 accomplishments and will then turn the call over to Ed Zinser, our Chief Financial Officer, who


will review the company's operating results and financial outlook. Brian will then close with the


discussion of our plans for fiscal 2007 and long-term growth. We will then conduct a question and


answer session following prepared remarks. I would now like to introduce Brian Farrell, our


President, and Chief Executive Officer. Brian?


Brian J. Farrell, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Julie and good morning everyone. We would like you to take three things away from


today’s call: one, THQ executed very well in a tough environment last fiscal year; two, we have a


solid line up of both current and next-gen titles that give us confidence in the short-term; and three,


we positioned THQ very well for growth in the long-term. Fiscal 2006 marked our 11th consecutive


year of revenue growth as we grew net sales 7% in a tough market environment. We posted net


sales of $807 million and net income of $0.52 per share. Our focus on driving more units per title


paid off. We shipped 10 titles of more than 1 million units each in fiscal 2006, up from 6 a year ago.


While the ongoing industry transition and our investments in product development affected our


bottom line results in fiscal 2006, we are proud of our achievements during the year and how we


positioned THQ for the future. In calendar 2005, THQ gained share in all our key markets: North


America, Europe, and Australia. In fact, we now generate nearly 40% of our revenues outside of


North America and view international markets as a continuing growth opportunity over the next


cycle.


Our record fiscal 2006 net sales were driven by the strength of our proven mass-market brands and


the establishment of two new franchises for core gamers – Juiced and Destroy All Humans!. We


believe THQ has a significant opportunity for continued market share gains over the cycle as we


rollout more products targeted to the core gamer and we continue to leverage our long-term license


brands. We encourage you to visit our booth at the E3 trade show next week to get a first hand look


at our games.
corrected transcript


THQ, Inc.
 
THQI
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
2


In order to support our strategy of developing more franchises in-house and to build more owned


original properties, we continue to grow our studio system, which now includes 1200 people located


in 14 studios. We’re excited about our internally developed product pipeline targeted to core


gamers including upcoming titles Saint's Row and Company of Heroes and fiscal 2008 title


Frontline: Fuel of War.


THQ’s handheld leadership continued to drive our games in fiscal 2006. Consistent with our


strategy of releasing games for the new handheld platform as the installed base ramps, we


significantly increased our share on both the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP. We shipped more than


500,000 of our first PSP title WWE SmackDown vs. RAW 2006 and brought internal franchise MX


vs. ATV to that device. We’re focused on extending our handheld leadership over the cycle.


Let’s talk for a few minutes about some other growth opportunities for THQ. We grow our wireless


revenues and began to attack two important emerging revenue opportunities: in-game advertising


and downloadable content. Our revenues on the wireless platform grew nearly 50% to $36 million


from $25 million a year ago. While we have work to do to build that part of our business, we


continue to view the wireless platform as an exciting growth driver over the long-term. We also


planned to pursue in-game advertising on future PC and next-gen console games and entered into


agreement with Massive and Double Fusion to support those efforts. We view downloadable


content and microtransactions as a key component of our next-gen development efforts. We’ll start


with downloadable maps for The Outfit later this month and plan to offer downloadable content for


Saint's Row as well. In short, we’ve laid the groundwork for continued share gains not only in fiscal


2007 but over the next several years.


Now Ed Zinser, our Chief Financial Officer, will review our fiscal 2006 operating results and forecast


for fiscal 2007. Ed?


Edward Zinser, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Brian good morning. Today I will recap our full year fiscal 2006 results and review our


Q4 financial results. In addition, I will provide guidance for full year fiscal 2007 and for the upcoming


June quarter.


THQ gained the market share both domestically and internationally in the fiscal year ended March


31, 2006 and posted net revenue of 807 million, 7% growth over the prior year. Net revenue was


fueled by ten 1 million unit plus titles, which included both licensed and new original intellectual


properties. Earnings, however, declined to $0.52 per share from $1.04 in the prior year. The prior


year earnings per share included a $0.13 research and development tax benefit claimed for prior


years. The significant decline in earnings per share and operating margin was planned for this fiscal


year, due primarily to next-generation product development spending.


Now turning to our financial results for the fourth quarter, net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal


2006 were 148.1 million with a $0.12 loss per share, which was consistent with out updated


guidance. This is down from 171.9 million in net sales and $0.16 in earnings per share in the prior


year period. The top selling titles in the quarter were The Outfit, WWE SmackDown vs. RAW 2006,


Nicktoons Unite! and MX vs. ATV Unleashed. In addition, we posted strong sales of SpongeBob


titles in our catalog. Currency exchange rates decreased our net sales during the quarter by $5


million or 3%.


Gross margin for the quarter was 62%, down 4 points from the prior year, primarily due to greater


price protection for Full Spectrum Warrior: Ten Hammers and to product mix. License amortization


and royalty costs were 10% of net sales, consistent with last year’s rate. Software development


amortization of 24% net sales increased from 9% of net sales in the prior year quarter, 5 points of