corrected transcript


THQ Inc
 
THQI
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the THQ Inc. Q1 2006 Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Carlo and I will be your coordinator for today's presentation. [Operator


Instructions]. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Julie


MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed ma'am.


Julie MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to THQ's conference call for our first quarter of


our fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. On today's call, Brian Farrell, THQ's President and Chief


Executive Officer, and Ed Zinser our Chief Financial Officer, will review the Company's results and


outlook. We will conduct a question-and-answer session following prepared remarks.


Before I turn the call over to Brian, I would like to remind everyone that statements and projections


made during this conference call regarding our expectations, estimates, and predictions of the


future are forward-looking statements. These statements about our business are based in part on


assumptions made by management and are not guarantees of future performance. Therefore,


actual results may differ materially from today's forward-looking statements, due to numerous risk


factors which are set forth in our March 31, 2005 Form 10-K. A copy of this filing may be obtained


from our website.


I would now like to introduce Brian Farrell, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Brian?


Brain J. Farrell, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Julie and good afternoon everyone. I am extremely pleased to announce that during the


first quarter, we achieved our goal of establishing two new franchises based on owned and original


intellectual property. Both Destroy All Humans! and Juiced topped the North American, European


and, Australian sales charts and continue to sell well at retail. To date we have shipped more than


one million units of each title. Each of these high quality games was supported with aggressive


worldwide marketing campaigns. Establishing these new franchises underscores the strength of


THQ's product development and marketing organizations.


In addition to establishing two new franchises we also achieved our strategic goal of growing our


market share against the core gamer audience. Sales of Destroy All Humans! and Juiced helped


drive THQ's market share growth in each of our relevant markets during the June quarter, and for


the first half of calendar 2005.


In the U.S. THQ's first-half console share grew to 7.2%, up from 6.4% in the prior year period


according to NPD. In the U.K. year-to-date we posted a 6.3% market share, up 2.7 points over the


prior year period, according to Chart-Track. In Australia and New Zealand we increased our first


half share to 9% up three points over the prior year period according to Gfk.


Year-to-date we are the number two independent publisher in the U.S. and the number three


independent publisher in the U.K. and Australia. Our increasingly global and diversified product


portfolio is driving THQ's market share gains. Over the past year we have successfully executed on


our strategy of selectively launching new original properties to enhance our solid base of premier


licensed games. During that time, we have established four successful original franchises that we


expect will provide sequel opportunities for THQ over the next several years. Full Spectrum Warrior
corrected transcript


THQ Inc
 
THQI
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and MX vs. ATV Unleashed in fiscal 2005 and now Destroy All Humans! and Juiced in the first


quarter of fiscal 2006.


As expected for this point in the current hardware cycle, THQ's leading portfolio of games for the


mass-market consumer continues to sell well. Games based on The Incredibles, SpongeBob


SquarePants, and the WWE contributed significantly to THQ's first-half market share gains. We


look forward to rolling out new versions of our most popular licensed brands in the back half of this


year. We also recently announced greatest hits versions of The Incredibles and the SpongeBob


SquarePants Movie from our Heavy Iron Studios. In addition, we are excited about introducing


another potential mass-market franchise Bratz this holiday season.


In addition to posting strong revenues in the first quarter, we further strengthened our product


development organization and grew our portfolio of owned intellectual properties. We continue to


add talent at our key studios and have just opened a development studio in New York, bringing our


product development organization to just under 1,000 people, excluding wireless.


Our new studio in New York has outstanding creative talent with impressive game industry


credentials, and is focused on next-gen console development. We now have five internal studios


actively working on seven games for next-generation hardware. At the E3 trade show we unveiled


two completely new and original properties developed by THQ's internal studios for next-gen.


Saint’s Row from Volition and The Outfit from Relic. Both of these titles are being built from the


ground up to take advantage of the technological advancements offered by the new hardware. Our


strategy is to launch new brands targeting core gamers who are active early in the cycle.


During the quarter, we also expanded our portfolio of original intellectual properties with three new


critically acclaimed PC titles targeting the core gamer. We were extremely pleased that Relic's


Company of Heroes was named best strategy game of E3 and Iron Lore's Titan Quest was named


to PC Gamer's Top Ten of E3 list. Recently we announced the rights to publish the highly


anticipated real-time strategy PC game Supreme Commander, which was featured on the cover of


the August PC Gamer Magazine. We are very excited to be working with renowned PC game


developer Chris Taylor and Gas Powered Games on this project.


We continued to demonstrate solid revenue growth for wireless, crossing the $10 million quarterly


revenue mark for the first time. We were extremely pleased with the strength of Star Wars branded


games and related entertainment products. Star Wars is a tremendous global brand and we look


forward to continuing to deliver wireless content based on this brand as well as our popular console


brands, sports, and arcade titles. In short, we are very pleased to start fiscal 2006 with two


successful new franchises and increasing momentum in building THQ's portfolio of new original IP.


We believe that launching proven mass-market products in the upcoming holiday season is a


winning strategy, as we remain laser focused on navigating through the console transition. Now, Ed


Zinser, our Chief Financial Officer will review our operating results and forecast for fiscal 2006. Ed?


Edward Zinser, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Brian and good afternoon. Today I'll review our Q1 financial results, provide initial


guidance for the upcoming September quarter, and provide guidance for our full year. Net sales for


the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were $158 million, ahead of our guidance range of 135 to 140 million,


and 79% greater than the prior year quarter. We reported a $0.10 per share loss favorable to our


guidance of a $0.15 loss and equivalent to the $0.10 loss in the prior year quarter. Net sales in the


first quarter were driven by the strong worldwide performance of two owned and original properties,


Juiced on PS2, Xbox, and PC, and Destroy All Humans! on PS2 and Xbox. In addition, WWE


WrestleMania 21 on Xbox, MX vs. ATV Unleashed on PS2, and Xbox, and our back catalog all


posted strong results.