corrected transcript


THQ Inc.
 
THQI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-


end 2005 THQ, Inc., Conference Call. My name is Amanda, and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions.]


At this time I would like to hand the conference over to your host for today, Ms. Julie MacMedan,


Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed, ma'am.


Julie MacMedan, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to THQ's conference call for our fourth


quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. On today's call, Brian Farrell, THQ's President and


Chief Executive Officer, and Ed Zinser, our Chief Financial Officer, will review the company's


results and outlook and will conduct a question-and-answer session following prepared remarks.


Before I turn the call over to Brian, I would like to remind everyone that statements and projections


made during this conference call regarding our expectations, estimates, and predictions of the


future are forward-looking statements. These statements about our business are based in part on


assumptions made by management and are not guarantees of future performance. Therefore,


actual results may differ materially from today's forward-looking statements due to numerous


factors which are set forth in the Risk Factors section of our March 31, 2004 Form 10-K. A copy of


this filing may be obtained by contacting THQ or the SEC.


I would now like to introduce Brian Farrell, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Brian?


Brian J. Farrell, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Julie, and good afternoon everyone. As you know, last year was a highly competitive


one, with the industry facing everything from shortages of hardware to the so-called “murderers’


row” of last holiday season. We are pleased to announce that, in this climate, THQ reported record


revenues, achieving sales growth more than twice the rate of market growth and the highest net


income in company history. Our record results were fueled by growth in our established license


brands and the successful launch of new properties targeted to the core gamer. Six of our titles


exceeded 1 million units shipped, up from four a year ago. Four of the six titles exceeded


shipments of 2 million units. Our record results were led by growth in our core franchises, with


sales of Disney/Pixar, WWE SmackDown! and SpongeBob SquarePants products up year-over-


year. We were pleased with the strong performance of catalog titles Disney/Pixar's Finding Nemo


and SpongeBob SquarePants Battle for Bikini Bottom, which demonstrate the long shelf life of our


leading mass market brands.


In fiscal 2005 we achieved our goal of expanding market share against the core gamer segment.


Full Spectrum Warrior shipped over 1 million units. MX Unleashed, released in late fiscal 2004,


crossed the million-unit unit threshold in fiscal 2005. The Punisher shipped over 800,000 units, and


PC-exclusive Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War has sold more than 500,000 units. While we are


pleased with our performance in fiscal 2005, we are even more enthusiastic about how we position


the company for the future. During fiscal 2005 we more than doubled our internal development


capabilities in preparation for the next generation of hardware. THQ studio operations now stand at


over 900 people across 10 studios. We deepened our global sales organization and grew


international revenues to 38% of sales, up from 29% a year ago.
corrected transcript


THQ Inc.
 
THQI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


THQ Wireless revenues more than tripled, to $25 million from just $7 million a year ago. Our


balance sheet is strong, with almost $8 per share in cash and short-term investments. We also


strengthened our portfolio of franchises that will support THQ's growth for years to come. Two


huge wins for THQ were renewing our long-term license agreements with both Pixar and


Nickelodeon. We will commence the new four-property agreement with Pixar in 2007 with games


based on their first film after “Cars.” Pixar has been a great partner, and they continue to create


Academy Award-winning films. We plan to continue to leverage the strong global appeal of Pixar's


films as we work with them to grow the Pixar brand in the videogame category through 2010 and


beyond. We also extended our long-standing master interactive licensing agreement with


Nickelodeon through 2010. Nickelodeon has an unprecedented track record of developing quality


kids’ programming. and we look forward to working closely with them to continue to deliver world-


class videogames based on their market leading brands.


Fiscal 2005 marks an impressive tenth consecutive year of revenue growth for THQ, through two


console cycles. The THQ entering the coming cycle is a very different company than the THQ that


entered the previous cycle. Since the start of the current cycle in 2000, our revenues have more


than doubled to $757 million from $347 million, with international revenues climbing to $286 million


from $77 million in 2000. Our balance sheet is extremely strong, with cash and short-term


investments at $331 million, up from $28 million at the end of 2000; and stockholders equity has


increased fourfold to $549 million from $132 million. One of the most impressive areas of growth


has been our product development organization. We now have over 900 professionals in product


development, up from just over 100 in 2000, enabling THQ to bring key brands in-house and to


establish owned intellectual properties.


As we approach the next generation of console systems, we look forward to an expanding market


for videogames. We believe the improved graphics, deeper online functionality, and expanded


artificial intelligence capabilities of the new consoles will help grow our market significantly. We


have seen some estimates that the North American hardware install base is expected to more than


double by 2010, with U.S. videogame software sales exceeding $10 billion that same year. We


intend to capture a significant share of this market growth with a four-prong strategy aimed at


serving gamers on every platform. First, we plan to attack the huge install base of current-


generation hardware with some of the best mass market brands in industry: Pixar, Nickelodeon,


and the WWE. In addition, we will launch products targeted at both the high-end and mass-market


PC gamer to help us navigate the transition. Second, we plan to establish a leadership position


early in the next console cycle with an aggressive product strategy that leverages the strength of


our large internal studio organization. Third, we plan to leverage our leadership on handheld


platforms to the new DS and PSP and to maintain our dominance on the GBA platform. Fourth, we


expect THQ Wireless to continue to grow at a rapid pace, with net sales expected to more than


double in fiscal 2006.


Our achievements in delivering record performance and positioning our company for the future are


the result of the outstanding efforts of our 1300 THQ employees across our global organization. I


would like to thank and congratulate each of them for their dedication and hard work.


Now I would like to introduce Ed Zinser, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,


to review our operating results and forecast for fiscal 2006. Ed?


Edward Zinser, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Brian. Good afternoon. Today I will recap our full-year fiscal 2005 results and review


our Q4 financial results. In addition, I will provide guidance for full year fiscal 2006 and for the


upcoming June quarter.