raw transcript


Three-Five Systems, Inc.
 
TFS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4, 2004 Three-Five Systems


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is John and I will be your coordinator for today.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to like


to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Ms. Liz Sharp, please proceed ma'am.


Elizabeth Sharp, Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon. During the course of our call today we may make forward-looking


statements. Our actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.


Factors that could cause actual results to differ include risk factors and other considerations set


forth in the company's SEC filings including our Form 10-Kyphon, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K and in


our Annual Report to shareholder as well as those mentioned during our call today. This


conference contains time sensitive information that is accurate only as of the time hereof. If any


portion of this presentation is rebroadcast, retransmitted or redistributed at or later date we will not


be reviewing or updating the material content herein. Our actual results could differ materially from


these statements.


Our speakers on today's call are Jack Saltich, President and CEO, and Jim Jurgens, Interim CFO.


With that, I'll turn you over to Jack.


Jack Saltich, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Liz. Let me just lay out the agenda for today's call. First, Jim Jurgens will review our


financial results. After he has completed I will make some comments regarding the strategy and


execution for each of our key business areas. So please go ahead Jim


James Jurgens, Interim Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Revenue for the fourth quarter was $40.5 million in the middle of our forecasted range.


This was a slight decrease from our third quarter due to seasonality of our RF customer in Manila.


Revenue in the other EMS businesses was up and revenue in the display business was down. The


expected additional increase in revenue in our EMS business was from a large military contract that


has been pushed out to the end of the first quarter. We are in a transition period in the display


business as we move forward from selling primarily monochrome FT [ph] and display to selling


color TFT displays. That transition will accelerate towards the end of the second quarter when we


expect to ramp up a program for a Tier one handset maker. Without non-cash and unexpected


items the per share loss for the fourth quarter was $0.32, which is at the lower end of our


announced range of expectations. Continued factory absorption issues in Redmond and Beijing led


to losses in those two facilities totaling $5.1 million or $0.23 per share. The Penang Facility was


solidly profitable in the fourth quarter. The key to improving the situation in Beijing is the TFT


Handset program that Jack will discuss. We previously had operational issues in Redmond but I


feel most of these operational issues are now solved. Redmond financials will improve as we ramp


up our medical and other business.


Now let me walk you through the non-cash and unexpected items. After that I will address the


balance sheet. The biggest non-cash expense this quarter was $1.8 million for inventory scrap and


reserve charges. These charges relate primarily to operational issues in Manila for their RF


business and for display related programs that originated in Manila and were later moved to Beijing.
raw transcript


Three-Five Systems, Inc.
 
TFS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As noted in the press release, we also had to approve unexpected additional amounts for the


Section 404 attestation work done by our outside auditor. We feel very good about our internal


controls but late guidance from the PCAOB required additional testing and documentation for the


auditors performing the Section 404 work. I would note that our internal audit and Section 404 fees


alone are expected to top $1.2 million in 2004. And the audit and tax fees will close at another $0.5


million. We also incurred $760,000 in charges related to the move to our new facility in Redmond.


We received a $90,000 – $900,000 in cash to cover these charges. However, GAAP requires us to


amortize the $900,000 over the life of – over the life of the new lease while expensing all the move


related costs in the fourth quarter.


Lastly we incurred severance related costs of $237,000 in the fourth quarter related to


reorganization activities.


Now turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $16.2 million in cash, a $2.2 million


increase over the previous quarter. Our operating cash inflow was about $200,000 and we had


capital expenditures of $1.2 million. Most of the --most of the CapEx related is for our ongoing ERP


implementation and the upgrade of our Beijing factory with advanced cleanrooms for TFT. We sold


our Tempe building in the fourth quarter resulting in $8.8 million in cash. In addition to the cash, we


received a 5-year $2 million note on the building sale. We reduced our line of credit balance with


the Silicon Valley Bank from $5 million to zero during the quarter. There are currently no borrowings


under the Silicon Valley Bank line. We are currently under discussion with the Bank with regard to a


renegotiation of the terms of the line. During this renegotiation period, Silicon Valley Bank has


issued a forbiddance letter under which we have precluded access to the line at this time. We


currently have $2.4 million line of credit in China and we have been improved – we have been


approved for and are in the final negotiating stages of securing a $4 million line of credit in Penang.


Our balance sheet metrics improved in all areas in the fourth quarter. Our inventory balances


decreased by approximately $2.8 million. As a result, our inventory turns rose from 6.3 to 6.8. In


addition, our DSOs decreased from 53 days down to 52; as a result of these improvements, our


cash conversion cycle was at 54 days down from 58 in the previous quarter. This is very near our


goal of 50 days. Now I'll turn it back over to Jack.


Jack Saltich, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jim. That was a good recap, and I am happy to welcome you on Board. Before I get into


any detail of our businesses and because we are beginning a new year with this quarter, I want to


make a few general remarks about the company and where we stand in our effort to regain


profitability. Basically, profitability requires that we focus and execute in three key ways. First and


foremost, we must execute on the sales front and drive top line growth. This is particularly key for


the platform displays business in Beijing and for our medical and commercial EMS business for the


– targeted at the Redmond factory. Secondly, we must improve execution and control in every


factory. We simply have to put a stop to the inventory write off in the factories. They have to be


eliminated. The third key area is that we have to invest carefully in our engineering groups in


Penang, Beijing, and Marlborough in order to enhance our opportunity to drive greater gross margin


particularly in our medical and IDS, our large monitor display business. On the first point, sales


execution, I have retooled the TFS organization in the past six months adding more strength and


increase focus. The leadership in this part of the company is stronger than it has ever been and


consequently, I now expect fair results.


On the second point, operations execution we’ve completely changed the way in which we manage


this area. For example, we’ve gone from a centralized to a very decentralized manufacturing


structure where in every factory is now a P&L center. We hold rigorous operations views monthly


for each location and closely monitor factory P&L performance. While the quarter four results reflect


the fact that we’re still dealing with legacy issues, we continue to intensify this focus. Going forward,