corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Town Sports International Holdings


Incorporated Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a


listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to


introduce your host, Mr. Dan Gallagher.


Daniel Gallagher, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International Holdings Earnings Conference


Call discussing 2010 Third Quarter Results. I am Dan Gallagher, Chief Financial Officer of the


company.


I caution listeners that, to the extent we make any forward-looking statements in this conference


call, they are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of


which are outside of our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different from any


forecasts we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the


SEC.


We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which has been filed with the


SEC under Form 8-K. In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release and filing,


we have also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com. This conference call is


also being webcast and may be accessed via the Company’s Investor Relations section under our


website. Also, a replay and transcript of the call will be made available via the Company’s website


following this call.


I now turn this call over to Bob Giardina, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Town Sports


International for discussion on the operations of the Company. And then I will give further detailed


financial discussion later on in the call. Bob?


Robert J. Giardina, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dan, and good afternoon everyone. I am going to discuss the progress we made in the


quarter towards reviving our membership growth, and also update you on the future plans and


strategies. Then I will turn the call back over to Dan to discuss the financials for the quarter in more


detail.


The highlight for the third quarter was membership growth. As you may know, this has been one of


my main areas of focus since I returned six months ago and, throughout the third quarter, which


includes our big sign up month of September, we continued to focus intently on attracting new


members.


Thanks primarily to continued improvements in attrition, as well as our new student membership


plan, which is now in place year round as opposed to just for the summer months historically, our


sequential, second to third quarter membership count improved significantly from the trend over the


past couple of years. We lost just 3,000 net members in the third quarter this year ending with


493,000. For some perspective, including 10,000 student members, we lost 19,000 net members


last year in the third quarter and 6,000 the year before, and our quarter end count was just 1,000
corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


members below a year ago. So, we are feeling good about our expectation of having our first year-


over-year membership increase since the first quarter of 2009.


Our revenues per member will be impacted while we push for new members and institute new


traffic driving programs, which Dan will discuss in a few minutes. But, every incremental new


member is very profitable. And we believe this is the best path to recovery in our bottom line.


As we mentioned on our last call, Kelley Bubolo took over as VP of sales on July 1, after spending


14 years with Town Sports in various functions. And our goal was to boost our number of


membership sales consultants back to roughly 400 from just over 300 when I took over this past


spring. We were up to 385 by the end of the quarter.


And a good portion of the member increases and spiking guest traffic we have now seen in


September and October can be attributed to an effective marketing campaign and our sales


consultants coming online and beginning to be trained.


We also continued to be aggressively – excuse me – we also continue aggressively implement


additional new strategies to drive member growth. First, we started by simplifying our offerings and


getting back to focusing on two primary memberships.


The list of memberships had grown to include couples, regionals, gym switchers, family, alumni and


other programs that crept into our are offerings and were bogging down the process for potential


members, as well as becoming a problem for our sales people to sell. We also began talking about


– talking last quarter about our student membership plan that, again, no the longer terminates


members when the summer ends and that continues to accept new members all year long.


This has created a new incremental way of membership for us. The number of student members at


the end of the quarter was approximately 16,000, as compared to none a year ago. We also talked


about a new 30 days for $30 web-based trial membership, which has produced incremental traffic


into our clubs. More than 15,000 passes were sold in Q3. As you know, during the quarter we also


reinstated a processing fee for all new members, as well as dues increases in September for a


majority of our members.


Based on our improved attrition rate and feedback from the field we believe that dues increase was


successfully implemented. And finally, we added a new program in September that’s off to a


positive start. We began to test a low cost, á-la-carte program in an underperforming club. The $20


per month membership allows access to the fitness facilities and includes all equipment. But there


are additional fees for access to any group classes. So far we have seen new member sign-ups


increased almost 4-fold versus the same period a year ago in our first test club, which includes


much higher initiation fees. And based on this we have rolled the pilot out to three additional clubs


as of October 1. Over time, we see this model spanning less than 10% of our club base.


All of these efforts to drive traffic into our clubs in the quarter was supported by our re-tooled


marking efforts that highlighted regional as well as campaigns surrounding current events to keep


our brand top of mind. For 2010, our marketing spend is now targeted at $7 million, or about 1.6%


of revenue, versus 7.7 million or 1.6% of revenue last year. But the dollars are being reallocated


predominately to response focused media in order to have an immediate impact. So we believe we


are getting more exposure for less.


Overall, I’m very happy about many aspects of the business, including increased traffic and how


our elevated member experience is having a positive impact on attrition. Third quarter revenue was


still not quite up to the expectations we had set for ourselves. But as you know, the first component


of the business that has to move in the right direction is membership and we are encouraged by the


success we are seeing on this front.