Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel Gallagher — President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Robert J. Giardina — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
George A. Kelly — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Jared W. Madlin — Analyst, Piper Jaffray, Inc.
Kurt M. Frederick — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Town Sports International Holdings, Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Dan Gallagher, President and Chief Financial Officer. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International Holdings earnings conference call discussing results for the first quarter of 2014. I am Dan Gallagher, President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the company.

I caution listeners that any remarks we make in this conference call relating to matters that are not historical facts, constitute forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different from any forecasts we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the SEC, including those discussed in risk factors, MD&A and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2014.

We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which has been filed with the SEC under Form 8-K. We disclaim any duty to update or revise such forward-looking statements whether as a result of future events or otherwise.

In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release and filing, we've also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com. This conference call is also being webcast and may be accessed via the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, a replay and transcript of the call will be made available on our website following the call.

I'll now turn this call over to Bob Giardina, the Chief Executive Officer of Town Sports International, for a discussion on the operations of the company. And then, I'll give further detailed financial discussion later on in the call. Bob?

Thanks, Dan. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us for our first quarter call. When we spoke with you a couple months ago on our 2013 fourth quarter call, I laid out our strategy to position Town Sports for the changes taking place in the fitness industry, changes that create some near-term challenges in part of our business but also significant long-term opportunities. Our first quarter results reflect these near-term challenges with continued pressure on new membership and specifically guest traffic.

The softness in membership sales were more pronounced in the month of January and February when we experienced extreme cold weather and more than usual snow days in our markets. These top line dynamics accompanied by higher than planned expenses most notably on our utilities during the unusually cold winter months weighed on our bottom line.

Looking at a few of the highlights of the quarter, as was the case all of last year, our attrition rate in the first quarter was relatively stable versus the prior year and actually slightly better than our expectation. Personal training revenue increased 2.9% on fewer members. These are two areas that we see ourselves able to control and where I believe the team is doing a nice job.

The issues that negatively impacted the first quarter were inbound membership traffic and sales volumes which we were seeing in January and discussed in our fourth quarter call. Our conversion remains the same and is solid, but our guest traffic has been impacted by the competitive environment, which I'll discuss in a moment. Also, ancillary revenue lines did not meet our expectation. And while we are confident we'll see some improvements at these lines, we were behind plan in Q1.

We know that like most consumer companies, weather had an impact on our membership traffic in the quarter, including the most important membership joining month of January. This unusual weather also impacted our ancillary revenue lines and had a dramatic effect on our utility cost in the quarter.

This netted out to revenue that fell short of our forecast by about $1 million, driven by declines in membership revenue and other ancillary revenue such as Sports Club for Kids and Small Group Training. These were the areas that also drove out 4.7% comparable club revenue decline in the quarter.

But we've also acknowledged that increased competition is drawing potential new customer traffic away and is having an impact on the membership at our clubs. In the last two years alone, more than 125 fitness clubs have opened in our markets. In addition, the trend towards boutique studios is accelerating even faster.

In Manhattan alone, over the last 12 months, boutiques have grown from approximately 300 units to 520 units. That equates to approximately 350 new locations that consumers can try. As I've mentioned in the past, this is good news for the industry as consumers have more options and are increasingly willing to spend more on their fitness regimen.

It creates short-term challenges, but I believe our team, our 40 years of experience, our real estate portfolio and our capital structure will allow us to compete well in the changing environment. We know that health and fitness is a cultural shift, not just a trend and it's here to stay. So, as the weak club shake out and we make strategic adjustments, we believe that we're in a good position to enjoy long-term success.

Now looking at growth. We've already discussed our plans to open five traditional fitness clubs in 2014 as we continue to find opportunities to solidify our strong position in our core urban market as well as plan for at least two BFX Studio clubs, our new multipurpose luxury studio concept.

We have begun the presales process at our Greenpoint, New York Sports Clubs location, which is expected to open for workouts on June 1. And thus far we had exceeded our presale expectations. While we will continue to be very selective with traditional fitness club openings in the future, Greenpoint is a great example of the demand that is out there and how good locations can have tremendous success today.

Our first BFX Studio on 6th Avenue in Chelsea area of Manhattan is targeted for opening in June as well. We also expand at least for a second BFX Studio, Downtown near Wall Street and are targeting a Q4 2014 opening. Our plan is to ramp-up the number of BFX openings in the future to capitalize on a shift towards studio workouts. And we believe we will have the best concept in the market.

In addition, over the course of the next quarter, we plan to review our club portfolio and will likely target approximately 5% of our lower performing clubs for closure. This will enable us to consolidate a portion of these members into our existing clubs, while reducing our club operating expenses such as occupancy and payroll costs.

We're also working on additional strategies to compete directly with the low-class competition entering our markets and actually target some of these customers ourselves. We'll be able to be more specific on our next call.

So, in summary, convergence of the new low-class competition, rapid growth of studios, weather-elevated expenses, and the cost associated with the opening of new clubs this year added up the first quarter results that were below our expectation. However, the longer term combination of an increased consumer focus on fitness and health and our initiatives to capture our share of this growing market keeps us excited, motivated and optimistic about where we will be in a couple of years.

We'll carefully balance optimizing our existing basic clubs with select new clubs opening in A locations as well as the rollout of our BFX Studios. As the industry undergoes these significant changes, we are not standing still. We're working to align our offering with the evolving preferences of consumers and we'll simultaneously keenly focus on maximizing profitability and cash flow generation. As I have said, we are fortunate to be a well capitalized player with a tremendous brand recognition, a strong real estate portfolio and experienced and capable leadership team.

We will continue to aggressively pursue our strategic initiatives in order to position for the growth that we see ahead. And before I hand it over to Dan for his last call in the CFO role, I'm sure you saw that on Friday we announced the appointment of Carolyn Spatafora as our new Chief Financial Officer effective May 12, 2014.

We're very excited to welcome Carolyn to our team. We believe that Carolyn brings the right talent and experience to the role of Chief Financial Officer and the company will benefit from her previous oversight and leadership experience.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Dan.

Thanks, Bob. I'll go through the income statement and highlights for the quarter and then discuss our outlook for the second quarter of 2014. In the first quarter, our consolidated revenue was $115.9 million, a decrease of 2.7% in the first quarter of 2013. Our total net member count in Q1 2014 decreased by 1,000 members to 496,000 members. The number of restricted memberships totaled 41,000 as of March 31, 2014.

Monthly attrition for the first quarter averaged 3.5%, slightly better than our expectation and flat with Q1 last year. We expect average monthly attrition for the second quarter of 2014 to approximate 3.4%, a slight increase from 3.3% in the second quarter of 2013. We saw a very modest improvement in the average monthly recurring EFT dues of members charged in Q1 2014 at $60.12 versus $59.84 in Q1 2013. Also, we saw our average joining fees improve slightly to $56.19 per member from $55.32 in the same period a year ago.

Total ancillary club revenue was down 4% to $22.6 million from $23.6 million a year ago due to declines in our other ancillary revenue programs such as Small Group Training and Sports Club for Kids, while personal training revenues increased 2.9%. Overall, we were disappointed with our ancillary revenue results, which were in part impacted by weather experienced in the quarter.

Revenue of clubs opened over 12 months decreased by 4.7% for the quarter. Comparable club revenue was affected by a decrease in membership of 2.7%, a decrease in ancillary club revenue, joining fees and fees and other revenue of 1.7% and a price decrease of 0.3%. The slight drop in the price component this quarter was in large part due to a decrease in the net amounts collected on paid-in-full corporate memberships. We ended Q1 with 496,000 members or approximately 3.1% fewer members than we had at the end of Q1 2013.

Turning to expenses, total operating expenses increased 9.6% to $118 million for the first quarter of 2014. As Bob said, we saw a significantly higher than planned utility expenses in Q1, driven by the unusually cold winter weather in the Northeast, which had an impact on our utility usage but to a greater extent a spike in utility rates.

Overall utility costs in the first quarter were approximately $1.9 million higher than the same period last year. While utility rates appear to be coming down from the levels experienced in Q1, they're still currently at levels that are elevated from that of the prior year.

G&A expenses totaled $8.3 million in this first quarter, an increase of $1.5 million versus the prior year. Increases in computer software maintenance were expected, but other areas such as data and telephone costs and auditing and tax consulting came in higher than expectations. We expect G&A cost to come back into line and approximate $7.3 million in Q2 2014.

Operating income, excluding goodwill and asset impairment charges for the first quarter, was $1.7 million compared with operating income of $11.5 million in the first quarter of 2013. Excluding these same items, net loss for the quarter was approximately $1.4 million or $0.06 per share compared to net income of $4.2 million or $0.18 per share in the first quarter of 2013.

Adjusted EBITDA was $14.1 million compared to $24.2 million in Q1 2013. Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter of 2014 was $14.4 million as compared to $21.8 million in the first quarter of 2013. Total outstanding debt as of March 31, 2014, was $324.2 million and our cash position was $76.2 million for a net debt level of $248 million compared to net debt of $251.4 million as of December 31, 2013.

As previously announced, in December 2013, we entered into an agreement to sell our 86th Street club location for $82 million. Earlier this month, we expect the closing of this transaction was moved to mid July and the purchaser increased the amount of the non-refundable deposit from $5 million to $10 million.

Capital expenditures totaled $7.2 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared with $5.1 million in the first quarter of 2013 when including the $500,000 acquisition of the West End Club in the prior year. The increase was driven by investments in planned club openings, including our Greenpoint, Brooklyn club as well as construction at our new BFX Studio. For the full year 2014, we continue to expect total capital expenditures to be between $45 million and $50 million, which include $20 million to $22 million related to potential 2014 and 2015 club and BFX Studio openings.

Now turning to our outlook, based on the current business environment, recent performance and current trends in the marketplace and subject to the risk and uncertainties inherent in forward-looking statements, our outlook for the second quarter of 2014 includes the following.

Revenue for Q2 2014 is expected to be between $116 million and $117 million compared with $120.1 million in Q2 2013. As percentages of revenue, we expect Q2 2014 payroll and related expenses to approximate 38.3% and club operating expenses to approximate 41.3%. We expect general and administrative expenses to approximate $7.3 million, depreciation and amortization to approximate $12.1 million, and net interest expense to approximate $4.8 million.

We expect net earnings to be breakeven in Q2 2014 and we estimate that EBITDA will approximate $17 million in Q2 2014. Given our results experienced in the current quarter, we have adjusted our full year forecast and expect our full year adjusted EBITDA to be close to 30% lower than full year 2013.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We'd now like to turn the call over to any questions anyone may have.

Thank you. At this time, we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from George Kelly with Craig-Hallum. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, guys. Couple questions for you. First, could you talk a little more about the store closures that you've mentioned? I think you said 5% – you're thinking about 5% of the total stores that you'd close. I'm just wondering if you can give any more detail about sort of the financial metrics that you look to when you're assessing that and if there is any comment kind of geographic, whether they're urban or suburban or in any specific markets that you're targeting?

Yeah, George. We're going to look at the entire portfolio and really try to look at optimizing our real estate. We are going to focus obviously on underperforming clubs and I will say primarily they are suburban, suburban fitness only product, where we believe that we can consolidate those locations and absorb some of those members into other locations. So, we're actually looking at the process right now. I think this is all driven by the fact of the number of clubs we've seen open up in the suburbs, which are mainly low-cost clubs and then new studios that we've seen in terms of the acceleration over the last year.

Okay. Okay. And then, Dan, the building sale, any issue, anything you can talk to a little bit more detail just about the process? And it's taking a little bit longer to close and can you fill anything there?

I don't really have a lot of color on that, George, other than it's a very complicated transaction in the sense that it's not just a building. There is a building next door to us that they're also purchasing or dealing with at the same time. So, there is a multitude of things that they're dealing with. And I don't really have very good details on it other than they are very confident that this deal will happen. But they've upped their non-refundable deposit is something that I would consider fairly significant. It's now at $10 million. So, if for some reason it didn't happen, we would receive $10 million as the deal is put together now. But for that very reason and based on our dialogue with them, we do think the deal is actually going to happen sometime before July 14 of this year. So, the $82 million sale we're fully expecting to happen.

Okay. Okay. And then, last one, just on – you commented that the lead flow was tough in January and February. I'm just wondering if you could comment on what does it look like since maybe in March and how it's trending recently, if there is any improvement.

It's still quiet. It's quieter than it was last year. We're doing a lot of things to drive guest traffic. So, we have some promotions out there to drive more guest traffic in the doors. But we're seeing similar trends as we have in the past.

Okay.

Yeah. I think January was when we had the most issues with the weather, happens to be our most significant month of the year. And I think that one might have been down a little more than -

January and February.

Yeah. I think they were down a little more than what we might be seeing in March, if that helps a little bit.

Yeah. Okay.

Okay.

All right. Thanks guys.

Thanks, George.

Our next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, guys. Actually Jared Madlin here on for Sean. Thanks for taking the questions. I guess just, first of all, with the five new sites of the traditional clubs that are going in this year, I guess what gives you confidence in those sites and the location there? Are they more urban focused? Obviously, you have Brooklyn, but beyond that, that those sites are ones that can work?

Yeah. They happen to be all urban locations. They've been sites that we've worked on. Like our Avenue A site, we've probably worked on it for 10 years. Greenpoint is under presales right now and it's having an extraordinary response in terms of markets. So we were very selective with those locations and I think moving forward we're even going to be more selective in terms of how we look at those markets, how other competition can come in, what competition is there. So I think moving forward, we'll look at it a little bit more with concerning eye.

Yeah. But as you said, Bob, the Greenpoint is off to a terrific start and there's certainly no negative surprises with that club with the way it's launching right now.

Okay. And in terms of those sites in the suburbs that are potential for closure, I guess in the past have there been any other clubs you've closed in similar locations or with similar demographics and what type of membership – any metrics around member retainment that you could offer?

In the last couple of years, we've closed a suburban club in Virginia, but we really haven't – if it comes to the end of their lease and if they're not performing, we'll close them. In this particular case, we'll be a little bit more proactive in terms of optimizing our real estate and consolidating membership. So we're going to look at the best way to evaluate and move those members.

And in 2009, I think we closed a handful of clubs, so we had pretty good statistics on member retention. And it very much varies by how close the club is to the network versus how far away is the network to club is. And that's part of what we're going to do over the next three months.

Okay. And then just with BFX kind of approaching here, I guess from a marketing perspective what are you doing there to spread the word? And then, two, obviously there's been a large number of people entering this market in Manhattan alone. So, I guess what gives you confidence that the market isn't already saturated enough and anything you can offer there?

Sure. Surprisingly enough, when I gave the number of studios going from 300 to 520, that's Manhattan alone. So, it has exploded. I would say every single one of them has either one offering and there's probably a handful that may have two offerings. We have a complete boutique. So, you're going to be able to come in there and do any type of group exercise program. You're going to be able to do spinning and you're going to be able to do a fitness program with a personal trainer. So, we have a lot of confidence that we'll be able to have, serve the complete boutique where people can get their entire regimen at any age at all levels at that facility.

As I've said in the past, we're building the program on trainers and instructors. We're not building it on facility, although the facility is going to be – I would have to say that at a cost of about $2.2 million to $2.4 million, it's probably going to be one of the nicest boutiques in the country. But I believe that what makes this unique is the instructors and teachers. And most of them are going to be bringing their own following.

So, in terms of being able to market it, a lot of them already have a following that they'll be able to bring to the facility. We also have demographics and guest information based on our 40 years in Manhattan. So, we have a lot of demographic studies that we can actually pull from to be able to use information to drive people into the door. So we feel very confident in terms of where the boutiques are and what we're offering and what we're able to do. And that's why we're looking at accelerating that plan.

Okay. And then just lastly here on the data and phone cost and the G&A there, I think you mentioned last quarter, correct me if I'm wrong that, that those costs should actually turn here at the end of this quarter into a benefit kind of looking at $500,000 annually. Is that still true or are there some more incremental costs coming, so associated with that?

I do expect those costs to actually be more in line in Q2 and Q – I mean Q3 and Q4 as well as Q2. So those costs will start to come more in line and help us get a G&A line item back into line. Offsetting that would be the software product, the MoSo licensing that we're incurring. So long story short, we do expect to have net savings on a go-forward basis for the phone and data, it just took a little longer than what we were expecting. The transition took longer than we expecting, but it does have a fairly quick payback at the end of the day. And the product and service that we're getting, the amount of bandwidth that we're getting, is actually favorable to us. So, I'd say the transition was longer than it take – was expected, but our savings will be there.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Kurt Frederick with Wedbush Securities. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Thanks for taking the call. I have just a question on timing of the club closures as well as the new clubs that are opening up. So you're going to go through this, I guess, Q2 and do the evaluation. Then, what's the timing of when they're going to be actually closing?

Kurt, we'll be able to answer more specifics on the next call. What we're going to do is, we're going to look at the – as I mentioned the underperforming clubs in the portfolio and we're going to look at the obligations and the movement of the members and, more importantly, the employees and try to do it in a way that it's least disruptive for everyone.

Right.

So, I think we're going to try to get that 5% all done by the end of the year. But it's going to be probably staggered between June and December.

Absolutely, I would say, we're currently targeting 5% and our target is expecting that it would close before the end of this year. What exact month, is definitely probably the process that we're working on.

Okay. And then how about the new clubs that are opening?

Yeah. So, the BFX studio is opening in June, Greenpoint, Brooklyn is opening on June 1 also. It's in presales right now. And the other clubs that are opening are all in Q4.

Okay. And then, last year going into the summer, I guess there were some staffing issues with the Sports Club for Kids and that led to a little bit softer year. How is that shaping-up this year?

So, we have some new leadership under the Sports Club for Kids. And we did have some vacancies in our director positions last year, which has partly given rise to the shortfall in Sports Club for Kids revenue we had last year. So, as we get into Q2, we should have an easier comp since Q2 of last year we were down a bit. I think Q2, Q3 and Q4 we were down versus the prior year. Q1 was not necessarily the case, so, I think we're going to have an easier comp going forward and that's probably our expectations are that we should at least hit those numbers, if not better, based on our team being in place now for three quarters.

Sounds good. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from George Kelly with Craig-Hallum. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Just one follow-up on the full year guidance, you mentioned down 30% in EBITDA. Wondering what that assumes for the club closures, if -

Nothing actually. That does not include anything about that, because we don't have anything in front of us in that regard. So I would consider those one-off. To the extent we have charges related to that and we would isolate those in club – best to disclose them. But I certainly don't have the ingredients to give that now because we barely started the process other than identify that we have an opportunity here.

Got you. Okay. Thank you.

Okay.

At this time, I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Gallagher for closing comments.

Okay. Well, thank you for joining us today on the call. And we look forward to reporting on our second quarter at the end of July.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.