Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn M. Spatafora — Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Robert J. Giardina — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Daniel Gallagher — President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Sean P. Naughton — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co
Scott W. Hamann — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings. Welcome to the Town Sports International Holdings Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Carolyn Spatafora, Chief Financial Officer. Thank you. Ms. Spatafora, you may begin.

Thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International Holdings earnings conference call discussing results for the second quarter of 2014. I am Carolyn Spatafora, Chief Financial Officer of the company.

I caution listeners that any remarks we make in this conference call, relating to matters that are not historical facts, constitute forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different from any forecasts we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the SEC, including those discussed in the risk factors, MD&A and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2014.

We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which has been filed with the SEC under Form 8-K. We disclaim any duty to update or revise such forward-looking statements whether as a result of future events or otherwise.

In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release and filing, we've also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com. This conference call is also being webcast and may be accessed via the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, a replay and a transcript of the call will be made available on our website July 31, 2014.

I'll now turn this call over to Bob Giardina, the Chief Executive Officer of Town Sports International, for a discussion on the operations of the company. And then, I will provide additional financial discussion later on this call. Bob?

Thanks, Carolyn. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us for our second quarter conference call. Also on the call with me today is Dan Gallagher, President and COO. Today, I will quickly review the second quarter which had trends that were very similar to the first quarter, and also update you on our initiatives to position our business for the changes taking place in the fitness industry. And then Carolyn will go through the results for the second quarter.

As you can see from our press release, our business in the second quarter was very similar to the first quarter. Same-store sales were down 4.5%, with membership volume being the biggest drag on sales. As we saw in the first quarter, membership trends continued to be impacted by softer guest traffic. We now have almost 5% fewer members than a year ago, but we do have a plan to reverse this trend and I will address this in a minute.

Monthly attrition averaged 3.4%, slightly higher than the 3.3% of the prior year second quarter, and in line with our expectations. Our personal training revenue increased by 3.6%, which was sequentially a slight improvement over the 2.9% realized in the first quarter.

Total ancillary revenue was down 1.9%, and also an improvement over the 4% decrease realized in the first quarter. We are not satisfied with the first half results, and we are taking aggressive steps to leverage the many assets this company possesses in order to drive membership, and ultimately revenue and earnings growth.

As I mentioned on our last call, more than 125 fitness clubs have opened in our markets over the last two years, and a large proportion of these openings have been lower-cost model clubs. Also, the trend towards boutique studios is accelerating even faster, with more than 120 units opening in Manhattan alone over the last 12 months. The number of options for consumers is greater than ever before. With that in mind, Town Sports is making strategic shifts to attempt to capture this expanding market.

First, we have entered the boutique studio market with the July soft opening of BFX Studio in the Chelsea area of Manhattan. The studio operates three boutiques under one roof: Ride Republic, which is spinning; Master Class, which is group exercise, and; Private Sessions, which is private training. We have had more than 1,000 people through for trials and have received a lot of very positive reviews, including stories in Well and Good, Daily News, Fitness Magazine and Good Day New York, to name a few.

We are offering a summer class schedule while we evaluate all facets of the studio, including the technology it brings with it. We will have a grand opening in September, and our next two locations, one in the financial district in Manhattan, and one in Back Bay Boston, are under construction, and we expect them to open by the end of the year.

Second, a new initiative for Town Sports that we have been working on this year, that will allow us to attack the growing and most competitive area of our business, we plan to initially convert at least 20 of our 160 domestic clubs to what we refer to as a High Value Low Price model. The typical model for this new format will include a monthly membership fee of between $19.95 and $29.95, and the services we provide at these clubs will remain unchanged from what we deliver today.

Members joining at these discounted prices at these select clubs will have privileges at only the club they are joining, unless they elect our Passport membership option. We are providing members access to first rate facilities and services, including group exercise, pools, basketball, and many of the same programs our members have enjoyed for almost 40 years. This will align us with the way many people who are generally new to fitness are approaching their fitness needs, and it will allow us to compete directly against world class competitors, with a more compete offering.

We have studied how this has been done by other full service clubs in certain areas of the country, and have a plan that we are confident will boost membership, and then both revenue and EBITDA for this group of clubs. We expect to experience a decline in earnings initially as we convert these locations. This is principally due to the increase in advertising spend and the expectation that a portion of existing members will take advantage of these new lower rates.

These first 20 clubs are predominantly in the suburban markets. And we will be able to offer a much better experience for the member versus the competition by leveraging the services and facilities that we are already providing. I should also note these conversions will require very little, if any, incremental capital spend. We will be putting this plan into action in the third quarter, and will continue to convert clubs throughout the second half of the year.

We expect about 20 clubs will be converted by the end of the year. We will monitor and assess the performance before potentially converting an additional smaller group of clubs being considered. This will not impact most of our clubs that are within our urban markets and benefit from our clustered strategy.

Lastly, we are continuing with our plan to close and consolidate select underperforming clubs and expect to close and consolidate approximately 5% of our clubs over the next six months. We are confident this will be accretive to next year's earnings, as we consolidate underperforming clubs and transfer the members to our nearby clubs. The closings will be spread across each of our four metro areas where we currently compete.

Given all the changes that are taking place, our Board of Directors have decided that it will not continue to quarterly dividend at this time. I want to provide a brief update regarding the pending sale of our 86th Street location. We have agreed to extend the closing date to occur on or prior to September 11 and, in return, the non-refundable deposit was increased from $10 million to $20 million. As of June 30, we received 5 million of cash related to this deposit, and in this month, July, we received another $5 million, with the remaining $10 million held in escrow.

Also the purchase price was increased by $3.5 million to $85.5 million. Reiterating what I said last quarter, we are carefully balancing the optimization of our existing base of clubs to drive EBITDA, where we see a lot of potential through the conversion of closing of clubs with select new clubs opening and rolled out under our new BFX Studios.

We are certainly not standing still and waiting for the business to come to us. We continue to deliver a high quality service to our members, but we need to either drive more traffic to clubs that have the potential to expand their member base, while closing transfer members from the clubs that are not performing up to our expectation. We believe that we have the resources we need to make these changes and execute on our initiatives, including a tremendous team that is making all this happen.

With that I'll now turn the call over to Carolyn.

Thanks Bob. I'll go through the income statement and the highlights for the quarter, and then discuss our outlook for the third quarter of 2014. In the second quarter, our consolidated revenue was $115.7 million, a decrease of 3.7% from the second quarter of 2013. Our total net member count in Q2 2014 decreased by 8,000 members to 488,000 members. The number of restricted members totaled 44,000 as of June 30, 2014.

Monthly attrition for the second quarter averaged 3.4%, meeting our expectation, and up slightly from Q2 last year. We expect average monthly attrition for the third quarter of 2014 to approximate 3.8%, up slightly from the third quarter of 2013.

We saw a very modest improvement in average monthly dues of members charged in the second quarter 2014, at $59.75, versus $59.53 in Q2 2013, while our average joining fees decreased 7.5% to $60.02 per member, from $64.86 in the same period a year ago. Total ancillary club revenue was down 1.9% to $23.6 million from $24.1 million a year ago, due to declines in Sports Club for Kids, while personal training revenues increased 3.6%. Sports Club for Kids improved sequentially but remained down year-over-year.

Revenue at our clubs opened over 12 months decreased by 4.5% for the quarter. Comparable club revenue was affected by a decrease in membership of 2.9%, a decrease in ancillary club revenue, joining fees, and fees and other revenue of 1.3%, and a price decrease of 0.3%.

Turning to expenses, total operating expenses increased 8.1% to $113.6 million for the second quarter of 2014. The increase in operating expenses in Q2 are mainly driven by the acquisition and opening of new clubs in 2013 and 2014. Additionally, last year's operating expenses benefited from a $2.5 million insurance recovery related to Hurricane Sandy.

G&A expenses increased $0.6 million to $7.5 million in the second quarter, driven mainly by increases in licensing fees related to the implementation of our new club operating system. We expect G&A cost to remain constant with Q2 at $7.5 million in Q3 2014.

Operating income, excluding asset impairment charges, for the second quarter was $3 million, compared with operating income of $15.2 million in the second quarter of 2013. Excluding these same items, net loss for the quarter was $0.02 per share, compared to net income of $0.19 per share in the second quarter of 2013, which also excludes non-recurring items.

Adjusted EBITDA was $15.5 million, compared to $25.7 million in Q2 2013. Cash flow from operating activities for the first half of 2014 was $24.2 million, as compared to $44.3 million in the first half of 2013.

Total outstanding debt as of June 30, 2014 was $323.4 million and our cash position was $77.4 million, for a net debt level of $246.1 million, compared to a net debt level of $251.4 million, as of December 31, 2013.

Capital expenditures totaled $16.2 million for the first half of 2014, compared to $12.3 million in the first half of 2013. The increase was driven by investments in planned club openings, as well as construction at our new BFX Studio.

For the full year 2014, we continue to expect total capital expenditures to reach $45 million to $50 million, which includes the $20 million to $22 million related to the potential 2014 and 2015 club and BFX Studio openings.

Now turning to our outlook, based on the current business environment, recent performance and current trends in the marketplace, and subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in forward-looking statements, our outlook for the third quarter 2014 includes the following:

Revenue for third quarter is expected to be between $115 million and $116 million versus $117 million for Q3 2013. As a percentage of revenue, we expect third quarter 2014 payroll and related expenses to be approximately 39.5%, and club operating expenses to approximate 43%. We expect general and administrative expenses to approximate $7.5 million, depreciation and amortization to approximate $12 million, and net interest expense to approximate $4.8 million.

We expect net loss for the third quarter of 2014 to be between $1.9 million and $2.2 million, and the loss per share to be in the range of $0.08 per share to $0.09 per share, assuming a 46% effective tax rate and approximately 24.3 million weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding.

We estimate that Adjusted EBITDA will be approximately $13 million in Q3 2014. We expect that the additional advertising spend, coupled with reduction in average member dues as the clubs being converted to the High Value Low Price model to at first negatively impact EBITDA. We estimate the impact of the conversion to approximate $500,000 in Q3 2014, and as we convert more clubs, another $1.5 million in the fourth quarter. As the membership base of these clubs expands, the initiative will move from dilutive in 2014 to somewhat closer to flat in 2015, with the real benefit being realized in 2016 and beyond.

We expect this group of clubs to realize roughly a $10 million EBITDA contribution by the end of 2016. The critical ingredient in this shift will be an increase in our average members per club from approximately 2,300 members on average to 6,000 per club in 2016. As Bob previously discussed we reviewed our club portfolio and established plans to close approximately 5% of our clubs by the end of 2014. Members of these closed clubs will be transferred to nearby clubs in our network. The Q3 guidance does not include the club closure charges that may relate to these clubs.

Given our mix in Q2, coupled with the impact of the conversion of the clubs to the HVLP model, we now expect adjusted EBITDA to be approximately 35% lower than full year 2013.

This concludes our prepared remarks. We'd now like to turn the call over for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Sean Naughton of Piper Jaffray. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good afternoon. Just thinking about the HVLP model you are going to on these 20 stores, could you just elaborate a little further on what the price points are, it looks like you are going to be looking for a significant step up from the number of members. But just price points and any changes in the services that will be offered inside of the club.

Yeah Sean, this is Dan. As Bob mentioned, the services inside the clubs are pretty much going to stay intact, we are still going to have the same group exercise classes. Personal training will be provided in the clubs. Sports Club for the Kids in the clubs that have them. So we are not changing the services.

As far as the price points, these are the clubs that are currently furthest outside of our networks and are, on average, have lower dues than our general average, so right about – now they are right about $50 on average. And we expect, under the new model, they will be just around $25 per member.

I think the critical thing is we expect the member count to go from an average of 2,300 members to 6,000 members by the end of 2016. It's really a volume thing, and as Carolyn mentioned, we're going to be spending a lot more advertising, and up to five times more advertising, so these clubs, they averaged around $20,000 in advertising in 2013, and we're going to spend more than five times of that per club going forward under this new model.

And Sean, if I could just add, when we look at the competitive environment, what we see is really in the last two years, I mentioned that we had about 125 clubs open directly in competition with us. The majority of those locations were low cost clubs. And we classify those as low cost because what they typically are is they are your 15,000 square foot facilities with equipment. They typically don't have group exercise programs. They don't have a lot of different services. I think what we're looking at it is providing a better brand, using our brand name, we have a better product, we have a better service, and all the facilities at about the same price. So, we felt that, at this point, the consumers are looking for it, and we had to move into that area and we're doing it cautiously, but we do see another wave of a small number of clubs opening next year under this model.

So the initial launch would be, you think 20 clubs in Q3 – I am sorry, if I missed this?

The way we're working at – we're going to convert two in August.

Okay.

And then we'll convert the balance of the other 18 by the end of the year. So if we accelerate it, we're going to. What's nice about using our existing brand is first, you know, the brand equity. Second, there is no maintenance CapEx that has to go into those facilities. The facilities are all in good shape and they have the services, and there is no branding that has to go into. So we can actually get up to speed as quickly as we want. So, as soon as we can absorb it, we're going to try to do it as quickly as possible, but the 18 will be in the second half of the year starting September.

Okay. And then the incremental – there may be a few more that you would, if this is successful and the membership trends start to track the way that you guys are building up the pro forma's, you would potentially think that there would be a few more – there could be some more clubs that would open this round.

Another 10 to 15 in the beginning of next year, Q1 of next year.

Okay. And this is all assuming that you guys close approximately 8 to 10 – or the bottom 5% you are thinking about...

Exactly.

Okay.

So we really had to look at the entire portfolio and say which clubs – what was driving the whole decision is where's the industry going? We are excited about the industry. The industry is still growing with the low cost, with the boutiques, and we want to make sure we can play in all those areas. So, by closing those clubs, we looked at clubs that we couldn't convert. We said let's close the clubs that we can't convert. And then let's now really attack the market based on where the consumer is going. And we now feel we have three different products that we can do after them with.

Yeah. And we are still tracking to our plan before it was 5% which is about nine clubs in 2014.

Okay. You know I guess when you guys look at the – just thinking about the attrition rates in – I guess, maybe the net member additions between urban and suburban, I mean how big is that gap, do you feel pretty good about the clubs that are in your more densely populated urban areas, versus the ones that are in the suburban side? Are they getting hit a little bit harder or are both of them being impacted by different forces?

I would say clearly the suburban clubs were being impacted the most. But we are starting to see the trend towards the lower cost clubs coming into the urban markets. What this will allow us to do is to start really looking at our portfolio and saying what club should we have, to serve the market. So I can see at some point, even in our urban markets, having all three products. But I think at this point in time, what we are looking at right now is, which clubs are being impacted the most, and it's clearly the suburban market.

Okay. And then I guess, just lastly, on the pricing, just across the clubs I know I think you guys took pricing a little bit in the fourth quarter last year on Passport, how is that, has it changed it all are we still kind of at the same price points on Passport, or has there been any changes there?

No. It's fairly flat at this point. I think what we are looking at right now is really maintaining and really working on the service level of our clubs, so we're happy with the attrition levels. You know, it continues to be about driving new members into the clubs, and that's why we are looking at having the three different products.

Okay. And then one last question, can you just talk about the decision to kind of remove the dividend is it strictly there is – is there anything in the covenants that you kind of needed to pull it on, or is there something – it just didn't look like the cash was going to be there, looked like it was going to get little tight to continue it?

Yeah. I can answer that, Sean. There is nothing in particular in the covenants that led to this decision that I'm aware of. The board does consider a multitude of things when they make a decision to announce a dividend, and some of the color I can give without short changing all the processes that they go through, we missed our quarterly targets for the past three quarters, and EBITDA is below our expectations. We are now just opening our first BFX model, we are closing 5% of our clubs, and as you just heard, we are converting 20 of our clubs, our existing clubs to the HVLP model. So our board has decided to wait and see how these things progress, before we go forward with the dividend.

Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.

Okay.

Thanks, Sean.

The next question is from the line of Scott Hamann of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah, thanks. Good afternoon, everyone.

Hi, Scott.

How are you guys thinking about cannibalization of some of your existing members as you convert some of these clubs, especially, if the offering is not going to be different and you're effectively lowering the price, is that something that concerns you?

Not really, Scott. I think what we – the way we are working at is, these 20 clubs are furthest away from the network. The majority of the members at these 20 clubs, I would say 90% plus are not Passport members. So, as we move further away from the core, less people take the network.

The benefit of having an HVLP in those clubs is that we can actually offer the network by charging them a small fee. So, as a consumer, you can now walk in, get a full service facility in your neighborhood that has swimming and basketball and group exercise and pay between $19 and $29 a month, and if you want to come into New York you'll have a usage fee, a reduced usage fee to come in and use those New York clubs.

What that allows me to do now is to go after the low cost clubs that have been coming into our market, and I am talking about, they've been opening up steadily, and these are typically franchises that aren't well capitalized, and we sit there and we really have to compete against the club that's charging anywhere from a third to a half of what we're charging, and now we have a product that we think is far superior and we'll be able to go after that market.

Yeah, I think the takeaway there on the cannibalization is that these are very far from our network and as we look at the membership statistics, these are very much clubs that are using that single club and not using a network as much as some of our other clubs do.

Okay. And in terms of the nine closures, can you give us a sense of how much of an EBITDA drag that they kind of are on an annualized basis?

I don't have it on my fingertips, Sean. I mean, Scott. It's not extremely significant. It's only nine clubs. None of them are losing significant money on their own per se, but, as we close them, it's going to be allowing us to remove the fixed cost component, the rent and the payroll that comes along with the club, so it's going to incremental to EBITDA in 2015 for sure, but it is only nine clubs.

So how would you quantify the positive impact of that?

We expect to retain about a third of the members of these clubs, six months after the club is closed. Four of the clubs that are closing are very close to, if not at, the end of their lease, so we don't really expect to incur too many charges with that, so that's where we are with that.

Okay. And then just following up on the question on the dividend, it's kind of surprising that the dividend went to zero and not just down, because you still have a lot of cash, and unless there is something that may have kind of crept into your thought process around the building sale not happening, I don't understand why it would be eliminated all the way to zero?

Yeah, I probably don't have much more than what I just said before. But I do – I'm probably of the opinion that the building sale – well if that's been delayed for the second time, which would give us a little bit of concern, but it's been very much counterbalanced with the significant deposits. So the non-refundable deposit is up to $20 million, so if that building sale is not to take place, we have afforded ourselves with a $20 million deposit that we can protect ourselves with. But, it's not the same as the now $85 some-odd million dollars sale price, but $20 million is a pretty substantial deposit in our eyes.

Okay.

But they are closing – it's expected to close sometime before September 11.

And there was some language in the release that, to the extent that the sale closes, that you – if you weren't investing in the business you would have to pay down debt, is that – I mean, what does that relate to?

Yeah. So part of our debt agreement back from 2013, we called this out, because the possible sale of the building was kind of in full force at that time. So we called this out to say that if we sell the building, the net proceeds from the building does not, which is usually the case, does not have to go towards paying down debt and the only exception to that is if we don't reinvest those net proceeds in the business, I think it's over two years, possibly longer, than that portion of it that did not reinvest, would have to go to pay down debt, and basically, with our CapEx expectations, what analysts call our maintenance CapEx alone, we would get pretty close to reinvesting those funds – I think would be okay there. So, it would be more of a decision of ours as opposed to a requirement.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. We have come to the end of our question-and-answer session for today's conference. I will now turn the floor back to Mr. Bob Giardina for closing comments.

Okay. We like to thank everyone for joining us today and look forward to updating you on our next call. Thank you.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.