corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q3 2007 Town Sports


International Holdings, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Katie, and I’ll be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions]


I will like to now turn the call over to Richard Pyle. Please proceed, sir.


Richard G. Pyle, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you very much, and thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International


Holdings Earnings Conference Call, discussing the third quarter of 2007. I am Richard Pyle, the


Chief Financial Officer of the company.


I would caution listeners that, to the extent we make any forward-looking statements in this


conference call, they are made certain to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties,


many of which are outside our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different


from any forecasts we have made.


We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which has also been filed


with the SEC under a Form K, as well as a 10-Q. In addition, for those of you who do not have


access to this release and filing, we’ve also made them available at our website,


www.mysportsclubs.com.


This conference call is also being webcast, and may be accessed via the company’s Investor


Relations section of our website. A replay and transcript of the call will be available via the


company’s website, following.


I will now turn this call over to Alex Alimanestianu, the new Chief Executive Officer of Town Sports


International, for a discussion on the operations of the company, and then I will give further detailed


financial discussion later in the call. Alex?


Alexander A. Alimanestianu, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Richard, and good afternoon, everyone. Once again, we are pleased to be with you to


provide our update on our latest operating results, as well as our company’s initiatives, as we move


through 2007.


For the third quarter 2007, we reported total revenue of $118.9 million, an increase of 8.7% over


the prior year, comparable club revenue grew 4.1% over last year, operating income was 13.9


million, and EBITDA came in at 25.3 million. We reported net income for the quarter of 5.1 million,


which compares to a net income of $785,000 for Q3 2006.


Fully diluted earnings per share were $0.19, compared to $0.03 in Q3 ‘06, a figure which was


reduced by a loss on extinguishment of debt of $ 0.17 last year. As we stated in our release, we


lowered our earnings per share expectations for the year. Our mature clubs have experienced


slightly lower new membership sales than expected.
corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On the positive side, however, our corporate sales program continues to perform very well.


Membership attrition is in line with our expectations, and revenue from personal training, which


reflects the spending by our core customers, continues to be healthy.


In a somewhat uncertain economic environment, we will continue to focus on cost control, but not


at the expense of member experience. We are encouraged by the performance of our new clubs,


and continue to focus on executing our growth strategy. Our new clubs are ramping up very well,


we expect them to produce our targeted returns on investment.


We are set to open 9 additional clubs in the fourth quarter for a total of 15 for the year, including our


first club in the Hartford, Connecticut market, which will operate as a New York Sports Club. This


compares to 7 new clubs added in 2005 and 11 added in 2006. With the additional 9 new clubs


open in time to take advantage of the January selling season, we expect to start off 2008 with very


positive momentum. Also in 2008, we’re planning to enter the Providence, Rhode Island market


under the Boston Sports Club banner.


Our clustering strategy continues to provide opportunities for growth, as evidenced by the success


of our corporate sales program where we use our tightly clustered markets as the key selling point.


Corporate sales will have another record year in 2007, and it is the fastest growing component of


our total revenues. As I already mentioned our personal training business remain healthy, yet is still


utilized by only a small percentage of our membership. And we see real upside to this business.


Finally, weaved throughout all this is our focus on customer service initiative which support growth,


member loyalty, ancillary spending and pricing power. As of September 30, 2007 we owned and


operated 152 clubs and 2 partly owned clubs. 105 under the New York Sports Club banner with 39


in Manhattan, 21 Boston Sports Club, 18 Washington Sport Club, 7 Philadelphia Sports Club, plus


3 clubs in Switzerland.


The company has signed 22 leases for club locations expected to open in the balance of 2007


through 2009, and is working on additional new locations for 2008 and beyond. Our strategy will


continue to focus on deploying our capital where it is likely to be most productive. We will continue


to build both multi-recreational fitness-only format clubs within our 4 key markets. And we will


remain flexible in our approach to demographics, real estate, and club size.


As we look out over the next few years, we see our business benefiting from increasing economies


of scale, from greater brand leadership in our core markets, and from the maturation of our


accelerated club openings this year. We see each new club that is opened is not only a contributor


to growth, but also as further solidifying a strong foundation of Bob Giardiana and the rest of our


tenured management team have built.


I am honored to succeed Bob and we wish him all the best and look forward to his continued


contributions to Town Sport. I would now like to pass the call back over to Richard Pyle to cover


more detailed financial statement review. Richard?


Richard G. Pyle, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Alex. Focusing on the third quarter’s results in particular our consolidated revenue for


the quarter was 118.9 million. An increase of 9.5 or 8.7% for the quarter over the prior year. The


key driver of the growth was membership dues, which increased by 7.4% or 6.5 million. We


experienced an improvement in total membership excluding short term or summer memberships of


approximately 6.9% compared to the prior year’s quarter end. Which was approximately in line with


our unit and square footage growth.