Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn M. Spatafora — Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Robert J. Giardina — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Daniel Gallagher — President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Sean P. Naughton — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co
George A. Kelly — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Kurt M. Frederick — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Town Sports International Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Carolyn Spatafora, Chief Financial Officer for Town Sports International. Thank you. Ms. Spatafora, you may now begin.

Thank you for joining us today on this Town Sports International Holdings' Earnings Conference Call discussing the results for the third quarter of 2014. I'm Carolyn Spatafora, Chief Financial Officer of the company. I caution listeners that any remarks we make in this conference call relating to matters that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Many of which are outside of our control which may cause actual results to be materially different from any forecast we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the SEC including those discussed in the Risk Factors, MD&A and other sections of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2014.

We've issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which have been filed with the SEC under Form 8-K. We disclaim any duty to update or revise such forward-looking statements whether as a result of future events or otherwise.

In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release and filings, we have also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com along with a supplemental presentation. This conference call is also being webcast and may be accessed via the Investor Relations section of our website. Also a replay and transcript of the call will be made available on our website on November 12, 2014.

I'll now turn this call over to Bob Giardina, the Chief Executive Officer of Town Sports International, for a discussion on the operations of the company. And then I will provide additional financial discussion later on on the call. Bob?

Thank you, Carolyn. Also on the call with me today is Dan Gallagher, President and Chief Operating Officer. I will give you an update on our latest initiatives and then Carolyn will go through the results for the third quarter.

The message we want to get across from this call is similar to what we said last quarter that we had accelerated some of our initiatives. There are a lot of changes taking place in our industry and with the unprecedented pace of change we have seen in our markets, we are aggressively adapting to those changes and looking for ways to leverage our existing clubs, our brand, our operational expertise and our balance sheet. We are working hard to get in front of any emerging trends and are also focused on maximizing cash flow, and with that said, shareholder value.

Over the past couple of years, we aggressively, and with good success, migrated the fitness offerings in our clubs, including rolling out UXF zones to incorporate emerging fitness trends such as functional training and manage group exercise classes that are increasingly popular, as well as elevated our personal training offering.

We also launched BFX Studio, which addresses the trend in urban markets towards fitness studios at the expense of traditional club memberships. And now, we are ramping up our conversions of our clubs through our new high value low price or HVLP model. At the same time, we are closing clubs that are a drag on EBITDA and where the current members can transfer to nearby clubs that we operate. So we continue to have quite a few strategic initiatives in place. We're intently focused on EBITDA and free cash flow.

Looking at the third quarter, our top line results were primarily impacted by pressure on our membership levels, as we experienced weaker-than-expected membership sales and higher-than-planned attrition. Also notable, we saw significant role of guest traffic in the quarter, which we believe contributed to our membership sales weakness.

Personal training improved in the third quarter, but this was not enough to offset the drag on membership sales. We did a nice job managing payroll and club operating expenses to meet our EBITDA plan for the quarter. However membership trends, along with the negative near-term impact associated with the acceleration of HVLP conversions, will have a negative impact on the fourth quarter. Carolyn will provide more details in a few minutes.

So, let me update you on our initiatives. First, we are having initial success with the conversion of our clubs to our new HVLP model. Our initial plan was to convert 20 clubs before the end of this year, and we are well ahead of schedule with 17 conversions as of the end of September. And because of the success we have seen, we are now planning to convert a total of approximately 60 clubs by the end of 2014. We will have all of Long Island and most of the State of New Jersey under this new format.

At the clubs converted so far, we are seeing dramatic increases in guest traffic and membership sales volumes. Guest traffic, which is an indication of sales growth, has increased on average eight to nine-fold and sales volumes have tripled. Keep in mind, our core clubs were down in both areas. And while it's still very early on, fewer existing members than expected have converted to the new low-cost membership, as we have offered those members additional advantages and increased services like free guest privileges, priority class reservations, and access to all TSI clubs in their region.

As a reminder, the services we provide at these clubs will remain unchanged from what we do over today and will allow us to compete directly against low-cost competitors with our more complete offering by leveraging our service and facilities that we are already providing, including a greater selection of equipment, group exercise classes, pools and courts at select clubs.

The other plan that we are confident will boost membership meaningfully and after roughly a year of transition time will also increase both revenue and EBITDA for this group of clubs. And based on the very early performance of the clubs we converted in the third quarter, we continue to expect to meet our original goals for these converted clubs.

And importantly, while there's additional marketing expense associated with these clubs, which will initially impact their profitability, we'd also note that these conversions require very little if any incremental capital spend.

We had eight clubs in Westchester and Connecticut that went live yesterday. As of this call, we have converted 44 clubs. We will consider converting additional clubs in 2015 or possibly take facets of this new model and apply it to other clubs. So again, the new high-value low price conversions are now our top priority as we expect it will have the most dramatic impact on our overall business.

Next, we continue to move forward with the opening of our second BFX Studio this year and have plans for two additional locations next year. This is a moderation of our initial BFX rollout plans and reflects our decision to prioritize the accelerated HVLP conversions in the near term.

Given the stepped-up HVLP effort, we believe the prudent approach is to use this time to continue to perfect the BFX model before accelerating the rollout plan. Our first BFX Studio in Manhattan is building strong momentum, especially since the grand opening at the end of September. We continue to be excited about the long-term prospects of this new concept, which delivers three boutiques in one and is meeting the needs of how many fitness enthusiasts address their workout needs today. Construction of our next BFX Studio is scheduled to be complete by the end of Q4 with the grand opening of Q1 2015 in the financial district of Manhattan. Boston Back Bay is now scheduled for the spring of 2015.

We also opened three new core clubs in this fourth quarter and one additional club is planned for Q1 of next year. These new core clubs were opportunities that we had identified to fill in important markets and generate strong returns on our investment without cannibalizing existing clubs. After these openings, we do not currently have plans to pursue core club openings in the near future unless a great opportunity is presented to us.

The third issue that we have discussed is the closing of roughly 5% of our clubs. We closed five clubs in the third quarter and plan to close an additional three to four clubs in the fourth quarter. The club closings are spread across each of the four metro areas that we currently compete and are generally furthest away from their respective clusters.

So after the conversion and closures are completed this year, we will have about 100 core clubs under our four banners remaining. We continue to work very hard in these clubs to attain members, draw them to our personal training offerings, and to drive guest traffic, which we can convert into members. However, we continue to be up against more options for the consumer than ever before. More than 50 low price clubs have opened in the last 12 months alone, and 20 new studios have opened this fall in New York City, which we need to compete effectively against.

So we will continue to monitor the success of our high-value low-price strategy as well as gain insight from our BFX Studio units. And we'll make adjustments to this group of core clubs if needed using these insights in order to improve their contribution to our bottom line. Now that the sale of our 86th Street location has closed, we have $118 million of cash on our balance sheet. However, we will continue to be very prudent with our capital expenditures while addressing changes in the industry with an appropriate sense of urgency with a focus on doing what is right for our shareholders.

We are very excited about the prospects for converted clubs and believe this can have a meaningful impact to our bottom line over the next couple of years. We will monitor this move very closely to determine whether we should expand it to even more clubs next year. And we are working hard to strengthen our core basic clubs by removing those that are not contributing and focusing our internal resources on the club that will remain on our network.

Our underlying goal is to remain a leader in the industry by adapting quickly to rapidly changing consumer preferences and leveraging the many assets this company has, which what ultimately will drive value for our shareholder.

I now turn the call over to Carolyn Spatafora to discuss our financial results. Carol?

Thanks, Bob.

I will go to the income statement and highlights for the quarter and then discuss our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2014. In the third quarter, our consolidated revenue was $112.5 million, a decrease of 3.9% from the third quarter of 2013. This was almost $2.5 million short of our expectations, with membership revenue shortfalls representing a little more than half the business with the remainder being ancillary revenue shortfall. Our total net member count decreased by 9,000 members to 479,000 members in the quarter. The number of restricted members totaled 45,000 as of September 30, 2014.

Monthly attrition for the third quarter averaged 4%, up about 30 basis points from last year. Given our club closures, we expected attrition to be higher than prior year. But overall, attrition came in higher than expected. We expect average monthly attrition for the fourth quarter of 2014 to approximately 3.7%.

We still have a very modest improvement in average monthly dues of members charged in the third quarter at $58.50 versus $58.40 in Q3 of 2013 while our average joining fees decreased 2.7% to $57.60 per member from $59.20 in the same period a year ago. As we continue with our HVLP conversion, we expect average dues per member to decrease and joining fees collected to increase.

Total ancillary club revenue increased 4.1% to $23.7 million from $22.8 million a year ago, driven by a 7.9% increase in personal training revenue. The increase in personal training revenue was driven by increased pricing in our multi-session of personal training membership product in Q4 2013, as well as an overall increase in personal training membership.

Revenue at our clubs opened over a 12 month decreased by 4.5% for the quarter. Comparable club revenue was affected by a decrease in membership of 4.6%, offset by a slight increase in ancillary club revenue, joining fees and other revenues. Price was flat year-over-year.

Turning to expenses. Total operating expenses increased 1.7% to $110.1 million. Overall, our expenses came lower than guidance. Payroll was lower than expectations and was driven by lower staffing levels associated with ancillary service shortfalls and commissions on sales shortfall. Club operating expenses were also favorable for utilities and other occupancy costs.

G&A expenses increased $0.6 million to $7.8 million in the third quarter, driven mainly by legal cost related to the Ajilon litigation. We expect Q4 G&A expenses to be approximately $7.5 million. Operating income was $2.4 million in Q3 2014 compared with operating income of $8.8 million in the third quarter of 2013.

Net loss for the quarter was $0.04 per share compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.10 in Q3 2013. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $13.2 million compared to $21.7 million in Q3 2013. When compared to Q3 2013, this year's adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by $1.3 million related to new club and BFX Studio opening.

During the quarter, we completed the sale of our East 86th Street property for gross proceeds of $85.6 million. The net proceeds after expenses and estimated taxes was approximately $43.6 million and may be required to prepay our senior credit facility that's not reinvested in the business, including capital purchases within 30 months of the date of the sale or March 2017. For accounting purposes, this sale and related leaseback transaction is required to be accounted for as a financing arrangement rather than a completed sale, as further discussed in our 10-Q.

Under this treatment, the company has included the proceeds received as a building finance arrangement on its balance sheet rather than a gain on the sale of the building. Because the transaction is characterized as a financing rather than a sale, the rental payments and related transaction costs are treated as interest expense. Even though the company no longer has legal title to the building and the land, the related assets remain on our consolidated balance sheet and the building and building improvements will continue to be depreciated over their remaining useful life.

Similarly, the company does not have a loan or borrowing arrangement with the buyer or related to the property but the building finance arrangement will remain on our balance sheet until continuing involvement in the property has ceased.

Cash flow provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2014 was $1.9 million as compared to cash flow provided by operating activities of $50.3 million in the first nine months of 2013. I should note that income tax payment totaling $23.6 million were made during the third quarter driven by the taxable gain on the sale of 86th Street property.

Total outstanding debt as of September 30, 2014, was $322.6 million, and our cash position was $118 million for a net debt level of $204.6 million compared to a net debt level of $251.4 million as of December 31, 2013. Of the $118 million, over $40 million is held at the holding company and is not subject to restrictions of our credit facility.

As of September 30, 2014, there were no outstanding revolving loan facility borrowings and the outstanding letters of credit issued totaled $3 million. Under our senior credit facility, we're required to keep a total leverage ratio of 4.5:1 or less in order to borrow on the full $45 million of our revolving loan facility. As of September 30, our leverage ratio was 4.56:1 and, therefore, we are only able to borrow 25% or $11.25 million of our total revolver. Given our modest unit growth plans and our cash on hand, we do not expect to draw on the revolver in the near future.

Capital expenditures totaled $29.2 million for the first nine months of 2014 compared to $20.7 million in the first nine months of 2013. The increase over 2013 is driven by planned core club openings and our BFX Studio opening.

For the full year 2014, given the moderation in BFX openings, we now expect capital expenditures to be between $42 million and $46 million, which includes $17 million to $18 million related to the 2014 and 2015 clubs and BFX Studio openings. This compares to our prior 2014 CapEx forecast of $45 million to $50 million, which included one major club renovation and one BFX Studio opening, all delayed from Q4 2014 to 2015.

Our initial estimates of 2015 CapEx is $30 million to $34 million, which includes $5.4 million to $6.5 million in anticipated CapEx for two BFX openings and one core club opening. The core club opening is expected in Q1 2015 for the lease which was signed in October of last year.

Now turning to our outlook. Based on the current business environment, weakened performance and current trends in the marketplace and subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in forward-looking statements, our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2014 includes the following. Revenue for the fourth quarter is expected to be between $108 million and $109 million versus $113.9 million for Q4 2013. As a percentage of revenue, we expect fourth quarter 2014 payroll and related expenses to be approximately 39.3% and club operating expenses to approximate 45.5%. We expect general and administrative expenses to approximate $7.5 million, depreciation and amortization to approximate $12 million, and net interest expense to approximate $5.4 million.

Included in interest expense is approximately is $675,000 related to building finance arrangements of which approximately $485,000 is non-cash. We expect net loss for the fourth quarter of 2014 to be between $4 million and $4.5 million and a loss per share to be in the range of $0.16 to $0.18 per share assuming a 46% effective tax rate and approximately a $24.7 million weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding.

We estimate that adjusted EBITDA will be approximately $8.8 million in Q4 2014. This reflects the additional advertising spend coupled with the reduction in average member dues at the now 60 clubs being converted to the high-value low-price model, which we expect will negatively impact EBITDA.

For these 60 clubs, we expect advertising and marketing costs to be approximately $2 million higher than 2013 and that we also experienced a reduction in revenue as the initial impact of the membership downgrades are not fully offset by the incremental membership volume. We expect the impact on Q1 2015 to be similar but less so at the clubs that recently converted.

As the membership base of these clubs continue to expand, the initiative will turn from dilutive for the first few quarters to positive with the full-year 2015 impact close to flat for these clubs. The real benefit of these conversions will be realized in 2016 and beyond. After 18 to 24 months from conversion, we are targeting incremental EBITDA of $400,000 to $500,000 per club.

As we've said in the past, the critical ingredient in this shift will be an increase in our average members per club. In 2014, each club had an average of approximately 2,500 members and we are targeting to increase to almost 6,000 members per club in 2016. Q4 adjusted EBITDA is forecasted to also be negatively impacted by approximately $1.4 million for 2014 and 2015 club and BFX Studio opening.

On our Q2 call, we mentioned we're planning to close and consolidate approximately 5% of our clubs. During the third quarter, we closed five clubs and planned to close three to four additional clubs in the fourth quarter. Closing these five clubs resulted in a gain in our financial statements of $1.6 million primarily due to the write-off of the remaining deferred rent at these clubs offset by amounts due to the landlord for early termination.

Regarding our capital allocations, as you know, the board discontinued dividend in June as we embark on our strategic initiative namely HVLP conversion, select club closures, and BFX Studio opening; all while working to stabilize membership trends at our core club. We continue to be an implementation of this initiative and believe the prudent things to do is to maintain maximum flexibility and liquidity as we reposition ourselves.

This concludes our prepared remarks. We'd now like to turn the call over for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Sean Naughton of Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning. So comparable store sales metrics for the quarter – I'm not sure if you broke this out. I think you typically do on the membership and ancillary and pricing, I apologize if I missed that, if you could give us those numbers. And then secondly, just on the attrition rate, why would that potentially improve in Q4 versus Q3? I think you said it's supposed to improve about 30 basis points sequentially.

I can handle the attrition rate first. The attrition rate is a seasonal thing, Sean. In the summer time, we seasonally have an increase in attrition. Typically, we're just following that cadence as we normally do. So we expect Q4 to be a little less than Q3 although we expect it to be higher than last year, and that's in part due to the eight to nine clubs that we're closing in Q3 and Q4 combined.

Hey, now this is Carol. The membership same-store sales decline for the quarter, I believe, was 4.5% for the same store.

Okay. If you have the – I think you usually give the ancillary and the pricing as well. I don't know if you have those as well in front of you.

In the Q.

Actually, that's in the 10-Q.

Okay. That's fine. And then I guess just thinking about the join fee, Bob, I know that's something that you guys put back in place and has done nice thing on cash flow over the last couple of years but just thinking about that when you look at comparable offerings, do you think that's a governor on membership growth at this particular point in time or what other things that you can point to, or is it really just the competitive environment that's changing very quickly in the markets that you're competing in?

Hi, Sean. How are you? Just to go through some of the competitive situation, I touched on it briefly. But if I look back over the last four or five years in terms of what's happened in our markets, we've seen not only the traditional clubs – and I would say the traditional clubs are the Life Times, the LA Fitnesses, 24 Hour, Golds, Equinoxes – those are the typical traditional clubs we've always competed against.

In addition to those, we've seen in the last four or five years about 300 low-cost, true low-cost operators coming to our markets. And I would say the low-cost clubs that we're tracking would be Planet Fitness, Retro, Blink and Crunch, and those are the fastest growing sort of franchise models except for the Blink model that had been growing. Fifty of those opened up in the last 12 months alone.

So consumers now are starting to have more choices in terms of their exercise ability, not only with clubs but as well as studios and outdoor boot camps. So clearly, we're seeing a drag on our core business in terms of guest traffic. So our guest traffic in traditional core clubs are down about 15% year-on-year. So we're seeing the competitive situation really cutting into that, not the join fee. So it's really the competitive situation is cutting into the traffic.

On the other side, with the HVLP model, and that's why we're really – we've accelerated and we're really excited about it, we've seen the guest traffic at those clubs increased by eight to nine times versus last year.

So clearly, the consumers telling us what direction they're going to and we can't lose the bag and wait anymore. We have a great product, great market, great brand, now we just have to accelerate our convergence.

And I want to add a little bit to that, Sean. The joining fee is down just a little bit this quarter but as we continue to convert more clubs to the HVLP plan, I expect our average joining fee to start to decline again above prior year.

Okay. And then I guess just specifically on that HVLP model that you're rolling out more aggressively, any changes in terms of the types of members that you're attracting? Are these potentially former Town Sports members that are coming back for the lower price? Just anything on the demographics or signage inside the clubs that you're changing, I think, would be helpful for people. Thanks.

Yes. I think the clubs and the markets we're in are the demographics that we're getting, so our club in Ridgewood, New Jersey is, for instance, getting the members and the audience that lives in Ridgewood or Allendale, New Jersey. So I don't think the demographics are changing much, but I do think it's safe to say the alumni are coming back. So ones who might have left us for a lower price point, we're finally are coming back, and we're actually entertaining an audience that we haven't had before with more people joining at this price point.

So, now that we're after the club level launch that we have, most of our New Jersey clubs launched at this point. And the fact that we have a consistent price point throughout the State of New Jersey, it's pretty compelling. But like I said, overall the membership base we're getting comes from the markets where those clubs are in. So I don't think that's changing much.

And we've actually turned on the clubs that were under the most pressure with competition in their markets, that geographically they already had a number of the low cost operators all within their primary market, and we've done extremely well with the first 17 that we rolled out. And that's where we ended up accelerating and that we're still seeing the same behavior.

One last question, if I could. It's just on the, are you noticing any sort of competitive response from some of the companies that you mentioned? Are they potentially trying to maintain that price gap? Is there anything that you're seeing on the competitive front that you're seeing any sort of response from price?

On the price front, I think we're in a good position because we're the last one to the party. So, most of these other low cost operators have already had their price plan in place for a number of years. There's not really much more they can do with their price. Their facilities are what they are. There are not much they can do. We have clubs now that have swimming pools and basketball courts, group exercise programs. So we have more complete facilities that can compete against them. We are seeing some of the competitors taking out more advertising, putting up more billboards and things like that. But it's right now, it's a little bit early in terms of what else they can do.

Okay. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from George Kelly of Craig-Hallum. Please go ahead.

Not sure if you covered it, but what are the expectations for BFX in 2015 for new clubs?

Yes, George, it's Bob. We were planning on, no, we haven't turned it up. We're still excited about the product but really to accelerate the HVLP model, we've decided to really put our focus there. We think we will get the greatest benefit for the company using those resources. But we are planning on opening two clubs, two BFX studios in 2015.

Yes, one in the first half for the year and one in the second half of the year. The first half is going to be Boston and the second half of the year is likely another New York City. So, two this year and two next year. So we're going to maintain the growth trajectory as opposed to accelerating it right now.

Okay. And then second question and you covered this a little bit, but just wondering if you could give any extra help. I think you said that the impact in 2015 will be similar to the impact in the fourth quarter for sort of dilution from the HVLP new opening. And so what exactly was that impact again and can you kind of help with just directionally with what you expect the kind of dilution to be in the first? Just any other kind of additional conversation about this conversion?

Yes. I think, George, yes, I'm not sure how much direction we gave in that but what I can say is as we initially roll these out, they do have a negative impact because we have increased advertising spend as we're trying to build up this member base. And we do have some member downgrades. So, as we finish some launches in November and December, and we're just launching some of these clubs, I would think Q1 would be more negatively impacted than Q4, which is further removed from the launches and we'll start to see the membership build and we'll have better results with those clubs.

And I think we're saying overall for the year that we'd be pretty much flat on an EBITDA basis related to these clubs and that the real benefits are 18 to 24 months later. And so I think directionally, the second half of the year would benefit slightly better than the first half of the year also, but albeit the whole year being somewhat flat.

Okay. No, that was good. That was helpful. That does it. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. The next question is from Kurt Frederick of Wedbush. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thanks. I was wondering on the, I guess the 60 clubs now that you're going to convert, what the average dues is in those clubs prior to the conversions?

We do not have that available at our fingertips here.

Okay. And then, in the ones that have already converted, what percentage of the existing members are converting to the new price versus sticking with the existing?

Kurt, we'll look at each club carefully. We don't want to get into really our downgraded numbers yet in terms of looking at what those are. Obviously, as a public company, we have the shareholders' information. But we are being careful in terms of how quickly we can convert these clubs and what the downgrades are and what our member usage is. So there's a number of moving factors when we convert these facilities. One is the sales numbers, one is the cancellations numbers, one is the downgrade number, and one is the guest number. And we're tracking those daily by club, and that's what's giving us the confidence moving forward.

Okay. And I think on the last call, it sounded like the conversions were primarily suburban clubs. Now it sounds like it's maybe a little bit more geographic. So I was wondering what maybe the mix is of the 60 in terms of suburban/urban?

Yes, well I could tell you we had 17 as of September. And as of today, we have 44. And included in the 44, we had basically 19 clubs in New Jersey, so almost all of New Jersey. We have four clubs in Long Island, two in Philly which is somewhat downtown, three in DC, eight in Boston, and eight in Westchester and Connecticut. So I would say it's still predominantly suburban but there is definitely some mix of some more urban clubs as we're getting further into the rollout.

Okay. And how's the usage changed in the clubs after the conversion?

It's off a little bit, but I'm expecting it to be up a little bit more a year from now. But early days, our usage is up a little bit as the member base is increasing. But as we get further removed from the launch, we're expecting much more memberships. And overall, that usage should go up a little bit from where we are today. And again, I think we've mentioned on our last call, somebody's clubs right now are under capacity. So we certainly have capacity for use and usage.

And the exciting part about the whole process is that the clubs have a lot of life and energy again. So the employees that have been sitting back watching what's been going on in the marketplace now are excited about it, the guest walking to the door, people joining full classes, people using equipment. So it's a positive reaction within the facilities itself.

Okay. Maybe just one last one to BFX. I'm just wondering what the mix is and the revenue between those that are doing like the monthly packages versus like they'll pay in a one-time?

I would say 90% are doing the individuals. So we're really competing against the studios right now. They only have individual programs, very few do memberships. So that's what the consumers are used to right now and that's what we're really going after.

Okay. All right. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. We have no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you very much for joining us. We're excited about the changes that we're making and look forward to updating you on the next call. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.