corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Town Sports International


Holdings Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Eric and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of this call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for


replay purposes.


I would now like to turn your presentation over to your host for today’s conference, Mr. Daniel


Gallagher, CFO for Town Sports.


Daniel Gallagher, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International Holdings earnings conference


call, discussing fourth quarter and year-end 2008 results. I’m Dan Gallagher, Chief Financial Officer


of the company.


I caution listeners that, to the extent we make any forward-looking statements in this conference


call, they are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are


outside of our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different from any forecasts


we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the SEC.


We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which will also be filed with


the SEC under a Form 8-K. In addition, to those of you who do not have access to this release and


filing, we have also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com. This conference


call is also being webcast and may be accessed via the Investor Relations section of our website.


Also, a replay and transcript of the call will be available via the company’s website following this


call.


I now turn this call over to Alex Alimanestianu, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Town


Sports International, for discussion on operations of the company, and then I will give further


detailed financial discussion later in the call. Alex?


Alexander Alimanestianu, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dan, and good afternoon everyone. We are pleased to be with you to provide our fourth


quarter and 2008 results and update you on our plans and initiatives for 2009. To state the obvious,


the economy weighed on our business in 2008 and will continue to be a negative factor in 2009.


Like many consumer-oriented companies, our focus in 2009 is on maintaining our strong liquidity


position by reducing capital expenditures until we see evidence of a recovery in consumer


sentiment and spending, and by managing operating expenses with extreme prudence, while


continuing to execute against our key strategy of enhancing the member experience in our clubs.


Although, today we will talk about the bottom line earnings results and the various associated


metrics on which we are measured every quarter, our management team must also measure itself


on the progress we are making toward our longer term goals.


2008 started out fairly well, but did not finish as we had initially expected. We grew membership by


5.3% in the first quarter, but by the second half of the year, the economic crisis had escalated and


we ended with a loss of members in the fourth quarter.
corrected transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the full year, our membership grew a respectable 4.9% and we are pleased to have at least


achieved our revised earnings goals for the fourth quarter and year excluding the goodwill and fixed


asset impairment charges that Dan will elaborate on in his presentation.


So in looking at the fourth quarter, total revenue increased 3.4%, but our operating margins


declined as a result of increases in payroll and club operating expenses, particularly rent in excess


of revenue. Although, same-club revenue declined by a modest 1.4% for the quarter, this is our first


negative quarterly comparison since 2004. Naturally, this decline negatively impacted our results as


cash flows from operations for the quarter totaled $18.7 million versus 20.1 million a year ago.


Our attrition rate of 3.5% per month was 10 basis points better than the third quarter and essentially


on plan, but 50 basis points worse than the 3% we reported for the fourth quarter of 2007.


Personal training revenue was up 4.3% in the quarter and while we increased the number of


members using our personal training service, that business too is being impacted by the economy


as members who used this service are using it less often.


Overall club usage increased by more than 15% in the fourth quarter and that trend continues in the


first quarter. While this doesn’t directly help our earnings results, it is an indicator of the continuing


strong demand for our clubs and of a positive experience for our members, which should pay-off


down the road and manifest itself in a reduced attrition rate and positive word of mouth advertising


for our clubs.


Corporate memberships, which are a key and growing sales channel, performed well in the fourth


quarter and we are targeting our markets outside of the New York Metro area for further success.


We opened three new clubs in the fourth quarter, including our first club in Providence, Rhode


Island. The two other clubs were in Woburn, Massachusetts and in Hicksville, New York on Long


Island. These are the 25th and 112th clubs respectively in the Boston and New York Metro


markets.


In December, we launched our online sales program and we achieved approximately 7% of total


sales through this channel in December and January. We expect that this investment will pay for


itself in less than three to four months through expense savings alone. With the successful launch


of this online sales channel, we have put in place the third pillar of our overall sales structure, the


three being in-club sales, corporate group sales, and online sales. This organizational structure


offers our potential members a range of options that maximizes the ease of joining our clubs.


Looking back at the full year, we opened nine new clubs and finished the year with 166 clubs. This


represents a marked slowdown from the 15 new clubs added in 2007. Our original plan at the


beginning of the year was to add 11 clubs, but as we said on our third quarter earnings call, we


decided to move two of the openings to Q1 2009. We ended the year with 510,000 members, up


4.9% from 487,000 members at the end of 2007.


Capital expenditures for the year ended at 96.2 million, of which 57.8 million was spent on new


clubs, 23.6 million on facility and equipment upgrades at older clubs, 9.1 million to enhance our IT


systems, and 5.7 million for the construction of our new laundry facility.


Our capital expenditure plan for 2009 is to spend between 50 and $53 million. This amount includes


approximately 22 million for maintenance and upgrades of the existing clubs, 8.4 million to support


and enhance our IT systems, 4 million for the completion of the new laundry facility and a


replacement of corporate office in the New York region, and the remainder of our capital


expenditures principally relates to 2008 and 2009 club openings.