raw transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2006 Town Sports


International Holdings Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Christie and I will be


your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating


a question and answer session towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I will now turn the presentation


over to our host for today’s Mr. Richard Pyle, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, please proceed.


Richard Pyle, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you very much and thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International


Holdings earnings conference call and we’re discussing the third quarter of 2006. As Christie said, I


am Richard Pyle, Chief Financial Officer of the company. I would caution listeners that to the extent


we make any forward-looking statements in this conference call, they are made pursuant to the


Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are


subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, which may cause


actual results to be materially different from any forecasts we have made.


We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter, which has also been filed


with the SEC under a Form 8-K. In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release


and filing, we have also made them available at our website www.mysportsclubs.com.. This


conference call will also be webcast and may be accessed by the company's Investor Relations


section of our website. A replay and transcript of the call will also be available by the company’s


website beginning after this call. I will now turn this call over to Bob Giardina, the Chief Executive


Officer of Town Sports International for a discussion on the operations of the company. And then I


will give further detailed financial discussion later in the call. Bob?


Robert Giardina, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Richard and good afternoon everyone. Once again we are excited to be with you to


update you on our latest operating results, as well as update you on the company’s initiatives. I am


pleased to report we had strong third quarter and first nine months of the year. Richard Pyle will go


through the details in a moment, but I want to point out the highlights for the quarter.


Revenues for the quarter were $109.4 million, an increase of 11.4% over the prior year. Adjusted


EBITDA increased by 34.4% to 26.3 million compared to 19.6 million in the previous year. Our


adjusted EBITDA margin was 24%, an increase compared to our previous margin of 19.9% last


year. Our comp store growth of clubs opened at least 12 months with 7.8%, a nice improvement on


top of strong results last year. As I mentioned on our last call, despite concerns surrounding the


strength of the consumer and any change in the economy, we have not seen any weakness in any


of the key metrics during the quarter. Member growth was up 11.8% year-over-year to 452,000 at


the end of September, while ancillary club revenue growth was 13.3% over last year with $2.1


million.


In addition, we successfully implemented our annual dues increase in September as we had every


September in the past. This year the increase for our members was approximately 3%, a slight


increase over the last year’s increased figure of approximately 2%. The range of increase was $1 a


month to $3 a month depending on the membership type.
raw transcript


Town Sports International


Holdings, Inc.
 
CLUB
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In terms of development plans, we are well on track to meet our 2006 goals for expansion. The


company has also signed 15 leases for 2007 to 2008 and is working on filling in 2008 at this point.


Three new clubs were opened during the quarter, our fitness-only club on Barrack Street in


Manhattan, a multi-recreational club near South Station in Boston, also 63,000 square foot multi-


recreational club located in new Massachusetts, which was acquired from Old Bridge.


Since January of 2006, eight new locations have been added to the company. Currently, there are


three clubs under construction and development scheduled to open by year end. These three new


clubs, two in New Jersey and the other in Philadelphia will give us 11 new locations for the year,


slightly ahead of our original plan for 10. As of September 30th, 2006 the company owns and


operates 145 clubs and two partly owned on clubs, 98 under the New York Sports Club banner with


38 in Manhattan, 21 Boston Sports Clubs, 19 Washington Sports Clubs, six Philadelphia Sports


Clubs plus three clubs in Switzerland. As we’ve said in the past we plan to strengthen these four


markets as we move forward. Looking ahead, the opportunity to meet our growth targets remained


strong with 2007 and 2008 shaping up nicely. I would now like to pass the call over to Richard Pyle


to cover a detailed income statement and balance sheet review. Richard.


Richard Pyle, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Bob. As mentioned our consolidated revenue for the first quarter was 109.4 million, an


increase of 11.2 million or 11.4% for the quarter over the prior year. The key driver of the growth


was membership revenue, which with exclusion of initiation fees increased by 9.1 million. We had


experienced an improvement in membership of approximately 11.8% compared to the prior year’s


quarter end. Encouragingly, ancillary club revenue which includes personal training, group


exclusives and other programs such as Sports Clubs for Kids was up by 2.1 million to 18.3 million


or 13.3% when compared the prior year.


As Bob said at the period end we operated 145 consolidated clubs and another two privately owned


and operated. Clubs over 12 months old were ahead 7.85 in revenue with member growth of 4.8%


as a key component. This together with ancillary revenue which was ahead by 1.5% as well as


overall average price increase of 1.9% and its worth noting that includes in these metrics same


Same-club revenue was depressed by 0.4% as a direct result of our policy to amortize membership


initiation fees over 30-month rather than 24-month period, which was implemented in the first


quarter of this year.


Supplementing this information revenue for our two year old clubs was ahead 7% in the quarter


over the prior year. Again this figure was depressed by approximately 0.4% as a cause of our


changed amortization policy with respect to initiation fees. It should be noted that approximately


$81 million or slightly more than 74% of our revenue is collected electronically in advance during


the quarter by means of electronic funds transfer which we believe is an industry leading statistic.


We have set out in our earnings release made available today an analysis of EBITDA and adjusted


EBITDA separating charges related to stock option accounting and other deferred items and other


charges of one-time nature such as aborted merger expenses and our adjusted EBITDA metrics.


Our adjusted EBITDA defined as earnings before interest taxes and certain non-cash and non-


recurring charges was 26.3 million, 6.7 million or 34.4% higher than the adjusted EBITDA in the


third quarter of 2005m which was 19.6 million. Our adjusted EBITDA margins were 24% compared


to 19.9% in the prior year’s quarter. The sharp increase in utilities in the prior year depressed


margins in that quarter as well as the club revenue growth leveraging our fixed cost base of


matured same-stores this year. We reported EBITDA at 25.8 million an increase of 6.4 million or


32.6% over the prior year’s quarter.