Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn M. Spatafora — Chief Financial Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Robert J. Giardina — Executive Chairman of Board, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Daniel Gallagher — Chief Executive Officer, Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
John O'Neil — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Adam F. Engebretson — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co
George A. Kelly — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Town Sports International Holdings Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Carolyn Spatafora, CFO of Town Sports International. Thank you, Carolyn. You may begin.

Thank you for joining us today. This is the Town Sports International Holdings' earnings conference call discussing results for the fourth quarter of 2014. I'm Carolyn Spatafora, Chief Financial Officer of the company. I caution listeners that any remarks we make in this conference call relating to matters that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause actual results to be materially different from any forecast we have made. These risks and uncertainties are described in our reports filed with the SEC, including those discussed in the Risk Factors, MD&A and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2014 and our Form 10-K filed subsequently.

We have issued a press release discussing our results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2014, which have been filed with the SEC under Form 8-K. We disclaim any duty to update or revise such forward-looking statements whether as a result of future events or otherwise.

In addition, for those of you who do not have access to this release and filings, we have also made them available at our website, www.mysportsclubs.com. This conference call is also being webcast and may be accessed via the Investor Relations section of our website. Also a replay and transcript of the call will be made available on our website on February 26, 2015.

I will now turn this call over to Bob Giardina.

Thanks, Carolyn. Good afternoon. By now, you have seen today's press release announcing Dan Gallagher's appointment as CEO of Town Sports, and my new role as Executive Chairman, as well as our decision to explore strategic alternatives. The timing of this management transition was driven primarily by two things. First, we have worked very hard to adapt our business to an evolving industry, and the strong initial success of our high-value low-price strategy, and other changes that have been implemented give me the confidence that a strong leader like Dan is now the right person to run the company.

Second, our decision to hire Deutsche Bank to explore strategic alternatives to draw my time and energy toward that effort. So, it is only fair that the company has a full time CEO, who can devote a 100% of his attention to running the business. I've spent most of my carrier at Town Sports, starting in 1981 as a Sales Manager and Personal Trainer, being fortunate enough to take the company public as its CEO in 2006. I've seen many cycles and changes for the fitness industry over those 34 years and Town Sports has always managed to evolve and emerge as an even stronger industry leader due to the many outstanding people that I've worked with and who I would like to thank for all their efforts and partnership.

Dan has been one of those great partners working very closely with me over the past five years. I'm incredibly impressed with his hard work and dedication to this company and I am proud to turn over the reins to Dan while also being on board to offer all the support he needs.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Dan.

Thank you. Thank you, Bob. 2014 was an incredibly busy year for Town Sports. And we like the way we finished the year and the momentum we see building in the business. Adjusted EBITDA of $10.4 million for the fourth quarter was above our initial expectation, and our quarter ending net member count increased by 5,000 members from the end of Q3 2014. This addition of 5,000 members is the largest fourth quarter gain that we produced in many years, and while the improvement in membership was expected given the lower monthly dues charged to new members, we are pleased to be recapturing market share and expect we will continue to do so now with an ever increasing number of clubs on the HVLP model. I do want to note that in Q4 2014, average joining fees collected per member at our HVLP clubs averaged approximately $100 per member. This is a noticeable improvement compared to the $60 of total joining fees per member at our non-HVLP clubs. The join fees at our HVLP clubs are helping to drive our cash flow as we have more members joining at higher join fee rates.

As we move into 2015, we expect average joining fees to continue to be well above prior year levels and that these fees will continue to be a meaningful source of cash flow.

We started 2014 with 162 locations, more than a 100 of them under the New York Sports Clubs banner and the rest in the Boston, Washington and Philadelphia markets. And we ended the year with four fewer clubs or 158 overall. We ended Q3 2014 with 17 clubs on our HVLP model and accelerated convergence in Q4 2014 – ending 2014, with a total of 71 clubs converted. By the end of this first quarter, we expect to be operating approximately 125 of our clubs under the HVLP strategy with a handful of additional clubs being converted in Q2.

We also expect approximately 25 of our clubs will remain on a Passport Membership-only pricing model. These clubs will only offer our Passport Membership pricing option, which comes with much higher monthly dues, recently selling for approximately $75 per month on average. This Passport Membership is also offered at our HVLP clubs and provides our members with access to multiple clubs without additional usage charges. There are other low priced concepts that have had success with similar models, and as we pursue our HVLP model, we're going to stay with the clustering strategy within our four markets, where we get the benefits of selling memberships, marketing leverage, and management coverage, and our clubs will offer the same services that our members have come to expect from our brands. Exciting group exercise programs, personal training, UXF zones, top of the line equipment, swimming pools and basketball courts where we have them. We believe the service our teams deliver, with the facilities and amenities we offer, represents a compelling value to our members and it's the value piece of the HVLP model that we believe we have an advantage over others.

Now, turning to another initiative we started in 2014, BFX Studio. In 2014, we opened our first BFX Studio and we plan to open three more in 2015. BFX FiDi is in the financial district of Manhattan where previews are expected to start in March and a soft opening is scheduled for April. BFX Back Bay in Boston on Boylston Street is opening later in the second quarter and our third BFX in 2015 is slated to open on the upper east side of Manhattan toward the end of the year. As compared to other boutique studios, BFX is more comprehensive in terms of what it offers.

Most studios have one studio with one modality. BFX has three studios, indoor cycling, group exercise and personal training. In addition, part of the BFX Studio experience is enabled through technology. Fit3D is a technology that scans your body, taking 450 measurements in the process and then from that data, it creates your own personal avatar. Overtime, it's easy to visualize the progress being made and if our clients choose, they share the information with our experts to further tailor the BFX experience.

BFX also has our first loyalty program, [ph] X rewards (08:30) bringing value-added benefits to our most committed clients. Points are automatically credited for buying retail items, attending classes, and for the effort exerted in those classes as registered by MYZONE heart rate monitors. We also offer our employees full health wellness and retirement benefits that smaller studios can't match. All of this has given us the ability to attract the best quality trainers, most of whom prefer to work in the studio environment as BFX can offer the best of both worlds.

We are in the very early stages of developing this brand. Our adjusted EBITDA in Q4 2014 was negatively impacted by BFX by approximately $950,000 and we expect adjusted EBITDA in Q1 2015 to be impacted by $1 million to $1.5 million, as we prepare to open our next two studios in the second quarter of 2015.

Taking a step back, both of these major initiatives, HVLP and BFX Studio were driven by new market dynamics. And so, our transformation has been driven by the industry's transformation and this is probably the most exciting time and the most momentum we have seen for the fitness industry as a whole, since our company started over 40 years ago. As part of this industry transformation, we have discussed on several of these calls a number of studios that have opened in Manhattan alone to meet the new demand as people change the way they approach fitness.

Market research on the industry is also telling us that club members are gravitating toward using multiple workout options. They are joining a traditional fitness club and then using studios to supplement it. This has spread the other growing sector of the industry, the low-cost clubs that average between $10 and $30 a month. We have seen about 250 low-price clubs open in our markets over the last two years. They are typically small boxes with limited facilities, and that is why consumers supplement them with other outside studios. So within this new environment, we really like the way our new HVLP model is positioned because we offer a full service club at a low price. The 9.8% increase in personal training revenue realized in Q4 2014 is an example of the additional service we provide and how we can benefit from increasing members.

In 2014, our HVLP clubs were seeing an average of approximately three times more sales compared to the prior year and eight times more guest traffic, and a lot of excitement and energy that this whole process is creating. We're monitoring the membership sales closely as we continue to convert additional clubs to the HVLP model in 2015. These clubs allowed higher average joining fees related to the memberships, many clubs as high as $249 upon joining. We're seeing the sales multiple comedown in Q1 in large part due to these increases in joint fees at these recently launched clubs.

Finally, Q1 is off to a strong start and it's very likely we will add more members this first quarter than we have in the past five years. We expect EBITDA to be under pressure the first half of the year, as we continue to convert our clubs to the HVLP model and at the same time, absorb additional new unit startup cost related to our BFX brand.

As our member base increases sufficiently to absorb the additional advertising spend and the reduction in average dues per member, we expect to see an increase in EBITDA by Q4 of this year. As I mentioned earlier, we expect a noticeable increase in join fees collected, but because these fees are deferred, they will not immediately impact EBITDA, but cash flows will benefit. So to recap, we are driving improvements in key fundamentals within our existing club base, improving and expanding our product offering and ancillary revenue while attracting more members. Everything we are doing leverages the established team, infrastructure and brand our company has developed over many years.

I'll now turn this call back over to Carolyn to discuss financial results.

Thanks, Dan. I will go through income statement and the highlights for the quarter and then discuss our outlook for 2015. In the fourth quarter, our consolidated revenue decreased 3.7% to $109.7 million, about $0.7 million higher than our most recent guidance.

Our total net member count increased by 5,000 members in the end of the third quarter to 484,000 members at year end. Monthly attrition in the fourth quarter averaged 3.9%, a slight improvement from last quarter, but up about 50 basis points from last year. The increase was partly driven by the eight clubs we closed in the second half of 2014. We expect average monthly attrition for the first quarter of 2015 to approximate 3.6% versus 3.5% in the first quarter of 2014.

The average monthly member dues charged in the fourth quarter decreased slightly to $58.04 from $58.90 in Q4 of 2013. Joining fees collected per member at our HVLP club averaged approximately $100 compared to $60 per member from traditionally price club. Although we recognized the majority of these join fees as revenue over the course of the estimated member life, 22 months in 2014, it is an immediate benefit to cash flow. In Q4 2014 cash collected for join fees was $6.5 million compared to $2.4 million in Q4 2013. As we continue to convert more of our clubs to the HVLP pricing model, we expect average monthly dues to continue to decline and upfront join fees collected will continue to be favorable versus prior year.

Total ancillary club revenue increased 9.7% to $22.7 million from $20.7 million in Q4 2013, driven primarily by 9.8% increase in personal training revenue, as we continue to see increases in revenue related to personal training memberships.

Revenue at our clubs opened for more than 12 months, decreased by 3.9% for the quarter. Comparable club revenue was affected by a decrease in membership of 3.5%, and the price of our membership dues were down 0.8%. These are partially offset by the combined increase of 0.4% in ancillary club revenue, joining fees and other revenue.

Turning to expenses. Total operating expenses increased 2.6% to $111.3 million. Overall, our spending, expenses came in lower than guidance. Payroll was higher than expectations driven by a mix of higher wages and hours from membership consultants and front desk staffing associated with our HVLP conversion. Club operating expenses were less than expected, but still increased over prior year 3.8% due to $1.6 million of higher advertising associated with our HVLP conversion.

G&A expense increased $0.3 million to $7.8 million in the fourth quarter. We expect G&A expense in Q1 to approximate $7.7 million. Operating losses was $1.6 million in Q4 2014 compared with operating income of $5.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $10.4 million compared to $18.4 million in Q4 2013, an increase of $1.6 million compared to guidance.

Net loss for Q4 was $63.7 million, which included a non-cash charge related to tax valuation allowance of $60.4 million recorded against deferred tax assets. Loss per share was $2.62 in Q4 2014, which included a loss per share of $2.48 related to the non-cash tax charge. Loss per share in Q4 2013 was $0.03, which included a loss per share of $0.03 for certain non-recurring items. The non-cash tax valuation allowance was recorded based on our projection to be in a cumulative loss position during the three-year period ending December 31, 2015 as a result of earnings pressure in the near-term and increased marketing spend due to the conversion to the HVLP pricing strategy.

Total outstanding debt as of December 31 2014, was $308.3 million, and our cash position was $93.5 million, for a net debt level of $214.8 million compared to a net debt level of $251.4 million as of December 31 2013. Of the $93.5 million, over $40 million is held at the holding company and not subject to restrictions of our credit facility.

As of December 31 2014, there were no outstanding revolving loan facility borrowings and the outstanding letter of credit issued totaled $3 million. Under our senior credit facility, we're required to keep a total leverage ratio of 4.5:1 or less in order to borrow on the full $45 million of our revolving loan facility. As of December 31, our leverage ratio was in excess of 4.5 and, therefore, 25% or $11.25 million of our total revolver was available to borrow. Given our modest unit growth plans and our cash on hand, we do not expect to draw on the revolver in the near future.

Capital expenditures totaled $42.1 million in 2014, which was at the lower end of our previous guidance of $42 million to $46 million. This compares to $33.8 million in 2013. The increase over 2013 was driven by our new core clubs and BFX Studio.

For the full year 2015, we expect capital expenditures to be between $30 million and $34 million, which includes $5.4 million to $6.5 million related to three BFX Studio openings and one core club opening. Our core club opening on Avenue A in Manhattan is expected in mid-March.

Now, turning to our outlook. Based on our expectation the current business environment, current trends in the marketplace, and more important, expectations of our HVLP pricing strategy subject to the risks and uncertainty inherent in forward-looking statements, our outlook for the first quarter of 2015 includes the following. Revenue for the first quarter is expected to be between $113 million and $114 million versus $115.9 million for Q1 2014. As a percentage of revenue, we expect first quarter 2015 payroll and related expenses to be approximately 41.5% and club operating expenses to approximate 45.5%. We expect general and administrative expenses to approximate $7.7 million, depreciation and amortization to approximate $12 million, and net interest expense to approximate $5.1 million.

Included in interest expense is approximately $675,000 related to building finance arrangements of which $475,000 is non-cash. We estimate that adjusted EBITDA will approximate $7.3 million in Q1 2015 as compared to $14.1 million in Q1 2014, which [ph] I will refer (20:06) to you shortly. Our guidance excludes any amounts related to the review of strategic alternatives as we've previously announced.

Our guidance for Q1 reflects advertising and marketing costs to be approximately $3.2 million higher than 2014 and we also estimate a reduction in revenue as the initial impact of the membership downgrades are not initially offset by incremental membership volume. While we gained 5,000 members in Q4 2014, we lost a total of 18,000 members in the three quarters prior, so we're starting 2015 with 2.6% less members than the beginning of 2014.

Q1 guidance is also negatively impacted by $1.6 million for new and recent club and studio openings. We expect net loss for Q1 2015 to be between $4.8 million and $5.3 million and loss per share to be in the range of $0.20 per share to $0.22 per share assuming approximately $24.5 million weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding and an effective tax rate of 46%. As the membership base of these clubs continue to expand, we expect our year-over-year EBITDA declines to moderate with the inflection point to positive year-over-year EBITDA expected to occur in the second half of 2015.

As we look at the first group of 71 clubs converted in 2014, the critical ingredient in this shift will be an increase in our average members per club. In 2014, these clubs had an average of approximately 2,500 members each. We are targeting to increase that to almost 5,000 members.

Regarding our capital allocation, as you know, the board discontinued dividends in June as we embarked on our strategic operational initiative namely HVLP conversion, select club closures, and BFX Studio openings; all while working to stabilize membership trends at our core clubs. We continue to be in the implementation phase of these initiatives and believe the prudent things to do is to maintain maximum flexibility and liquidity as we execute our repositioning.

This concludes our prepared remarks. We'd like to now turn the call over for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John O'Neil with Imperial Capital. Please go ahead with your question.

Good afternoon, everyone and I guess I'll start with congratulations for both Dan and Bob.

Thanks.

Thank you, John.

With respect to the outlook and the comments on EBITDA that Carolyn just made, it's my first question, would you see the first quarter as the trough in EBITDA for the year and it would slowly sequentially build from there? And my second question pertains to the cash flow generated by the dues, which were quite substantial in Q4, and then have to imagine with Q1 being a much higher projected growth in membership quarter that it would be even greater in Q1. So if you just kind of talk about how that would impact the cash balance heading forward [ph] too (23:58)?

As far as the first question, it is the trough for – the Q1 was the trough that we hardly believe that that would be likely, that it would be the trough of EBITDA for the year. And the second question, yes, we do expect the join fees to also significantly improve in the first quarter and one of the big pieces of this model, is even though we might not see all that join fees and EBITDA, it certainly – it'll be improving the our cash flow particularly in the first few – in the first few quarters.

And as I mentioned John, the clubs that were launching in this first quarter, they're the clubs that actually have higher join fees per new members than the ones in the fall. So some of them actually have $249 total join fee. So I think as we have more HVLP clubs and as we add these clubs that have higher join fees, I would expect more cash flow to come through, but it is deferred as Carolyn mentioned.

Okay. And then, with respect to the attrition, what have you seen as far as attrition rates in the HVLP clubs that have had the strategy for a while?

I think it's too early to report on that right now. But overall, I think we think it's fairly similar.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Adam Engebretson with Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead with your question.

Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. Thinking about Q4 and maybe even the quarter to-date period, have you seen any impact from weather, I'm thinking specifically kind of about the Boston market, there's been a lot of snow there, wondering if that, think that any impact in Q4 or how is that affecting your Q1 guidance?

Well, we definitely put in a little bit more in our O&M line for snow removal, and you're right. Boston in particular, I think has record snow and record days below 20 degrees. So both of those factors have impacted our 30 or so clubs up in Boston, more so than any other Q1. But I think all the guidance we gave certainly contemplates that and if it snows a lot again tomorrow or something like that. We were certainly aware of the weather pattern that we had and it did definitely have an impact. I would say even our clubs in the tri-state area, Long Island was getting a lot of those same storms as was Northern Connecticut, but it is all contemplated in our guidance at this point.

Got it. That's helpful. And then also in the prepared remarks, there was a reference to the sales multiple coming down as the higher joint fees happened with some of these new conversions. Is that the same that going forward in 2015, you're not looking for the same kind of 3x or three times sales growth because the multiple is going to be higher or the join fee is going to be higher, is that what you mean by that?

Yes, so there is two things. The biggest piece is the join fees, so a lot of these clubs that we launched in Q1 and some of them are actually launching Monday – 18 clubs go live Monday, so these clubs have – some of them have $249 join fee, and because of that the sales multiple might not be as high as three as what we're seeing early days of the quarter, so we wanted to give a shout out about that. But at the same time, this second wave of clubs happens to be our clubs that were performing better in the past and that's why we have such a high join fee. So hitting a three times multiple on the club that was performing modestly okay is a lot harder than the first 71 that were underperforming more so at lower join fees. So I just call that up here because as we close down the quarter, it's very possible that the multiple will be less than three, is that what we realized in Q4.

Got it. Thanks. Good luck in Q1.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of George Kelly with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi guys. I have a few questions. First, did I hear you right that in your full year EBITDA guidance, you – I'm sorry, the quarterly kind of help that you gave us that you expect year-over-year growth in EBITDA in the back half of the year?

I specifically said, Q4 with the second half of the year also being positive and it's really Q4 where we expect to see the inflection point.

And that's year-over-year growth not sequentially?

Yes.

Okay. Got you.

Yes. It's year-over-year, absolutely.

Okay. And then wondering if you could talk at all about what you're seeing just with the core group of urban clubs. How has the first quarter gone so far and does it seem like it's getting a little easier competitively?

I'm not sure I follow you there, George.

I just mean that core group of urban clubs that you have in Manhattan, especially I'm wondering if the studios continue to – if the pressure there is getting worse or improving at all?

I don't think the pressure is getting particularly worse.

No. I think it's probably similar to what it's been in the past. We are hearing about some closing down, but we are still hearing some opening. I think they've exploded in the New York City market and I think they probably have leveled off at this point. So, we aren't really seeing much change in our core clubs.

Okay. Okay. And then on the BFX launch this – I think you've said three new clubs this year, wondering what you're seeing out of the first club that's opened, that gives you guys confidence to keep rolling out new clubs if you can give any kind of metrics around number of members or just anything you can provide there?

Yeah. I could give you a little bit. We are still in very early days, our grand opening for the first unit was September. So we are a few months in and what I can say is, every month we're opening, we have more guests, and more visitors attending classes per month, so we're building every single month since we've opened. And as I look at November revenue, it's higher than October and December is higher than November and January is higher than December. So we are tracking and we're building, but I don't think we want to give a lot more details on that model just yet, because it's still very early days. it is buildings each and every month.

And as we launch our second one, we're going to have some previews in the middle of March at a grand opening in FiDi district of Manhattan. We're very excited by that one and it will be nice for this club to have a sister club, because it'll will only build more momentum for the brand and we'll have an opening likely April 1 for that unit. So I think as we have a couple of more months behind us and see how the grand opening of our next unit opens, we could probably give a hint more color, but it's safe to say that we keep building on what we've established.

Okay. Okay. And then last question on the Passport pricing. Has that come down from I remember you raised prices about a year ago, I think year-and-a-half ago, wondering if that's come down?

I think it's very similar to at least the last few quarters. I don't know if it came down from last year. We're averaging about $75 right now. And I think that's pretty indicative of what we've been selling at.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

All right, George. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question, a follow-up, comes from the line of John O'Neil with Imperial Capital. Please go ahead with your follow up question.

Thank you. Two quick ones. First, with respect to BFX, you commented on the impact for the quarter. Maybe you could comment more broadly just kind of on the impact of the costs that were incurred in 2014, what you see in 2015 and then how might that swing into the 2016?

I think we gave in our call some color about the EBITDA impact. And that includes brand building, it includes some corporate staff that are starting and supporting the brand. So as we have more units and the units mature, we expect certainly the EBITDA to start to improve. But we're not really prepared to give 2016 guidance on these clubs, certainly until we have – the next one open and we're starting to see that ramp up. But like we said, we gave guidance for Q1 as far as the impact of BFX in Q4. Safe to say, as we open any new unit, they usually do open from a negative EBITDA perspective until the unit builds. And I think as we open more clubs this year that will continue to happen or more studios, I should say.

So, we should assume at least maybe $3 million or $4 million negative in EBITDA from BFX this year?

In 2014, yes. It was at $3.5 million in EBITDA – adjusted EBITDA. And that was – most of that was occupancy and then also the occupancy for the new clubs, so you have to start recording the expenses before the clubs open often and start doing construction a good piece of that, as well as the payroll for the club.

Okay. All right and then about a month-and-a-half ago you talked about the $28 million to $35 million increase in EBITDA on the first wave of HVLP conversions. Are you still on target for that, all the metrics lining up with your expectations?

Well, for the first 71 clubs when we had given that original number, I think we said $400,000 incremental EBITDA from 18 months to 24 months. After we look at maybe a fewer clubs we're probably going to have – we might consider closing a couple of them with this model. After we look at that, yes, we're still going to be in that same range of the $400,000 to $500,000. Though it might be more towards the 24 months or a little bit longer than the 24 month period to get that incremental EBITDA.

Yeah I think as we look – like we said earlier, the first 71 clubs we launched were – certainly included our weaker clubs and as we look at the portfolio overtime, we expect to close a handful of those, not a lot of them but a handful of those and then as we get, call it 24 months out, I think we'll be very similar to what we described on our last call as we see this building.

Great. Thank you all.

Okay. Thanks John.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you on our next call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our teleconference for today. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation. And have a wonderful day.