raw transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Trident Microsystems Fourth


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Steven and I will be your coordinator for


today. [Operator Instruction]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes. I would now like to turn presentation over to your host for today's call Mr. Frank Lin,


President and CEO. Please, proceed sir.


Frank Lin, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone, thank you for joining us for Trident's quarterly conference


call to discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 ended this past June 30th. I


am Frank Lin, CEO of Trident Microsystems; with me today is Dr. J.H. Chang, TTI President, John


Edmunds our CFO.


I would like to turn the call over to John at this point and let him give you a financial update. And


then, I will have some comments about the business and after that John will update you on the


outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and then we will be happy to take your questions. John?


John Edmunds, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Frank. Good afternoon everyone. After the close of the market, we announced Trident's


results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005.


Before we begin, please note that during the course of this conference call, we may make


projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future sales of product, product


transitions, market trends, future product shipments and product introductions, actual results may


differ materially to these statements. Subject to certain risks and depending upon a number of


factors including, but not limited to trends in the digital media industry, Trident's ability to design and


introduce new products in a timely manner, Trident's ability to win customer product designs,


pressures from competitors and pricing and our competitor's new product introductions.


For further information regarding our risk factors inherent in our business, please refer to our


registration statement in most recent forms, 10-Q and 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission, accessible at www.sec.gov. I encourage you to read these documents.


Now to begin our review of the quarter, I would like to briefly recap the key financial results. We


reported net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 of 20,886,000, a sequential increase of 29%


exceeding our guidance of 20% to 25% from the 16.1 million recorded in March. And a year-over-


year increase of 65% from the 12.6 million reported in the same quarter of the prior year.


Revenues from Flat Panel television were 15.1 million or 73% revenue, which represents a year-


over-year tripling of revenues from a 5 million we have reported in this category in the same quarter


one year ago. These revenues were also up sequentially 46% from the 10.4 million reported in


March, due primarily to further ramping of the SVP-EX with Sony and Samsung together accounted


for 66% of the sequential growth.


Our revenues in China grew 22% sequentially and while the previous inventory issues in digital


CRT have largely anticipated a new phenomenon has emerged where more and more Chinese


urban consumer, who might have otherwise purchased digital CRT, are now purchasing Flat Panel


Television in greater number, sooner than anyone had previously anticipated.
raw transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As a result our LCD business in China grew from virtually zero to 17% or 18% of Chinese revenues


in the quarter, which in turn grow our 22% sequential increase in China. The other side of that


same coin is that our digital CRT business was relatively flat 5.3 million for the quarter. We view


this as a market based shift in the midst of what Chinese consumers are buying, and since we are


also strong in Flat Panel Television, we view this as a positive expansion opportunity for us


especially given that we have HiDTV products running at most of the major Chinese Television


manufactures.


Net loss on a GAAP basis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was approximately 6.9 million or 27


cents per diluted share, which included charges for non-cash amortization of deferred


compensation of approximately 7.8 million and amortization of intangibles to approximately 1.1


million. And other non-cash based purchase accounting charges of 0.4 million. This compares to a


net loss on a GAAP basis of 4.5 million or 19 cents per diluted in the immediately preceding


quarter, and net income of approximately 1 million or 4 cents per diluted share in the second


quarter one year ago. Comparing by comparison the non-cash amortization of deferred


compensation was only 214,000 one year ago. And, we benefited in that quarter on a GAAP basis


from a 7333,000 gain on the sale of some UMC stock.


Nevertheless we do expect to turn profitable again on a GAAP basis in the latter half of this


calendar year. Pro forma net income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 after excluding charges for


deferred compensation expense is 7.8 million, and amortization of intangibles of 1.1 million, and


purchase accountings adjustments to cost of good sold was 2.4 million – was 2.4 million or 9 cents


per diluted share. This compares to pro forma of net income of approximately 0.9 million or 3 cents


per diluted share in the March ’05 quarter, which excluded the amortization of deferred comp of 0.8


million as well as the charge for in process research and development expenses of 4.6 million.


And this compares as well to the year ago pro forma net income in the June ’04 quarter of


approximately 0.5 million or 2 cents per diluted share, which excludes 2.2 million of amortization


and differed comp and 0.7 million related to gain on the sale of UMC stock.


Gross margins on a GAAP basis at 48.9% included the amortization of acquired intangibles of 1.1


million and our purchase accounting adjustment related to the revaluation of acquired inventory of


0.4 million. Pro forma gross margin of 56% excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and


of course of the accounting adjustment, this was slightly better than the 55.6% reported in the


March quarter due to reduction of wafer cost that would phased in for certain products during the


quarter.


We continue to work on the reducing our product cost with a continuing moderate amount ASP


erosion for the September quarter. And, we believe, we can maintain overall gross margins flat


with the high end of our business model target range of 51% to 55% for gross margins, right to say


for pro forma gross margins.


GAAP operating expenses were 16.8 million, which included 7.8 million in amortization of differed


compensation was higher in the March quarter operating expenses of 13 million, which included 0.8


million of deferred comp and 4.6 million of in process research and development side. When you


exclude these new rated charges from the Q4 or Q3 GAAP operating expenses, you will arrive at


pro forma operating expenses for the June ’05 of approximately 9 million, as compared to pro forma


operating expenses 7.6 million for the March ’05 quarter.


The sequential increase of 1.4 million was driven largely by approximately 46 million in dual


electrical property licenses and take out surpasses for R&D process. Approximately 0.4 million in


incremental year-end bonus and web commission accrual associated with the over achievement of


revenue in the quarter and approximately 0.4 million in the increased external accounting charges


for various projects including preparation for software or compliance this fiscal year-end.