corrected transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your Quarter One 2008 Trident


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kelly, and I’ll be your coordinator for today. [Operator


Instructions] I’d now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr. John


Edmunds, CFO. Please proceed, sir.


John Edmunds, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kelly. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us for Trident’s Quarterly


Conference Call to discuss our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, which ended this


past September 30th. I’m John Edmunds, the CFO of Trident Microsystems, and with me today is


Dr. J.H. Chang, President. It is our pleasure to introduce to you and welcome our new CEO Ms.


Sylvia Summers. Sylvia?


Sylvia D. Summers, Chief Executive Officer


Hello, good afternoon everyone. One week into my tenure as the new CEO of Trident, it’s a real


pleasure to have the opportunity to share my preliminary impressions with all of you -- customers,


investors, suppliers and employees. I am finding Trident to be a very dynamic organization. I am


actually very impressed with the dedication of its employees -- on the success and the intent that


they have in demonstrating all the time on getting sustainable and profitable market share in the


highly competitive HDTV marketplace.


Trident’s commitment to innovation, quality and customer satisfaction has driven its growth in the


high-quality segment of that market. As you well know, it’s the fastest-growing part of the HDTV


market. For us in Trident, calendar year ‘08 is about maintaining a relentless focus on winning the


digital market. We are also preparing to surgically expand our market penetration in the more cost-


sensitive segment of the market, and we are actively working on the development of very attractive


solutions. Beyond this, J.H. and I are here to gradually transform Trident from being the leader in


one segment of the market to become not only the leader in that segment but also a recognized


player in multiple markets. I have no doubt that the organization is capable of meeting this


challenge and that our underlying engineering and financial strength will enable us to pursue our


longer-term growth objectives.


I thank you for the support that you’ve given Trident. And I’m really looking forward to engaging with


you in the near future. With this, let me turn this back to John, so that he can present our fiscal Q1


results.


John Edmunds, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Sylvia. Before we begin, please note during this call we will discuss some factors that


are likely to influence our business going forward. These forward-looking statements include


guidance we will provide on anticipated revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and financial


information for a future period, statements about prospects for our business and the development


status and planned availability of new products -- as well as the design wins expected in future


periods. It should be clearly understood that actual results may differ substantially from the


forward-looking statements we make today, and have in fact done so in the past. These


projections or forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and depend upon a number of


factors, including but not limited to: changes in trends in the television and entertainment industries,


whether Trident is able to achieve timely product introductions, the failure to obtain design wins
corrected transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


among major OEMs for Trident’s product, competitive pressures -- including pricing and


competitors new product introductions, the emergence of alternative digital consumer technologies,


actions that may be taken or required as a result of our historical stock option investigation and


formal inquiries being made by the SEC and the Department of Justice, and risks of litigation


related to these issues, potential claims and proceedings relating to such matters, including


shareholder or employee litigation and action by the SEC or other regulatory agencies -- as well as


negative tax or other implications for Trident resulting from or according to these factors. Please


note that actual results have in fact differed from our previous forward-looking statements, so it’s


very important that you factor in the appropriate risk and arrive at your own judgment about any


forward-looking statement we might make. For further information regarding the risk factors


inherent in our business, please refer to our registration statement and most recent forms 10-Q and


10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, accessible at www.sec.gov. I encourage


you to read these documents.


To begin our review of the quarter, I would first like to briefly recap the financial results. We


reported net sales of 88.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, representing a quarterly


sequential increase of 25% over the 70.6 million recorded in June -- and a year-over-year increase


of 24% from the 71.4 million recorded in the same quarter of the prior year.


Revenues from flat-panel televisions were 86.7 million, or 98% of revenue, the balance of which


came from digital CRTs and TV masters products for personal computers.


Once again, revenues from our top 4 customers represented approximately 85% of our total


revenues in the recent quarter. Regionally, Japanese revenues grew by 19% from Q4 ‘07 and


comprised 28% of total revenue. Our largest customer in Japan also represented approximately


20% of our total revenue. Korean revenues comprised 38% of our total, representing a revenue


decrease of approximately 3.3 million. This decrease was principally attributable to a major


customer absorbing an excess of inventory purchase in the first half of the year. Revenues from a


single major customer in Korea comprised 36% of total revenues. Revenues in Taiwan continue to


comprise 7% of revenues. Revenues in China were 6% of revenues -- and revenues in the rest of


the world increased by 14.8 million, comprising 21% of total company revenue. Revenues from a


single Tier-1 customer in rest of world also comprised 20% of total revenues for the company.


Gross margins for the quarter on a non-GAAP basis were 50.8%. The difference between non-


GAAP and GAAP gross margins are characterized by the exclusion of 1.5 million of amortization of


intangible assets -- resulting from the acquisition of the 2005 minority interest, held in Trident


Technology Bank, our former Taiwanese subsidiary -- and the exclusion of approximately 0.2


million in stock-based compensation expense.


Our non-GAAP gross margins were approximately 230 basis points better than expected, based on


approximately 100 basis points from the sale of 1.7 million of previously fully-reserved product and


the balance coming from a favorable mix of product and improved manufacturing efficiencies. We


anticipate the non-GAAP gross margins in the December 2007 quarter to be in the range of 48.5 to


49%.


Non-GAAP operating expense is 16.1 million, which excludes 10.4 million of stock-based


compensation expense and 3.8 million of stock-option investigation expense, increased


approximately 0.8 million overall, due to a 0.4 million decline in R&D expense due to a lower level


of tape-out expense and an increase of approximately 1.2 million from a higher level of third-party


sales commission expense. These factors resulted in non-GAAP operating income reaching a


record level of 32%, on par with the 32% non-GAAP operating income we reported in the


September quarter, one year ago. Other income on non-GAAP basis, which excludes 1.8 million


dividend income from our holdings in UMC, increase approximately 0.3 million -- primarily because


interest income was up by approximately 0.2 million to 1.5 million in the quarter.