raw transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Trident


Microsystems Q1 2006 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Carlo, and I will be your coordinator


for today’s presentation. At this time, all of our participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be


facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today's prepared remarks.


[Operator Instructions]


It is now my pleasure to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference, Dr. JH


Chang. Please proceed.


Jung-Herng Chang, President of TTI


Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss our financial results for the


past September quarter. I am JH Chang, TTI President. With me today is Mr. Frank Lin, our CEO


and Mr. John Edmunds, our CFO. I am speaking on behalf of Frank, because he has lost his voice


in the past few days due to a bad cold.


Now I would like to turn the call over to John at this point and let him give you the financial update,


after that I’ll read Frank’s comment about the business and John will update you on the outlook for


the December quarter, and then we will be happy to take your questions. John?


John Edmunds, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Herng. Good afternoon everyone. After the close of the market today, we announced


Trident’s results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. Before we begin, please note that during


the course of this conference call we may make projections or other forward-looking statements


regarding future sales of product, product transitions, market trends, future product shipments and


product introductions, as well as other topics. Actual results may differ materially to these


statements which are subject to certain risks and dependent upon a number of factors including but


not limited to trends in the digital media industry, Trident's ability to design and work with customers


to introduce new products in a timely manner, Trident's ability to win customer product designs,


pressures from competitors in pricing and from other competitor's new product introductions.


Please note that actual results have in fact differed from our previous forward-looking statements.


So it’s very important that you factor in the appropriate risks and arrive at your judgment about any


forward-looking statements we might make. For further information regarding our risk factors,


please refer to our registration statements and most recent Forms 10-Q and 10-K filed with the


Securities and Exchange Commission, accessible at www.sec.gov. I encourage you to read these


documents.


Now I will briefly recap the financial results. We reported net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2006


of 33.2 million, a sequential increase of 59% and a doubling of revenues posted in the same


quarter one year ago. This was significantly above our July 27th guidance of 35 to 40% growth and


reflects the strength of our flat panel customers across the broad marketplace. LCD TV’s grew


82% sequentially and now flat panel television application revenues comprised 85% of our total


business.


Revenue from the Digital CRT projection business made up 14% of our business and overall was a


little softer than we expected. So with the SVP EX11 ramping into production in the December
raw transcript


Trident Microsystems, Inc.
 
TRID
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter and Chinese New Year coming, we count up we’ll see appreciable growth in that area in the


December quarter.


Net income in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 on a GAAP basis which includes non-cash charges for


amortization of acquired intangibles of 1.2 million, non-cash charges of 1.6 million for stock


compensation and a non-cash charge for 0.2 million for cumulative effect of a change in accounting


principle as a result of adopting SFAS 123(R). All totaled to a positive 4.4 million in net income or


14 cents per diluted share. This compares to a net loss of 6.9 million or 27 cents per share in the


preceding quarter and 1.4 million or 4 cents per diluted share in the same quarter one year ago.


Pro forma net income in the first quarter of 2006 after excluding non-cash charges for amortization


of acquired intangibles of 1.2 million and stock compensation of 1.6 million and the 0.2 million


charged for the cumulative effect was 7.5 million or 25 cents per diluted share. This compares to


pro forma net income of 2.4 million or 9 cents per diluted share in the June quarter, which also


excluded an acquisition related charge to cost of revenue of 0.4 million, amortization of intangibles


of 0.12 million and amortization of stock base compensation of 7.8 million.


And finally, the current quarter result compares to pro forma net income of 1.2 million for the same


quarter of the prior fiscal year or 0.4 cents per diluted share, which likewise excluded 0.2 million in


amortization of deferred and 0.4 million gain on the sale of certain securities.


Gross margin for the quarter was up slightly at 56.5% in the September quarter, as compared to


56% in the June quarter and up compared to the 55.3% reported one year ago. We experienced


some improvement in manufacturing yields in the benefit of some wafer price decreases that has


continued to phase in as we achieved higher volumes in the quarter.


In the December quarter, we are ramping some newer products into production with the


comparatibly lower mix of overall manufacturing yield, expected and with a continued moderate


amount of ASP erosion; we believe the overall gross margins will be down slightly or approximately


down 0.5% for the December quarter.


GAAP operating expenses were 12.2 million which included 1.6 million of stock compensation


charges, as compared to 16.8 million in the June quarter and 7.1 million in the September quarter


one year ago. And included which – in the June quarter included 7.8 million and 0.2 million of stock


related charges respectively. The change in stock related charges between the various quarters


had to do with the acquisitions of the minority interest under APP25 in March of 2005, which led to


the increase from September of last year to June of 2005.


And the increase going into the September quarter and the decrease going into the September


quarter is the result of the adopting FAS123R, which called for a wholesale reversal of deferred


compensation on the balance sheet under APP25 and a reversion to a relatively lower set of fair


values, at the time TTI options were originally granted. Better than the higher cumulative re-


measurement evaluation on March 31st 2005, when the minority interest was reacquired.


Going forward, we anticipate the run rate of stock compensation charges to be about 2 million per


quarter. If we exclude the enumerated non-cash stock compensation charges and pro forma


operating expenses would have been 10.6 million in September of 2005 compared to 9 million in


June 2005 and 6.9 million in September of 2004. The 1.6 million increase in operating expenses


was a result of approximately 800,000 in additional rep commissions both because of an increase


in volume and an expected increase in the rep commission base rate in the first quarter of our fiscal


year.


In addition, we had approximately 0.2 million in additional headcount expense, 0.2 million in higher


travel expenses and 0.4 million in additional charges for professional fees related to our yearend


audit and compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and trying to file our 10-Q in early September. In