corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Jean-Louis Chaussade, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Jean-Marc Boursier, the SUEZ Environnement staff and I are


very happy to be here with you this morning to present our 2009 results.


I take this opportunity to greet those of you who are attending this meeting on the telephone or on


the worldwide web. Our 2009 results are solid against a particularly deteriorated backdrop and we


have achieved the objective that we announced for 2009.


And that objective was, as you may recall, a stable operating performance on a like-for-like Forex


basis and sustained financial robustness through a strong free cash flow generation and selective


investment. We have been proactive to face up to the crisis. We adjusted our short-term priorities


and we furthered our productivity efforts.


H2 ‘09 operating performance is better than that of H1, as announced, notably on the strength of


our COMPASS cost reduction program.


In spite of the crisis, which has hit part of our operations, as you know, our sales were stable on a


like-for-like Forex basis. International and water businesses have been growing. Our business


model, therefore, proves resilient with balanced positions on growing our markets. We have been


dynamic in terms of our commercial development, in terms of innovation as well, and this is true


both in France and on international markets.


In the Water and Waste Management businesses, we are positioned and poised to seize those


opportunities that are connected to sustainable development issues which are at the heart of our


clients’ and customers’ concerns. We offer innovative solutions when it comes to technology, as


well as environmental and social performance.


The major success we reaped would be Melbourne contract that was awarded to us which involves


the financing, design and construction of a largest desalination plant in the southern hemisphere is


a case in point. The project is – fits right into – it blends right into the environment. It is designed to


consume green and renewable energy with a major wind farm.


We’ve also furthered our positioning on other growing markets. For example, we commissioned a


number of strategic assets such as the EVI incinerator, which is on the border between The


Netherlands and Germany.


Moreover, we have continued to prepare for the future by taking strategic positions. This is the case


in the Water business in Europe, with a growing stake in AGBAR. This will be effective in 2010.


Jean-Marc Boursier will speak about this in a moment.


And on international markets, we strengthened our positions in China. We now have a controlling


stake in all our Waste Management businesses with the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the


capital, Swire SITA, which we do not have. And now, we are also going to make further inroads in


China in the Water business. Therefore, it’s fair to say that in 2009 we’ve faced up to the crisis and


we have preserved our profitability while growing our long-term strategy remains unchanged. It is


bolstered by major needs for infrastructure and innovative solutions on the markets that we operate


on.


As far as fiscal 2009 is concerned specifically, as I was saying, SUEZ Environnement is posting


results that are in-line with the objectives that we had announced. Sales and EBITDA are stable, by


and large, on a like-for-like Forex basis against 2008; €12.4 billion in sales and €2.060 billion in


EBITDA. We generated €896 million in free cash flow, including non-recurring items. And outside of
corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


those non-recurring items, free cash flow amounted to €710 million. That is to say, it’s up over 20%


from fiscal 2008. This was one of our priorities, excuse me.


Another priority was to be selective on the investment front. We have been selective. And at the


same time, we continue to grow and we spent €1.062 billion. In fiscal 2009, our balance sheet


remains strong; net debt over EBITDA is 3, in line with our 2009 medium-term objective. We shall


come back to this ratio in a moment and we’ll speak about it moving now forward. In addition to


that, we have made further inroads on the environmental and sustainable development front.


In keeping with our 2012 objectives, SUEZ Environnement therefore delivered solid performance in


2009, and at the AGM that will be held on the 20th of May 2010, we shall offer an attractive


dividend, €0.65 per share, which is stable from the dividend we paid out in 2009, and it was an


interim dividend.


In 2009, in the eye of an unprecedented economic crisis, SUEZ Environnement is posting sales


imbued with growing Water businesses, both in Europe and our international markets; although,


they have been slightly hit by the slowdown of our small construction business. In Waste


Management, there was shrinking volume, roughly 3% over the year, primarily in the field of


industrial and commercial contracts, and to a lesser extent as far as municipal contracts are


concerned.


Sorting and recycling businesses have been hit hard both in terms of volume and price. Demand for


secondary raw material has been hit hard by the economic crisis. Jean-Marc Boursier will give you


the details of the business shrinks and how things have changed over the year.


But at this point, I would like to remind you that in this context where volume has been shrinking,


SUEZ Environnement has benefited from its key positioning throughout the value chain by


optimizing waste flow and waste management by making a very efficient use of its treatment


facilities. This balanced positioning with water and waste, regulated and non-regulated operations,


Europe and international markets in addition to our culture, whereby we keep our development


under control with the simultaneous management of our profit and loss accounts and balance


sheet. All of that has allowed us to go through 2009 by evidencing the robustness of our balance


sheet while preserving our development.


Notably, we generated €135 million in EBITDA-related savings in 2009, and we generated €190


million in 2008-2009 with our COMPASS plan while being awarded emblematic contracts such as


Melbourne. We have sustained the robustness of our balance sheet while going ahead with


strategic agreements, including the most emblematic one, the one with CAIXA CRITERIA regarding


AGBAR.


You can see the performance of SUEZ Environnement’s share price here as against the CAC and


against our peers. And naturally, you can see that the performance has been extremely solid


across 2009, and of course we outperformed our peers. SUEZ Environnement has committed to


improving its sustainable development performance.


We already told you about our objectives. As a matter of fact, they are appended to the


presentation you have in the handout.


So, our philosophy is consistent, helping our clients to enhance their environmental impact. But we


also consider that it is our duty to do that as far as we are concerned. Against that backdrop, we


made further progress in 2009 in meeting these objectives. Since 2007, we increased our waste


recycling rate which has allowed us to re-market over 12 million out of 40 million tons of secondary


raw materials and compost, roughly one-third.