Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Marc Boursier — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance and R&R in Northern Europe, SUEZ SA
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Vincent Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Vincent Gilles — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the SUEZ Results Q3 2018 Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Jean-Marc Boursier. Go ahead, sir.

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining our call. We are pleased to report solid financial result for nine months 2018. We have released this morning our revenue, EBITDA, EBIT and net financial debt figures for the nine-month period ending September 30, 2018.

A methodological remark to start with, similar to what we said at the time of our H1 results, on all sides of this presentation, last year's figures have been restated for you to be able to more easily compare 2017 and 2018 because of the implementation of IFRS 15 as from the 1st of January this year. This changes the way revenues are booked with a rather limited impact overall.

I will now turn directly to the key highlights, which can be seen on page 4 of this presentation. Our results year-to-date are solid and allow us to confirm our 2018 objectives. As you will see, we are encouraged by an acceleration of our performance during Q3, after an already very good performance during the first half of the year.

For the nine months of the year, revenues grew 15.8% at constant forex and 3.8% organically. And in Q3 alone, our organic top-line growth was 5.4%, a significant acceleration relative to the pace observed in H1, that was plus 3%, and the highest quarterly growth rate since Q3 2011.

The good underlying operational performance delivered during the first half is confirmed for the nine-month period, with an EBIT growing organically by a solid 7.5%. The integration of WTS is continuing smoothly, with a record level of organic growth at 6.9% and a promising order book, up 14% versus the same period last year.

We secured sales and costs synergies at a faster pace than initially planned with already $30 million achieved for 2018. Our net debt at September 2018 stands at €9.3 billion, in line with the level at the end of June, taking into consideration the normal seasonal variation of our working capital during Q3.

Our deleveraging trend is, however, well-engaged. Our net debt ratio, therefore, reached 3.4 times at the end of September, down from 3.5 at the end of June and should go down to 3.2 at the end of December and will reach our guidance of circa 3 times upon completion of the sale of the 20% stake in our U.S. regulated water business, which is expected beginning of 2019.

Moving to slide 5, summarizing the key figures for the period. As you can see, our turnover has evolved well, reaching €12.7 billion for this third quarter. This represent a 15.8% growth excluding forex, which is fully in line with our guidance. All divisions are contributing positively, and I will give you more details in a moment.

EBIT amounted to €963 million, up 13%, excluding forex and pre-GE Water PPA, and also fully in line with our guidance. And this performance is mainly driven by our International division and the positive effects of the WTS integration. As I told you, our net debt is in line with the end-of-June level at €9.3 billion. This stability is mainly due to seasonal increase of working capital requirement, which accounts for €355 million on the nine-month period. And as I mentioned a minute ago, our financial deleverage will start, and we will return to 3 times at the beginning of 2019 when the sale of the 20% in our regulated business will be completed.

Let's go into more detail on these indicators starting with the evolution of our net revenue, and I am now on page 6. Our topline growth is driven by a solid organic growth and a scope effect, which accounts for €1.345 billion, notably thanks to the acquisition of GE Water. On a pure organic basis, turnover is up 3.8% and as I mentioned earlier, all divisions are contributing positively.

Forex had a negative impact of €294 million, mainly driven by the depreciation of the U.S.D., Australian dollar and Chilean peso against euro. And, finally, we have another €17 million negative impact coming from lower U.S. tax rate on regulated water activities, which is passed through to customers and leads to lower revenue and EBIT, but is totally neutral to net income group share.

As you can see, organic growth accelerated all along 2018 to reach 5.4% in the third quarter. By division, Water Europe benefited from a more favorable weather conditions in France. It delivered 3.7% organic growth in Q3 only. Recycling & Recovery maintained a high level of organic growth, with plus 3% in Q3 despite continued headwinds in commodity prices.

Revenues for International are up organically 7% in Q3. The construction activity slowdown, which weighed on the first half of the year, was less severe during Q3. Excluding the contribution of construction activities, which are, by definition, lumpier and more volatile, International remains very dynamic with organic growth of 5.5% for the first nine months of the year. And WTS continues – contributes significantly to the acceleration of the group organic growth, delivering a high 8.6% growth rate in Q3.

Moving to page 8. As you can see, EBIT came in at €963 million, up 13.3% excluding forex and pre-PPA. Key factors for this operational improvement are the following: plus €54 million of scope effect mainly linked to GE Water acquisition; plus €70 million of pure organic growth; and a negative forex effect for €31 million. EBIT margin pre-PPA is at 7.9%, a slight reduction from the 8.2% in nine months 2017. And this is mainly explained by, firstly, the negative U.S. tax regime impact on our regulated activities that account for €17 million with no impact at net income level; and, secondly, by a negative impact related to commodity prices that I will explain in a moment.

But more importantly, operating profitability benefited from €146 million impact of our Compass optimization program, which I would like to focus on, on slide 9. As a reminder, we have decided to increase by 33% the expected objective of our Compass program to €200 million for full-year 2018 from €150 million in 2017. One of my key responsibilities is to ensure a focused implementation of our additional cost cutting measures.

During the first nine months of 2018, I am pleased to report that we have already generated €146 million of savings, of which €48 million comes from procurement gains, €75 million derived from various operational savings notably within [ph] R&R (00:08:31) activities, and €23 million relate to further G&A optimization.

As far as the two voluntary departure plans are concerned, please note that in France, 404 employees have already left the group out of a total of 550, and in Spain, 182 out of 270. As a consequence, I confirm that the annual Compass target for the year will be reached.

I now would like to comment the main indicators for our four divisions and I will start, as usual, with Water Europe. Water Europe is growing at 1.5% organically, mainly driven by the good [ph] governments (00:09:19) of Latin America, both in terms of volume and pricing.

In France, revenues are almost stable with a slight organic negative variation of minus 0.7%. Volumes are down 1% compared to last year, a noticeable improvement compared to H1, thanks to more favorable weather condition during the summer. This volume evolution is in line with expected mid-term trends. Tariffs are up 1%, slightly higher than the 0.8% achieved in H1. Revenues in Spain are flat, volumes are down by 1.1% due to less favorable weather conditions and lower tourist attendance in the summer. Tariffs are stable at plus 0.1%, including the 1.7% decrease in Barcelona from May this year.

In Latin America, we are recording a solid organic growth of 10%, thanks to an increase in Chile, plus 3.9% in volume after a dry winter and plus 2.5% in tariff. The region also benefits from an acceleration of the commercial dynamic in Panama and Mexico. EBIT excluding forex is stable compared to the first nine months of 2017.

I now move on to R&R in Europe, which records a 3.4% organic increase in revenues. Process volumes are up 2.8% at 18.7 million tons, resulting from continued solid underlying economic activity within our customer base, partially mitigated by, first, a higher number of Energy-from-Waste units under maintenance during the summer; and second, a voluntary reduction in exposure to paper as a result of the recent negative regulatory evolution restricting Chinese imports.

Commodity prices continue to impact negatively on both sales and EBIT during the quarter. As an example, please note that cardboard prices that was €112 per ton at the end of September went down to €77 per ton at the end of September 2018.

As you know, in addition to the [ph] Green Swap (00:11:48) policy, which became effective on January 1, the Chinese authorities decided in August to completely stop imports from the U.S., which pressured prices globally. At EBIT level, the overall effect of this negative impact from recycled prices and the positive one from electricity prices is a net negative of €18 million.

If we look at the activity by geography, please note that France recorded a solid 5.6% organic growth, driven by increased volume and improved prices. UK and Nordics revenues are down 1%, impacted by the closure of Tilbury Solid Recovered Fuel facility and also a lesser contribution of construction activity. Those geography registered, however, a quite dynamic activity on I&C during the period. In Benelux and Germany, revenues are up 1.8% and, here also, we see an increase in industrial activities.

Lastly, for Industrial Waste Specialties, [ph] deliveries (00:12:57) up 4.6%, thanks to increased volume in mineral hazardous waste and soil remediation. Excluding impact of commodity prices, EBIT at constant forex is up.

The International division is growing at 3.5% on a pure organic basis. North America is up 3.8%. We recorded there a solid growth in non-regulated activities. And as for utilities, volume were up 1.3% over the period. Australia delivered a strong growth, plus 10.2% organic, thanks to prices and volume growth and to an increased number of contracts for industrial waste collection and treatment, and notably for construction and demolition in Sydney.

Asia is up 5.1% organically, back on a more normalized trend linked to solid volume in water and waste after the first half that was impacted by the termination of major equipment engineering contracts.

In Africa, Middle East and India, revenues are down 9.6%, driven by a reduction in construction activities in the Middle East. Lastly, Italy, Central and Eastern Europe performance is very solid, with revenue up 20.5%, driven by dynamic R&R activity notably in Czech Republic and in Poland, and by the progress in the construction of the sludge treatment and incineration plant in Glina, Romania. Overall, EBIT excluding forex is up with all geographies contributing.

Moving now to slide 13 with Water Technologies & Solutions. The integration of WTS is progressing well and the commercial performance is very satisfactory. Orders at $2.1 billion are up 14% versus last year pro forma, with a particularly good performance from Engineered Systems. Revenues at $2.043 billion are up organically 6.9% compared to last year pro forma. The trend is positive for both segments.

For Engineered Systems, we recorded good sales for analytical instruments for ultrafiltration products and for services in Northern America and in Asia. And for Chemical and Monitoring Solutions, sales are notably up in greater China, in Africa, in Middle East and in Northern America. Integration is progressing well; thanks to our Value Capture program, we have already secured $30 million of synergies for 2018 and these synergies are coming actually earlier than initially planned and this is a real satisfaction. EBIT excluding forex is significantly up versus last year.

So, ladies and gentlemen, just to wrap up this presentation, three main takeaways in my view for the solid Q3 performance. First, the net acceleration in organic growth with plus 5.4% in Q3, [ph] which is (00:16:21) the highest level for the quarter since Q3 2011. Second, the solid operational performance with EBIT up 7.5% organically and plus 13.3% at constant forex according to our guidance definition. And third, the integration of WTS, which is progressing as planned.

The strong first nine months, both on sales and EBIT, gave me full confidence in confirming the 2018 guidance that we shared with you at the beginning of the year and reiterated with Jean-Louis Chaussade in July. We will share with you our guidance for 2019 at the time of our full-year results. But the roadmap of our value creation model is clear: first, focused execution on Compass and WTS synergy programs; second, capital selectivity to optimize returns; and third, value-creating growth and business transformation.

With that, I would like to turn the floor to you and I'm ready to answer all the question you may have.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Anna Maria Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Three questions, if I may. The first one is regarding waste and if you can just give us an indication what's your view going ahead, so in terms of volume and tariff.

The second question is about [indiscernible] (00:18:22) and here more looking at the things that are not going as well as you might have been planning. Clearly, you had a very strong set of results. Last year, the surprise was on things, so the market didn't realize we're not going as strong, so if there is anything we should keep an eye on or not which will be good news.

And the third question is about Aguas Andinas. I see you've been indirectly lowering your stake, tiny reduction, but I was wondering what's the rationale there. Thank you.

Good morning, Anna Maria. Your first question is on waste. So, as you have noticed, we haven't seen a change in trend in Q3. Volume are up 2% in the third quarter, just because we have slightly increased the level of maintenance of our Energy-from-Waste facility during the quarter. We are targeting growth in volume between 2.5% and 3% for the full year this year, which is much better than last year and even better than what we had anticipated nine months ago at the time of the guidance.

As far as the prices is concern, they will go up in the next quarter, notably the treatment price, because most of our facility being situated in Europe, we will be able to slightly increase prices.

Second of your question is what are the good and bad surprises, if I summarize it that way. Clearly, the impact that we had probably underestimated at the beginning of the year is the commodity impact. You have noticed that as far as recycled and electricity for the nine months, it has weight on our P&L by €18 million and we had also a negative impact on gas for €13 million.

But you have seen also that we have been able to more than compensate this effect with a solid set of results. So, obviously, we are taking all the necessary measures to reduce the commodity impact and notably the one with paper and cardboard by lowering the acquisition price, the purchase price of those commodity given the current market trend. And we believe, I believe, that the current price will remain as it is for the next quarter.

As far as commodity is concerned, there is also a slight decline in scrap metal, which is due to the economic situation in Turkey, which is the number three buyer of scrap metal in the world. So, we have to be particularly cautious with scrap at the moment.

Your third question is with regards to Aguas Andinas. This is true that we have reduced slightly our stake in – indirect stake in Aguas Andinas by 3% during the summer. But if you allow me, I would like to more generally answer your question with regards to regulated business overall. And you shall see the move that we have done. First, the acquisition of GE Water, and second, the slight reduction in our exposure to the regulated business in the U.S. and in Chile as one unique move, which is to transform progressively SUEZ in a more agile and a company which has a stronger focus with industrial customers. Jean-Louis Chaussade already explained to you several times what is the beauty and the rationale of this acquisition of GE Water.

So, does it mean that we are going to exit from the regulated business in the U.S. and in Chile? The answer is not at all. We like the business, but we are trying to find the right weight in our capital employed. And those transaction will also allow us to return more rapidly than initially planned to our targeted leverage of three times and that will be done in Q1 shortly after the transaction in the U.S. with the Dutch fund PGGM. So, this is my answer.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, Vincent. We don't hear you.

We'll take our next question from Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody, and thank you so much for taking your time to answer our questions. I have three on my side. First one would be concerning Barcelona. So, yeah, you mentioned in your presentation how there was a tariff decrease in May. I think last Friday actually, the city council approved the idea of putting in place the referendum in the city on potentially taking the water service public. I suspect it's the same kind of pressure [ph] that have come back (00:23:36), but I was keen on having your latest thought on how your current relationship is with the local city council and how you see potential risk of such municipalizations going forward in Barcelona.

Second one on GE, so you mentioned $30 million of synergies secured for 2018. I wonder, is that what you've realized up until the nine months or is that the visibility that you have for the full year? And how should we see that in relation to $25 million I think you had already realized in terms of SG&A reductions in H1? It seemed that there's a lot of certain volatility in terms of how those synergies come through. So, I wonder how we should think about that and also in terms of modeling your three-year target.

And the final question is just on the exchange rate, if you could give us the latest update on where you would see currently the total FX impact, particularly on the EBIT for full-year 2018. Thank you.

Okay. I'm going to start in the reverse order. Forex impact, we said, at the end of June, that it shall be minus €75 million at EBITDA and minus €50 million at EBIT. We have now recomputed that based on the latest forex, and it shall be rather minus €60 million at EBITDA and minus €40 million at EBIT level. So, we have slightly recomputed our impact.

Your second question was on GE Water or WTS synergies. No, there is no volatility, Olivier, in that. We said to you, at the end of June, we had already secured $25 million for the full-year 2018, that we have obviously worked since, and this $25 million is now $30 million. So, this is what we have already secured and identified as of today with an impact on 2018. And I can tell you already that for 2019, we have already secured $61 million. So, we are very confident that the integration plan will go smoothly. Again, I repeat, I'm not saying that the integration is over but so far so good, we are particularly pleased with the way this division is developing.

With regards to the Barcelona contract, do we have any threat that this contract could be interrupted? The answer is not at all. We have a valid contract, which will last up to 2047. So we have another 29 years to go. The decision by the City of Barcelona is a little bit – a weird one in a way because, first, the water contract that we have is not with the Barcelona City Council but with Barcelona Metropolitan Area. And I remember that this contract is between the Aigües de Barcelona and the AMB.

And you remember that our contract is held by SUEZ at 70%, the AMB itself at 15% and Criteria Caixa (sic) [Criteria CaixaHolding] (00:27:01) at 15%. So, we have a full confidence that this contract will continue. And by the way, if there were to be a referendum, it cannot be organized before the next election. So, it will be up to the next mayor and to the next AMB to decide. But do we have any fear that this contract could be interrupted before its term, the answer is not at all. We have a full confidence that it will go up to its term.

Thank you very much.

We will now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Can you hear me now? Sorry, I think [ph] I've had (00:27:46) a technical problem. [indiscernible]

(00:27:46)

Good morning. So, a few questions have been asked. I will stick to two right now. The first is you made a comment regarding the way volume grows, being potentially totally above what has been used in the guidance. The question is what did you use for the guidance and could you repeat the [ph] sensitivity that (00:28:11) remains unchanged on the waste volumes? So, that will be question one.

And question two is regarding GE Water, the profitability in Q3 and Q4. I think I remember there were some elements which were nonrecurring on the end of the year, so for Q4 in GE Water, and it would be very useful if you could remind us exactly what was done and what were the [indiscernible] (00:28:41). Thank you.

Good morning, Vincent. At the time of the guidance, we said that we have used, as far as volume is concerned, the trend that we had observed in Q4 last year and the trend was up 2%. So, we have modeled guidance with volume going up 2%. And as you can notice, we are at 2.8% at the end of September, so we are slightly above that element of our estimate.

On the other hand, as you have seen as well, we have a strong increase in gas and in recycled price, some decrease in recycled prices that was not foreseen in the guidance. But, overall, all of that will be smartly compensated.

Your question is on GE Water, we have been constant in our estimate for the year. So, we are targeting $2.8 billion of revenue and $200 million of EBIT pre-PPA. So, we are sticking to that guidance and we are very confident at the end of September that we'll be able to achieve those two numbers.

Were there some one-off elements in the profitability of the period? Yes, that was reported in our H1 results, where we had one-off [ph] property (00:30:06) tax impact that was positive [ph] for $5 million (00:30:09). It was already in the books at the end of June, but we are totally confirming our objective, $2.8 billion of revenue and $200 million of EBIT pre-PPA.

Thank you very much.

We will now take our next question from Philippe Ourpatian from Oddo. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning to all of you. Just two question on my side. The first one is regarding the €18 million negative one you recorded at the waste business, which is a mix between negative trend in terms of secondary raw material prices and positive one in term of electricity. Could you just split the figure between the two component first? And is the net of €18 million be comparable with the target you have given or budgeted as the full-year negative impact of €25 million you mentioned in the first half, which you were at minus €13 million in terms of EBIT and you said that you're going to be at €25 million at the end of the year? Is this €25 million comparable with the €18 million, which is a mix of two components? That's the first question.

And could you just, second one, update regarding the situation in Italy between you, ACEA, and what are your possible, I would say, action in order to maybe increase your business in this area? Thanks.

Good morning, Philippe. So, regarding recycled prices and electricity, I'm not going to give you the full detail of each of the impact at the end of September, but I will answer your question so precisely that you will understand. So, the net impact of the two is minus €18 million and this minus €18 million will become minus €25 million at year-end. And to your explanation, this minus €25 million at year-end shall be around minus €30 million for recycled and plus €5 million for electricity.

So, at the end of June, when you question me on what is the impact of recycled, I told you between €25 million and €30 million. Given the current trend that is particularly poor for paper and metal, we will end up at minus €30 million for recycled and plus €5 million for electricity. So, I let you guess what it is at the end of September. And, by the way, for recycled, this is almost exclusively paper and cardboard because on the plastic side – you have that in the appendices of the booklet – plastic films or LDPE is going down, but the other plastic are going up slightly, LDPE and PET notably, so the impact is almost neutral for plastics. So, the situation, which is the concern as of today, is for paper and cardboard.

For Italy, in general, and ACEA, in particular, but you remember Jean-Louis said to you several times that for us in Europe, Italy will become the third pillar of our development after France and Spain. So, we are, therefore, the foreseeable future and we are developing our activity and we can develop those activities either through ACEA or we can do it by ourselves.

So, is your question do we want to develop our activity in Italy? I confirm, yes, we are particularly keen in doing so for water and waste. If your question is do you plan to increase your stake in ACEA, the answer is not at all. We are particularly satisfied with our investment as of today and we keep a constant dialogue with the mayor in order to improve the local situation.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question from Emmanuel Turpin, Société Générale. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone. My first question is on WTS. You did confirm your budget for the full year. I'm wondering if you are not being a little bit conservative here. The trends at the nine-month stage seem to be better than we expected at the start of the year, at least under two indicators that we have, i.e., revenues. Looks like we've got more than the 5% – 5% to 6% organic growth we're kind of aiming for, at 6.8% at the nine months. And then, you say that you will be in line or ahead of your target for all the synergies. I haven't seen anything in your release that seems to be offsetting this on the downside.

So, is it a matter of you being conservative just to confirm the budget, not to say that you are likely to be ahead of budget on WTS? And my second is on the waste business, we have a slight slowdown in volumes of waste treated in the third quarter, if I'm not wrong. You did mention in your introduction that you had some extra maintenance at some incinerators. Would you mind giving us a little bit more background? How much of this and does this explain in terms of a slight slowdown in Q3? Could you give us maybe the contribution of the construction and demolition volumes in Q3? I remember that at the H1 stage, you had mentioned about 100 basis points of the increase in waste volumes were due to these construction/demolition volumes. Thank you very much.

Good morning, Emmanuel. Your first question is generally on guidance. Do we feel confident that we are going to reach the guidance? The answer is yes. We are confident overall as we are confident for WTS. This is true that the Q3 is very encouraging for us, but I don't want to overpromise. Obviously, every day, we are there dedicated to beat the guidance, but the guidance remains our target.

Remember also that the Q4 last year for WTS was a particularly strong quarter. So, effectively, we are in line with schedule. And as you have noticed, the growth at 6.9% is even slightly higher than what we have expected. And obviously, with an order books which is up 14%, that gives us a lot of confidence for the quarters to come.

Could you just stop here and remind us about the Q4 last year? Any positive item booked in Q4 last year for WTS that would not recur this year? Anything which would be a base effect taken into account for this quarter? Because I'm sorry to reiterate my point, but organic growth is stronger than we expected, more ahead of budget on synergies. It's a pretty simple business, right? If revenues are higher and costs are lower, we should have a bid on WTS only, not the group, but WTS. So, anything to take into account for Q4 last year as the base effect?

No. If my recollection is correct, the EBIT of Q4 profitability, it was around €60 million. There was no one-off element. But I repeat what I say, so far so good, but we stick to the guidance and we don't want to overpromise at this stage of the year.

With regards to waste volume, so we were at 3.2% at the end in June and we are at 2.8% now. So, we have done 2% in Q3 only. Are we seeing any slowdown in activities from our customers for industrial and commercial activity in Europe? The answer is no, we don't measure that. If there were to be a slowdown to be measured, I will tell you immediately.

The only activity or the only sector, which is slowing down, is the automotive industry, and this impact, the price for scrap metal as I described earlier on. What is true is that we have done more maintenance in Q3 this year than we had done in Q3 last year, but this is a timing effect more than anything else. And, obviously, we are preparing our Energy-from-Waste facility for the winter period, which is the most important one given the price of energy. So, I'm pretty sure that those Energy-from-Waste activity will run at full speed in Q4 this year.

Regarding construction and demolition waste, I did mention the Grand Paris effect at the end of June, and I told you that it was contributing positively for 1% of the volume and this is still 1% at the end of September because it contributes for 200,000 tons out of a total of 18.7 million tons, so it's almost 1.1%, but the changing trend is not different. So, this is why we have a particularly good contribution of minerals activity in the period, but not more than 1% in the total volume.

Are you able to quantify, in terms of percentage points, the effect of the incinerator maintenance by chance?

On the top of my head, no. But this information is not so meaningful, Emmanuel, if you allow me, to understand the performance of the division overall. We have just done normal maintenance during the summer period and we are particularly cautious because those assets are very valuable.

Okay. Thank you.

We do not have...

And I will just to say, especially at the time where electricity prices are going up. So, you have understood the impact for electricity for the full year, which will be around plus €5 million. But, obviously, we have also hedged a little bit for 2019 and 2020. So, the positive contribution of Energy-from-Waste facility will go even higher in the two years to come.

We have now a follow-up question from Anna Maria Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Just a quick one for me. We have seen yesterday the UK budget mentioning the possibility of taxation on incinerations, as well as we had some news in Italy about potential intervention on water. I was wondering if you had a general comment on those two. Thank you.

I'm going to comment the UK one because there are a lot of political question in the UK regarding the environmental policy, what will they wish to do after Brexit. And you remember that 4 million tons of refuse-derived fuel are exported by the Kingdom in Europe.

This market is a very promising one for us in Europe, probably the most promising market for R&R in Europe, given the fact that there is a lack of treatment capacity in this country and then there's a lack also of electricity. So, the UK will go for Energy-from-Waste for the production of electricity. This is why we have decided to build the new facility for 240,000 tons close to Newcastle and you have also noticed that there will be a landfill ban in Scotland. So, in the northern part of the Kingdom, the situation will be even more problematic.

Is it too constrained for us that there is incineration tax in the UK? The answer is not. That tax will be passed through to our customers, but I do confirm that SUEZ will continue to invest in this country, to go along with the new regulation. And new regulation will be noticeable on plastic with a strong likelihood of deposit return scheme being implemented in the country to not only generate energy, but also to increase the recycling rate which is, in the UK, below average.

We will take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. A follow-up question regarding the electricity hedging, so we had a very material movements in power prices recently, as well as in Q2 actually. Wanted to know if you could then give us a refresher quickly on what is your hedging policy and why you're up in volumes, short term and medium term. Thank you.

Yes, Vincent, so we are producing almost 8 terawatt hour of energy in Europe, of which, to make it simple, 4 terawatt is for electricity and 4 terawatt is for steam and heat. For electricity, our hedging policy is the following. At the end of December, we shall have hedged between 50% and 75% of the volumes open for the market of [ph] year plus one (00:44:52), and at least 25% for [ph] year plus two (00:44:55), keeping in mind that not all of the volume are open in the deregulated market because some of them like in France are still fully regulated. So, this is the policy.

I'm not going to give you much more details on the power price country by country. But we are applying the policy, as I said, which means that we have started to hedge 2020 as of Q3 this year and they are very good conditions.

Just to understand a bit the structure because [ph] you're long (00:45:30) electricity in waste and you're short on water. Are you accounting for that in your hedging policy or should we expect basically a potential shortened small margin until high electric prices are passed through on the water concessions and then the full upside from high electricity prices to come a year later? Just to get some color on that.

Your understanding is right. So, we are a producer of energy, so 8 terawatt hour for R&R in Europe. And we are a consumer of electricity, we are buying 5 terawatt hour of electricity for water in Europe because, as you would remember, 1 cubic meter being 1 ton, we need a lot of energy to push the water in the networks. Do we hedge the electricity that is purchased in our water contract? The answer is no. We don't see, too, because we are protected contractually.

So, in our escalation formula, the cost of energy is protected. So, we have some tariff indexation which would compensate us for the increase of electricity prices for water. By the way, I told you that in France notably, prices are up 1% at the end of September. We have already computed the indexation formula for 2018. And if everything has been kept constant compared to today, the indexation formula would give us 2.2% of tariff increase next year in France. So, part of it is due to the increase of [ph] electricity (00:47:12) so we don't need to hedge.

Thank you very much.

We will take our next question from Vincent Gilles from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning, everyone. I have a very simple or very complex question, not sure. It's about the impact of what we'll call the China closure over the last few months. Maybe you can develop a bit on how you can react to these slightly unexpected events and how you're going to redirect some of your businesses, cost cutting, commercial lines or whatever you think is relevant for us to understand how these events may turn into long term, short term, what do you think, and then how you will react to this. Thank you.

Good morning, Vincent. To answer your question, I would need to split my answer into two parts. First, what do we do for paper and cardboard? And second, what do we do for plastic? Because the understanding is different. So, for paper and cardboard, China has not decided to ban importation, but I reduced the importation quarter from 30 million tons to 20 million tons, and has significantly reduced the level of impurity. So, the strategy for us is to increase the quality of the recycled material to be able to continue to export in China, where the prices are much higher than what we have in Europe, and obviously to find other outlets in Europe.

But do we continue to export to China? The answer is yes, under good condition, as long as we can meet the impurity level criteria, which is a maximum of 0.5% per ton, which is a very low level. For your information, we are exporting, as of today, approximately 400,000 tons of paper and cardboard to China, which is 12% of our own production.

For plastic, the situation is different because there is a total ban of importation of plastic by China. So, here, the situation is different. SUEZ was just exporting plastic films, so low-density polyethylene for 57 tons, so very minor. So, here, the answer is different. First, we have found other outlet in Southeast Asia; and second, we shall continue the transformation of those plastic into high-quality granulates because those granulates, being a product, that can travel fully. So, as you can see, obviously, this is a short-term bad news, and there is a market disruption. But on the longer term, we will find other alternative, which might be different on the value chain as I gave you an example for plastic.

Thank you.

Thank you. We do not have any further questions at the moment.

So, I just want to wrap up this end and thank you all for having logged into our call today. We continue to drive the execution of our plan, and I look forward to updating you more on what we are doing in the next few months. And we will meet again for the full-year presentation on the 27th of February. Thank you, all, for joining this call and have a great day. Thank you.

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.