Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Julian David Waldron — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance & IT, SUEZ SA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the SUEZ Nine Months 2021 Performance Call. My name is Lydia, and I will be your coordinator for today's event. Please note this conference is being recorded. And for the duration of the call, your lines will be on listen-only. However, there will be an opportunity to ask questions at the end. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand you over to your host, Julian Waldron, CFO of SUEZ, to begin today's conference. Thank you.

Lydia, thank you very much and good evening to everybody. Thank you very much for joining us on this call for SUEZ's nine months 2021 results. I'm here with Cécile, Baptiste, the rest of the team, and we're very pleased to be with you today.

We're a little later than usual publishing our numbers, but I think with our colleagues at Veolia, we felt the right thing to do was to align together. So, we are tonight; and as you know, Veolia is tomorrow morning.

As per usual, I've got a few slides talking about our performance and then we will have some time to take your questions. So, without further ado, let's start straight away with slide number 3 with the headlines on the performance. Throughout 2021 and again in the third quarter, we've shown in tangible fashion the results of our SUEZ 2030 plan. In this quarter, again, that materializes into strong growth and reinforced profitability.

For the nine months and in terms of revenue, we delivered organic growth plus 9.8% compared to the same position in 2020, and most importantly, plus 6.3% compared to the pre-pandemic period in 2019. And this reflects strong commercial momentum and the positive contribution from all of our business activities. R&R and ETS, and I'll come back to that, were particularly strong in the quarter and year-to-date.

Looking at profitability, we see the effects of our profitable growth on the top line and in our profitability, and the contribution also of our performance plan, which gives us an EBITDA growing organically at 29% compared to 2020 and 11.9% compared to the nine months of 2019.

Last on this page, net debt stood at €8.8 billion and it's down €1.53 billion versus September 2020, that reflects a cash generation internally that continues to be very solid, driven by an improvement of the group's profitability and continued good control, strong control of our working capital.

In the first half, as you remember, we had the impact positive of more than €1 billion from disposals. But in the third quarter, we had no disposals completed. We paid our dividend in July, and in this quarter alone, we covered over two-thirds of that dividend payment. I'm going to come back to recurring free cash flow a bit later in the presentation.

Before we get into financial numbers, we wanted to come back on our commitments at SUEZ on climate. You know, as well as us, that our leaders are currently gathered in Glasgow at COP26 and we wanted to remind you of our strong actions and commitments in this field. First, values of transparency and openness, the central to our relationship with you and to all of our stakeholders. And it's been important for us to develop that dialogue and that transparency on non-financial topics over the last 18 months. In that spirit, we disclosed earlier this year our revenue qualified by the EU green taxonomy, and we did that one year ahead of regulation. The teams are preparing the integration of the CapEx metrics into this reporting in 2022. Both Veolia and the new SUEZ would inherit the reporting obligations, but they will both benefit from a best-in-class [ph] starts (00:04:29).

Secondly, regarding CO2 emissions reduction, when launching SUEZ 2030 two years ago, we took the commitment to align our actions with an ambitious 1.5 degree trajectory. Last month, we achieved an important milestone with a validation of these targets by the SBTi. 46% of greenhouse gas emissions on Scope 1 and 2 and 14% on Scope 3 by 2030. Our objectives are set out in a clear set of actions for each of our operations, which are based on science.

And thirdly, we're now working on designing new physical climate risk map with a management action plan to go with it based on the IPCC's 2.5 to 4 degree scenarios. We started implementation in our business areas this year, and again, we expect these actions to be taken forward by our two successor companies.

All the actions and works on disclosure, on mitigation, on actions, on adaptation to climate change have taken the form internally of sustainable development contracts that commit each of our business areas. We've introduced them this year for the first time. And in addition, for the first time this year, the top executives of the group will have part of their variable compensation impacted by their performance within that sustainable development contract.

Second, on slide 5, an update on where we stand with the new SUEZ and the Veolia transactions. The timetable that you see on this page is what you've seen before. It's the same indicative calendar. We see no material change. I'm sure Veolia will have more to say about that tomorrow than we have tonight. But you've seen, for example, some 10 days ago that the purchase agreement to acquire the new SUEZ was signed formally between SUEZ, Veolia and the Consortium, with terms and conditions in line with the put option agreement that was signed and announced on the 29th of June.

Our teams internally are working incredibly hard to make the two transactions happen as soon as the regulatory authorities permit. And all of us here, Bertrand, myself, we would like to thank them for the extra work they're taking on to deliver this, in addition to the day-to-day work of serving our clients and delivering to our shareholders the excellent results that we have to present today.

Last thing on disclosure, you'll find on the website tonight an update to the key financial indicators that we published at the beginning of August. We hope they're useful. We encourage you to read not only what's published today, but also please go back to read the basis of preparation from August. I do stress, however, we do not intend to comment on those KFIs on this call. They are just for your information, but they don't reflect the way, of course, that we're running the business today. But we hope you find those useful.

Slide 7, let's get back to the nine months and quarter three operational performance. I mentioned the key figures in the introduction. And growth is obviously strong compared to last year, but as I mentioned, is also strong compared to 2019. I'd note as well that after growing 5.9% organic compared to 2019 in the first six months, we grew 7.5% in quarter three. So, that after nine months, our organic growth stood at 6.3%. Across the board, we believe we've strengthened the operational performance of our businesses. We've highlighted the particularly strong performance in WTS and then R&R in France and in Northern Europe.

And other businesses such as **water in Europe or the Americas are showing great resilience in a market still impacted somewhat by the pandemic. Also contributing to the accelerated growth in EBITDA and EBIT is the strong reduction in our costs, notably SG&A. Organic reduction of SG&A was 5.7% compared to a year ago and 7.3% compared to 2019. EBITDA was accordingly up by nearly 12% compared to 2019, adding over a point of margin and EBIT grew 26% compared to 2019 as well.

On slide 8, I'll start to comment on some of the segment performance and I'll start with water. The segment had revenue of €5 billion for the nine months, up 3.2% organically versus last year and up 0.4% compared to nine month 2019. Two main things to bear in mind: First, volumes, although up compared to last year are still not back to 2019 levels, they're still upside in the post-pandemic recovery if we look at the years ahead. Tariffs are a positive contributor, notably in France and in Chile and the US. As you can see from the slide, the impact from commercial activity in construction was not material in the nine months.

Few comments region-by-region, in France, volumes were slightly down over the nine months. We had poor weather conditions in the summer. It was wet, and this negatively impacted volumes. Tariffs are up slightly higher over the nine months than they were after six months, and they're up 1.4% year-to-date.

Spain, volume is still below 2019 levels, but are above 2020. Tourist activity during the summer was still not in line with pre-pandemic levels. And I would have the same – and similarly, tariffs were stable which is probably slightly better than our expectations at the beginning of the year across the nine months. In Chile, volumes were better compared to 2020, but again, still not back to 2019 levels. Now, there's local inflation in Chile, and as you know, there's an automatic adjustment once that triggers at different levels and we have tariffs increased by over 3% in the nine months.

The US is a good example of climate volatility. You'll recall that in the first half volumes were strongly up from exceptionally hot weather across our regulated utility. And these conditions were reversed in the third quarter with exceptionally mild and wet weather leading to a decline in volumes. So, as a whole, we are down 0.8% across the nine months. We also had some impact from the Hurricane Ida across our activity in the Northeast of the country, which is the bulk of our business, as you know.

Slide 9, Recycling & Recovery, a particularly strong first nine months of 2021. Revenue came in at €5.6 billion, up 18.4% organically compared to last year, up 12.8% organically versus the nine months 2019. Let's look at the bridge item by item. First, scope. Scope impact of €641 million is essentially the disposal of our European recycling and recovering assets in Sweden and Northern Europe to [indiscernible] (00:12:09). We've corrected both scope and accounting impacts in revenue and EBIT to give the organic growth variances, just for the avoidance of doubts.

Second, pricing and mix continued to be a good strong driver of performance, €180 million impact on revenue. We continued to see solid momentum in France and Continental Europe. The context of general rise in inflation across all of our markets eases in some respects the discussion with our clients on that matter.

Thirdly, waste volumes rose by 3.3% in total, so a contribution of €395 million to revenue. That's a recovery versus 2020. It's still volatile and there are some areas where we still look to see recovery to 2019 levels. But nonetheless, saturation of our infrastructure, particularly our treatment facilities, was good and has supported profitability.

And finally, the growth was supported by the positive impact from commodities, metal, plastic, paper in particular. And that gave us a €398 million improvement in revenue, so around 40% of the total. But around 60% comes from a combination of volumes and our own actions.

Come back in Q&A if you wish, but I would note that we're a producer of electricity in R&R. The impact of the surge in electricity prices is limited on our P&L this year. Our hedging policy aims at mitigating the risk of volatility, and we're therefore almost completely hedged for 2021. We generally enter the third quarter of the year around three quarters hedged and we will have been increasing that over the last few weeks. Combining the revenue progression with our operational improvement programs, you can conclude that R&R is a strong driver for our earnings this year.

Next slide, Environmental Tech & Solutions, our third segment, revenue came in at €2.6 billion, up 4.1% organically versus 2020 and 2.2% versus 2019. Strongest contributor to growth this year was Smart & Environmental Solutions, SES, and they grew 19% compared to a year ago and 10.3% compared to nine-month 2019.

SES was a core part of the way that we wanted to transform the business. And the SES technology activities largely going to the new SUEZ as a result of the transaction. We're seeing strong demand for our technology, whether embedded in larger contracts or both on a stand-alone basis. And I've got some additional comments on SES in due course. Hazardous waste grew 6.6% organically with a strong volume recovery in Asia, but prices in Asia have been under pressure during this year, including into quarter three.

Lastly, organic growth continued in WTS, with some contrast between activities. Within chemicals, first, the broadly stable performance, good commercial momentum in Europe and in APAC, slightly less so in North America. As you will recall, there was an impact from the cold weather in quarter one and an impact from Hurricane Ida in Q3, maybe not material, but it put a bit of a damp on our growth.

Within engineered solutions, products continue to deliver a very strong performance, solid top line growth, good margins, and a positive mix effect across the business as a result. Services, another good performance, particularly in North America, with an extremely high utilization rate of our mobile units. And in projects, revenue held up quite well despite a slowdown in new project orders earlier in the year, the conversion of orders into actual projects [indiscernible] (00:16:13) tangible signs of picking up after the slowdown due to COVID and the commercial momentum is good and the order book is solid, significantly up versus last year by just over 10%.

What's particularly encouraging is that we're maintaining a very diversified order intake. There have been strong performances in new business, in electronics, in food and beverage, in chemicals and in pharmaceuticals even if the traditional activities around oil and petrochemicals have also remained solid. But one of the goals we set for WTS a couple of years ago was to significantly diversify its activity, and that's beginning to come through in our client base.

I've got three pages to follow to focus on three specific areas. I'm going to start with WTS, then some comments on Smart Environmental Solutions and lastly, a comment on cash flow. So in the next slide, WTS will be a significant driver of profitability in 2021. We've had the opportunity to highlight the improvements in this business, led by [indiscernible] (00:17:21) and his team. On several occasions, their hard work has resulted in a significant improvement in profitability over the last two years, thanks to selectivity and discipline in our top line and our pricing, a focus on risk and a positive mix effect that I mentioned earlier.

The teams have also driven a very strict control of cost structure, and our SG&A expenses have decreased by 16% over two years. With this improvement of profitability has come an improvement on cash flow, as you can see on the slide, thanks to a substantial upgrade and our focus and our tools around working capital management. The improved operating performance has supported to our cash flow and EBITDA is up 59% versus the nine months two years ago. WTS is performing as we said it could.

Next page, SES, double-digit growth against 2019 and 2020, as I mentioned. The rebound of our activities recorded this year reflects the positioning of this activity as a growth platform for the group. It's obviously the crossroads of both our municipal activities of everything we look around sustainability and our focus on investment in technology.

The differentiating solutions that we've brought to market around the need to automate, the need to give better digital information, the use of IoT technologies to reduce energy consumption, to reduce resource wastage, our sustainable consulting services and our technology are deployed worldwide. And there are some examples on the right-hand side of this page of small but flagship contracts, and you can see the geographic diversification and the different types of contracts and the different technologies that we have offered our clients over the last 12 months.

Lastly, a word on cash flow, cash flow and working capital in particular was a focus right from the start of the SUEZ 2030 plan with a goal to increase clearly, but also to make our cash flow more resilient and predictable and as a whole, less seasonal.

And you can see on slide 12 the consistency of our recurring free cash flow over 2021. So I'd like to thank the teams for making profit fall through into cash flow, and particularly in France and in WTS to improve the focus on working capital management and, across the business, a focus on discipline and selectivity in our CapEx.

We're generating more recurring free cash flow, covering our dividend payment this year and de-leveraging the business to 2.7 times EBITDA which is better than the better end of our target range of 2.8 to 3, and all the while providing better service to our clients, particularly during the pandemic and paying our suppliers faster and more reliably.

So, to conclude, a few takeaways and then a conclusion on 2021 targets. So, our nine-month performance shows good growth – strong growth, not just in comparison to 2020, but also compared to 2019 in both revenue and profitability. The third quarter gives us more comfort on achieving the objectives that we set back in January/February for 2021.

We confirm without change our revenue expectations, our recurring EPS expectations, and our recurring free cash flow expectations that you see on the right-hand side of the page. And we've moved up our expectations for EBIT after an initial target range of being between €1.4 billion and €1.6 billion. We now expect to deliver an EBIT for the year above €1.5 billion.

The results and achievements in the first nine months of 2021 show our ability to deliver on commitments that we set out to you, and we think they benefit all of our stakeholders, clients, employees, shareholders. We've shown good progress on delivering the new SUEZ and Veolia transaction, a strong operating performance with enhanced cash flow, and a commitment to a science-based trajectory to reduce our climate footprint.

Thank you again for your attention. Now, open with Cécile to answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Knowing that we're acutely aware that there are many of you who remain conflicted and unable to ask questions, but if there are some, we're more than happy to take them.

Certainly. We'll allow a few more seconds here. [Operator Instructions] And with that, I'll return the call over to you for any concluding remarks.

Yeah. I'm not entirely surprised, but we do thank you for dialing in this evening. This might well be the last time that we talk to you on our results if we deliver as we expect our two transactions around the end of the year. I'd like to thank the team here for getting Q3 ready. They're available over the next couple of days should you have additional questions. And again, thank you to all of the teams at SUEZ for delivering an excellent set of third quarter results.

We look forward to keeping up in touch with you over the next few weeks. Thank you very much and enjoy the rest of your days wherever you happen to be. Thank you.

Thank you for joining today's event. You may now disconnect your lines. Host, please remain connected.