Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Marc Boursier — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance and R&R in Northern Europe, SUEZ SA
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)
Vincent Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, ODDO BHF SCA
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, good day and welcome to the SUEZ First Quarter 2019 Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jean-Marc Boursier, Senior Executive Vice President of Finance and R&R Northern Europe. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining our call. This morning, we believe that our revenue, EBITDA, EBIT and net financial debt figures for the three months period ending March 31, 2019. But before turning to the key financials, let me start with a very good news for the group.

As you may have already seen yesterday evening, we have signed an agreement with the Argentinian government for the resolution of an arbitration regarding Buenos Aires concession. Accordingly, we received in April €220 million as a finance settlement, which would be recorded through the P&L and cash flow in Q2. This is an excellent news for the group, as this litigation had started almost 13 years ago.

In addition, concerning Santa Fe contract, the World Bank International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes has also issued a decision in favor of SUEZ for $225 million. A further negotiation with the provincial government will therefore start soon in order to have a finance settlement compensation that we can reasonably expect in the second half of 2020.

With this, I will now turn directly to page 4 of this presentation, with our key financials for the first quarter of 2019. As you can see, we are recording a good start of the year, with a performance that is solid and fully in line with the trajectory we anticipated for 2019. Revenues is reaching €4.2 billion euro for this quarter, representing a solid 3.7% organic growth. Commercial activity is strong in all divisions and geographies. I will give you some details in a moment. EBIT came in at €293 million, up 3.3% organically. It includes a one-time expense of €7 million recognized this quarter in relation to an exceptional bonus we decided to grant to lowest-wage employees in France. At the scale of this single quarter, the €7 million charge is lowering our organic growth by 2.5 points but will obviously be far less significant at year-end. And excluding this specific impact, EBIT growth for the quarter is very strong.

Net debt stands at €10.4 billion at the end of March. The first application of IFRS 16 accounting rules is inflating it but by €1.3 billion. And as you are well aware, this is a purely technical effect and nothing has changed from an economic point of view. Excluding this effect, our net debt is almost stable, up €78 million compared to December last year. There are three elements behind this apparent stability: a negative impact linked to the seasonal increase in working capital for €337 million, this effect is totally typical for the first quarter and is observed every year; second, negative forex impact by €124 million euro; and finally, a positive €524 million net proceed following the closing of the disposal of the sale of 20% of our U.S. regulated water business.

If I move to slide 5, I just wanted to highlight our good commercial momentum with some of the major successes we recorded this quarter. I'm particularly proud that we have been designated preferred tenderer of the Greater Manchester Waste and Resource Management Services. This will be a £100 million per year contract with a minimum duration of eight years starting the first of June this year.

You might also have seen that together with Indaver, we announced a few days ago the construction of a new energy-from-waste plant for non-recyclable wood waste in Belgium. In China, we recently announced three contracts win in the Greater Bay Area. And we are also moving forward in the segment of organic waste management. We have now started to operate the first Organic Resource Recovery Center in Hong Kong, named O'Park and we've recently been awarded by the [ph] City of Montreal (00:04:47), our last contract for the construction and the management of their first composting plant.

Finally, I like to mention as well that we've received a record order for this year of 125 gigaliter of desalinated water from the Victorian Desalination Plant in Melbourne, Australia. The summer has been very hot and dry in Australia and I am proud that SUEZ technology can contribute to the resolution of water scarcity in the country. These are some of the flagship recent commercial developments I wanted to share with you today. They will provide a solid foundation for our growth and our operational performance in the next quarters.

Let's move now to slide 6 with an overview of our revenues. Our topline reaches €4.2 billion for the first quarter of 2019, driven by a solid 3.7% organic growth. And I will comment each division in a moment. Please note that we had to restate Q1 2018 with GE Water PPA charge as it was included for the first time in H1 2018 only. This has a negative impact of €3 million on revenue, a negative €2 million on EBITDA and a negative of €10 million on EBIT in the quarter, and all of that is specified in this specific appendix to this presentation.

You can see, as well, that forex has a positive impact for €35 million driven by the appreciation of USD and – British sterling against euro, whilst the CLP depreciated. We also recorded a negative scope impact for €31 million linked to the disposal of a pallet recycling activity and medical waste collection activity both in France.

Moving now to slide 7, with our EBIT. We are posting €293 million of EBIT in Q1 2019 compared to €278 million in the Q1 of 2018. The first application of IFRS 16 accounting rules inflates our EBIT by only €3 million per quarter. Forex had an impact of €1 million positive and scope also has a positive impact for €2 million as some of the activities that we disposed were [ph] unsufficiently (00:07:11) profitable. All-in-all, EBIT margin has improved to 7% and EBIT is growing 3.3% organically, bearing in mind as commented earlier this performance is obtained in spite of the exception bonus paid in France.

Let's move on to the analysis of our four divisions, and I will start with Water Europe on page 8. In line with our expectations and previous comments, revenues for this division is close to flat at minus 0.4% on an organic basis. In France, as anticipated, the negative impact linked to the net commercial activity is the strongest this quarter as we have the dual effect of Bordeaux and Valenton contracts. And as a reminder, to [ph] those (00:08:02) waste water contract, [ph] we only (00:08:03) start on the 1st of January next year.

Tariff indexations are better in France at plus 1.6%. In Spain, the tariff decrease from the last year in Barcelona continued to impact this quarter negatively. At the same time, the upcoming election in the country tend to freeze decision-making and discontinue any price discussions. This materializes into minus 1.1% tariff effect in the country, which is expected to be a low point in the year since we agreed on stable tariff in Barcelona in 2019. In the rest of the country, tariff discussions should resume after the elections.

Growth in Latin America is very supportive to this division. In Chile, tariffs are well-oriented at plus 2.8% thanks to indexations. And in term of volumes, last year actually provide an unfavorable comparison basis because the summer 2018 was particularly warm and dry, so volume up 0.5% year-on-year.

In the rest of the area, construction activity is very dynamic, particularly in Salvador and Panama and tariff activities are also performing well notably with the development of our activity related to the optimization and efficiency of the water distribution networks in Brazil. These are all bringing a good contribution to the growth of the division. EBIT is down organically due to the two effects I mentioned in France and Spain.

Let's move onto slide 9 with Recycling and Recovery Europe. We are posting 4.7% organic increase in revenue driven by a solid €40 million or almost 3% price impact. Market conditions with well-situated assets are very supportive to price adjustment. And we've undoubtedly gained pricing power notably with industrial and commercial clients. Our hazardous waste segment is bringing a nice contribution, up 18% versus last year. Thanks to a strong soil treatment and remediation activities.

Processed volume are down 0.8% reflecting our deliberate reduction in exposure to paper and cardboard and to certain plastic trading as the result of the regulatory evolution in Asia with importation restrictions. This is a tactical shift we have been explaining for a couple of quarters now. But I remind you that for the full year, we continue to expect waste-treated volume to be up by 1.5%. And, finally, in terms of profitability, if we exclude the exceptional bonus in France, I commented earlier, and despite a strong increase in fuel prices, EBIT is slightly up organically.

For the International division on slide 10, revenue is up 4.5% on an organic basis. Growth in China is particularly strong, providing €27 million of 3 points of contribution to the organic growth of this division. We took over our flagship facility in Shanghai Chemical Park SCIP water, and besides new construction projects in Macao and Zhuhai are also bringing in significant contribution. Australia is also performing well at 5.6% organically. Thanks to increased waste treated though we also expect this effect to progressively diminish as some volumes are linked to construction activity which was particularly dynamic last year.

Our construction backlog is down 6.4% [indiscernible] (00:11:54) level at the end of 2018, but even the phasing of contract during the year, we are, however, expecting a stable construction backlog and a stable contribution from construction activity to our full year 2019 revenue.

And finally, let's look at WTS on slide 11. Revenue is growing 8.5% organically to €556 million which is very good news. The level of [indiscernible] (00:12:24) during the quarter is even higher at €634 million, which gives me a lot of confidence for this activity of the division for the next quarters. Engineered Systems segment recorded 11% organic growth, driven by solid growth in product sales, particularly analysis and purification tools, and a [ph] volume (00:12:46) dynamic in service activities notably for our mobile units.

Chemical Monitoring Solutions activity posted 3% organic growth benefiting in particular from price increase in Asia and Latin America. EBIT was not so significant in the first quarter, is however growing organically if we exclude property tax positive one-off effect recorded in Q1 last year.

And finally, let's turn to slide 12 to conclude this presentation. All in all, the performance recorded for this quarter is in line with the trajectory that we anticipated. And on this basis, we are reiterating our guidance. I summarize it for you once again. We anticipate 2% to 3% organic growth in revenue, 4% to 5% organic growth in EBIT, continuing improvement in free cash flow up 7% to 8%, and our deleveraging trajectory will continue with an objective of 3 times net debt to EBITDA ratio in 2019, if we exclude IFRS 16 and further deleveraging in 2020.

With that, I would like to turn the floor to you, and I am obviously ready for all the questions you may have.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Anna Maria Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Just a few questions for me if I may. The first one is if you have any update in terms of the timing of the new plan announcement relative to what you said at Q1? Second question is regarding waste volumes. I understand you speak about a deliberate decision in terms of reducing waste volumes in Q1 but also you are confirming the guidance for the full year. What's going to be the driver of the volume increase going forward?

The third question is regarding the cost cutting. Can you give us a sense of the contribution of cost cutting at EBIT as you didn't mention when you discussed slide 7? And the last question is regarding margin for new [indiscernible] (00:15:18) effect. On one side, it seems to me that you've been selling activities, and therefore, you have negative on the revenue line, but you flagged that basically some of those activities were loss-making at EBIT, and therefore, there is a positive on EBIT. Is that part of the business division that you've been – were mentioning at the full-year results? Should we expect a little bit of the same, therefore, eventually, you're selling assets, which are loss-making at EBIT going forward? And also, relative to the new contracts you're showing, do you expect them to be accretive in terms of your margin going forward? Thank you.

Good morning, Anna Maria. So, five questions that you asked. The first one with regard to the new plan announcement, no, there is no further news. Obviously, you will have to wait for Bertrand Camus to be named by the AGM, and we confirmed that we are going to come back to you in the next months, but no further date to be given today.

With regards to waste volumes, so I repeat that we have taken a deliberate decision to reduce our exposure to some commodities, not all of them, but notably paper and cardboard on one hand and low-quality plastic [ph] fins (00:16:42) on the other hand. We are still expecting 1.5% increase in volumes throughout the year. Why? Because we have gained some further contract that will start in the second half of the year, I mean notably Manchester.

We had anticipated a strong commercial momentum in 2019 to reach that level of volume. You didn't raise the question specifically, but I will still answer it. We do not see any slowdown in the European economy. As of today, our energy from waste facility are running at full capacity and our landfill are also totally saturated which is good news for us.

With regards to cost cutting, you remember that we have a target of €200 million this year. We are deliberately not communicating under number quarter-by-quarter, but just keep in mind that we are slightly below 25% in Q1 which is not abnormal because we are re-launching a series of actions and that we bring the fruits later on during the year. So, we will be in line with the €200 million cost-cutting program already mentioned. But this is below 25% for Q1.

With regards to the disposal of activities, so every year, we are disposing, let's say, between €200 million and €400 million of either non-performing activities or non-core activities as the two I was mentioning earlier on. Would there be further disposals throughout the year, you will see it's very likely with that order of magnitude in total. But I confirm that the new contract to avoid any misunderstanding, the new contract that we've won are very positive at EBIT level. So that will contribute positively to the growth of the operational profitability of the company going forward.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning. Doing a quick follow-up regarding a comment here on the EBITs. Manchester, you communicated about £100 million per annum on the sales. And how much [indiscernible] (00:19:11). And in terms of volume of waste treated, how much does that represent just to be able to tie in with the 1.5% you're giving, so that helps us with a few specifics there?

Then regarding Argentina. So, you have settled for the Buenos Aires contract. So two questions here, the tax rates potentially applicable when you get this money. Will you be taxed, and if so by how much? [indiscernible] (00:19:42) I mean, assuming a 30% to 34% at this stage, if you don't know more, but where should it be?

And the second thing is there is still Santa Fe. If we were to do the math with [indiscernible] (00:19:56), that would be €122 million. Can we expect something [indiscernible] (00:20:02) the magnitude and do you expect a settlement by year-end?

And finally, you had a very high effective tax rate last year, I know it's Q1, you don't disclose that. And do you already see, from a qualitative point of view, the results of some work, which could have been done on tax optimization at this stage? When should we expect this tax rate to decrease? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Vincent. On your first question, regarding Manchester, I just would like, technically, to remind you that we are preferred tenderer and the contract has not yet been signed with the local authority. It shall be done in the next few days, because the contract shall normally start on the 1st of June, so it's imminent. But technically speaking, we are still the preferred tenderer.

It's an annual turnover of £100 million even for a minimum duration of eight years and which can be extended up to 12-year max. We don't disclose the profitability, but the profitability is totally in line with SUEZ financial criteria. And you have to add on to that, that it is a contract with almost no CapEx. So, we are managing assets on behalf of [ph] low quality (00:21:31), which already do exist.

The annual treated volume is around 1 million ton per annum, so it's a very sizable contract. We are managing the waste treatment facility for a local authority of 2.3 million inhabitants for the next 8 to 12 years.

Argentina, your analysis is absolutely correct. The cash has been received in April by SUEZ SA, so French entity. So it will be taxed at the French tax rate which is marginally below 35%. So P&L-wise, you shall anticipate a tax charge of 35%. Santa Fe, your analysis is very accurate with regards to the amount that we can expect. But the settlement will not be reached in 2019, so I said earlier probably towards the end of 2020 or beginning of 2021. So this is not a resolution that we anticipate for 2019.

And finally, your last question was regarding the effective tax rate. So we have to be a little bit more [indiscernible] (00:22:47) Vincent. At the end of 2018, the effective tax rate was 39.6% if my recollection is correct. I told you that we are going to bring it down probably to something like 38% and 37% in the next two years. So we do not measure the effectiveness of our work from one month to another one as regards to tax [ph] rate situation (00:23:12). We have a lot of things to do notably within WTS which was organized energy, water under another regime in order to be able to bring that effective tax rate down. But I confirm that we are working hard to bring it down to something around 38% and 37% in the next two years.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll now take our next question from James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jean-Marc. I have three questions if that's okay. The first is just on the level of organic profit growth that you reported. Obviously, reported a small organic drop in EBITDA and 3.3% increase in EBIT. And that seems to imply about a €20 million drop in your view on organic, I guess, pretty exceptional levels of D&A in Q1 this year versus last year. So, I was just wondering if that was right, and if you could give some context in terms of what's driving that drop because it does present a slight different outlook for organic growth when you think about EBITDA or if you think about EBIT?

The second question is on the balance sheet. You still got the target to deleverage to 3 times ex IFRS 16 by year-end, I guess a little bit higher including IFRS 16. And I just want to ask if that's in line with your view on the kind of appropriate medium-term level of leverage that you think SUEZ could sustain, or whether you would ideally like that ratio to be a little bit lower in the medium term.

And then, finally, just a follow-up on the tax rate. [indiscernible] (00:25:02) a little bit better why the tax rate is elevated. In the past, [indiscernible] (00:25:07) had issues that the level of profitability in France wasn't high enough and they were starting to get issues around tax reduction, some of the costs there. You mentioned the WT&S structure issue. Just some more details on that and what you would need to do longer term to get the tax rate down to normal French corporate tax level would be really interesting. Thanks a lot.

Good morning, James. Your first question is regarding the evolution of organic EBITDA and why is it different from the organic increase in EBIT. There are basically two or three reasons, and I confirm that the right metric to look at when you look at environmental services is obviously EBIT and not EBITDA. The first one is because of the profit of Valenton and Bordeaux which was very high at EBITDA level notably because of the capital intensity of those two contracts.

The second one is because we are progressively reducing the capital intensity of the group. And if I just look at the R&R division, for instance, we are renting trucks and no longer buying trucks, so we see it has an impact on EBITDA going forward. And finally, on R&R as well, just remind – I remind everyone that we are progressively closing landfills. So there are some cash-out for the closure and post-closure of this landfill which has an impact on EBITDA while no impact on EBIT because it was the full-year provisions as well the operation of those landfills. So, all in all, we are totally in line with expectation as far as EBIT evolution. And I can quietly confirm that our guidance for the full year which is 4% to 5% organic growth is achievable.

On the evolution of our balance sheet, obviously, we are going to stick to our commitment to return to a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3 times excluding IFRS 16. We were at 3.2 times at the end of 2018. And if we had cash in the disposal of our 20% investment in the U.S. water regulated business, not in March as we did, but at the end of December, we would have been at 3 times at the end of 2018 already. So we are going to be there at the end of 2019. And obviously, the cash that we get from Argentina will help us getting there quicker.

Can we anticipate to go a little bit down versus 3 times in the future? The answer is yes and this is precisely written like that in the guidance when we said continued ambition to lower leverage ratio in 2020. So, we consider that level as the maximum going forward.

And finally with regards to tax rate, we have currently a situation which is inefficient at the WTS level but we are going to correct it in the next few years. And just be aware that we've some new regulations in the U.S. which are less favorable for foreign company like us which are financed through current account with France. But we are working hard to bring it down and I repeat that our probability [indiscernible] (00:28:33) go down from 39% to 37% of effective tax rate in the next two years. But it will require some effort to go there.

Great. [ph] Thanks a lot (00:28:44).

Thank you. Our next question comes from Philippe Ourpatian from ODDO. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning, Jean-Marc. Good morning to all of you. Several questions concerning; first, the water business. You mentioned in your press release that the volumes in France have been quite strong at plus 6%. Is there on top of the weather effects some other additional one like the commercial or something which could be taken into account? That's the first question.

The second one concerning the construction revenue, you mentioned in your press and in your presentation that works are plus 8% and you mentioned also Salvador and Panama is the plus 8%, mainly these two countries and when these works are going to end.

Third question concerning waste. Is there any non-recurring or short-term contract in the hazardous waste business which is quite strong in the H1, I mean the Q1, sorry, and which could end before the other quarter or before the end of this year which might explain this very strong level of growth?

And last concerning WTS, may we have an idea about the order book trend? You mentioned it at the end of 2018. Is it possible to have the same figure at Q1 2019? Many thanks.

Good morning, Philippe. Your first question is regarding water volumes. When we say 1.6%, this is – it's stipulated in the slide at [ph] ISO (00:30:28) contracts. So this is purely the volume effect and we treat the net commercial activity in a separate block. So it is obviously positive since we had to – we were able to enjoy a mild winter. But Philippe and everyone should be aware that this is a very small quarter for a water distribution company, so all of that can change dramatically after the summer. So I still recommend you to treat those vehicles with a lot of caution and we are still anticipating volume going down by approximately 1% for 2019.

The construction activity – the backlog of the construction business is by definition erratic. We can win some contracts or not. And we have been affected just by the phasing of the signature of the contract, but we have a lot of good prospects notably in India, in China, and in Qatar. So we are still confirming to you that we are anticipating a stable backlog for construction activity at around €1.1 billion and a turnover of €500 million for the full year 2019, which means that our backlog already represents something like a little bit more than two years of activity going forward.

Your third question was regarding the evolution of the hazardous waste business, and as you have noticed, this activity has been very significantly up during the year notably because we had a very good momentum for soil treatment and remediation activity. So by definition, those are rather short-term contracts. So, can it go down a little bit in the next quarter? The answer is I'm not so sure that the growth will remain at 18%, but the trend is very positive for us and the fact that there is a lot of activities in Paris area for instance, absolute. So the year will be a very good year for our hazardous waste business whatsoever.

And finally, your last question was regarding WTS. The order book is in this slide, Philippe. So we communicated an order book of €634 million signed during the quarter. You have two possible analyses when you look at this number. We can compare it to the order book of the Q1 2018 which is up 2.4%. But the analysis which seem to me a little bit more relevant is comparing the order book signed during the quarter with the turnover generated during the quarter. And as you can notice at €634 million, the order book is 14% higher than the turnover that we had.

So that gives me a lot of confidence that this activity will continue to grow. You'll remember that we have a target of $3.1 billion of revenue in 2020. So, that means that we were anticipating a growth in revenue of a little bit more than 5% organically in 2019 and 2020 to reach that number and we are at 8.5% in Q1. So, we are even slightly ahead of expectation as far as revenue is concerned.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning and thank you very much for taking our questions. I have a – just two questions remaining. My first one is on – just on the International division, it looks like that the organic revenue growth has slowed down a little bit versus where we were in the second half of last year. And you notably mentioned that the U.S. is broadly stable – or North America is pretty stable now and that Africa is down. I was wondering if you could give a bit more details on those geographies. And what you expect from a [ph] phasing (00:34:30) perspective going forward?

And then the second question, if we take a bit of a more bullish approach here, you delivered 3.3% organic EBIT growth. But as you flagged, there was around 2.5% of that one-off payment that you made for your lower paid employees in France, which so far would bring it close to 6% underlying run rate in Q1. And in Q1, you actually had some negative base effects when we look at the Barcelona tariff cuts, which would no longer be there from Q2 onwards.

And maybe also the Chilean water volumes, we're representing that as comparison base. So – if also your waste volume should accelerate, I'm wondering if we could not actually hope that you might be able to achieve a growth rate for your EBIT that might be above your guidance following that logic. And if not, what do you think might actually decelerate in incoming quarters? Thank you.

Good morning, Olivier. With regard to the International division, you mentioned that it seemed that we've slowed down a little bit. Your comment is a little bit harsh, I believe, because we had last year an organic growth in revenue of 5%. And we are this quarter at 4.5%. So the difference is very, very limited. We had flagged last year that the growth was exceptionally high in Australia because of one-off construction contracts. So, Australia was, if my recollection is correct, that 10% last and is only 5.6% but for a mature country like Australia, it's already a wonderful performance.

And we had also one-off contract in Central Europe that we don't have any more this year. But, all-in-all, I can confirm that we are comfortably within the range that we said we would reach which is 4% to 6%. You mentioned Africa, Middle East, India which on the phase of it is flat. This is true. And this is due to the end of a very large construction contract in Oman last year called Barka. But otherwise, I can confirm that the division is in very good momentum, and you have noticed as well my comment that – what I wrote in the slide that there is a strong EBIT momentum as well with a very positive contribution of all business units in this division. So the profitability and not only the turnover is in good momentum.

With regards to the EBIT evolution of the group, you want me to conclude that we are going to overachieve the guidance, but at this stage, we would like to stick to the guidance. We are exactly in line with our estimate at the end of March. There are, as always, pluses and minuses. You mentioned some positive elements that in your opinion we have not totally taken into consideration, I can give you other element which might affect us in the future. The volume – the water volume are very positive in France and Spain. But I told you there is no certainty around that evolution.

And if we have a rainy summer, all that can change. We are a little bit cautious with regards to commodity. There are some appendices in the booklets where you will see, for instance, the price for paper and cupboard went down. If I take the cupboard, it went down from €78 at the end of last year to €73. And we have some warning that the paper price could go further down by €5 to €10 per ton in Q2.

So, all-in-all, Olivier, there are positive and negative. But our conclusion is we are confirming the guidance at this stage. If we can do better, obviously, we will. But we don't want to overshoot. It's only a quarter and as you know notably for water company this quarter is not so significant.

Okay. Thank you very much, Jean-Marc.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] So, now continue with the question from Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Please go ahead your line is open.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone, and I would like to start with a follow-up on Olivier's question. Jean-Marc, would you mind giving us a bit of a quantified update on what you expect to see as a full year impact for some of the operating drivers like commodity prices like fuel price, like electricity price? I guess that's a quantification from the answer you just gave to Olivier's question.

And number two, looking at Q1, could you tell us about the lines between EBITDA on EBIT and more specifically how your provisions trended for this first quarter and on how much of this provision reversal, so to speak, was covering actual OpEx, you mentioned landfill costs.

And last question about the Grand Paris volumes for waste, they were benefiting positively to waste volumes last year. I would expect that this year this effect would be kind of plateauing, flattish, is that correct or was this a positive or negative effect for this year – for this quarter? Thank you.

Good morning, Emmanuel. So with regards to commodity, you remember our assumption, we said to you – I will have to distinguish three items, there is fuel, there is the price for recyclates, and there is electricity. So our assumption at the beginning of the year in the guidance was no further impact of fuel and recyclates. And we had assumed that the level of December 2018 would be flat for the full year. And we said to you that as far as electricity is concerned we knew that the price would be up because we had already sell our electricity [ph] forward for (00:41:15) some of it for 2019.

So that was the assumption three months ago. So where do we stand three months after? As far as recyclate is concerned, overall, it's stable. So, we are in line with expectation. Some commodities are going up. Some commodities are going down. I told you our specific concern is paper and cardboard at this stage. For plastic, it's a mixed feeling. Low-quality LDP are going down, but PET and LDPE is going slightly up. But, overall, as far as recylate is concerned, we are in line with expectation.

Fuel, fuel is a bad news for us. Because if you look at the brand, and every one of you know that number, but the brand has been going up 27% in one quarter. So that means that we had enjoyed escalation formula notably for municipal contract at the end of 2018 to cover the increase of 2018. But we know already for sure that this escalation formula will not be sufficient, and we have a negative impact in Q1 for fuel. I'm not going to quantify it for you at this stage. We will give you more color at the end of June. But clearly, we have a negative impact of fuel, which means if I say that differently that the price increase that we pass on to our customers was sufficient to cover the cost increase of 2018, but is not sufficient as of yet to cover the additional cost increase of 2019. So it is very likely that we will have to do a second price increase for our industry and commercial customers throughout the year.

So, energy, positive as anticipated, recyclate, at this stage, neutral effect, but we have to be careful with paper on one hand and low-quality plastic films on the other end, and fuel, it's very bad news, and we will have to do something more energetic in terms of price increase somewhere throughout the year.

With regards to the values entries between EBITDA and EBIT, here again, you will have all the details at the end of June. But just keep in mind that it was a normal quarter. That was a recurring quarter, nothing special. So we have in either book some specific provision or really anything specific provision but all of the details will be given to you at the end of June.

And finally Grand Prairie, your analysis is absolutely accurate. Your remember that we had waste volume going up 2.4% last year of which 0.9% was specifically related to Grand Prairie activity. And this year, we are flat year-on-year. So Grand Prairie is not providing any further growth in volume in 2019.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. You're line is open.

Hi. Just to follow-up on the commodities. I may have missed that but I wanted to have a bit of quantification regarding we talked about the margin squeeze on the oil price, but oil price is pretty solid. What type of offsets do you see if you look at one versus the other? Thank you.

With regard to the oil price, we have to distinguish municipal collection and industrial collection. From municipal collection, we've got escalation formula. Usually, those works as of January the 1. And if my recollection is correct, we had enjoyed last year an average increase for the fuel of 6.7%. So, 6.7%, while the price increase that we've passed on to our customers related to the fuel component, right. As I told you. Since the oil price went up 27% since January the 1, we know already that we will have a negative impact, assuming that the fuel would remain at its current level, for the full year, sorry. That we will need to compensate again as of 1st of Jan, 2020.

So this is for the municipal collection. So we got a catch up effect for 2018, but we are going to suffer. As a matter of fact, the fuel value as of December 31 that is used for this indexation formula was almost the lowest of the quarter. So this was unfortunate for us and you got all the detail in the appendices.

For industrial and commercial collection, we don't have automatic tariff adjustments. So, we put – we pass on to our customer a sizeable tariff increase, that reflect the evolution of first, collection cost and second, treatment cost. And then as I was telling you, since all of our facility are situated, we are in a much better bargaining position vis-à-vis our commercial and industrial customers.

But still, we are suffering from the same effect, which is an increase in the cost of logistics. So does it mean that as for municipal activity, we are going to wait until January next year to pass on this tariff increase? The answer is no. The likelihood is very high, that we will have to do a second price increase throughout the year. When? How much? It would depend on each of the business unit. It would depend on commercial momentum. It will depend on the competitive landscape, but no doubt that we'll have to pass on the second tariff increase to our industrial and commercial customers. And for the quantification of the impact net of the hedging because we have hedged part of the fuel, and so you will have to wait until the end of June.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. This concludes our call today. And obviously, should you have any more questions in the next few hours and days. Mathilde Rodié and our team remain at your disposal. Thank you very much, and have a very nice day. Bye-bye.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.