Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Louis Chaussade — Chief Executive Officer, SUEZ SA
Christophe Cros — Group Senior Executive VP In Charge-Finances and Purchasing, CFO Group, SUEZ SA
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Olivier van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Gianluca Ferrari — Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start] following the adjustment from the water volume we recorded in Europe.

Net income group share €420 million, up from 2015. Free cash flow, which is a major financial indicator and it's key as far we're concerned, is above the €1 billion mark. €1 billion – a little over €1 billion. And net debt over EBITDA is at 3x in spite of major negative forex and scope effects that Christophe will delve into. And that involve the Chilean peso especially in December 2016. And therefore, at the AGM for 2016, we're going to offer a dividend of €0.65 per share in cash.

Furthermore, two major financial transactions were completed in fiscal 2016. The first one is in China, following the joint creation with the Chongqing authorities of 2015 of Derun Environment, we've restructured all our operations in China. And we took control of Sino-French Holdings, the joint company that we hold with New World.

So, as we speak, we hold 58% of the share capital following the contribution of our waste operations and construction operations in China. So, bringing together all our operations is part and parcel of our strategy. Our strategy is the same that extracting all possible synergies while increasing our sales forces while positioning all our businesses under the same management banner. So, now, we have become an even more robust player, and we have a single brand, SUEZ. And in China where SUEZ has major ambitions, environmental services are bolstered by significant growth engines.

Second transaction was conducted in Italy. Caltagirone took a €0.035 stake in SUEZ. And in exchange, we acquired 10.9% of ACEA shares. So, now, we have a little over 23% of ACEA's share capital. So, it's an industrial and strategic move, but it's also capital-based. And with Caltagirone, we signed a cooperation agreement in businesses [indiscernible] (03:02) have a common interest [indiscernible] (03:02) we're very, very happy with that agreement because we believe in the water business in Italy. Also Caltagirone is a very good partner. And finally, all this will enable us to continue to gradually build our third pillar in water across Europe.

Lastly, after the [indiscernible] (03:27) about the transformation plan that we initiated at the end of the year, the transformation of our businesses and organizations, is a day-to-day challenge, and we have all hands on deck to that end. These results are quite good given the context, especially if you realize the first half was more challenging than initially anticipated.

Christophe Cros is now going to give you detailed information about our results. And he's also going to speak about the outlook. Christophe, over to you.

Thank you, Jean-Louis. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here. As is customary, after the summary of the performance done by Jean-Louis, I'm going to walk you through the financials in 12 steps to tell what we've accomplished in fiscal 2016. As is customary as well, you have a booklet. The structure of the booklet, the way in which we use our processes, all that is unchanged, and we have no changes in our accounting methods, of course, okay?

So now, as Jean-Louis has said, we're very happy because we met our key objectives in 2016. As we also pointed out, there were quite a few potholes on the road than we had initially planned, in particular, the weather conditions in the first half were rather adverse. But I also need to state that by comparison the performance was somewhat frustrating because as you recall the volume in the summer of 2015 had increased and improved the situation.

So, anyway, on the whole, we said that the faceoff situation, we would increase our efforts, which is what we did on page 41. You have the results of the COMPASS program in 2016. €180 million, that's the objective we set ourselves including €30 million of additional efforts actually accomplished in H2. As usual, it's a net impact on the P&L.

And our statutory auditors ascertain that. When you take a look at page 41, you will see that the breakdown by division, by action, and so on is in compliance with what we generally roll out. This has enabled us to meet the objectives. At the end of the first half, we said that it would be difficult, but our objectives were not unachievable or unrealistic. And – but for slight exception of the top line, we met all the objectives. Good performance in the international division did not fully offset the delay in Water Europe actually there is an increase in Recycling & Recovery Europe.

Anyway, when you take a look at EBITDA and EBIT, I'm saying this now, [indiscernible] (06:40) repeat it. As you may recall, in 2015, we recorded the consequences of the revaluation of our assets in Chongqing Water by setting up Derun. And although we had said this quite explicitly in closing the 2015 accounts and the first half of 2016, €131 million positive in 2015. That's an EBITDA and EBIT. And following the final clarification of the fiscal status by the Chinese authorities in the first half, we showed this and published in the first half, we showed a €36 million provision plus €131 million, €36 million, the variation is €95 million. [indiscernible] (07:23) have to keep that in mind when we take a look at a few modification, the net impact is therefore €95 million.

Net income group share growing a little over 3%. This is quite good. And in a while, I'll be showing you that there was an increase in our tax, which is quite significant. So, the result of net income group share is quite good in that regard. And EPS also grew a little bit more than that.

One final key comment if I may. As usual, you know that we're very much attached to this. The financing balances have been met. And our financial policy, which I'll describe later, was more proactive, and our appropriation choices were more drastic than in previous fiscal periods.

[indiscernible] (08:17) I'll begin with the overall evolution of the top line on the slide, you see here €15.3 billion, the highest figure, well, a record high, 1.2% increase, 1.1% organic growth, which is kind of offset between forex impact, which essentially ascribe to sterling, which weakened, that's the main forex impact and scope impact.

And as far as scope is concerned, there's a consolidation of a company that was acquired a year earlier by – of Nantaise des Eaux. We spoke about the acquisition of a company that gives us leadership in industrial water in India called Driplex. And a company that gives us more the leadership in Western Australia called PerthWaste. It has service as well as treatment operations.

So, forex and scope impacts are plusses and minus to organic growth, 1.1% for the top line. Given the change in the price of raw materials, which includes energy is roughly 20 basis points. But we must say that we did not meet our initial ambition, which was 2% that I can speak about the variations of industrial growth assumptions and so on. Nevertheless, I'm not trying to conceal anything. But the delay we had in Water Europe in the first half was difficult to catch up with. So, there were adverse weather conditions and there was the termination of the Lille contract.

The numbers we gave you were confirmed €82 billion in sales, €40 million in EBITDA, and €8 million in the EBIT. As you can see, Recycling & Recovery Europe has made inroads on its market, which heralds the efforts and the developments that the division is experiencing because, as I'll show in greater detail in a moment, the impact of the variation of the price of raw materials notably the consequences of the surge – of the drop in the price of electricity that we recorded in November 2015 that bore out consequences in 2016 amount to €27 million. And this affects the top line as well as the EBIT.

So, it gives further shine to our performance given that the context is pretty lackluster in France as far as the economy is concerned. So, Recycling & Recovery are doing well.

Also, the International division did well in 2016 with organic growth of 4.7%, as you can see, with some irregularities, if I may say so, inconsistencies. Some operation cycles are difficult to present within a fiscal period. And I will show you what did well and where the performance was acyclical.

If you take a look at organic, well, the quarterly revenue box there, there seem to be a slack in the third quarter, while Q3 2015 was very high. So, the comparatives are not very good. And overall, in Q4, there was a pickup especially as far as Recycling & Recovery are concerned.

Okay. Now, I suggest we take a look at the overall picture for EBIT. The trend does reflect everything I've said about operations, the key trends of our operations. And you have the €95 million in net variation of Derun Chongqing Water. The increase in the contribution of the International division overshoots the reduction from Water Europe in terms of EBIT. And as you may recall, we said that there would be €20 million of EBIT impact, additional impact resulting from the volume surplus in the summer of 2015, remember that when we do some comparisons.

Also you can see that there is a drop in the average price of our electricity sales at €27 million, as I told you about a moment ago, had relatively significant impact identical for the top line and for EBIT. But as I said, this does not prevent us from raising the EBIT of R&R in Europe, Recycling & Recovery, okay. Now, let's take a look at the division breakdown of the key changes in trends, so that you can really grasp what all these overall figures reflect.

As is customary, I'll begin with Water Europe. I suspect – so, it was not a very good vintage year, if I may say so. And the delay recorded in the first half was not really offset, although the progress was quite good in H2. There's no major forex impact here. All you have to take a look at is the Chilean peso. This is a currency that weakened against the euro for a good part of the year, but it did kick back up at the end of the year. So, whether you take the average rate or the rate at the end of the period, there are differences. So, please bear that in mind.

Regarding scope, Nantaise des Eaux is the main factor there. Now, regarding volume, you can see this in the top right corner where we show you the key trends on the volume and price. If you take the same scope in France, we would have minus 0.2%. So, the first seven months of the year that were mediocre in terms of volume in France were followed by two months that were very good, but it was not enough to offset the delay. And if you compare it with the summer of 2015, you lose a little bit more. So, the delay broadens. So, this does reflect the trends that we use when we build our budgets.

Volume increased 1% in Spain, better in Barcelona than the rest of Spain, which is quite satisfactory. And it's overall very good because, there, as I said, the summer of 2015 had been very warm. And as it were, the temperature remained high in Spain in 2016, if I may say so. Plus 0.9% in volume in Chile, so that reflects all the weather conditions that we recorded in the Southern Hemisphere, summer in 2015. Nevertheless, there was 0.9% growth. So much for volume.

Now, taking a look at prices, same top-right corner table here, in France and Spain, say, plus 0.1% and plus 0.3%. Here, you have the unflinching indexing scheme. There is no inflation and it's bolstered by the schemes – by the fact these schemes are based on snapshots as far as key items are concerned, the price of energy. And when the snapshot is taken when the price of energy drops, it accentuates the consequences of the lack of inflation on the indexing we have.

In Chile, however, there's a plus 4%. This is an ongoing trend. As you realize, there's the five-year plan effect that goes on and inflation in excess of 3% has an impact here. So, volume, price and now commercial activity.

France, especially interesting. It was stable in Chile and France and Spain in 2016. And if I set aside the closing of the Lille contract, which is not to be seen in 2016, the commercial balance in France, in [indiscernible] (16:27), our French business unit, is neutral, near zero. And it breaks down into two parts

First, there is price. Today, quite clearly, there is pressure exerted. I'm not saying it's a price war, but there's pressure exerted. When the indexing schemes lead to a lack of price hikes, it's extremely difficult for the authorities who give us these contracts to accept additional equipment. And that do lead to price hikes. Everybody remains calm, if I may say so. So, there's a downward pressure on price.

But when it comes to volume, let's say, renewal of the commercial stock, the year was quite good. Let me remind you that we renewed Valenciennes. We renewed Béziers, Sète, and contracts like that. So, the downward pressure on prices offset by the good performance of our commercial portfolio.

Let me also point out the fact that our new services business has been growing 14% this year. And it's easier to achieve 14% when you start low, of course, but now, we have a little over €0.5 billion in sales for these new services. If you translate this into EBIT, the second half of this slide here, you can see that there's a slight – there's a dip in the EBIT. And there's forex impact due to the Chilean peso, the Lille contract, that is no longer there, and the €20 million in volume decline from 2015. And that explains the slight dip in EBIT. Okay. So much for Water Europe.

So now, let's take a look at R&R in Europe, Recycling & Recovery. So, what you might keep in mind is the headline improved performance despite lower commodity prices, which means that in EBIT that the price of electricity in turnover is about one-to-one especially when you talk of energy, keeping everything the same. And that's not exactly the case as we've mentioned often when it concerns raw material, recyclable raw material.

So let's start with the change in volume, and that is to tell you about our business. Look at the processed volume, now Jean-Marc, of course, can correct me – now that means that we are not looking at whose collecting all the waste, but it's a waste that comes to our processing units. So, it's about 25 million tons per year. And we believe that this process volume has gone up by 1.4%, so – which is essentially a good idea compared to this 25 million tons.

Now, if I look at 2016, this 1.4% was actually 0.7% end of June. There was, of course, the business affecting the fact that there were new plants that were being opened because in the time line that we had in budget, we opened three new recovery centers in the UK and in Poland as you know. So, now, if you look at this variation of 1.4%, it represents 350,000 tons. And if I go into further detail, I find that I have less 470,000 tons in land filling because it's at the end of life in the UK. Thanks.

So, that means it's slightly negative for land filling in France, but it doesn't have that major increase that we have foreseen in 2015 in the first quarter, so less 350,000 tons in the UK for land filling. And at the same time, I said this 710,000 tons, which represents 7%, virtually 50% is this new capability that will be set up in UK and Poland and the second half which is, well, there's not much of a difference between the two is the increase in recycled volume that we produce, [indiscernible] (20:40) and so on. And also the increase in growth of substitute fuels in UK and France. So, we still have [ph] discontinuance (20:51), which is very positive.

Now, if I look at it from the half yearly point of view, you'll find that we've got a little more than a stabilization level. However, the trend has reversed, but we'd like to keep this trend, however, in mind. And now, for the first time in three years, January is in line with our budget, which was not always the case.

Now, that was volume analysis. Let's now look at it from the price point of view. There's not much to be said about the price of services, particularly the collection and so on, because generally speaking, despite the low inflation, Germany, Benelux and UK have the same kind of prices. I'm not talking about the other countries. That's as far as services go. They're doing well. Nothing particular, especially when it comes to processing and treatment.

So, now, two years ago, you talked about a price war and which is not what you're talking about now, because the prices are doing well. However, mediocre performance as far as the cost of raw materials is concerned, you'll see that in the booklet.

The average price of [ph] waste (22:02) has gone down by 7%, plastics 8%. And this doesn't really have an impact on our P&L, but it is an obstacle for further development. And we believe that Recycling & Recovery in plastic has to go that way. However, the price of all the cardboard and so on has gone up by 11%, but the rates are not quite the same. So that is a major impact – is essentially on energy. And as I explained to you, we have an impact of minus €27 million in EBIT and turnover in 2017. All right? Are you finding – have got that two figure? Thanks.

So, finally, we need to add also the geographical point of view because when it comes to R&R in Europe, we can't provide just a single answer because all the business models are very different. And if we were to take a geographical look at all these different cross-sectional factors, you'd see that there is a clear recovery in the UK, in Holland, and however, certain stagnation in France. And that's the reason finally why we have an increase of just 2% in organic EBIT, which is more than proportional and this despite the fact that all that I said of electricity prices, which is 0.6% in all.

Now, as far as international growth, there's a solid momentum in the main areas. And if you look at the turnover, the only negative one is America and -- Europe LatAm, Latin America. You've got – that's towards the end of finishing off all our disposals of assets and so on in Brazil.

All the rest of our own business is doing well. And this is a result of what we did in 2015 where we had first seen an increase in sales. Now, the volume that you have here at top right, are a clear illustration and also those that might appear to be low, so that's 0.3% of sales in North America. Still satisfactory because this level is constant, virtually constant compared to what we had earlier, which is extremely high. So, I would say that we are headed in the right way.

Now, if I were to make up categories in terms of satisfaction, I would say that it's Asia and Australia, which are doing really well with growth in waste. And also, Water in the U.S. And then, in AMEI, which is our definition of the Mediterranean, South Africa and India area, and that's where we have huge contracts going on. Look at [ph] Dhaka (25:02) desalination and then the residue water treatment elsewhere there.

However, not so good are the sales of equipment in the USA. And what's worse is there was this huge order in Canada in 2015 and then a contraction, as I said, in Europe with the expiry of contracts, and to a lesser extent, in Brazil. So, our sales order is fairly stable, [ph] 2.4% (24:46). As I'm saying, we're not a building company and we've been involved in lot of building works. And that has enabled us to secure very long term contracts of [indiscernible] (25:41). And we are extremely keen on that. That's also something that we specialize in. So, the stock of €2.3 billion also took advantage of the €270 million that we received from Sri Lanka.

So, on the whole, a great momentum. And that shows and I'm putting Derun now into a separate international division with an organic growth of EBIT, which is quite significant. It's stable. The EBIT margin is stable [ph] lower turnover (26:13). But as you can see, that there has been a restatement of provisions which you saw end of 2016 in order to make sure that the earlier years were better secured.

Now, let me go back to what we normally do, and let's take a look at the figures generally speaking. Now, I'm going from EBITDA to income from operating activities. So, it's €2.65 billion, and our amortization is fairly stable. And that's why because we always make sure that we also have the right amount of capital, which remains stable.

I was just thinking of R&R Europe, which is showing, however, a reduction and provisions remained the same. Now, of course, there's a little up and a little down, but it's still the same as compared to last year. And on the other items, where you have renewal expenses and so on, which are related to their special legal systems. So, there's nothing really to write home about.

Now, if you look at the €1.282 billion, these are figures that are compensating for all the rest. But there is some – there's a notes there that perhaps you should take a look at. You will find that our -restructuring cost, which are fairly significant, and that is a result of the permanent effort that we keep making as far as improvement and performance of our various activities is concerned. So, this cost of work is concentrated in Europe essentially. So, that's as far as restructuring costs are concerned.

And then as far as provisions are concerned, you can see that the balance is positive. It was negative last year. I'll pull out €28 million, which are related to the completion of our brand name change. We set €60 million, €28 million last year, €28 million this year. So, I think we did a good calculation in our budget for that. Apart from that, there is another movement where we have sales at then €74 million, plus we have assets provisions, plus €60 million.

Now, let me just point out to you that there's no mistake in the way we have sorted – reasoned it out. And there's been an increase in taxes, but that has had absolutely no impact on our group income – on our total income. We've decided to be selective and to be extremely clear about our capital allocation. We've decided that we've decided to intensify our asset rotation. I'll talk to you about it.

We've got investment and financial investments. And we've decided to increase the divestments. And these were carried out in right conditions because these were just marginal. We had mentioned that in our press releases, for instance, in Finland. Finland, this was a small scale. It was just €70 million worth of turnover, and we felt that there was no future really in it. So, the profitability was acceptable in Finland, but despite the fact that it might change, there was really no synergy with our excellent business that we had in Sweden.

Similarly, we sold at a – with high capital gains our management systems really, which was really not a – which was a very different sort of thing. And we noted that the sales gave rise to a lot of financial interest really in what we were doing. So, we've accelerated all our asset [ph] calculation (30:15) rotation. And the capital gains we felt with the agreement of auditors and through provisions on assets will use to further strengthen our balance because we felt it would be useful for the future. So, that's the way one should actually interpret the operating activity. Then the income from that which is €1.290 billion.

So, now we go on to talk about the net result group share. You've got the cost of net debt, which is fairly stable, and there is a volume effect. You might remember that end of 2015, we had bought for €320 million, the Sembcorp 40% in Australia. And it was the right decision. We took advantage of an opportunity, and that increased the average debt volume.

Apart from that, through a very active management [indiscernible] (31:13), which was very – also very satisfactory. We reduced the cost of net debt. And we communicate as a group quite easily about the net cost and the gross cost of debt. The cost of net debt has gone from €363 million to €360 million [indiscernible] (31:30). And otherwise, it's gone from 35.4% to 33.3%.

So, the other financial results were quite stable. And that's because of the provisional stocks that we had, and this might vary depending on the average interest rate that is used. And that's what you see over here. And then, as I was saying, we also have an increase in our taxes, which is really very high. So, this increase compared to last year is as follows.

In 2015, we had taken advantage of that tax credit, particularly in Spain. And one more plus point in 2016, we also had the full tax benefits in Australia because we were able to use the R&R results and the part of the less satisfactory results that we had had in other more water-based activities. So, that's the first element.

And secondly, like all other French companies, we looked at all our deferred income – tax stock. We wanted to see what the difference would be in terms of corporate tax is concerned in 2016. And so, we decided to post a certain items on [indiscernible] (33:08). As a result of that, we have the results that we do in our income tax, which is the reason why income tax has also gone up. And that's the reason also why that the – we've gone from 3.1% despite the fact that there's a major increase in income tax. So, you can see that the effective tax rate is at 35.4%. And to answer analysts' questions, I think you should really look at the 30% as being the normal tax rates.

And now briefly about the minority interest, which is quite stable and which reflects the fact that we have fewer in minority interest in Australia. I don't remember the reasons why. And we also have a better contribution from Chile. And so, the contribution of Chile, the income of Chile actually makes up for the other effect from Australia. So, that brings us to €420 million. And now, to end very briefly, let me mention a few other elements to you.

Regarding investments, regarding investments. Here, we have the slide. So, I said proactive as I said prioritization and hierarchy. Let me show you this. It's [ph] fair to conserve (34:25) our investments to run and develop our businesses. They amounted to €1.3 billion in 2016, which compares with 2015.

This shows up in the usual categories, our maintenance investments dropped. This reflects the fact that we are highly disciplined and very thorough in that regard. And in some cases, we no longer abide by the rationale whereby we're not comfortable where we own everything. But now we consider that in a number of contracts. In Recycling & Recovery Europe, for instance, following instructions of Jean-Marc and his team, we use leasing more frequently even in the municipal operations. It's the end of a cultural taboo as it were, and now we have better appropriation of our CapEx.

Now, I suggest you take a look at development investments quite closely and financial investments. But there are two caveats. So, let me give you an example of why this is important.

Water Spain had the opportunity of acquiring several small companies at the beginning of the year because contrary to popular belief, there are still plenty of small water companies in Spain. We're looking at €10 million or €20 million for each one. So, they went ahead with those transactions, but the agreement with us was that the financial investments and development investments would be the same. So, they postponed or canceled the development investments. So, when I say €1.3 billion, this includes both categories to compare with 2015 while in here you have the buyout of the Sembcorp minority of the Sembcorp minority shareholders in Australia.

And in 2016, there are two items. First of all, the disposal plan that I told you about. And I'd like to remind that we acquired €300 million worth of an increase in our stake in ACEA. Now, we have 23.3% of the share capital. It's not really an investment accounting-wise, because it's a reserved capital increase that ACEA initiated. And that's how we bought our additional stake. So, now, we're very active, as Jean-Louis suggested. So, very active in Italy, in China, and so on.

Other items are disposed of. Well, we've moved away from Bristol Water. There was a change of shareholding in the segment is such that we believe that regulated water is good in Chile and Italy but not everywhere. And also, we sold buildings and property in order to take advantage of some opportunities. And to remind our teams that such assets are not free and they have to be taken into consideration whenever we calculate pricing. So, when you pay your rent, you have to bear that in mind. Okay. So much for investments.

So, the year was very buoyant in that regard. And we prioritized more than usual. A word about cash and I'll speak about debt too. Starting with EBITDA, concession charges, income of equity affiliates. That includes operations in Asia and it also includes ACEA in Italy, then you reach your operating cash flow, €2.1 billion as I spoke about, CapEx, tax expenses and financial expenses. But working capital requirement performed well. At the end performed well at the end of June, at the end of September, we told you that we were not happy with that. But we do realize that there is some seasonality and we're very disciplined in collecting dues from accounts receivable. And, therefore, working capital requirement did well as shows up in this variation number.

So, this allows me to look at debt now with you, and the financial discipline is not just another phrase or – debt at the end of 2016 was lower than at the end of 2015. Net debt over EBITDA is 3x, and we are extremely attentive to preserving our A3 rating, which is good in relative as well as in absolute terms.

So, we have the necessary discipline to sustain that A3 rating of ours. But we're extremely cautious all the same because average maturity is 6.4 years. The details are given to you, the breakdown of the debt and all that. You have all that in the handout. And our cash allows us to cover the next four years of maturity. We're very sensitive to that, especially in this day and age where there is quite a lot of uncertainty here and there.

Regarding the evolution of the debt, I mentioned the various factors. You'll see that forex amounts to €148 million. This is essentially due to the Chilean peso and the stronger Chilean peso at the end of the year. So, debt is quite simple of our discipline and performance.

A word about ROCE. Here, there is a little bit of room for improvement. Now, we have €15 billion in capital employed, a slight increase from 2015, a very slight increase due to regulated water primarily. WACC remains flat at 6.3%. You see this at the top right corner. And we are posting ROCE at 7% in fiscal 2016 against 7.9% in fiscal 2015.

At this point, I would like to show you that the actual drop is not quite as significant, but it is a drop. I don't have the screen, but I can speak without screen. Since we had €131 million in the ROCE of 2015, we have €36 million in the ROCE of 2016. Now, if you restate for that, we have 7% in 2015, we have 6.75% in 2016. So there is a slight dip in ROCE. I think it reflects three factors.

The first two have to do with the €27 million in EBIT impact due to electricity prices in R&R in Europe. And there is a deterioration of operating profitability for the reasons that I mentioned of Water Europe, and the increase in capital employed in regulated water. We make no apologies for that. The return on capital employment is not as high as the group's average, but it does offer a long-term recurring auspicious outlook that is of consequential merit.

There you are, ladies and gentlemen, that gives you the key features, facts and figures of 2016. A year where the circumstances were quite harsh, especially in the first half, more challenging than initially anticipated when we designed our budget. And nonetheless, we were able to meet all our key objectives. I thank you for your kind attention.

Thank you, Christophe. Christophe has just presented the details of our 2016 accounts. At this point, I would like to make a few essential statements to help you grasp what SUEZ is all about.

First, I have this deep conviction. Our businesses remain fundamentally businesses of the future, quite clearly, because of ongoing demographic growth and because of ongoing urbanization. Also, global warming is becoming more and more tangible. And water supply resource – management of from natural resources are crucial challenges. In parallel, our businesses are changing and our clients' demands are changing as well. And we have a competitive edge. And we have demonstrated our ability to adapt to customer changes.

Let me comment on three recent contracts that demonstrate our ability to meet new demands and to profit from all these major trends we've described. First of all, the construction of the new hazardous waste site in Changzhou. This shows the brisk growth of China facing environmental requirements.

Yes. It's fair to say that China has significant needs and urgent needs to meet. The Chinese administration has become [ph] acutely (44:20) aware of how necessary it is to efficiently and quickly and effectively fight all forms of pollution. By the same token, the Chinese administration has understood for the past few years that economic growth and environmental protection go hand in hand. And the Chinese administration has put its money where its mouth is.

Another example that I'd like to use to demonstrate what we're doing is the Rosarito Desalination Plant contract in Baja California, in Mexico. This is a contract that illustrates the responses that we provide in circumstances where there's a lot of tension when it comes to access to water resources.

This Baja California region is dependent on water supply from the Colorado River, 1944 between the U.S. and Mexico. And therefore, it's highly subjective to a major restriction risk just because there's a lack of water there, there's a shortage. There's hardly enough water in the region to supply water to five U.S. states and two Mexican states. It depend on the Colorado River. So, the response is a desalination plant. We shall build it and we shall operate it for 37 years. The capacity is 380,000 cubic meters per day, the largest on the American Continent for desalination.

A word about partnerships, that's my third example. More and more – we signed more and more partnerships with industrial groups. The environmental footprint has become a growing concern for management of these industrial groups, and many of them have made public commitments to minimize their environmental footprint.

An example of this is a partnership we entered with Total to collect and reuse cooking oil, second-generation fuel. This agreement contributes to Total's ambition to be the energy major that is highly responsible that reduces the use of fossil fuel for transportation purposes.

Okay. So, I just commented on three contract examples that demonstrate that the drivers of our business have indeed changed, and that we have been in a position to provide concrete, often innovative solutions to our clients. I mentioned urbanization, the scarcity of raw materials. And regulations remain key market engines. But on top of that, there is a change in clients' needs, and people have become more and more attentive to our services. And we call this the resource revolution.

The world around SUEZ and its clients is changing fast. By anticipating these changes, by further innovating, SUEZ is positioning itself as a key player, a reference player, a benchmark, serving clients, helping them meet their environment and financial constraints.

I'm aware that there are, unfortunately, still quite a few skeptics, but in my mind, there is no doubt. Take a look at access to water and how difficult it is to achieve access to water resources and raw materials on the planet are not limitless. They are scarcer and scarcer day after day. Access to these resources has become a key challenge, a capital challenge. And this is indeed at the heart of the future performance of SUEZ's operations.

This may be a competitive edge, a significant one for us in the future models of the circular economy. I think we understood this very early on maybe before others, and we have preempted the changes in demand by taking strategic positions in energy recovery and material recovery for instance.

For a few years now, we've been facing a lack of growth in Europe. Christophe spoke about this at great length. We're also facing shrinking volume, a lack of inflation, and raw material price volatility. Uncertainty leads to inertia and a lack of confidence when it comes to a number of economic players who are reducing their investments.

In this adverse environment, municipal administrations and industrial groups want environmental efficiency and economic efficiency at the same time, which is why we sign more and more multi-site, multi-business contracts. And these agreements allow our customers to create value, and they allow us to create value as well. So, we share additional value with our clients.

Furthermore, there's the digital revolution which mobilizes us in two ways. It transforms our ways of working with Big Data. These huge flows of information that we generate, transmit and process. With all that, we are able to optimize and provide new services. This new paradigm applies to all our businesses. And indeed, it changes our ways of working.

Let me give you a few examples. Our truck routes are optimized because our drivers get real-time information from the containers. The containers are fitted with chips that give their fill rate and so on. Our water plants are driven by platforms and staff who work in regional control towers. And this cuts cost and increases efficiency.

And digitization also changes customer relations. There are new models that are coming up. And new players are trying to capture added value by putting together customers and companies very fast. So, we have to adjust. We have to adapt our models to these new demands. And that is the rationale of the transformation that we have initiated since the summer of 2016.

In the face of competition that is changing, SUEZ's response is quite straightforward. We are becoming a far more integrated group, far more agile and far more cost cutting. We offer services dedicated to the management of resources.

I believe that new opportunities will arise for us. And there will be far more possibilities than there used to be. But in order to tap into these opportunities, we have to change our group's DNA. We've been working on that for a long time, but now we have to step up the pace. And here are the key avenues of the transformation that we've been working on.

First, greater proximity, greater closeness with our clients. In our historical businesses, customers would come to us. They were often captive customers. Today, however, customers are volatile and free. They need to be harnessed, convinced. They need precise responses to their needs and demands. But they need to be tied in. Also, our propositions have to be full of performance.

For instance, we've deployed our [ph] VISIO (52:34) platforms that bring together all our teams, facilities, technologies. And with these platforms, we can achieve real-time driving of drinking water and wastewater treatment platforms over 12 departments, 763 municipal administrations including the City of Saint-Étienne. Today, we are deploying this facility across the French territory. And eventually, we will have roughly 10 or so control towers, as I said earlier.

Thirdly, our organization has to be nimble, agile. This involves rethinking our models, changing our models, overhauling them. So, striking alliances with start-ups. Rubicon, a U.S., Terracycle, [indiscernible] (53:24). These are partnership agreements with start-ups. We've taken stakes in these companies to move as fast as possible to bridge the technical and human gap that we sometimes face.

Finally, we need to be innovative. For instance, decarbonation. There are individual – there are plenty of softeners in households. So, [indiscernible] (53:54) and Valenciennes have decided to provide a collective system. There are also other municipal administrations working on that. And the excess of scale of limestone is recycled into other operations. It's a form of circular economy that has been rolled out further innovation now.

The [indiscernible] (54:14) program with the City of Strasbourg, the injection of biomethane generated by the sanitation plant and closing to the urban network. The facility produces the equivalent of the consumption of roughly 5,000 dwellings with low consumption. The sludge is stored. It's used to heat up – it provide heat into the clientele and another successful example of the circular economy.

Earlier I was speaking about transformation, in 2017, acceleration of the group transformation illustrates the evolution of our priorities. First – and I'll come back to this proximity, greater closeness with our clients. And with our renewed sales proposition, we have to be able to listen to our clients, innovate and deliver. But our group is decentralized and diversified moving to a single brand, has helped us accelerated [indiscernible] (55:18) propositions between our businesses and between our regions and also [indiscernible] (55:23) possible to better understand the diversity of our clients, their specific needs, and we can now offer them to more targeted services.

For example, in France, in our R&R business, we have organization according to customer categories, industry, and also organized by size in order to fine-tune identification of needs, and at the end, we pull resources.

Infrastructures and e-commerce platforms. Our approach towards industrial clients has also changed considerably. Customers [indiscernible] (55:58) customers are often partners involved in value creation, the additional value that our know-how provides. And that is the case of Total that I already mentioned.

With local authorities, it's the same story. Innovative contracts, we share into the performance. We help citizens better recycle. We improve collection with smart systems. These are examples of ideas to improve our propositions. We were awarded Covaldem contract amounting to roughly €460 million in sales over 19 years. The performance of the contract will be shared with the local authorities through a mixed economy company.

Digitization also contributes to performance. The development of e-commerce revolutionizes our company and its relations with customers. And it fosters quick change, another consequence of the contribution of digitization while the fact there are new markets and players, marketplaces and so on.

Some types of waste, disintermediation becomes possible in certain markets. And other players can step in and improve the effectiveness efficiency and the cost of the process. Therefore, we have to use these tools, provide our expertise and capture additional value. What I'm [indiscernible] (57:37) is that we are no longer in a defensive position for all this. We are in a for all this. We are in a proactive, offensive, aggressive position. We blend our knowhow with these new technologies. And it's difficult to copy us. And there are very few copycat wannabes who will succeed.

Also, in addition to the way we work and we support our changing clients' needs, I've made a decision to rethink the appropriation of CapEx across the group. No one can dispute the fact that Europe is the cradle of the group and that our positions are very, very solid, indeed. Nevertheless, in certain areas, growth is greater than in other areas. Therefore, we shall continue to fortify our operations in areas where there are profitability opportunities that would be greater than in Europe.

For example, we've decided to strengthen our investments in regulated operations in the U.S. and in Chile. The regulated sector offers stable profitability and clear visibility. And by way of example, it accounts for 30% of our capital employed and a mere 27% of our CapEx. So, there's room for growth there.

Also, international operations can grow. The potential in China, in Australia, in Southeast Asian countries, in the Middle East, in Latin America is such that we are going to continue to roll out our knowhow and human and financial resources.

To give you a few examples, in China, for instance, there's the hazardous waste, which represents more opportunity today. In Latin America, it is desalination and the reuse of our wastewater and irrigation. And in the Middle East, we see this issue, all the waste, be it for incineration or for treatment of polluted soil.

So, it is with indeed a great deal of confidence in our collective capacity to actually face the challenge for tomorrow that we are facing 2017. And we are aiming at a slight organic increase in revenue and EBIT, and a free cash flow of €1 billion and a net debt to EBITDA ratio, which would be 3x plus a dividend of €0.65 per share.

So, SUEZ is undergoing transformation. And our business lines are undergoing enormous change. As I've said, it's a digital revolution and a resource revolution. And if I might say so, we are living through all this with a great deal of passion, confidence, and certainty.

Ladies and gentlemen, before I leave you the floor to ask your questions, I would like to remind you of the complete confidence that I have in the ability of SUEZ employees to make this transformation in 2017 a success. 2017 is indeed a year of transformation. And this is a step that we have to take and we shall be successful.

Thank you very much. And now, we are willing to answer your questions with Christophe. Thank you.

Good morning. I'm from JPMorgan and I have a question. A few questions. One, about M&A. The Figaro reported that you were looking at GE Water assets and [indiscernible] (01:01:39) apparently said that your board was behind it. I suppose that you've already determined your prices, but perhaps you might give us an idea about the strategic fit that it has and how it might accelerate to your growth with the industry.

I have another question, and that would be on Chile end of last year. Apparently, at the end of the last year, there was a law that was voted in and which could potentially have an impact on [indiscernible] (01:02:10). So, with a reduction in regulated return, cap on rates, and I believe it's not for now, it'll be in perhaps 2020, but we would still need a Senate approval. So indeed, I would like to have an idea about it. I believe that you are greater experts than I might ever be.

Then I'd also like to talk to you about forex. We did see that Veolia, your competitor, has actually increased its growth ambitions and for 2017. At SUEZ, you are more moderate in what you have to say. You have underlined the fact that there was a recovery in these Chilean peso and their currencies. So, what is the forex effect that you're expecting for 2017? Thank you very much.

So, let me answer your first two questions, and then Christophe will go on with Chile and forex. Now, about GE Water, let me confirm then that we are indeed interested by this asset and that we are going through a sales process. So it's rather difficult for me to give you all the details. However, I can point out one or two elements.

Firstly, the strategy behind it. It so happens that we really know GE Water well because we have a certain number of agreements with them, and we have had quite a few discussion on industrial corporation with them. GE Water represents three very important thesis of our development as we had defined it with our business strategy and with our board of directors.

Firstly, its industrial water. Historically, we've not done so well as far as industrial water or processed water is concerned, and our development and the skill was limited. So, this was one of our aims because we believe that in the coming years as far as global growth is concerned, industry will be there. We see that in India and in China. And now, it's appearing also in Latin America. It will certainly be the case, I believe, in Africa.

We believe that human development and industrial development are both intertwined and so all in multinational groups. We will be with them, and industrial water is one of our development aims. And with GE Water, it will be a major technological leap upwards and a quantum leap upwards. Apart from that, GE Water is extremely global. I won't go into details, but this group is present on all continents. And virtually, 50% of its turnover is outside of the USA. And therefore, it will accelerate our turning global, and that's the SUEZ Group.

And thirdly, it has also extremely ahead of all of us in terms of smart water digitization is concerned. So, that's another one of the four boosters that we in SUEZ are looking for. So, as far as we are concerned, it's a perfect strategic fit. SUEZ has always moved in terms of allying. Its objectives with financial rigor. So, I do believe that this operation, we will carry out with the same determination and the same cool-headedness that we always had. And so we shall maintain all of our financial balances as required. So, that's all I have to say to you at this point in time.

Now to come to Chile, apparently, you're very well cognizant of this fact. One must know, of course, how the Chilean Parliament operate. Now, of course, there is a draft, a provision, in fact, not just for water but for virtually all assets. In Chile, in fact all major assets are regulated. Electricity, gas, water, all the commodities, telecommunications, everything is regulated. The system seems to work fairly well in Chile. And it is, in fact, the normal return on committed capital, which is usual.

So, of course, there is this draft resolution to try and bring down this return, which would be according to contract and so on. Now, this draft was refused by the government. It was turned down. And I'd be extremely surprised that it be voted in, in the same conditions that you had mentioned. So, we shall of course remain extremely vigilant.

And I'd like to say that during our last visit, in his last visit, President Hollande spoke to Mrs. Bachelet about that and said that if you still want to attract investment, you can't take unilateral decisions of this kind. So, it is indeed a point that is virtual, it's not rare. And naturally, we are keeping an eye on it. But it has absolutely no impact as you said yourself. Maybe in 2020, there'll be an impact. Besides, there'll be elections soon in Chile. Now, this is a risk that we are running, but then, there are always risks, but this is a rather limited one.

Now, forex for you, Christophe.

So, yes, talking about the exchange impact. Now, we are a company. We are not importers or exporters. We are a local company providing local services. Secondly, we always finance everything in local currency. So, you see what are the breakdown of our debt is. So, euros, it's 53% and other currencies are dollar 21%, and the Chilean peso accounts for 15% of our total debt.

Second point, there's a dual effect as far as the peso is concerned because as P&L indicators are concerned, if you look at the average rate, there was a drop in the peso in 2016. And peso then recovered in the course of the last few weeks. So what we converted into euros of debt has now decreased. So, as far as 2017 is concerned, it's a minor advantage for us to give you a clearer answer. If we carry on with the present exchange rates, we believe that there'll be a forex, which would be plus €20 million for EBIT.

Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. I have three questions to get back to your figures for 2017. To begin with, the change in provisions and assets and others, so the swing of minus €102 million to plus €84 million, can you explain this change and the impact that it might have on tax and minorities insofar as this is concerned in 2016?

Secondly, you did explain to us that the income tax was slightly high in 2016 partially because of the anticipation in the drop of taxation rate. So, can you please clarify that because I didn't quite understand how much tax you were paying in 2016, and to what extent it was related to your future anticipation of drop in taxes? Plus tell us about electricity prices in 2016. I think, last year, you were barely covered. Where are you today? How well are you protected? And, more clearly, give us figures, knowing what you know about your hedging, knowing the electricity rates today. If these rates remain the same – if this tariff remains the same for the rest of the year, what is your exposure?

Okay. Let me try and answer this and starting with electricity tariffs. We sell in R&R in Europe, Recycling & Recovery, so the figures we gave you, it's 4,000 megawatts and a little bit on the open market. Now, I would say that we really [indiscernible] (01:11:15) provided for there was a major drop in November, December 2015. And as a result, we suffered a drop of €27 million that I mentioned to you.

And now and if Jean-Marc agrees as the boss of R&R and also under control of our financial department, we now have a policy of hedging, a ruling cover that we have particularly for all the bits that we sell under open market. And so, today, despite the fact that electricity tariffs – and I'm just summing it up because I know this issue really well, Emmanuel, because in the UK and Benelux, Germany, et cetera, don't really behave in the same way. We may consider that in the beginning of the year, the fraction that we sell on the open market is covered to up to 75% for 2017, not as far as electricity goes, no.

Regarding tax, as I was saying, the tax that you see in the income statement for 2016, if you compare it to the tax credit that we had received in 2015 in Spain, but a little later, which increased this gap. There's also the fact that as far as the French tax scope is concerned that you see in the brochure, we had in fact quite a stock of deferred tax. And so, we have people who are very attentive to what is being said here in the room. So, what is the medium term tax rate as far as the tax scope is concerned in France. So, there are two points should be kept in mind.

Firstly, what will be the estimated tax results of income of our French area. And have we provided for any changes in tax rate in the coming year. Now, we're doing exactly what the other French companies are doing. And since there is supposed to be a drop in 2020, so by definition, that means we have reduced in P&L €30 million worth of taxes.

So, this is what I would call – this is a five-year plan. This is a five year plan. And we take the tax rate plus the impact that it has on our income. To answer your question, I can tell you this a little later, but the tax impact is rather minor and then virtually knowing to be exceptional elements, there's just the tax effect that we have on all of our sales, on our capital gains, but there's nothing really connected to it as such apart from that.

Morning. Olivier van Doosselaere. I have several questions. I have understood that you can't really give us exact figure as far as growth is concerned to 2017. But perhaps you can give us some idea from magnitude? What is the difference that you see in international compared to other divisions in Europe?

Another question related to my earlier one. You did mention that without seeing an increase in the volume of waste in 2016 first quarter, partially related to new units that you would set up, how do you see the underlying trends? Now, talking of organic growth. What would be the scope for 2017 and its effect? Because indeed, you have bought assets and you also talked about sales. You talked about divestments. So, what are you going to tell us about that, for 2017?

Well, as you might have noticed that we didn't really wish to give you exact figures as far as growth is concerned. But I've told you about the forex as I mentioned to you a little earlier. As far as scope is concerned, what you might keep in mind is really simple. In 2017, there will be no tax provisions related to the €36 million operation.

To give you an idea of the impact on EBIT that all these sales would have, take about €20 million, €20 million would be roughly it. On the other hand, also there are two plus points and that is the increase of our share in ACEA, and that's worth about €15 million. And then, you have the impact of the ACEA operation. So now, it would be about €10 million.

So, now briefly about the ACEA operation, it was, in fact – I'm just leaving out all the strategic aspects that Jean-Louis mentioned. Let me tell you what it means. It's also a positive development between ourselves and our 40-year-old partners, partnership, in fact. So now, we're coming out of this 50/50. So, in water, where we were at 50% each and we are now at 58% controlling shares. And in waste also, we've gone up to 58%. So, in all, we'll be including additional income, additional shares. So, that's exactly what the €30 million I mentioned to you is all about. So, I've given you what the scope is and the effect.

Now, about Recycling & Recovery, as you mentioned, there was a certain acceleration in the underlying trend in third quarter. Well, look, it's rather difficult to make any forecast particularly in this ever-changing world. You have seen that there have been several events, which have made things even more complicated. And as Christophe says, and it's extremely important, this is the first year in the month of January that our figures were in line with budget as far as R&R Europe is concerned.

So, that means that somewhere along the line what we are saying is solid. I personally believe that we are going through a gradual stage of pickup recovery in volumes in West, in Europe. And gradually, as I said to you earlier, gradually, there'll be new sectors of activity, of recovery, of recycling that will set up, be it in raw materials or whatever, energy.

Well, I'm being cautious because, in the past, we had noted that industrial production in Europe was rather erratic with certain quarters where it was up, and the rest of the time it was down. There was so much up and down going on. We always did what we've preached and preached what we do. But in fact, circumstances are such that now we tend to be a little bit prudent. But on the whole, I would say that I have greater peace of mind now than I did last year at the same time.

As far as growth is concerned, I do believe that I have answered your question almost completely. We did see that we would accelerate our international development and we did see that the medium-term growth for international would be between 6.8%. We had also said that we would put in more capital expenditure. However, one does go through ups and down. We are building these huge plants and that does – could have dip into our turnover, we also have operations and so on.

So, anyway, as far as international is concerned, I do believe that we're going in the right direction for medium and long-term plans. And we are putting all the muscle that we need to – men and material are going into it. I would say that there are signs of recovery. And thanks to all these indices, that we remain rather cautious.

In Europe and particularly in France, there are other points to be kept in mind. We mentioned that already. Volumes in water are still dropping even if they are rather stable in waste. Inflation is very low. You've seen that the impact it has had on our figures.

And one last point, which is very important, customers today don't wish to invest anymore. We can invest. They don't wish to increase tariffs either because you might say that private investment is there instead of public investment. But for the time being, it's all rather limited. And it's – the sum total of all these reasons that has made us rather cautious about our group prospects.

Do you wish to add anything, Christophe?

No. No, I only contribute towards making up all these models. So to what Jean-Louis was saying, there's no inflation in Europe and we believe we're going on the assumption – we always look at industrial production rather than GDP.

And we [indiscernible] (01:21:37) in Europe proportionately to our turnover in each country. So our assumption is based on these very public macroeconomic forecasts you see. Now, you might remember that not very long ago, we were talking about growth in Europe. And we have set that by 2017 and 2018, we'd be back up to 2% and – which is just not the same for us in our line of business.

Yes, sir.

Morning. Philippe Ourpatian from Natixis. I have three questions. The first one is about the IFRIC. You didn't talk about the [indiscernible] (01:22:23) that would be attributed to the standards? And your competitors have mentioned this. And secondly...

Let me answer that. We were up-to-date in – we were already up-to-date in 2004.

Okay. Now new services in Europe, you're saying that there's a lot of growth, you've given lots of figures. Can you give us what the margins are? Are you still above the average margin of the group in all that is sanitization?

Now, you mentioned ACEA and GE. What are your options in the medium term to actually integrate this affiliate? You might keep in mind that the town hall is still – the local municipality is still a majority partner and might create a lot of obstacles. So, what are you planning to do there in Italy?

You answered about IFRIC. Now, those of you who are unaware with IFRIC 12, IFRIC 12 is a specific treatment. It's a process. When you pay a public customer a fees, it's independent of volumes. It all depends if you have operations in this field. And when we do, in fact, we did have it, but we dealt with it in September. So, that might have an effect, let's say, of latency.

Now, service margins. Now, if you'll – just to refer to the slide, the EBIT on R&R in the marginal rates are proportionally 4.8% to 4.9% as you see compared to the turnover. And you must always keep in mind how much capital we've invested in it. And this was independently of the €28 million latent effect of electricity prices, and that is thanks to all the effort that we made. Thanks to Jean- Marc Boursier and his team in terms of stringent planning. Now about ACEA.

Yes. The Municipality of Rome has quite a few financial problems and is indebted. I do believe it's up to €14 billion. Generally speaking in Italy, we do believe that privatization. And that's what the Italian government feels that part of these public utilities, if they were to be privatized, would bring down the subsidies, which are provided, which is one of the reasons why the budget is down every single year, and that's why public debt is up. But having said that, we are partners of the City of Rome and it's up to the City of Rome to decide what they want to do with its share. You also talked about waste several times.

We had proposed with our partner [indiscernible] (01:25:38) to look at this issue to the City of Rome. Now, Rome has a genuine problem when it comes to waste. It has absolutely no more amenities and there's no more dumpsters. So, everything is sent by train to Germany and other countries for incineration. And we are there. We are available to work with them, to work with the municipality on all these issues. So, we are long-term partners, and changes have taken place, but very slow in this field.

Water is also a very sensitive issue. So, we are doing things gently, gradually, in agreement with the municipality and thanks to Marie-Ange Debon. We are reorganizing our business in Italy because we do believe that on the whole, SUEZ must take a second look, must revamp to provide more services, not just in water and waste, but also in building. As I've mentioned to you, we are building several residual water plants, and we have an excellent team working in Milan. So, that's all I have to say about Italy and ACEA.

So, now you have a question on the phone.

Michel Debs from Citigroup. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have three questions, if I may. The first, about investments. You're showing us lot of CapEx, but probably maintenance and development. When it comes to development, I believe that there's a share which is contractual and necessary. My question is straightforward. In order to maintain your earnings, what CapEx do you need? And as a consequence, in development CapEx, what share can create new earnings, which is not defensive on the as-is?

Second question. In 2016,you performed disposals and you also impaired a few assets. I suspect that there will be less depreciation in 2017. Can you help us quantify the impact of asset impairment and can you tell us more about disposals?

Third and last question. Your guidance for EBIT, you said a slight organic growth. Are we talking about – do we have to restate that? And I do understand the guidance excludes industrial production variations. Could you please tell us how sensitive your operating profit and cash flow are to a 1% variation in industrial production. Thank you.

Okay. I'll try to answer Michel's questions. Hello, Michel. Regarding the guidance, I try to give you details about forex and scope, and then I'd like to come back to what Jean-Louis suggested. We're expecting continuation of further international growth. We're expecting the recovery of Recycling & Recovery, and we're not expecting any growth in Water Europe for the reasons we explained. With all that in mind, I think that you have a clear definition of the slight increase, slight organic increase in revenue and EBIT. It has to be profitable growth, of course.

Secondly, regarding consequences of disposals and impairment. On the one hand, I gave you the consequences in scope variation amounting to roughly €20 million. That's the impact on EBIT. Regarding the consequences on amortization, I think it's quite moderate given the nature of the transactions we went ahead with.

Regarding what you should expect in 2017, well, let me give you two piece of information. COMPASS, our efficiency program, we're sticking to our commitments. Over a year ago, we gave you our objective, €300 million in 2016/2017. We have €180 million now given the difficult start of fiscal 2016, but we did achieve the €180 million objective. But we do intend to comply with the €150 million conventional COMPASS objective, which we have [indiscernible] (01:30:31) to the increase in operating efficiency.

Also, as you may recall, when we showed you the – when we gave you results at the end of September, we said that we would accelerate transformation in France. Jean-Louis gave you details about that and how we're rolling that out. We said that when it comes to support functions in France, we're running a vast program, and the scheduling involves, first, greater mobility. We have significant staffing in France, so ins and outs, so mobility is the key factor we're using.

And we also have a voluntary departure plan, one of the components of mobility, therefore. And since we're going to initiate this into early April for various reasons having to do with agreements with the trade union partners and so on. And by the way, there's a lot of consensus with our labor relations. So, by the end of June, things will have moved forward, and then we will take stock of the situation, and we'll see what kind of provisions we have to write up.

Also as you may recall, Michel, we said that these accelerated efficiency measures for support functions in France should lead us to €40 million for the full-year. And by definition and given the scheduling I just mentioned, the full-year is not 2017. The full-year will be 2018. Therefore, the savings we will accomplish in 2017, and there will be savings, will be added on to the conventional COMPASS-related savings. So, I suggest you take all those numbers into consideration.

Regarding investments now, our rationale is somewhat different. So I do agree with you in the fact that within development but, well, – which is – things are more [indiscernible] (01:32:36) than just discretionary – but there's a significant portion of development investments that are fully controlled by managerial decisions. And we can change that depending on which way the wind blows.

Yes. The standard investment plan for SUEZ amounts to roughly €1.1 billion or €1.2 billion. And the rule of thumb is roughly half for maintenance investments. And that serves the purpose of maintaining our facilities, and the other half as Christophe suggested is far more discretionary. And that makes it possible to run projects and generate greater sales and profit.

Guy Mackenzie from Credit Suisse.

Hi. Good morning. Three questions for me. Two a bit longer term maybe on the international segment and then one maybe a bit more near term on Chile.

Firstly, just in Australia, you mentioned pretty good growth in volumes about 7.5%, but we've been seeing some progressive increases in landfill taxes there certainly in certain regions. Just wondering if margins in Australia is sustainable or if you see a risk with Australia goes the way of Europe in terms of margin pressure as more waste is recycled, massive landfill on the back of those tax increases?

Secondly, a similar question on Hong Kong. Again, you reported good growth in waste volumes, but I understand your landfills there are nearly full with only about two years left just so of capacity. Just wondering what happens when those landfills fill up, whether there is scope for extensions or whether there would be a step down in profitability on the back of that.

And then finally, just on Chile, there's been some pretty severe flooding reported in Santiago this week with water supplies being cut off to much of the city. Just wondering if you could give us any indication of whether and how much financial impact you might see from that [indiscernible] (01:34:51) might see from that. Thanks very much.

Thank you so much. On the third one, on Chile, you are absolutely right. We had this week a flooding, but now, the service is back. And we had – we kept the service for nearly – no more than 24 hours. And as it happened yesterday, you can imagine that I cannot give you any precise number of what could be the cost. It would be a limited cost and if you – we will come back to you with that when we will have the number, which we do not have for the time being.

On Hong Kong, your information is not accurate. We have still, I should say, large volumes available in all landfills. So, we do not foreseen that we should stop the landfill in the coming two years. Absolutely not, which is true in Hong Kong. It is that in addition to landfill, you have now more and more operations for treat or to recycle or to reuse waste. You know probably that you have a big incinerator, which is we should be building in the next, let's say, four to five years. So, which means that there is a switch from landfill, a partial switch from landfill to incinerations, but that will not affect our landfill.

So, I think that in Hong Kong, you can consider that the volume and the growth we have will continue. And we have been growing also because we get additional market share in Hong Kong, and we will continue to do that. So, I have no – absolutely no doubt that the growth in Hong Kong will continue.

Now, in Australia, frankly speaking, I do not foresee any margin pressure on all landfill. I think I am – of course I'm not sure that the growth will continue at the rate of 7%. I don't know that. But for the time being, we are quite optimistic about waste activity in Australia.

There was an increase in landfill margins again in 2016 in Australia.

Understood. Can I just ask one follow-up on that then. I mean you obviously bought PerthWaste this year and your minorities in Australia. Is Australia one region where you're looking to potentially deploy further capital and make additional acquisitions?

We will do acquisitions always exactly that same way we have been doing that in the past. It's mean, it should be aligned with our strategies. So, it shall fit to our strategy first. And second, it shall be within the strong balance sheet structure and strong, I should say, financial way of doing things that we have been doing in the past. So, yes, we could be interested. Yes, the local teams can propose investment as long as they follow the criteria I'm just explaining to you.

If I may, Guy, Christophe Cros speaking. I would like to take that example because it is quite fascinating. We did an acquisition beginning of year 2016, the name is PerthWaste. It was approximately €90 million. And it is quite interesting because, first, it is clearly demonstrating that the border between development CapEx and financial CapEx is blurred.

We had [indiscernible] (01:38:29) the possibility to build our own landfill and it was planned in budget or to buy that company, which was bringing to us instantly a fully permitted landfill at the right place plus additional services. So, first demonstration, this is why the border between financial CapEx and development CapEx sometimes is quietly different.

Second, in the wake of what was said by Jean-Louis for small or larger, financial discipline is of the essence. It means that in Australia, they have some ideas about what you could be thinking about when it comes to acquisition. I see also very large amounts of goodwill. And I'm not sure that we are looking at that as a priority because and I dare to repeat it in the wake of what was said by Jean-Louis. When it comes to acquisition, we have two obsession. The first one is it has to be accretive. And you remember the criteria are always in the booklet we give you year after year. And the second comment is it cannot endanger the debt solidity of the company and the rating of the company. Those are two pillars.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I just had a couple of clarifications actually on earlier questions. The first is on guidance for 2017 and the second was around kind of some of the comments on waste volumes.

On the guidance, I just wanted to make sure I'd heard all the elements that you'd given correctly. So, if we're thinking about the starting point for your guidance of slight EBIT growth, would take the €1.282 billion EBIT number in 2016, reverse out the €36 million provision gains that you had. And then, I think, you said, take off €20 million of scope for disposals, add €25 million on some of the acquisitions and then, another €30 million for what you've done in China. And, I guess, there's no impact at this point on the commodity assumptions versus budget. So, if you could just clarify that? [indiscernible] (01:40:46), that would be very helpful.

And then on the waste volumes, you kind of said in your comments that you thought waste volumes might pick up. And then you also, I think, made a statement that they're shrinking in Europe. I was wondering whether you could just give some details on what you've seen so far? You mentioned the 1.2% increase in processing volumes last year at your facilities. How much of that is organic and how much of that is you adding new capacity? And are you seeing anything more recent in terms of any pick-up in volumes? Thanks.

I will take it. Hello, James. First, your understanding of the guidance is fully correct, exactly, the four figures you mentioned. And that's why I said that all in all, useful items, they make a resultant, which is approximately plus €10 million, and the starting point is the right one.

But for waste volumes, we said that in 2016, the process volumes and I gave the split, but it was in French and I do apologize, the split of the volumes. And I said that effectively, if you look at the organic evolution, it was slightly positive. And if we say that we expect an average weighted evolution of the industrial output in Europe, which should be around 1%, maybe you could keep that in mind when you are making your assessment, sorry, organically speaking.

Thank you. We move on to Pinaki Das from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got two questions. The first one is again on the guidance. You've given some data around the moving parts there, so thank you for that. I just wanted to frame the guidance in the context of the otherwise quite positive comments that you made through your presentation around the long-term outlook and the circular economy and all that. And also, you mentioned that 2016 was affected by quite a few negative items. So, if I were to look at your guidance, would you consider your guidance for 2017 as somewhat cautious or do you think this is a very realistic guidance, that sort of how would you look at it from a cautiousness point of view?

And secondly, the other question that I have is on GE Water. You mentioned the strategic fit and later in the presentation or during the Q&A, you also mentioned about financial discipline and a strong balance sheet. So, my question is a few – a couple of press reporters have highlighted about $3 billion EV for GE Water, dollars. How would you finance this transaction? Would you have to raise some equity? What sort of proportion we are talking about? Any color would be really helpful. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you for your questions. I think, on GE, I have been very clear. And as I mentioned before, we are in a competition process. I am not going to give you, I'm sorry, anymore additional questions.

On the guidance, but – I think we have been also clear. We are in a time where uncertainty is strong. It happened last year. Yes, we feel more comfortable at the beginning of the year, last year at the beginning of the year. But you know the traditional address has been to say what we are going to do, and at the end, to do what we have said. This is my answer.

So, Pinaki, we never drive the car without fastening fully the safety belt.

Next question by Michel Debs.

Good morning. There's just one thing you didn't answer, sensitivity to waste volume. You tell us to bear in mind that there is 1% weighted growth in industrial production in Europe, roughly 1% volume growth. How sensitive are you to a 1% increase in waste volume treated? What is the impact on EBIT or EBITDA?

Well, historically, we say that in addition – 1% difference in industrial production leads to €25 million to €30 million in EBIT. We haven't changed that. We haven't changed our view on that.

Next question by Gianluca Ferrari from Mediobanca.

Firstly, so I was wondering your free cash flow definition, I guess that's excluding hybrid and pre-minority dividends. Is that the case? And then secondly, maybe I misunderstood, but did you say that your tax rate would be increased to 30%, the effective tax rate going forward? And if that is the case, if you could re-explain why. Thank you so much.

Okay. [indiscernible] (01:46:29), I'm afraid there is a misunderstanding, but you will find the historical definition we follow. When it comes to free cash flow, we deduct or we take it from development CapEx, sorry, but you can find it clearly explained. And it has been a constant in the slides, which have been released.

Your second question is about the tax rate. What I said is that the effective tax rate we show this year, 2016, is likely to be above the average medium term tax rate. And in case it could be useful for your calculations, you should stick to something, which is around 30% because there were those specific, may I say, one-off items I mentioned, which were both positively impacting 2015 and negatively impacting 2016.

Well, if there are no further questions, neither from the audience or from our listeners over the phone or on the Internet, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen, for being so generous with your time. And we shall meet again in the road shows. Thank you so much. Have a nice day.