Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bertrand Camus — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ SA
Julian David Waldron — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance, SUEZ SA
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Oddo BHF SCA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, everyone, and welcome to the SUEZ Q3 Results Conference. My name is Lydia and I will be your coordinator for today's event. Please note this conference is being recorded and for the duration of the call, your lines will be on listen-only. However, there will be an opportunity to ask questions live on today's call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand you over to your host, Bertrand Camus, to begin today's event. Thank you.

Hello. Good evening to everyone and thank you for joining us tonight. Julian Waldron and I are very happy to have the opportunity to give you further insight as to what draws SUEZ's strong performance in Q3. We are here to talk about Q3 and we will talk only about Q3 during our Q&A session.

With that in mind, however, I would like to start by commenting briefly on the current situation with Veolia. [indiscernible] (00:01:08), our main competitor, purchased 29.9% of our capital although this is still subject to legal challenges. Before and since the date, both the board and the management team had had clear objectives; first, protect our shareholders; second, create value for them. Nothing that we have done will block any alternative that helps achieve these objectives. We will continue actively to explore all avenues that help to deliver those objectives. Let me address two issues. The first one is the foundation. The foundation is first intended to allow the board to protect SUEZ's corporate interest. This will also oblige any potential offerer to engage with us seriously so that we can protect our shareholders and other stakeholders. It is reversible at the discretion of the board of directors.

The board will not block any proposal for the company consistent with SUEZ's corporate interest and that creates full value for shareholders and also respect the other stakeholders of SUEZ. By contrast we see the foundation as a mechanism that must remain in place until such a proposal exists. It protects shareholders and attempts to remove it without first having clarity on the proposal is not in our shareholders' interest. The second issue is Veolia's position. On the 29th of September the board and the management of SUEZ were clear, the condition precedent for a serious dialogue was a serious proposal to all shareholders of SUEZ. We discussed again with Veolia between the 1st and 4th of October. They did not make such a detailed and ambiguous and unconditional proposal. Since then they continue to refuse to make such a detailed and ambiguous and unconditional proposal. The communication gives our shareholder neither certainty on price nor of form nor of timing. We consider that Veolia should treat the remaining 68% of our shareholders in the same way as NG in term of certainty.

Delivering full value remains a point of concern for us. €80 really undervalues SUEZ in our view. However, the projects in Veolia [ph] for Suez (00:04:06), even if carried through in an offer, does not give the remaining 68% of our shareholders the same value as ENGIE. There are other points which are of equal importance to us, such as guarantees of employment. The documents that we have seen so far, they do not guarantee employment in a satisfactory way. We are often asked what it takes for SUEZ to sit down and discuss with Veolia. Let us be clear on this point. Were the board and management of SUEZ to receive a detailed, unambiguous and unconditional proposal to all our shareholders from any party, our fiduciary duty at that point is to consider it. Today this basic condition is not met. We ask ourselves why. Our concern is that Veolia has no intention of offering the same condition to our 68% shareholder that they gave to ENGIE. We are also concerned about [ph] shipping control (00:05:04) and assisting attempts on their part to destabilize SUEZ and its stakeholders. [indiscernible]

(00:05:11) brokers, for example, carrying through the execution of our SUEZ 2030 strategy which is already creating value for our shareholders. Let us be clear, this is not about blocking for the sake of blocking, nor about the rules of management. This is only about protecting SUEZ corporate interests, shareholders, employees and clients. At this point, the only concrete proposal on the table for all our shareholders is the SUEZ 2030 strategy. We believe it will create significant value for all our shareholders and is already delivering ahead of expectations. All of our employees continue to focus on delivering our essential services. Throughout the last three months, some of them were managing the peak of the crisis in the country, in the US, in Australia and Chile, for instance. As those geographies are now starting to get out of the crisis first I would like to thank again our employees for their relentless efforts and agility to serve our clients the best despite the complex conditions created by the pandemic. Attention is now back to Europe and I trust our employees will be as motivated as ever to manage the period ahead of us.

Overall, you see our ability to react [ph] when that occurs on (00:06:30) operations and we are able to act very fast. At the same time, the teams are driving the strategy forward and our Q3 results show the results of their drive and determination. I will now like to go through those in details with you.

The initiatives we have taken and implemented rigorously supported the group's performance throughout the quarter, both in terms of top line momentum and profitability improvement. We are back to growth with revenue of 0.4% organically at 0.4% in Q3. And we are delivering €336 million of EBIT over the period. In Q3, we have experienced strong commercial dynamics quarter-after-quarter. We reinforce our technology and innovation leadership and more than ever the excellence of our solutions and the unique know-how of our teams allow us to answer the complex and fast-changing needs of our clients and win contracts.

Overall, the strong performance in Q3 give us a confirm for the contracts to confirm our H2 guidance both on revenue and EBIT objectives. Debt financial projections are consistent with the measures taken at this stage in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic in the geographies in which we operate. Our teams are fully dedicated to ensuring continuity of services in this challenging period and again I wish to deeply thank them for their commitment. In total our Q3 results showcase the relevance of SUEZ 2030 and how we are creating sustainable value as soon as now in the interest of all our shareholders.

More than ever, our ambition is to become the undisputed leader in environmental services. Our positioning is unique and it is the bedrock of SUEZ 2030 strategy. We offer high value-added solutions while being agile, entrepreneurial and flexible to better serve our clients and grow our businesses. With that, I will hand over to Julian, who will walk you through our Q3 numbers in detail.

Bertrand, thank you very much and good evening, everybody. Thank you very much for joining us. I'll go through the Q3 results briefly. But explain to you why those good results underpin our confidence in an environment that is more and more difficult, that's obvious, and our confidence that we will meet our commitments to you for the second half of the year. So, I'll turn directly to slide 4 to give you an overview of key figures for the quarter. I would note that unless I say otherwise my comments refer to the quarter and not the year-to-date. The quarter fits with the guidance we have which covers the second half of the year.

So the main points, we showed organic growth this quarter. Revenue was up 0.4% organically. One of the most important drivers of that was our Environmental Tech & Solutions segment. EBITDA rose organically by 0.9%. The EBITDA margin at 18.1% was at last year's level in Q3. Our performance plan as well as the measures taken to reduce costs during the pandemic supported our profitability throughout the quarter despite the less favorable business mix overall. And last, our cash flow was particularly strong. Net debt fell by €450 million compared to June was below the levels of a year ago by over €300 million. And I know this is before any substantial proceeds come into the balance sheet from asset disposals.

So with that, now let's dig into the performance of the three segments and I will start on slide 5 with Water. The Water segment recorded €1.7 billion of revenue, down 1.7% organically. ForEx had a negative impact of 2.5% notably due to the appreciation of the euro against the US dollar and the Chilean peso. From the bridge you can see that lower volumes were the result of lower tourism in Europe that impacted revenue for €88 million. You can see that tariff was slightly positive and the commercial activity was neutral. You can see the construction intervention work restarted pretty much everywhere where we operate with the exception of Latin America.

I look more closely at volumes of water sold over the quarter. In Spain down 3.5%, reflecting the low tourism activity. In France they were flat, lower tourism was offset by a hot and dry summer. In Chile confinement measures were maintained until the end of September and volumes were down 5.9%. By contrast in North America volumes were up 2.3%, again the weather was an important driver.

If you look at tariffs over the quarter they were up 1.8% in France, up 3.4% in Chile, inflation, and up 1.9% in the US. In Spain, tariffs were down 0.9% including the sharp drop in Barcelona with which you're familiar.

I can turn on slide 6 to Recycling & Recovery. Revenue came in at €1.9 billion, up 0.6% organically; reflecting a constructive dialog with our clients, pricing momentum continues to be satisfactory and added €26 million to revenues in the quarter. Pricing more than offset weak volumes and commodities. Waste volumes were down 1% in Q3 against the same period last year. Overall, that means that we were in line or maybe even slightly better than our expectations for waste volumes.

By region processed volumes were as follows, in France minus 2.6%, in the UK up 7%. Benelux and Germany slightly up, continuity of the relatively resilient performance that we saw in those areas in previous quarters. And in Australia, for example, volumes were also up 2.1%. In commodities, a lower impact over the quarter with paper, plastics and electricity being offset by a small positive impact from diesel and metals.

And I'll turn to slide 7, my third segment, Environmental Tech & Solutions. Revenue at €878 million in Q3 was up 1.6% organic. And behind that headline number, we have the following. First, a noticeable improvement in the hazardous waste. In Europe, volumes were flat versus last year but that reflects better [ph] volumes although volatile volumes or treated (00:13:51) volumes for example in construction. In Asia, the renewal of activity, the entry into new service of new facilities drove good volumes up 20%. Second, we continue to see excellent resilience at WTS. Volumes of business are holding well in project, in products, services and chemicals. Project execution continues to be good. New orders are slow but there are still some bright spots for example in energy and in the Middle East. The demand for mobile units continues to be excellent in particular in North America.

Last I would just thank the teams because cost reduction, operational performance and in particular cash flow performance continue to move in the right direction. Last, in smart and environmental solutions, confinement slowed activities both in Latin America and we've seen that as well in France. But against that, the level of incoming opportunities continues to grow. We're winning new business already in smart for the future.

Our last slide is slide 8, to conclude on our cash and debt position. Three comments here, first, working capital. The actions undertaken by the teams to better control our working capital are starting to bear fruit. We've upgraded processes and our control of receivables is now tighter. We're also paying our suppliers more reliably and faster. I believe there's more to come in this area.

Second, CapEx, we said we'd be careful during 2020 during the pandemic with our CapEx. The teams have enabled us to decrease CapEx by 14% year-to-date. We expect to increase investment again in quarter four.

Third, disposals, there's a very minor impact on our balance sheet from disposals, as only one was technically completed in the quarter and that was the sale of our 4.8% stake in AquaSure. It brought in €46 million of proceeds. In quarter four, we've closed this sale. The other wave one disposals are probably now for early 2021.

But to conclude, the combination of working capital, discipline in the way we spend our money means that net debt decreased by €310 million versus end September last year. And also, and I think significantly decreased versus end June 2020 by €459 million.

And with that, I turn back to Bertrand to close.

Thank you, Julian. In the third part of our presentation, I will like to reiterate a few messages about our commitment to the delivery of value to our shareholders and stakeholders.

I'm now on slide 10 where we illustrate where we are continuing to grow the company by relying on our best-in-class technology. I would like to illustrate with an example on rainwater networks. We have developed a range of sensors, connected solutions, and algorithm that enable to instantly measure the level of residues present in the drain due to waste generated by street activities or incivilities. These solutions arose to optimize cleaning rounds and accordingly better control our cost of network management. Thanks to these solutions, we won a new contract for the metropolitan area of Marseille worth €98 million revenue over an eight-year period.

Thanks to our innovation capability developed in France and our worldwide R&D network, our well-acknowledged partnership culture, we are able to win sizeable contracts in international geographies. This is the case for the service contracts won in China and Philippines end of September for municipal and industrial wastewater treatment worth more than €90 million on revenue.

Let's now move to slide 11 about our asset rotation plan. A month ago, we presented the excellent progress of our asset rotation plan. The first round of disposal plan have delivered beyond expectations and at very attractive multiples. We are already engaged in advanced discussion on the key assets regarding the second wave of disposal for an amount of around €2 billion. I want to stress our deliberate and strategic approach when it comes to disposal. The plan we announced more than a year ago is unchanged. Our goal is to reposition our portfolio and segments in which we have a clear differentiation in order to offer tech and innovation-based added-value services to our clients.

The completion of the first wave is a prime example of this. As planned, we have divested some assets for which the ability to enhance value is not driven by differentiation and added-value solutions. The cash generated by the disposal in Recycling & Recovery and Water will be reinvested in ETS both organically and through M&A to continue to acquire and develop our technological know-how in industrial water, hazardous waste, and smart environmental solutions. We will also continue to invest in Asia-Pacific and in North America regions, offering higher growth potential. Once again, this is the very same plan and associated strategy presented a year ago and which received the unanimous support of our board.

Moving to slide 12. The third lever we are using to enhance value creation is an improved performance. A better performance allows us obviously to improve our margins, but also to better serve our clients and it allow us to reallocate our workforce to higher added value worth, while automating low added tasks. As announced on the 22nd of September, we identified €275 million of operating performance improvements in 2020. As you can see on that slide, we have successfully achieved around €200 million over the first nine months of the year.

Our initial plan was to deliver €1 billion of total gross savings by 2023. However, we are moving fast on this plan. The leaner organization structure we put in place is already delivering and we have identified around 90% of this initial plan amount by 2022. Then that enabled us to lift our target to a total of €1.2 billion of total gross savings by 2023. The success of this performance plan will drive our EBIT and EBITDA over the next two, three years and it also give us more flexibility to grow and to invest in [ph] LNG (00:21:05), digital, and innovation.

Moving to the next slide. As we explained on September 22 and as illustrated by our performance in Q3, the execution of our plan drives improvement in cash generation. In addition, the execution of the disposal program will allow to [ph] deploy (00:21:27) capital. This will be done according to a balanced allocation. We expect to generate €4.5 billion of gross cash flow and to collect €4 billion of M&A disposals over the period starting July 1, 2020 to the end of 2022.

Shareholder return will benefit from an increase in ordinary and extraordinary dividend in 2021 and 2022. But most of all, we see an opportunity to fuel business growth with CapEx and external growth, representing at least €4.5 billion over the period. There are a lot of opportunities in our market where we can differentiate and create value. We will always however exercise great financial discipline in our investment decisions.

To conclude this presentation and before getting into a Q&A session, I want to repeat how pleased I am with the delivery of our SUEZ 2030 plan. A year after its announcement, it comes in full force and already considerably reinforced our ability to offer better and higher value-added solutions to our clients while creating today value for all our shareholders. The strategy has enabled us to manage throughout the pandemic and [indiscernible] (00:22:46) our essential services. It enabled us on September 22 to set out a clear financial trajectory for 2021 and 2022, which we confirm. It enabled us to set our guidance for H2 2022 to 2023. And our strong performance in the third quarter enables us to confirm that guidance also.

Thank you very much and we are with Julian at your disposal to answer your question. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Olivier Van Doosselaere of Exane BNP Paribas. Olivier, when you're ready, please go ahead.

Yes. Good evening. Thank you very much for taking the questions as usual and congratulations on the strong quarter. In this piece, a couple of questions on my side. Firstly, you reiterate the full-year guidance, yet I think – we may think that the Q3 might have come out better than initially expected. On my estimate, the EBIT guidance would point to a decline of between 20% and 30% in Q4, which seems particularly cautious. So, I wonder if you could help us understand well what drives the cautiousness.

Obviously, we are seeing new confinement measures across Europe, but I wonder if you could help us navigate this a little bit. And maybe also if you could give us your initial feel in terms of what is being decided these days might differ from what happened in Q2, and therefore how your business might be exposed to later decisions and current trends. And maybe if you could also, in that context, give a bit of color on how October has gone so far. That might maybe help us also to land in terms of the full-year outlook.

And then another one, I know you prefer not to comment too much on the wider situation with Veolia, but if I might just ask two points on that one. You mentioned how you wanted to have a clear and unconditional offer before you would have the fiduciary duty to discuss, but Veolia would probably make the argument that they can't make that offer before the foundation is removed. So, it does seem to be a bit of a circular reference there, and I wonder if you could give a comment on that particular situation, please. And maybe also if you could give us a bit of color on why the Caltagirone Group and also the Caixa Group have left your board, that would be interesting. Thank you very much.

Let me just start. Yes. I will start touching the various points. I think that we are at the moment, and especially on the first question which is very much around the COVID situation, where I think that we all need to be very conscious about what are the priorities for our business like ours, which is delivering essential services, both in term of water, waste management, hospital waste management. This is really what must be our main focus in the coming weeks and months, as it has been all along the year.

We maybe, in Europe, forgot a little bit about the COVID in the summer months, but I can tell you that for the teams in Chile, in Australia, and mainly in the southern hemisphere, also in the US, has been of the utmost actuality. It was really the news for them, and they had to manage it and they did it in a great way.

I think that what differs – and I will let Julian comment on the numbers. But what differs from what happened in March is, first of all, the situation is not bad everywhere. China, the economy is running. We are developing projects. I mean, it's back to normal and the pandemic seems to be very, very well-controlled. We have geographies where – I mean, we are exiting the confinement. I mean, Melbourne, which is an important place for us, just reopened this morning. Chile is also going towards summertime. So, that's the situation.

In the US, speaking about the US, the business we have has been very, very resilient throughout the year independently of the way the pandemic have been managed in the US. So, we are in a different situation than in March in term of overall situation country by country.

The second thing is that we already learned on how to adapt ourselves, not only operationally, but in term of cost control measure, running the business more efficiently during that period. And therefore, this is the reason why we can confirm, with the measures taken so far, the guidance we have been providing for the second part of the year.

If I may comment on point three, which is around the board, we have two very different situation. The Caltagirone had made an investment for four years when they swapped shares there in Acea in Italy for shares in SUEZ. This lockup period ended this summer and they started and completed their exit over the summer. And as a consequence, the representative of this investor decided to leave the board.

With respect to Caixa, this is a different situation. Mr. Fainé, for personal reason, decided to resign. You just have to understand that we had [ph] shift in boards (00:29:03) over the past two months. Sometime at 7:00 AM, other times at 10:00 PM, and therefore his own personal commitment as the Chairman of Criteria Caixa did not leave him the time to participate as he wanted to, to all those boards so he decided to resign. But Caixa confirmed, one, that it was keeping its investment and was fully supporting the deployment of our industrial projects with SUEZ 2030.

With respect to the circularity of the situation, as you want to describe it, I think we have been quite clear since the beginning. I think that to have discussion, we need to have a precise, formal, detailed offer on answering on the points that are critical for not only for the board and the management, but for our shareholders. I mean, all the questions we have been raising since the beginning of September did not receive any concrete answer at this stage. We were not part of the discussion, and this is the reason why we had to put this foundation in place to be part of the discussion. It was not the case in September. And therefore, once again, I think an offer – and this is the responsibility of [ph] Julian (00:30:31) to put this offer. It will be therefore our own responsibility, fiduciary obligation, to study carefully and to take a position, once again, in the best interest of all our stakeholder and [indiscernible] (00:30:45) of our 68% shareholder that today do not have a formal offer on the table.

Julian, you want to comment on the numbers?

Yeah. Very quickly. Thank you, Olivier. First point, October. October has been in line with September. So, with the comments that I gave you. That includes up until the weekend. And as you know, from the time we spent together in April, May, and June, I think we see fairly quickly how the business changes. We expect, if I look forward, as Bertrand said, some things to happen in quarter four. For example, we're out of confinement in Chile. So, as we move into the Chilean summer, we'd expect volumes, for example, to be more robust there. We've had a very good Q3 and I think we're ahead of our expectations. And as I've just said, I think we had a good October.

Fundamentally, on a day like today, coming in and saying we think guidance will be towards the upper end of the range or something like that, that just appear to us to be the wrong thing to say on a day like this. So – and I think had we done that, you would probably have inversed your question and asked it the other way around. Are we too prudent? I believe everything that we have in Q3 shows that we have a good momentum in our results for the second half, good momentum in our cash generation, in particular, which I think is hugely important for the second half. So, I think we can look forward to what's clearly going to be a more difficult situation over the last two months, but I think our shareholders can look forward to that with confidence.

That's very clear. Thank you very much for your answers.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next caller is Emmanuel Turpin of Société Générale. When you're ready, please go ahead.

Yeah. Hello? Can you hear me?

Very well.

Very well. Good evening.

Thank you very much. I was afraid to be on mute. Right. Thank you. Good evening, everybody. Three questions, please. First of all, on WTS, when we saw a plus 0.6% organic growth in revenues in H1 at the end of the COVID lockdown, we thought that maybe the negative impact of the crisis would be delayed into Q3. And then in Q3, WTS organic growth in revenue is plus 1.8%. So, it looks like we haven't had really a deep inactivity for WTS toward the crisis. I would love to get a bit of color maybe on what your perception about the way the activity performed through COVID on maybe differentiating between two or three main activities of WTS. What makes it crisis-resilient, please?

Second question is about provisions. You booked provisions for COVID in H1, from memory, around €280 million. Have you started using some of these provisions against cost in Q3 or maybe have you taken new provisions? Where do – how much of those COVID provisions do you still have as we enter Q4?

On my last questions to keep with the theme of the general situation with Veolia, you've been very clear. You would like to see an unconditional offer, precise, formal detailed. And my question to you is, is Veolia's plan to sell the French Water business to potentially answer the remedies of the antitrust authorities. So the plan to sell it, is it a red line to you? Is it something you wouldn't be happy to see in an – as a condition to the offer? Or are you happy to consider? Or is it not a red line? Thank you very much.

I'd take the first couple. So, 1.8% growth in the quarter as you say and I think that highlights the effort that [indiscernible] (00:35:45) and the management theme of WTS have made over the last 12 months to improve the way the business is followed, the way that the sales force is tracked, the way that opportunities and the margins on those opportunities attract as well. I think there's been a lot of hard work in the business. A year ago, we were talking about CMS, the chemicals business in the US, saying it needed to be improved and a year on we see that the teams have delivered that.

For the quarter, the only question mark and it's the same question mark that we had in quarter two is around order intake. We're doing very well in the chemical side. We're doing well in the product side. The project side as you would expect at the moment is slow, but it's no better, no worse than it was three months ago. And if anything I would say in energy and possibly in the Middle East, there's more opportunities in front of us now than they were three months ago and I think that's positive.

Behind that, regionally, the two big regions Europe and the US are doing well. Behind that, the chemicals business has continued to hold up. Yeah, probably better than all of us expected at the beginning of the year. I think some of that's just the market; some of it is the business model, which is very resilient; and some of it is the good work of the teams.

Products, we continue to ship and manufacture at good rates with good margins. Projects we continue to execute well, and I would reiterate again the mobile business in the US in particular has been very strong. And if anything, we have been looking to put more CapEx behind that and we green lighted during the quarter for additional investment in that business. The profitability, the cost reduction and the cash generation, all of that is following. When I joined a little over 18 months ago, I was convinced that this was a good business but needed more operational discipline. Bertrand said the same thing. I think you're beginning to see that.

Second question, provisions. There has been no utilization of those provisions in quarter three. The numbers you have for quarter three are clean numbers. I would note the numbers a year ago were less – were slightly less, so there was a one-off positive in quarter three. If you strip that out of EBIT, Emmanuel, you will see that we actually grew year-on-year in EBIT. So that's – I think, all-in-all you do have a good quarter.

In terms of COVID cost, we're probably about another €4 million or €5 million in the quarter for things like masks and PPE. So nothing I think that deflects. And in terms of debt recovery, I think it's too early. You'll recall that that was one of the main things that we put out at the end of June. Again, neither better nor worse. Those provisions have not been used at this point and as you can see cash collection is good. Thank you. Bertrand?

Yes. On the third question, I would like to be very clear that for us, there is no red line. It's only about managing a situation based on facts. And we are in a situation where despite all our efforts, SUEZ has not been part of the discussions between Engie and Veolia. We have appealed the decision taken by the regulatory AMF under the French stock regulator because for us, the way the transaction was structured was for us a [ph] a path to take around bond control, equipment (00:40:13) control without making an offer to all our shareholders. And therefore, we are very much focused on getting clear and concrete answers and a couple of critical points

And the first one, once again, we cannot have our shareholders [ph] living (00:40:35) 18 to 24 months without any clarity on the modalities of such a project. Right now, there is no timing, no price. There are plenty of conditions and no modalities. So this is something we want to fight for. I mean, this is our duty. You know that we have a lot of fact-based concerns about this concept of super champion because we believe that not adapting to what the markets are asking for today. And we are demonstrating through our capacity to develop the business that being a giant, innovative, tech base is really a way to grow a company and to create value for our shareholders.

But independently of that, should it be the path taken? Things have to be done properly in term of remedies. We cannot say that just get rid of the French Water business to solve the issues. The competition authorities are not only going to look at the concentration issue, but they're also going to look at that the new entity will be a true competitor in a market that is – where competition has been a clear focus of the authorities for the past decade. So, it's not just as simple as it could be presented.

I may have the same concern about employees. This transaction was done without respecting the rules about consulting the representative of SUEZ employees were the first concern by these very unprecised projects, so the tribunal has decided that it has to be done and so on and so on. So once again, no red line for us for SUEZ, the board and the management and the team, just fact-based and concrete answers to concrete questions, so that we can defend the interests of all our stakeholders starting with our shareholder.

Very clear. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next caller is Philippe Ourpatian of Oddo. Philippe, when you're ready, please go ahead.

Yes, good evening to everyone. Just two follow-up question. The first one is concerning the cost cutting. You mentioned €200 million of gross savings at the end of September. Are we in a way to – or are you in a way to fuel your EBITDA with this 35% to 45% in terms of net impact, which means €80 million accumulated amount of fueling your EBITDA and EBIT currently, could you just confirm that?

And if we may have a kind of bridge between, let's say, the nine months 2019 and nine months 2020 just to well understand how these moving between the negative impact of the COVID, let's say, which is somewhere around the €500 million and the positive impact of the other item, which are mainly fueled by the cost cutting too. That's the first question. And the second one is concerning the working capital and the debt decrease, would you share with us a kind of split of this €458 million between the working capital impact and the decreasing of your investments? Many thanks.

Julian, I think those two questions are for you.

Philippe, I will try to do all of those things. €200 million of performance first. Without going too far back over history, I think you need to start out always with assuming that in any given year, there is cost inflation and potentially also commercial price that are headwinds on our business. And you'll know from following the business longer than I have that that is €175 million a year, those sorts of numbers. So, you need to bear that in mind and keep that in the forefront of the way that you look at the bridge.

In terms of looking at how the cost reduction is coming into the P&L, to make it short, I'm just going to give you two things which I think are important. One of which reflects COVID, the other of which you can see in the P&L. SG&A – sorry, the first one COVID. So, if you look at the quarter, Water revenues are down 1.7%, R&R volumes are up, and Environmental Tech & Solutions volume – revenues are up. If you look at the underlying profitability of those three businesses you're getting a mix which is negative for Water and positive with the other two. Water is our most profitable segment at this point.

So, you're getting behind the take out of cost a certain amount of negative mix movement over the nine months. So, when we look at the amount of cost reduction that we're delivering and the amount we're keeping behind the headline numbers, we would need I think in more detail to take you through that – some of those mix effects.

Where we can guide you though with specifics is to look at what's happening to SG&A year-over-year. According to my estimate, we are delivering in excess of €100 million of reduction in SG&A over the first nine months of the year. As you know, the spot plan initially was to deliver most of our performance from procurement and from industrial performance in our plants to reduce the cost of sales, and there was 25% to 30% that come from SG&A. So I think we're probably performing as well as we can if not over performing in SG&A.

Some of that short-term measures to reduce COVID, to reduce our costs ahead of COVID. So one of the things that we're seeing is that where the business has taken cost out, they are putting it back in more slowly with volume. And I think that's a very good thing, that's a very positive movement for us in terms of takeout. So the performance plan, the cost reduction, there's some impact in the quarter-to-date but I think it's going to accelerate from here.

In terms of cash flow, two things to note. Cash flow in the quarter was positive to the tune of over €100 million and you're probably having about the same impact from CapEx, and the rest of it comes from the gross cash flow. There's a positive impact from forex in the quarter that you'd expect. But I think most of its coming from good fall through cash flow, positive working capital and the CapEx that I mentioned.

Looking ahead to Q4, we will want to re-increase the amount we spend on CapEx. There are a number of parts of the world where as we come out of the pandemic we want to reinvest, and also for our customers in France we will want now to selectively start to reinvest as well. So I'd expect CapEx to go back up in Q4. And I think one of the positive things about seeing how we performed in the quarter in terms of cash is that we have the flexibility to do that now. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

With that, I will turn the call over to your hosts.

No more question? Okay. Thank you very much for being with us tonight and asking the questions. And as we usually say, be safe. I mean, the virus is circulating a lot. I mean, we see a lot of relatives and friends are catching the virus so keep safe and I'm sure we'll meet soon either through video, hopefully in person in the coming weeks and months. Thanks a lot for your presence and see you soon personally or virtually in the coming weeks and months. Thanks.

Thank you very much indeed. Good night, everybody.