Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Marc Boursier — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance and R&R in Northern Europe, SUEZ SA
Olivier van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Vincent Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Olly Jeffery — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the Q1 2018 Financial Results of SUEZ Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Jean-Marc Boursier, Group Senior Executive Vice President, Finance and Recovery & Recycling, Northern Europe. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining our call today. We are pleased to report our Q1 numbers for 2018. As you know, we have released this morning, our revenue, EBITDA, EBIT, and net financial debt figures for the three months period ending March 31, 2018.

I will now turn directly to the key highlights which can be seen on page 4 of the presentation. Main message is that our results are satisfactory and fully in line with our guidance for 2018. We are recording a solid underlying operational performance supported by an improved economic environment, particularly in Europe. This is something we had already started to see over the last quarter as industrial production is clearly much more dynamic than a year ago.

The group commercial momentum is positive notably in the International division. As for the integration of our new business unit, WTS, things are running well, as we have already identified and secured synergies earlier than initially planned, and the division's performance for the first quarter is very encouraging. As you know, we have launched an aggressive action plan, aimed at boosting our growth and our profitability. We are totally focused on the execution of this plan. This is our absolute priority and we are all determined to achieve SUEZ 2018 objectives. And clearly, the first quarter results make me confident in our capacity to reach them.

So, moving to slide 5 for the key figures. As you can see, our turnover has evolved well, reaching €4,058 million for the first quarter. This represents a 13.8% growth excluding forex, which is fully in line with guidance. All divisions are contributing positively and I will give you more details in a moment. EBIT amounted to €289 million, up 10.2% excluding forex, also fully in line with our guidance. And here again, all divisions are contributing positively to the group satisfactory operational performance this quarter.

Our net debt is up €349 million versus the end of December at €8.8 billion. This evolution is exclusively due, as anticipated, to seasonal increase of working capital requirements, which accounts for €268 million. Our financial leverage is at 3.3 times EBITDA at the end of March, but it will go down to around 3 times at year-end.

Now, let's get into more details on these indicators, starting with the evolution of revenue, and I'm now on page 6. Our top line growth is mainly driven by the scope effect which accounts for €449 million, notably thanks to the acquisition of GE Water. On a pure organic basis, turnover is up 1.7% and, as I mentioned earlier, all divisions are contributing positively. Water Europe division is up organically 1.4% or €15 million, mainly driven by brilliant activity in Latin America.

Our Recycling & Recovery division benefited from the improved economic environment. Its turnover is up organically 1.4% or €21 million mainly driven by higher treated volumes. The International division is up organically 2.8% or €26 million, despite contract terminations in Casablanca and Mumbai, which have not been classified as discontinuing operations. Since H2 last year, we've observed an acceleration in the dynamism of this division, which is very good news.

Forex had a negative impact of €159 million, mainly driven by the deprecation of USD, sterling, CLP against euro. And finally, we have another €18 million negative impact coming mainly from the implementation of IFRS 15 accounting standard as of January 1 this year.

If I move to slide 7, we see the EBIT evolution. EBIT came in at €289 million, up 10.2% excluding forex and up 5.5% on a pure organic basis. Key factors for this operational improvement are the following, plus €13 million of scope effect mainly linked to GE Water acquisition, plus €15 million of organic growth, which all division are positively contributing to, supported by €35 million from our Compass cost optimization program. We recorded a negative forex effect for €18 million and a negative U.S. tax effect on our regulated activity in the U.S. that accounts for €2 million.

The slight EBIT margin reduction from 7.5% in Q1 2017 to 7.1% in Q1 2018 is exclusively explained by two elements, firstly, the negative forex impact affecting our U.S. and Chilean activity, which have higher than average EBIT margins, and secondly, by a €8 million negative impact related to the sale of recycled paper and cardboard that I will explain in a few moments.

As a reminder, the purchase price allocation and amortization related to the acquisition of GE Water is not yet included in the reported numbers. We are finalizing its computation and all details will be given to you before the release of H1 performance.

I'd like now to comment the main indicators for our four divisions starting with Water Europe on page 8. Water Europe is growing at 1.4%, driven mainly by the good performance of Latin America, both in terms of volume and pricing.

In France, revenues is almost stable with a 0.3% organic decline. Volume are down 1% compared to last year, which is totally in line with expected mid-term trends. Tariff are up slightly, plus 0.7%, which means that, despite increase in energy prices, the absence of inflation continues to weigh on indexation formulas.

Spain recorded flat revenue. Volumes are down marginally by 0.3% due to unfavorable weather conditions in March. And tariffs went up by 0.7%.

In Latin America, we are recording a solid 6.9% organic growth, thanks to an increasing volume in Chile, plus 2.8% after a warm and dry summer. On the top of each Chilean tariffs were up 1.6%, driven by local tax regime. And finally I would like to mention also the positive contribution from construction activity in Panama.

EBIT excluding forex is up in all three business units.

R&R Europe recorded a 1.4% organic increase in revenue. Processed volumes are up 3.6% at 6.2 million tonnes, which is very good news notably in France and Sweden and for hazardous waste activity all across Europe. As far as commodity prices are concerned, their global evolution is relatively neutral in turnover, since the negative €23 million impact of paper prices has been upset by a positive €20 million increase in ferrous scrap prices. At EBIT level, however, abnormal prices for paper and cardboard, following the Chinese decision to strongly reduce importation, have generated €8 million negative impact that we managed to compensate.

If I look at the activity by geography, France recorded a solid 3.8% organic growth, driven by increased volume and improved prices. UK and Nordics revenue is down 2.9%, impacted by the closure of Tilbury SRF facility and also a lesser contribution of construction activity.

In Benelux and Germany, revenue is up 0.9%. Here also we see an increase in industrial activities, which is partially offset by a decrease in paper prices.

And lastly, for industrial waste specialties or hazardous waste, turnover is down 3.2%, yet this evolution reflects the postponement of some remediation contracts, while in chemicals activity the underlying trend is good as treated volumes have increased significantly and all our treatment assets are well saturated.

Overall EBIT, excluding forex, is up for the division, with most countries contributing. The International division is growing at 2.8% on an organic basis. North America is up 3.1%. We recorded there a solid growth in non-regulated activities. As far as utilities are concerned, tariff increases more than compensate slight decrease in water volumes minus 1%.

In Australia, the 1% organic growth is driven by the negative impact of paper prices, whilst the underlying activity for collection and recycling is good. Asia is up 4.3%, mainly driven by tariff increase in Macau. In Africa, Middle East, India, revenue is down 3.4% driven by a reduction in construction activity in Middle East and the termination of Casablanca and Mumbai contracts that you know about.

And lastly, the last business unit, Italy, Central and Eastern Europe, its performance is very good with revenue up 23.3% driven by very dynamic R&R activity notably in Czech Republic. In water activity also, construction business in Central Europe, Romania and Italy is very strong. Overall EBIT for that division, excluding forex, is up with most geographies contributing.

And now moving to slide 11, with our new division Water Technologies & Solutions. The integration of WTS is progressing very well, and the commercial performance is satisfactory. We computed a Q1 2017 pro forma for you, in order to help you understand the underlying trend of the business and provide you with a very clear economic view. Orders at $721 million are up 30% versus last year with a particularly good performance from Engineered Systems. Revenues are up 4% at $611 million compared to $588 million last year pro forma. The trend is positive for both segments. For Engineered Systems, we notably recorded good sales for analytical instruments and ultrafiltration projects, and also for services in North America and Asia.

And for Chemical & Monitoring Solutions, CMS, sales are notably up in North America, in Europe and in China. As I just commented, integration is going well, thanks to our synergy program called value capture, we have already secured $22 million of synergies for 2018 and $49 million for 2019. And this is earlier than initially planned, and that is a real satisfaction for the quarters to come. EBIT, excluding forex, for WTS is significantly up versus last year.

As a conclusion and just to wrap up this presentation, the takeaway from me would be made of three positive points. First, good treated volumes for recycling and recovery in Europe. They are well orientated, actually better than we anticipated. Second, good volumes in our Chilean water business. And third, the integration of WTS that is progressing well.

All-in-all, I feel confident about our 2018 guidance, its delivery is supported by our intense focus on the implementation of a specific action plan that was presented to you by Jean-Louis Chaussade, early March. Our financial roadmap is clear, drive cost savings, reduce capital intensity and optimize returns, I already decided to increase by 200 basis points our hurdle rate on proposed investments and third, support the acceleration of growth and the transformation of the group.

With that, I would like to turn the floor to you and I'm ready for all the questions you may have.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Olivier van Doosselaere of Exane. Please go ahead.

Yes, good morning. Thank you very much for taking my questions, Jean-Marc. I just had a few – first one was on Spain, I was wondering if you could give us a bit of a feel on how the situation is going there, on the political side you had highlighted that this was a complicated area for the moment. And I think, in the beginning of the year, there were some fresh comments that the City of Barcelona specifically was trying to put some pressure to put in place a new reduction in tariff over there, while [indiscernible] (15:45) was trying to push for a tariff increase. I was wondering how the situation was evolving there.

Second one, maybe just more on numbers. I wonder if you could give us a bit of a feel on what you expect the exchange rate impacts to be for your business at current rates for the full year. And maybe same thing, also if you could give us a bit of an indication on where you expect restructuring charges, minorities, and maybe the tax rate to be for the full year, although I know that you haven't given that income here, but that's always interesting guidance? Thank you.

Good morning, Olivier. With regard to the situation in Spain, so as you know we have been very protective last year and we are defending our PPP model very hardly, and we're continuing doing so. In Barcelona, we had come to an agreement with the City of Barcelona, and the tariff reduction this year will be 1.65%. That was partially anticipated in the guidance. But on the other hand, we have negotiated also that the [indiscernible] (17:00) flat this year. So, all in all, we are totally in line with the guidance. So there would be no bad surprises coming from the tariff negotiation in Barcelona with the municipality this year.

With regards to your second question, so you had a question on the tax, you had a question on forex and you had a question on [ph] restructuring (17:25). With regards to tax, there is no change that is my earlier comment. We shall be around 35% of tax charge. We are currently at the moment looking at the values, tax implication in the U.S. following the new tax regime, but I will come back to it later on this year.

Forex, no major change compared to last year, a slight improvement because of the slight increase in the dollar. I told you in March that the impact at EBIT level would be around €50 million. When I re-compute that as of today, it could be probably more in the range between €40 million and €45 million. And as far as the restructuring is concerned, no change either, I recommend that you take a hit of €150 million for 2018.

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you very much.

We will now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good morning. So, we talked about saying can we – a bit of color on Italy with the Five Star Movement and how do you see the situation, I know it's early days, but it's for us to understand a bit we saw ETIA moving a fair amount and all the utilities over there? So that would be one question. The other one would be regarding, I think, a bit of color on the GE Water, we see the organic growth is still low, I think it's 0.2%. Could you give us a bit of your views on how this is likely to hold through the year? Thank you.

Good morning, Vincent. With regards to the situation in Italy, there isn't any change for the last few months. We've got good relationship with the municipality of Rome and we are particularly happy with the performance of ETIA notably for Q1 with the sweet performance. So the situation has now changed and we continue to be very active and very long-term shareholder in the company. As you know, we like this country and this country will be the third pillar of the strategy of SUEZ for its development of water in Europe.

With regards to WTS, we are very satisfied with the beginning of the year. As you've seen, the total growth is 4% and, as you have noticed also, the order book is particularly good at 30%, which makes us very confident that we will reach our $2.8 billion target for the full-year. This would mean compared to an equivalent, which is $2.65 billion in 2017 that will mean growth – total growth of the year that should be between 5.5% and 6%. So we anticipate an acceleration in the growth of the company.

Historically, Q1 has always been a weak quarter for the company of that segment, keep in mind, Vincent, that we are only having – we're only recording one-third of the profit in H1 and two-third in H2. So, I ask you not to pay too much attention to the organic growth, this is a complex issue to compute and you will see an acceleration of the growth notably in the second half of the year.

We'll now take our next question from Michel Debs from Citi. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have a couple of questions, please. My first question relates to slide 7 of the presentation, where you bridge your EBIT. Can you help us understand this a little bit better, so we know that cost cutting contributed $35 million if I wrote that down correctly, and the scope effect, the €13 million seems to be GE Water, which means that the €15 million that we see here is a mixture of the progresses you've made across divisions, the €35 million in cost cutting, and what was the impact of the loss of the contract in India and Morocco? What I'm trying to get to is understanding how is your underlying operation doing excluding cost-cutting and excluding the difficulties you have had on the three contracts that prompted the profit warning?

My second and last question related to French waste. The French government has published a program that has 50 items to make the economy more sustainable. There is a lot about recycling and waste management in there. I was wondering if at this stage you had enough visibility to give us a comment on whether you're seeing this is broadly good or broadly bad for your industry and for you in particular? Thank you very much.

Good morning. With regard to your first question, so as you have noticed, the organic growth in EBIT is 5.5%. I did not tell you that, but this is one of the best quarter that we have recorded for a very long time. So I'm very happy with the evolution of the underlying performance of the group in Q1, and that makes me feel very comfortable for the full year guidance.

This is true that this organic growth is computed or includes significant effects of the cost-cutting program that we could compare. The component this quarter is €35 million. And as you all know, we are targeting €200 million for the full year. The concept of organic growth without cost-cutting is [ph] the way of context that consists (23:32), because remember what we have always told you is vis-à-vis provisions for water cost and water expenditure, we are targeting a flat turnover and a flat EBIT, but this flat EBIT will only be rich if there is a strong effort on cost cutting and this is why we have launched additional program in order to reduce cost in France and to reduce cost in Spain. So, I don't think generally the underwriting growth without management effect and without management support would be totally wise in analyzing.

On your second question which is, what we call, in French, [Foreign Language] (24:14). This is true that there is a big program in France in order to promote the development of recycling and recovery activity. We are supporting this evolution. We believe that government is going in the right direction. We would have like it to go a little bit faster, notably in the financing that is needed for new facility that will be in need of €4.5 billion of new investment in order to cope with the landfill decline and to replace it by material and energy recovery, but keep in mind that we believe that it goes in the right direction.

There is one element that you don't know about, which is the evolution of landfill tax. I cannot comment it too loudly, because that could be announced by the Ministry of Environment right this morning, but I have the information and I believe that the trend of landfill tax that would be going up for the next year will be favorable for our industry, so there is absolutely nothing that prevents me from sleeping at night. We are going in the right direction towards secular economy and the group has always been promoting the development of additional resources, energy and material resources by our position to elimination of waste that we are trying to progressively reduce overtime everywhere in Europe.

Thank you very much, Jean-Marc.

We will now take our next question from Pinaki Das from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. This is Pinaki from Bank of America. Many thanks for taking my questions. I've got three questions. The first one is on the Spain, Barcelona contract. You mentioned 1.65% tariff reduction and no major surprises as such. I wanted to know if there was any impact already reflected in your Q1 results or this is more something that will come in the next few quarters. So you had flat revenues in Q1.

Second question that I wanted to ask was, in the waste division, you had 1.4% growth. This doesn't seem to be a major impact from raw material prices at the revenue level at least, but you had treated volumes of about 3.5%. So, I wanted to know the gap is because of waste things that you've mentioned like some of the UK PFI construction. So I wanted to know if going forward if you still have 3%, 3.5%, let's say, volume growth. Would you still have some of these other drags which might keep your waste revenue growth in the sort of 1.5% range? So that's my second question.

And the third question just on – structurally on this landfill tax, you mentioned just now. I wanted to understand, is my understanding has been that when the landfill tax goes up, then you send more or less volumes to landfill, as typically landfill is higher margin business than recycling which is alternative here, and you said that there is no major impact but just wanted to confirm my understanding here. Thank you.

Good morning, Pinaki. On you first question on Barcelona, the 1.65% tariff decline will only apply if my memory is correct from the 1st of May or 1st of June onwards. So, as a matter of fact, it doesn't weigh on our Q1 performance, but keep in mind on the other hand that tariff reduction had been anticipated, one way or another in the guidance so that will not generate any bad surprises for us and for you.

With regards to the growth of Recycling & Recovery division, yes, as you have rightly pointed out, the growth in total is lower than the growth in volume; 1.3% versus 3.6%. This is not due to commodity effect, because commodity effect is almost neutral at [indiscernible] (28:42) level is due to first our decision to close non-sufficiently profitable factory in the UK. Second, we had strong construction activity in the UK last year that has slightly diminished this year. And the third effect is our remediation activity, which is not evenly split throughout the year, but that will recover towards the year-end. So, all in all, what is the kind of growth that we can anticipate for 2018 probably something between 2% and 3% I would guess, but that will depend on the continuing good performance of industrial output in Europe, and as far as I can tell you, April was well orientated.

With regards to the French evolution of the treatment mode, this is true that everywhere in Europe and this is driven by Europe legislation. States are implementing our action plan in order to progressively replace landfill by Recycling and Recovery activities and we are in that trend for the last 10 years in France, and the objective of government is to reduce landfill by approximately 3% per annum, and the increase of landfill tax as an objective which is by comparison to make other alternative treatment mode progressively cheaper than landfill.

Will it affect our profitability? No, because we are replacing landfill by new activities for which profitability will improve over time, and this is why despite landfill reduction between 2010 and 2018, you haven't seen in recent years a deterioration of our EBIT in that division. On the contrary, EBIT was up last year, and I can tell you that EBIT was significantly up in this quarter also.

Okay. Great. Thank you so much.

We will now take our next question from Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. My first question goes to GE-WTS. First, a clarification, you reported 4% growth in revenues like-for-like in U.S. dollar terms. That's clear. On another slide you mentioned plus 0.2% organic. So, I guess that is not comparable, right. This is not using the same scope. I wanted a clarification. And if that's the case, can we have the overall kind of the pro forma growth, including the FX, the dollar effect, please. Still on GE Water seasonality is obviously massive if we basically take a contribution of €13 million for Q1. We're all learning to understand this business. Could you help us here and maybe break with your tradition of not providing division by division EBITDA at the quarterly level and give us the additional contribution of GE Water at the EBITDA level in Q1? That would be very helpful.

Secondly, looking at group level and looking at the bridge between EBITDA on EBIT, it's up slightly €13 million. Is there anything you want to mention in terms of changes in provisions, either positive or negative, that could affect comparability?

My third question is on waste treatment volumes. They were up 3.6%, that's very solid. In the line of questions about the changes in mix over time, could you give us some color between different treatment modes in terms of year-on-year growth here? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Emmanuel. We have tried to make your life easier as far as WTS is concerned. The contribution to our financial statements in [ph] euro (33:21) is moving from €108 million in Q1 last year, and that was uniquely the former SUEZ activities in industrial water to €497 million in Q1 this year, including, obviously, a full quarter contribution of GE Water.

This €497 million in Q1 2018 is an equivalent of $611 million, because GE is reporting its figure in dollar. We gave you some indication for the years to come in dollar, and as a matter of fact, two-third of the activity of WTS is made in dollar. But in order to understand the real business trend for that division, we have asked the team to compute what would have been a pro forma for Q1 2017, and on the same parameter as the one we have today, and this equivalent to the $611 million in 2018 is $588 million for last year.

So as a matter of fact, this division is growing at a pace of 4% in Q1. And, I told you, in replying to another question, that we believe that this growth at year-end shall be between 5.5% and 6%, given what we see and given what we have already recorded as order book.

In this 4%, we have done an analysis, which is a difficult one, but we have tried to isolate what is forex from the pure organic growth. And why is it difficult? Because, this concept was not used to GE people. And second, you know, the first quarter is always a weak one, and for a company that is in 70 countries, this is not so easy. But, as a matter of fact, the pure organic underlying trend is effectively 0.2%, and this is what we have recorded in the total organic growth of the group. But I recommend that you shall not look at it too precisely because Q1 is not an important quarter for us, and as a matter of fact, the growth will accelerate over time.

So, I repeat, we are expecting a 5.5% to 6% growth for the full year. We confirm the $2.8 billion turnover. We confirm the $200 million of EBIT at year-end. EBIT is well orientated and EBIT is and will be significantly up year-on-year for WTS without a doubt.

On your second question, do we have any particular element between EBITDA and EBIT? The answer is, no. The growth is very similar between the two, and WTS will also be up at EBITDA level if it were to be your concern. As you know, amortization and provision is not too important topic for a division, which is much less capital-intensive than the rest of the group. And, I think we gave you that number already. The target for the full year is $200 million of EBIT and $290 million as far as EBITDA is concerned. But to tell you everything, there is nothing of a non-recurring nature between EBITDA and EBIT.

With regard to your third question, which is R&R volume, so we are particularly happy with the evolution of volume, notably in France, but we had also a very saturation of our energy-from-waste facility all over Europe.

So, to your question, where do those volumes go? Mechanically, in the short-term, it goes to landfill where we have still landfill. Why? Because since our energy-from-waste facility are saturated and since our sorting centers are fully saturated, when you have a little bit more volume in the short-term, it will have to go to landfill.

But, on the longer term, I [ph] confirm (37:30) that landfill volume will go down everywhere in Europe, because this is regulation, and this is why we are continuously investing into new facility to promote energy and material recovery by opposition to elimination. So, we will give you more detail at the end of June by treatment mode, but keep in mind that our energy-from-waste facility and our sorting center are well saturated everywhere in Europe, which makes me also confident that the price shall continue to go up, because when we have reached saturation, mechanically asset owner have a tendency to increase volume, which is obvious. This is it, Emmanuel.

Thank you very much.

[Operator Instructions] We will now take our next question from Olly Jeffery from RBC. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. I have three questions for you, please. The first question is on synergies within WTS. You mentioned that you're running ahead of schedule. I remember that your target, I think, is around $95 million by 2022, so that's around $75 million by 2020. On synergies, you're running ahead of schedule, but do you expect to beat the current targets that already have been set out given you're already ahead of schedule or is the current guidance still correct? That's the first question.

Second question is in Chile. Are you expecting this year, given where we are, to have a click through of the automatic 3% increase in tariffs, because there has been accumulation there enough. We did not expect accumulation there to drive a 3% increase this year, but do you foresee one coming through this year or not?

And the last question is on Spain. I believe in Spain, there's an ongoing appeal with the Supreme Court regarding the Barcelona water concession which when this was first launched back in 2016, I believe, the timeline for that was two to three years. Are you expecting to hear back on that this year? And if so, do you have a – can you give us a view on how much revenue is at risk if that appeal goes against GE? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Olly. With regard to your first question, your understanding of the number is totally accurate. So, we are targeting $95 million of revenues – of synergies in 1922 (sic) [2022] (00:40:13), and 80% in 2020, which means there's $76 million. So now that we have already secured almost $50 million for 2018. This is why I'm telling you that it makes us very confident that we are going to reach and beat that synergy number.

Does it mean that we are going to revise our target and as you know we are prudent people, but, no, we are very confident. And we are very confident, by the way, on both side, because you remember that value capture and synergies computation is two-third cost optimization and one-third additional development and additional margin linked to that, and we are particularly happy by both trends. But, does it mean that we are going to revise guidance upwards immediately? No. Let's give us a little bit more time.

With regard to Chilean water tariff increase, yes, I believe that we are going to deserve 3% tariff increase in 2018 because of cumulative inflation, but that shall only kick in something like November or December, so it will have a very limited impact as far as the 2018 guidance is concerned.

And with regards to your question around the Barcelona contract, there is no news and we are totally confident that we will maintain this contract for the years to come. We still have 37 years ago and we have little stress on that topic.

Okay. Thank you very much.

We will now take our next question from Anna Maria Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. A few questions, if I may. The first one is, can you give us the impact of the end of the Casablanca and Mumbai contracts on both the revenue line and EBIT line when compared to last year?

Second question is regarding the Argentina arbitration results. Do you have any update on the timeline you're going to get the money? Is there any potential impacts of the ongoing situation in the country?

Third question is, you mentioned this closure of a UK plant of Tilbury. You said it was your decision, can you give us an idea of quantification of comparison in terms of potential impact relative to revenues and EBIT line of those disclosure, if you have any number?

And the last question is regarding slide 9 where you mentioned the impact of commodities on Recycling and Recovery Europe. You had basically an effect on the revenue line that actually had this $8 million negative on EBIT line. Can you [ph] just help us (00:43:18) explaining why there is this material difference between the two lines? What you're feeling about the Chinese situation going forward, and what are the implications for the full year? Thank you.

Good morning, Anna Maria. First question, the impact on turnover for the termination of Mumbai and Casablanca is €7 million in this quarter. I'm not going to disclose any more numbers at EBIT level.

As far as the Argentinian settlement is concerned, there is little change compared to what we said to you over the last few months. It's a long process. It's a lengthy process with the government. We are confident that we will get something in 2018. But to commit much more on the timing would be an impossible task for me, so that will have to be disclosed if and when and not earlier. And as you know, we are expecting €200 million out of it.

With regard to the closure of our SRF facility in Tilbury in London Harbor. Yes, it is our decision. It was totally a merchant plant. It was insufficiently profitable, so we decided to close it. What I can tell you is, it was providing [ph] 257 tonnes (00:44:50) of solid recovered fuel. So, that means that it will have an impact of 1% of our treated volume because we are treating 25 million tonnes of waste in Europe year after year.

With regards to the commodity impacts, it's almost neutral on turnover and it has €8 million impact on EBIT. So, why is that? Why, because we are simply in an abnormal market conditions. The prices went down something like €50 per ton. So, for high quality cardboard, it went down from €120 per ton to €70 per ton within one quarter. And for the low quality paper, mix paper it went down from something like €70 per ton to €20 per ton, and even some days, it was zero.

So, when the prices are evolving, I would say, normally, we are able to pass on to our upstream customers the evolution of downstream prices, and it means that the margin remains constant. As a matter of fact, here for paper and cardboard and in a lesser extent for [ph] LDPE (00:45:58), we are in an abnormal market condition where we were not able to pass on to our upstream customers the sudden, the brutal evolution in prices that we have experienced.

What would be the full year implication for SUEZ? First of all, I need to tell you that the prices are slightly up for the last two months. So, we regain €10 per ton for paper and cardboard in April, and a further €10 per ton in May. So, I'm not too pessimistic for the rest of the year, but obviously, those price evolutions are from very low starting point. Our trading teams are telling me that the global impact for the full year would be minus €20 million at EBIT level, but all of that will be compensated and it will not prevent us from reaching our guidance.

So, what do we do in order to mitigate? First, we are improving the quality of our assorted paper in order to continue to export to China, and the high quality papers have still a significant value. China is not banning the importation of old paper. China has just reduced the importation level and has increased its request for quality. And second, we are looking for alternative market, notably in Southeast Asia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, also buying a little bit more paper than usually. But I remind you and everyone that it shall have something like €20 million impact for the full year, and all of that will be compensated at the level of the guidance by notably better volume from R&R activity.

Can I ask one more thing, sorry, I forgot? You mentioned at the end of your presentation that you have increased the hurdle on CapEx, if I'm not wrong, by 200 basis points.

Yes.

Why is that, you want to increase clearly the return of the company? Can you just make a comment on that?

We are in a lucky situation if I can say where we have a lot of projects. I commented a little bit the evolution of our construction backlog, which is stable, but we've in front of us a lot of projects. Latin America is having a better dynamic. Africa, Middle East, India, we see a lot of projects everywhere. So, we are in a situation where we can be most, with one topic in mind, which is to grow the EPS and the ROCE of SUEZ on the longer-term. So, yes, we took the decision with Jean-Louis to increase the expected return of our project to be more selective, to reduce capital intensity, and to be able to improve EPS and ROCE for the medium-term.

Thank you.

We will now take a follow-up question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yes. So, just to come back with two very, very quick one, on the guidance you gave for the full year. We don't have yet the embedded assumptions on the waste volumes tariffication. When I look at this Q1, I see good waste volume, I see strong volume in Chile water as well, and we have the season recycling paper price, which would be a oneoff in Q1. So, net-net, it would look positive. So, we're interested in knowing, what are your waste volume assumptions here and water tariff assumptions for Europe? So, that's question one.

The second question is, are you planning to provide any guidance on the adjusted net income and adjusted EPS or do you have any specific number in mind already? That would be great. Thank you.

You know Vincent, when we do a budget, we give guidance. You have a lot of assumptions, and sometimes you have a little bit of luck and sometimes you're slightly below. We had taken the assumption that volume would go up in Recycling & Recovery. I remind everyone that after the difficult H1 last year, where volume were down 0.7%, volume were much better oriented in H2, because in H2, they were up 2.4%. So, this year, we are at 3.6%. This is slightly above our own expectation, but we had anticipated in the guidance that volume would go up in an order of magnitude which is roughly comparable with what we have experienced in H2 last year.

With regards to adjusted EPS, have we decided to give you guidance on EPS for the years to come, the answer is no. We have not yet decided that, otherwise you would know. With regards to the net result of the year, you have all the information, because you know perfectly where we are going to land in terms of EBIT. We gave you indication around the cost of debt and you know what could be the leverage at year-end. You have the information on the tax charge, because you know that we should be around 35% of average tax charge. And you know the amount of exceptional items that we will record. So, you have all the information to be able to nicely compute net profit group share, and obviously, should you wish to exchange with us, so that we can look at your model, we would do so with pleasure.

Thank you.

We will now take our next question from Guy Mackenzie from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I have three, if I may, firstly on your International business. I guess, organic growth, you cited was about 2.8%, which is below your 4% to 6% medium-term guidance. I realize it's a single quarter and apologies if I missed this already, but just wondering if you are able to say what this would have been on a like-for-like basis? So, that is A, excluding the contribution of Mumbai and Casablanca contracts in Q1 this year, which it sounds like from your answer to a previous question was perhaps around 75 basis points, but also perhaps excluding the Italy and Central and Eastern Europe businesses, which were only shifted into the segment this year and clearly saw the highest growth there.

Secondly on International, Asia growth was relatively low and you mentioned it's driven largely by tariffs in Macau. Historically, that's been a key driver of segmental growth and it's largely been driven by the hazardous waste treatment business there. I'm just wondering if you're expecting to see a pick-up in growth there for the remainder of the year. I realize it's a single quarter we're talking about, but some clarity there would be helpful.

Final question, just on French waste, again, coming back to the almost 4% growth in revenue. You mentioned you are seeing growth in EBIT despite the ongoing transition away from landfill. I'm just wondering if you can more specifically tell us how your EBIT margin has evolved in French waste specifically, what incremental margin you're seeing on that incremental tonnage that's coming through in France, and where you expect that to go going forward that would be really helpful, too. Thanks very much.

Good morning, Guy. On your first question, I'd like to tell you that if the growth of International division is only 3%, which is already much better than last year. I recommend that you mentally had also what we have achieved in Latin America, which is classified for us in Water Europe, which would belong to the International area. And if you were to make the sum of the two, you would end up to the conclusion that the growth for everything that is outside Europe is 4%. And effectively, as you rightly pointed out, the termination of Mumbai and Casablanca are weighing for 0.75% for that division.

And we have also to remember that the construction activity, which is an activity that represent €700 million of turnover year after year, has been slightly down over the last two years, which is due to a reduction in activity three years ago at the time where oil and gas were going down, but this has weighted a little bit on the performance of 2017 and Q1 but given the amount of projects that we have in front of us, this construction business will go up again in the next two, three years. So, we are very positive and very confident that our International division will be between 4% and 6% as we communicated to you recently.

As far as the Asia business is concerned, keep in mind that the whole of our activity for water in China is not recoded at turnover level, because this is JVs that we have with local authority. You would have to be a little bit more patient to have some EBIT information division by division, but you will not be disappointed with Asia, for which the EBIT growth is very significant this year. So, we are not capturing the full value of growth and profitability when looking at the turnover number of Asia, because of this JV construction that is organized by the Chinese Government. By law, when we have a concession in Mainland China for water or wastewater, we are only entitled to get 49.9% of the shares.

On your third question on French waste, I'm not going to give you any detailed information on the evolution of EBIT, but profitability is going up in Q1, and I expect it to go up in H1 as well. For the full division, you remember that last year, EBIT was up 6% for Recycling & Recovery in Europe, and we expect for 2017, an improvement of the profitability which would be in the same order of magnitude despite, I repeat, the evolution everywhere in Europe of landfill going down simply because this is European regulation that France had to put in place in order to replace elimination by energy and material recovery. And that trend will not prevent the division to continue its economic recovery.

Okay. That's clear. Thanks very much.

We will now take a follow-up question from Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you. Coming back on your comment about pricing power in waste treatment confirms the message of your peers at Veolia for Q1. Could you quantify maybe the – what sort of increase in prices for treatment services that you've seen in Q1 that would be very helpful.

Secondly, you target around €400 million of disposals for the full year, any progress in Q1?

And third, maybe an update on the integration of your waste on water businesses in France that you announced earlier in the year? And is it too early to maybe share with us potential cost savings that you could trigger from this integration? Thank you very much.

On your first question, boy, it's a difficult one, because obviously we have a mix of activity and a mix of countries, but when I look at price evolution, on average – and again, if you should put aside business mix, prices were up 2% this quarter versus the same quarter last year. And this is good news, because over the last two years, we had recorded an increase in volume, but not so much on price. So, we'll start to see price going up by roughly 2% this quarter, which is good news for the quarters to come.

With regards to disposal, no, I'm not going to comment it. We will announce it if and when it's done. But as you rightly pointed out, we are going to make net investment this year of around €1 billion, of which there will be €400 million of disposal.

Third question, with regards to cost saving in France, there is first of all, the impact of the voluntary departure plan that you knew about, because it has been announced and provided for in 2017. That plan will give us an annual savings of €40 million and that will be a full year from second half of 2019. With regards to the additional plan on which Marie-Ange Debon is working on, there is not much to be said today. We will come back to you when the plan would have been designed and approved by Jean-Louis Chaussade.

Thanks.

Okay. So, thank you very much for all your questions. I just want to wrap up this and thank you all for having logged in to our call. We are driving the execution of our plan, as you have understood, and there is lot to do. I look forward to updating you more about how we are doing on our next call for the second quarter. In the meantime, I will dedicate some of my time on the road to meet you in roadshows and conferences to explain how we are driving the business going forward.

Thank you all for joining and see you shortly with Sophie and the team. Bye-bye.

Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.