Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Louis Chaussade — Chief Executive Officer, SUEZ SA
Christophe Cros — Group Deputy CEO in charge of Finance, SUEZ SA
Julie Tamara Melanie Arav — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Vincent J. Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Olivier van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, everybody. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Thank you for attending the Conference Call regarding SUEZ H1 2017 Publication. Christophe Cros and myself, we are pleased to present our accounts for this first semester. As you remember, this presentation is available by webcast and you can also follow it on the website.

First of all, I will start this presentation by announcing the key figures for the first semester and I will come back as you may guess on a major agreement with GE announced in March in order to give you some more flavor on the status of this, of course, important deal for us. Christophe will give you then all the details you need on our account.

I have our messages to share with you on our activity this semester. First message is that our key indicators are well in line with our annual target. We achieved a slight organic increase in both revenue and EBIT up to 0.9% and 1.4% organically, respectively. This results makes me confident for the full year. When we issued the guidance then, I was rather convinced that the recovery in Europe would be slow. It is what we experienced, but in all views, the present results are promising for the medium and longer term.

If I dig into each division, I would summarize the situation this way. Recovery & Recycling (sic) [Recycling & Recovery] (01:48) division in Europe is rather well oriented. This is true for most of our geographies. Increasing commodity prices like scrap and paper but also electricity have contributed to this performance. Industrial productions improved slowly, but clearly, and confidence in the economy notably in France after presidential elections pickup. It is not yet translated into more investments but the mood is positive, and, I believe, it will continue.

Water Europe is still impacted in terms of tariffs and margins with no inflations and escalation formulae providing no added revenue. This has been slightly mitigated by rather good volumes than usual, thanks to nice weather conditions in June. As you perfectly know, summer months are very important for the divisions, and we will have a better view of the performance in Q3.

And finally, our Chilean activities gave us once more full satisfactions despite the issue we had in April with some damages caused by the flood. As far as the International division is concerned, it is performing well, thanks to the diversity of our portfolio, the impact of [indiscernible] (03:26) of some big contract is reduced.

Second message, on the net result group shares clearly impacted by – to €86 million exceptional restructuring charges, you remember that we accelerate the group transformation plan at the end of last year. Many departments and BUs have been committed to this huge work and the positive impact on the whole organization of the group, and this efficiency will be fully effective in 2018. We expect €40 million savings on a full-year basis.

Third message, on net debt. It reached €6.9 billion at the end of June compared to €8.7 billion last year. But do not misunderstand, keep in mind that the financing of GE Water is already booked, as we took advantage of good market conditions. The deal is not closed yet. And this will have on our balance sheet the proceeds of the capital increase, a new hybrid with no debt associated. Nevertheless, you know how sensitive we are on our financial policy, and the level of debt is as expected when adjusting for the impact from the funding.

Finally, my fourth message is related to our commercial activity. This semester has been again particularly active with nice commercial successes. I will comment three of them. The Brisbane City Council, of course, in Australia, has recently awarded SUEZ the renewal of the general, recycling and green waste collections contract for the entire city for a duration of 16 years, and it represents an overall turnover of €600 million. Brisbane is a city of 1.2 million inhabitants, and the group will invest in a fleet with innovative onboard computing technologies which will provide the council with a real-time tracking of the vehicles, collections and access to detailed service information on the services being provided to residents.

Because of this innovative and efficient collections and recovery services, we are pursuing our development in sustainable waste management in Australia, where the company already collect 2.2 million tonnes of waste every year from 4 million residents and industrial and commercial clients.

Second contract in France, Creil. Through this contract, we will manage the potable water, the wastewater and the rainwater for this local authority. This is a particular contract and an innovative one in terms of governance. Indeed, through what we call in France, [Foreign Language] (06:39), sorry, that there is no very good translation in English, but in few words, both local authority and the private operator team up and share the operational and financial risk.

On top of that, we go beyond the remuneration of the operator through volumes. It is a clear illustration of what we call going from volumes to value. Indeed, SUEZ is incentivized to reduce the volumes sold and save the equivalent of the consumption of 2,000 households through the deployment of new smart tools like smart meters, or again, innovative leak detections technologies.

The third one is urban cleaning contract for Métropole Aix Marseille which will start in September for a six-year duration. This contract is worth €97 million cumulated revenues. I do believe that the gain of this contract is due to a very specific approach we demonstrated in the tender. Our clear ambition was to contribute to the attractiveness of the image of Marseille. We want to be able to improve significantly the environment, to develop digitalization for a real-time control of our activities, to innovate through the uses of selective collections, et cetera. People living in Marseille should be soon proud of their urban waste management.

Of course, I cannot resist to come back on the rationale of the acquisition of GE Water, which will profoundly transform our company. It is a key and fantastic milestones in our history. We share with GE Water the common purpose to address global resources challenges in water and water treatment through constant innovations and transformations.

By combining entities, SUEZ industrial water activities and GE Water, we will reinforce our strong commitment to sustainability as a worldwide leader in sustainable development, strengthen our international positions in mature and developing countries, enhance our digital capabilities with monitoring, detections and data management equipment while offering and addressing a large base of industrial customers. Contribute also to customers' economic and environmental performance with our enlarged portfolio of technologies, solutions and expertise.

The combination of SUEZ industrial water activities and GE Water brings together two global, highly complementary businesses to create what we are going to call the SUEZ Water Technologies & Solutions, which means SUEZ WTS.

Altogether, we will address over 450,000 industrial and business customers but also municipalities with a wider range of products, technologies and solutions inside the gate and outside the gate via our integrated and vertical approach.

The deal will be closed at the end of Q3, and all the teams are strongly committed to make it happen efficiently. The financing has been completed in very good conditions and the capital increase has been a success last May. Everyone is now working on the deconsolidation from GE [ph] Corp. (10:32) and integration into SUEZ of all the main transversal functions such as finance, human resources or communications. The sprit is very good between teams and I am fully confident on the successful integration.

The organization has already been set up. The business will be headed by Heiner Markhoff, the actual CEO of GE Water & Process Technologies. [ph] G1 (11:02) is approaching and we are very excited. We are very confident about the outlook of this activity and/or ability to deliver the announced synergies both in terms of costs and revenues. We will organize a specific presentation in Q4 after the closing to be more precise on this market and the role we want to play on it.

I am convinced that building and integrated strong players in resource management is key for our future growth, our employees, customers and the communities in which we operate. Together, we will have a global and integrated presence across the entire industrial water value chain, as this integration will bring us a clear competitive advantage.

We will be able to increase efficiency with our value-added services, optimize our customers' assets with real-time monitoring and predictive maintenance via cloud-based software solutions, leverage data analytics feeding into integrated digital services. Moreover, we will be able to execute large-scale projects and create win-win solution for our broad range of customers.

Size is important in this market. We had many strength, and we will be now a world-class company offering integrated customer solutions. I would like to insist once more, SUEZ is a service company leveraging on technologies, equipment, knowhow to bring additional added value to our customers and, therefore, to maintain and increase the profitability of the group.

I will leave now the floor to Christophe, who will give you all the details you need on the first half year's financial figures. Christophe?

Thank you, Jean-Louis. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to give you more color about our H1 financial performance. This is linked to the slides 9 to 18 of the presentation. I just precise that like every semester, you will find in the appendix our usual detailed analysis, methodologies constant.

I just draw your attention upon light change we made in order to be prepared for you and for the acquisition of GE Water. We have extracted, if I may so, the industrial water business of SUEZ which was mainly inside the International and European water divisions, and we put it into a category which so far is called others. So, it will give you the opportunity, as we said earlier, to follow up once we have bought GE Water, the individual performance of that new business unique to SUEZ Water Technologies & Solutions.

If I start with the evolution of revenue, the total growth is 1%. And as scope and forex effects approximately offset each other, organic growth, as you can see, is 0.9%. This is well in line with our full-year trajectory. With regards to forex, the main evolution is due to the Chilean peso. Its positive contribution in Q2 is smaller than the one in Q1.

With regards to scope effects, the light negative variations in total mirrors two opposite moves. The first one is a decrease by approximately €120 million of turnover which is due to the asset rotation program we implemented last year with exit from businesses like Finland of the real estate meter reading business.

And on the other one side, we have a positive effect by approximately €100 million which is due to mainly the acquisition of Perthwaste in Western Australia last year, and the taking over of water activities which were previously jointly held with New World in China.

If I look at the global evolution of three divisions, you can see that there are clear discrepancies, as pointed out by Jean-Louis. You see instantly a confirmation of the better orientation with regards to our Recycling European division. Within the Water division, the volumes are globally okay. But as already mentioned, in Europe escalation formulae are neutralized by zero inflation environment. International division looks flat. It reflects both solid underlying growth of our recurring business, and I will precise that just after. And importantly, a low point in terms of construction activity.

You can see also the minus €29 million which is reflected in the other divisions. It is the phasing of our own industrial water activities in the U.S.A. and Europe. It is a seasonal low point, as incoming new contracts will lead, and you can see that in H2 very clearly to a clear catch up before the end of this year. So, this is for the global evolution of revenue.

If you go to the next slide about the global evolution of EBIT. You see that the apparent total variation is minus 0.6%, but, once again, it is very largely due to the inclusion in the 2016 figure of the non-recurring contribution by €36 million which was due, if you remember, to the Chinese tax provision reversal last year.

We are pointing that effect very clearly, and I repeat that it was treated as a scope effect in order not to pollute the analysis of the organic growth. So, once we neutralize that effect, EBIT globally is up by 5.7%. Like for turnover, is the most significant, forex valuation is due to the Chilean peso. In terms of exclusively organic growth, EBIT is up by 1.4%. That performance is driven by Recycling Europe and International divisions, and as forecasted, the contribution of Water is opposite. All in all, you can notice that the global EBIT margin of the company has improved and reaches 7.9% end of H1.

I suggest that we look more closely to the performance of each division and as traditionally, I start with Water Europe. When it comes to Water Europe, we had to deal with the divergence in trends. On the one hand, overall volumes were, in H1, well-oriented. This is more a consequence of a favorable basis of comparison rather than the positive 2017 half year. End of H1 was good, but the average half year was average. So, it is more due to the fact that we had, I would say, unfavorable situations in Chile and in France, if you remember, last year.

You have noticed a very strong improvement in Chile, which is, of course, satisfying, but nevertheless, these highs shocked adverse schematic events in Q2. This year, again, we faced heavy floods in Chile, which forced us to cut service in Santiago, and that leads not only to lack of revenue, but also to extra cost. So, Chile is quite satisfactory, but it could even have been – even more satisfactory. So, this is the global trend and the trend in terms of volumes.

In terms of price increases, which result from the low inflation context in Europe. It remained insufficient and it is clearly a drag on our profitability. Price increase in France is 0.2% only and 0% in Spain, which could be split between minus 2.4% in Barcelona, which means that it was more positive outside of Barcelona.

The good news is that the positive inflation momentum in H1 should allow us to implement higher tariffs as soon as H2. Hence, the profitability is reduced and we have a decrease in EBIT organically by 4.5%, which was fortunately mitigated by positive forex effects. This is for the European Water business. I'll go now to the slide dedicated to the Recycling & Recovery of European activities.

As I told you in my introduction, the positive sign is that what we felt end of last year is still there. There is an improvement in the trend when it comes to volumes. Our processed volumes are down by 0.5% in H1, and I must acknowledge that you may be quite skeptical listening to us seeing that the momentum remains positive, because there will be a light decrease in H1, while the volumes increased, if you remember, by 1.9% in Q1.

I would like to draw your attention upon the specificity, which is due to the number of working days in Q1 and Q2. First, I dare to remind you that one quarter is 60 working days. So when there are plus 3 in Q1 and minus 4 in Q2, globally for H1, we have minus 1, but it means that related to the global number of working days, the relative importance is significant. So if we put aside that working days effect, I confirm that we have the continuation of the positive trend we started to notice end of last year.

The main driver for the revenue organic increase by 2.7% are, first, higher commodity prices for approximately €100 million. This is notably due to scrap metal price, which is up by 37% compared to last year, but paper prices are also well-oriented because [indiscernible] (21:33) they are 17%, above last year. The second driver for the revenue organic increase by 2.7% is better prices, which contribute to gross by 1% and that reflects the somewhat better trend we are witnessing.

Lastly, the construction business, which is on the right hand side of the chart is dragging on the revenue development. It is due very simply to the end of the construction linked to the Aberdeen contracts in Scotland last year, so it is not linked to any day-to-day business effect. So, hence, EBIT grew organically by 7.7% and it has been driven by better the operating environment, including higher electricity prices compared to last year.

I enter now into International division evolution during H1. As you see the International division revenue progressed by 3.2% this half year. Organically, it is flat and it is clearly due to a low point in our construction business, given that several contracts which were full speed, if I may so last year, are now ending. Mirfa [ph] ADWEA Waste (22:48) in Middle East, Huaï Fang in China, I will come back to Huaï Fang in some seconds.

If I put aside the construction activity, the rest of the business is growing organically. If I look at the various geographical trends of segments, Africa and Middle East, India is growing more than 8%, thanks to various contracts including Middle East and positive price increases in Morocco. Italy, Central Europe, which is part now of the International division has enjoyed an organic growth by 7.2%, which is narrowing also the beginning of the operations of the energy from waste plants in Poznan in Poland, but the global orientation is very satisfactory.

Australia is growing by 0.6%. The volumes are growing higher. It is due to the fact that Perthwaste is enjoying a very significant growth in volumes, but as I said, Perthwaste is a scope effect and not an organic effect, as it was an acquisition we did last year.

Asia is decreasing by 13.7%, and then I dare to go back to my comment about the Huaï Fang contract. It was a one-year long contract, by €68 million impact of turnover. If I put that contract aside, the organic growth in Asia is for the first half of 2017, 14%, 1-4. So, we need to care when it comes to the detailed analysis, the underlying trend in Asia is still extremely positive.

The only one which is clearly negative is North America and it is a decrease by 6.3%. And there are two main reasons; the first one, we mentioned, it is the end of the Indianapolis municipal services contract. It's not a regulated water business, it is a municipal service contract, which was taken back by the municipality. And we have a very poor weather effect in Q2 in North America, with a 2% decrease in Water volumes because of that – due to weather conditions.

Last, in our construction activity, the design and build backlog remains very healthy, €1.3 billion. It is up by 2% versus last year. We continue to see a significant number of projects coming up all over the world. And that should bring additional growth in the future. But it is clear that in terms of the new bookings, it was a low point during H1 this year.

All in all, EBIT is up organically by 3.5%. I'm afraid that in our press release, we kept a mistake, and you should read minus 3.5%. I want to correct, it is positive evolution of organic EBIT by plus 3.5%. I do apologize. And that's increased by 3.5%, demonstrating the underlying growth of our International business, despite, we must recognize that, the lack of revenue growth from lower construction activity.

I'm now going back to the full P&L, and I'm going to take the main part of it. I start with the – walk from EBITDA to income from operating activities. Overall, EBITDA looks flat, but once again, don't forget to include in 2016, the €36 million figure, which is the provision reversal. So, there is no specific comment to be made between EBITDA and EBIT. As you can notice, amortization is quite constant, and the line Other is also extremely similar to last year. So, same causes, same consequences, the global EBIT is flattish once again with €36 million in 2016 figure, and it's reached €594 million in H1 2017 compared to €598 million last year.

Below EBIT, as you see, we have significant one-off restructuring cost for the first semester. In total, €86 million. The breakdown is the following; the first and largest part is due, as mentioned by Jean-Louis to the cost of the voluntarily leaves program, which is €56 million. It represents the cost relative to the transformation of the support functions of our businesses in France, exactly as announced last year.

As the process is still not terminated in some entities of the group in France, we will incur some more costs in H2. Our best estimate yet is an additional cost by €20 million to be booked during the second part of the year. On top of the cost of the voluntary leaves program, we have one-off cost in H1 and [ph] we include by (27:38) €10 million costs, which are related to the acquisition of GE Water. The remainder of €286 million is represented by the cost associated with Compass program, because as every year, we have specific restructuring cost in order to harvest the fruit in terms of Compass savings.

Finally, you see a positive contribution by €22 million in the line Others. It mainly includes positive mark-to-market impact by €15 million, which is linked to our hedging of the funding of the acquisition. So, because of those restructuring specific action plans, or income from operating activities is down by 6.9% and is reaching €488 million.

I now go from the income from operating activities to the net result group share, which is the bottom part of the P&L. You can see that the cost of net debt slightly increase, as we have the cost of carry of the funding of GE Water on our balance sheet. So, the cost of net debt is 4.03%, it was 3.8% last year. But I'm pleased to notice and you will see it in the chart, which is associated to the slide related to the debt that the cost of gross debt keeps on decreasing further to the recent issuances.

Income tax went from €70 million to €120 million, so you'll see that the – if I missed this, so automatical calculation of the effective tax rates jumps at 66%. It is due to the fact that we have, I would say, the full scope of charges for just 50% of the year and you can breakdown that into three main explanations; the first one is that basically we have an increase in profit before tax in countries where we pay taxes. The second one is that the restructuring costs are burned in France and lead to a negative profit before tax in the French fiscal group. And last and not least, we had, last year the benefit of the restructuring of our fiscal parameter, and which was an effect, a positive effect last year by €30 million, so out of the increase by €50 million, that effect in Australia last year is €30 million.

You'll notice also in that slide that the minority interests have strongly increased by €37 million, and they reached €121 million. There are two explanations which are equal in terms of importance. First, the consequences of the taking over of our Chinese activities at the end of last year; and second, the higher net result in euro of our Chilean activity. More profit in Chilean peso, which as I said, has appreciated against euro.

So, our net result group share reaches €45 million versus €174 million last year. As I just explained to you, these results are coming from, first, the provision reversal of €36 million we booked last year; the increase in exceptional charges of €70 million versus last year; and third, the increase by €37 million, because of the minority interest, which reflect the good results of the company we do not own at 100%.

This must be seen as a milestone at the end of June, and I do not encourage you to jump to any quick conclusion regarding our full year 2017 net income.

Some words about CapEx, which are on the next side. I would say that CapEx are very stable and well under control when it comes to maintenance and development CapEx. You can notice a light difference when it comes to financial CapEx and it mirrors basically the acquisition of Perthwaste last year, if you put that [indiscernible] (31:46) are quite equal.

Another comment, which is noticeable is the fact that we have disposal reaching €197 million. This is due to the disposal of the Agbar building, which is approximately €142 million out of that total. This is a transaction, which was finished last year, and the impact in terms of disposal is there this year at the beginning of H1.

If I look at the free cash flow evolution on the next slide, you'll see that our free cash generation in H1 2017 reached €191 million. It is slightly better than last year. As usual like last year, we have the seasonal unfavorable trend in working capital, also which is smaller compared to last year, and we should revert back by the end of the year to a normal situation that seasonality is normal and well under control. There is no specific comment to make other than tighter control of working capital requirement and lower our net financial expenses offsetting higher tax expenses.

Some comments to finish about net debt. There are significant evolution because, first, you see a quite important decrease at the net debt level of the company during the first six months of this year. Indeed, this semester was very active for us on the financial markets, given that we have secured the funding of GE Water acquisition and that was done at attractive conditions. I'll remind you that we issued a hybrid bond for €600 million and the yield was 2.875%.

And then, we issued two senior debt tranches for €1.2 billon, €500 million and €700 million. And last but not least, we launched the capital increase by €750 million. So it explains why the net debt grows from above €8 billion at the end of 2016 to €6.9 billion end of June 2017 and that improvement is coming mainly from the funding of the GE Water.

It means also that if we put that [indiscernible] (34:02) sorry, the evolution was quite under control. As usual we pay our dividend to our shareholders and that lead to a cash out of €577 million this semester and you have also have noticed that our debt was decreased by a positive forex effect of €266 million. So, those are the main, I would say, patterns relative to the evolution of the debt, which was well under control.

So, those are the few remarks associated to our half year accounts and I give back the floor to Jean-Louis for some words of conclusion.

Thank you, Christophe. So, other conclusions, I really want to insist on the quality of this semester of achievements. As you can imagine, GE Water acquisitions will move strongly the organization of the group in order to be more flexible, more efficient toward our customers and of course, internally. On top of that, all the BUs manage a strong commercial momentum. These efforts and successes will be [ph] our fruits (35:07) and sustain the group trajectory in the coming months. All those elements makes me feel confident on the future growth of SUEZ.

Thank you so much. And now, with Christophe, we are ready to answer to your questions.

[Operator Instructions] We now take our first question from Julie Arav, Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. I have several, if I may. Just to come back on the waste volume decline, can we have a bit of more color on the underlying trends in terms of treatment size and geographies.

My second question relates to the expected full year impact on forex at the EBITDA and EBIT level with the depreciation of the dollar. Can we have a view what we could expect for our full year estimate?

And the other question relates to the Argentine litigation. Can we have an update on when do you expect the money to be cash in and as well what could be the hurdles going forward with our Argentine.

And just last question on GE Water. I understand that you will host an Investor Day in Q4, but the main pushback on this acquisition from investors are mainly the price paid. The absence of earnings growth and the margin deterioration in recent years of GE Water and as well the low visibility of the business. So, what is your answer to the skepticism of some investors on the value creation potential of the GE Water acquisition. Thanks.

Thank you, Julie. I will answer to the last two questions and I will ask Christophe to do it also for the forex and for evolution of waste – on waste volumes. On GE, what I can just say is what we have said, and of course, we are not the controller of the GE Water actually, as you can imagine but what we can say is what we are seeing up to now is in line with what we expect.

We are day after day more, I should say, comfortable, more positive about the synergy that we get to the market in March, which means that I confirm that those synergy should be achieved. I didn't find anything which could let me thinking that we were wrong. So, we will have the synergy both in revenues and in cost. The rest, it's a question of putting in place the right organizations. I remind you also that for us, it's an acquisitions where the ratio in terms of EBITDA to cash is much bigger, around 75%, than it is for SUEZ in which is more 50%.

So, all those elements which have been part of the reason why we decide to buy GE are there. And I do see – I do not see any major change between what we said when we announced the operation on March and what we have seen up to now. That is why we decide to make an Investor Day, when we will have achieved the process and be in a position to be the owner, which mean when the business, the operation would be closed. And therefore, we will discuss with you all the detail of these operations. But I would like, again, to state is that we still remain absolutely in our view in line with what said in March.

About Argentina litigations, I can – what I can confirm is that we got the final answer from the arbitrations tribunal. They say that on Aguas Argentina, now, the decision is final, and the final decision is that Argentina has to pay to SUEZ €404 million for this first trial.

For the second one, about Aguas Provinciales, we are waiting for the final decisions and final judgment by beginning of next year and we'll be surprised, if the value which has already been mentioned around €220 million would be changed.

So today, Argentina has to pay to SUEZ €404 million and we expect 200 – as I said, €20 million more soon. We have some discussions with Argentinean authorities, but again, as long as we have not finalized any agreement with the Argentinean authorities, it's very difficult to tell you what we can expect, when we can expect the money to be in SUEZ account. So, I think we have to be cautious with Argentina, it's always long. But we are very happy for the sentences we already got from the arbitrations, and we now expect Argentina to follow this arbitration one way or another, and I will come back to you – we will come back to you as soon as we have detailed agreement if we reach one.

Christophe?

Good morning, Julie. With regards to your question related to forex, based upon our most updated calculation, there is zero additional impact at each level to be forecasted until the end of this year. So, the answer is zero. I would like – and thank you for the question, to dwell a little bit on waste volumes, because I'm fully aware I tried to say that – we said that looking at the processed volumes, you'll remember that our indicator is a composite one. And we look at the evolution of volumes, which are processed in all our facilities. It is different from collected.

And we said that at the end of this semester compared to last June 2016, it is minus 0.5%. Nevertheless – and there is a difference between Q1 and Q2. If you take into consideration and it's not that easy, the fact that we have a very significant decrease which was forecasted and planned in landfill volumes in the UK.

Even in Q2, the evolution is positive by 2%. So, it means that all in all, when we take into consideration two important effects, the underlying trends in terms of volumes is slightly, but clearly positive and we repeat that. If there is and there is a difference between the Q1 and Q2, there are two main reasons; the first one, which is really significant, as I said, is the number of working days. As there were plus 3 working says in Q1, so it was magnifying the effect in Q1 and we said it. And there are in average minus 4 in Q2. So, all in all it is minus 1.

If you will correct that minus 1, and if I did, for instance, in the landfill volumes in France, you will get a light positive evolution, which is favorable, because I remind you that the evolution during the previous years was a negative one.

The second reason that you know it is that the fact the basis for comparison is very different, Q1 2016 was a very, very poor quarter in terms of volumes. So when you look at the comparison in Q1 to Q1, the basis effect is quite significant, and in terms of evolution, it is less in Q2. So if I may summarize, because when I look and that was also part of your question, at the various geographical segments, at the various business segments, the underlying evolution is slightly positive.

Many thanks.

Thank you very much. We can now take our next question from Michel Debs, Citigroup. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Good morning. This is Michel Debs from Citigroup. I have two questions, gentlemen. The first one is about China. China has written to the WTO, to us, or stopped the import of waste that is to recycled on China and there is a large flow of European waste going to China today. Apparently, they want to stop that from September. So does this mean that there will be an oversupply of waste in Europe and what are the consequences on the European recycled product markets? What are the consequences on you? Is there a way you can take advantage of this, if the market is disorganized?

My second question is on Saudi Arabia. They have launched a program to privatize their desalination plant. I don't expect you to make the base for 1.5 billion tonnes, but is there something – is this something you're looking at as possibly an operator as part of a consortium?

And if I may throw in a third question about the U.S. There's been ruling in Pennsylvania, where an operator was authorized to include goodwill in the ratable base, when they took over another asset. Is this a one-off or do you believe that in the U.S. in the next couple of years, maybe, you will still regulation move and make it possible to do acquisitions and you being the third largest operator, is that something that strategically could be interesting for you? Thank you very much.

Okay. Thank you so much for your question. About the U.S. and the possibility or not to include the goodwill in the rate case and in the base, yes, we have seen that. What we believe, but it's very difficult to give you an answer or absolutely definitive about these questions, because I think it will depends case to case on regulators. But I think the idea of the regulators is, there is too many small water regulated assets and they want a kind of consolidations. In order to favor the consolidations, one way of doing that is to authorize the buyer to include in its base, part or totally the goodwill that can be paid.

So, it's going to be, at first, it's a very positive point. No doubt on that. It will certainly make easier of the consolidation on this market. And of course, we are looking to that and each time, we look to small assets that we could buy, we have discussions with the regulator to see if he will authorize or not the company to include or not the goodwill in its asset base. So, yes, it's positive. No, it's not, I should say, today a system which is agreed everywhere. It is a case to case system, but if it continue to develop itself, it would be good news for us, of course.

On Saudi, we will see exactly what the Saudi wants to do. We will see what does it mean in terms of privatizations of desalination plants. Of course, we are always interested in constructions and operations of desalination plant or even desalination operation by itself.

As you know, we have been operating Jeddah water systems, so we know quite well the Saudi authorities. And we will see what is part of this business, which – in which we can really try to be a player. Of course, we are looking to the privatizations systems, which is developed in Saudi actually.

On China and the stop of import, I think we have to be clear on – first of all, as far as I understand, in fact, the ban will come at the beginning of 2018. Second, what I understand also is a fact that what really the Chinese wants is to improve the quality of the waste products, the recycled products. They want to receive from outside. So, it's a kind of upgrading of the quality, which mean – and that you are right that volumes, which today are sent to China will stay in Europe. That will mean that's probably – but again, to reconfirm, the price of low quality waste or recycle waste such as plastic or paper will go down, which mean that people like us who are able to produce through good [indiscernible] (49:44) centers, quality product, quality paper or quality plastic will be able to buy some of the volumes at a better price, which at the end of the day would mean that that could improve the quality and the profitability of the product that we are able to sort and to sell. Therefore, I expect a slightly positive effect at SUEZ level.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, caller. We can now take our next question from Vincent Ayral, JPMorgan. Thank you.

Hi. Good morning and thank you for answering on China. And that was question I wanted to ask, so this is done. Two to – three questions here. One is on inflation, we saw the water you've still been suffering in H1 from probably low inflation. Could you give us some color on when indexation are reset, and what is the average point in the year? So is it an effective machine goes up? Do you see it in H2, rather in H1, so I'd like to understand if indeed you will benefit from high inflation in H2 through indexation?

Second question would be regarding the net income. There was indeed a surprise this morning on your slide. You said not to jump to any early conclusion. That is fine. I understand you do not provide a guidance on the net income, but the Bloomberg consensus shows €450 million for 2017. I would like to know if you are comfortable with this type of level, given the uncertainty which has been temporarily created this morning?

And the last one is regarding Chile. I come back to the question I asked at the full year. This case in Chile, which could – it was sitting with Senate and could lead to lower return on the regulated assets, especially for your water activity there, Aguas Andinas. Could you provide us an update there, or – and finally, what are your views? Thank you very much for this.

On Chile, you know very well that a law tried to be – or a new law tried to be – to pass through the Chamber of Deputies, and Member of Parliament or through the Parliament, but that has been absolutely denied by the government. And for the time being, there is no decisions and no new laws, which can be expected. So, we do not see, on the coming months, any possible change.

Of course, as you know, at the end of the year, we will have new election in Chile. So, after that, it will depend of government decisions. But once again, I would like to insist this project was a project for regulation for all the businesses in Chile, not only water, but electricity, gas, et cetera, that will have an impact on the investment, especially the foreign investment in Chile. So, I think – and according to the information we have that there is later, I should say, options for the government to take major decision in the coming months or years, because that will have a strong impact on investment. So, I think we have to be cautious. We have to follow what is going to happen, but for the time being, we are reasonably optimistic, and we do not foresee any major change.

On the net income, I will do that with Christophe, but I confirm that as you mentioned, the EBITDA at the end of the year will be in line with the guidance. I confirm also that, of course, we will maintain the dividend. As you said, we have no guidance on the result. Of course, the net result, one way or another will be affected by the provision we have taken for the restructuring of the company as it has been always mentioned.

But don't take the effect of the first half, as – if I can say, a proportional effect on the full year. So, I feel absolutely confident on the capacity of the group to have a result in line with what we have been accustomed to give to the market in the last years, but it will be effectively partially affected by the provision we have taken for the restructuring.

I should add that the restructuring as has been explained by Christophe. We'll produce in full year around €40 million of saving, starting largely in 2018. So, I think it's at the same times a burden, but it's a good news for the future.

Christophe, can you add some more details?

Yes. Thank you, Jean-Louis. If I start with your comment about the consensus, I'm sorry to say that I don't feel comfortable, but for one technical reason, the Bloomberg consensus, Vincent, because maybe you will have noticed that for the analysts, which are providing for data, some are including the impact of GE Water and some are not including. So, as of today, the consensus is quite, I would say, at least, rickety.

What is good is that we said that we expect the closing of GE Water to take place not after end of September. So, it means that you understand that you should take on board one quarter for the contribution of GE water, and we will help you in order to, I would say, rebuild the consensus, which would in terms of methodology being now stabilized.

With regard with the net income in the wake of comments given by Jean-Louis, I repeat that if you look at the past, from 2016 to 2017, there are three main effects; the €36 million effects last year due to the reversal of tax provision. The second one which is a total exceptional charge in all in all which is €70 million, of which €56 million related to the specific plan relative to the support function in France and their transformation.

And then there is an increased by €37 million for minority interest, which you should bear in mind is the following: as I said previously, expectation for the cost of transformation related to support function should be increased by approximately €20 million until the end of this year. For the other exceptional cost, we do consider that it is approximately the same amount, plus €20 million, but – and for reasons you can understand easily. Don't forget that like last year, there will be other items, including exceptional positive items, because our asset quotation plan is still working full speed.

And like last year, it will generate positive exceptional result during the second part. So, those are the reasons, for which I can just guide you about the additional incremental related to those two specific category of negative exceptional items.

For inflation, I keep the floor. Thank you, Jean-Louis. So, I guess the answer is that we are expecting a better situation in H2, because there is also, as I said previously, a magnifying effect end of June, related to the situation in the European water business. I take two examples. For the French Water business, our expectation is that there will be a reset, which takes place on 1st of July and that reset is going to take on board. I wouldn't say an increased inflation, but higher prices for energy, which are one of the key items in the making of the escalation firmly. So that should have a positive impact.

In the same way, I told you that we have 0% in Spain, which I speak between Barcelona, a direct consequence of the renegotiation last year, which was like above minus 2% and it was a positive in the other parts of Spain. But that negotiation was two-fold. There was an instant tariff decrease, but there was also a decrease in the yearly payment, what is named in Spain. I know you know that [ph] cannon (58:57) which is going to be reduced compared to what was the expectation of the growth for [indiscernible] (59:03) in the second part of this year. So all in all, we should have a better orientation for Water tariffs in Europe during the second part of this year.

Thank you.

Thank you, caller. We can now take our next question from James Brand, Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Morning. It's James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Three questions. I was wondering whether you could just give us some guidance on what you expected for the tax rate for the full year, given all the movements in the first half. And also what you think is a fair kind of assumption for the tax rate going forward, given the changes in mix that you mentioned.

Secondly, just wanted to ask about the GE Water acquisition, whether you hedged the cost of the acquisition from a currency perspective when you originally announced. I'm just aware of the fact that euro have moved quite significantly against the dollar, since the acquisition was originally announced.

And then thirdly, obviously, there are some discussion earlier on waste volumes, but everyone is looking at a very strong PMIs, I'm wondering where that would start to see through fully into higher industrial production, given that you have a close eye on the evolution on the waste volume side. I was wondering you could comment on whether you're seeing any pick up in waste volumes kind of in July? Thanks.

Christophe?

Okay. For the tax rate, and also, I'm fully aware that what I call here, instantaneous effective tax rate end of June – Oh. Sorry. I didn't switch on my mic. Sorry and good morning, gents. So with regards to the tax rate, and also I'm fully aware of the instant tax rate end of June is quite specific. We still repeat that you should keep as tax rate in average of around 30%, likely, above 30%. That being said, don't forget that there could be changes related to the corporate result tax rates in the USA and France. But irrespective of that, the 30% is still the rate you should use while you are modeling our tax rate.

For the GE, we just benefit from what I would call the cost of tariff. As you have noticed, we have borrowed in euros and we are lending in U.S. dollars. And so that improvement which is included in the 22 other lines and which represent approximately €15 million is just the image of the difference between American interest rates and European interest rates.

If I go back to volumes, on top of the explanation I gave, we still follow up the linkage between evolution of industrial production and evolution of waste volumes and that has been positive. But nevertheless, I have even the detailed figures under my eyes and probably you'll get the same because those are [ph] OECD (01:02:09) figures.

You will have noticed that the improvement during the first five months of the IP Index in the countries where we have waste businesses, so I make a ponderation depending upon the countries where we are active. But translating those figures, the IP is plus 1.4% during the first five months of this year. I don't a definite figure end of June. And if you look at the spilt of that 1.4%, you will notice that a large part is coming from energy. And I am sorry to say that energy doesn't generate a lot of waste, contrary for instance to construction.

And the second comment is that there is a significant level of monthly volatility is some countries like for instance the Netherlands. When I look at the evolution it was, I'm sorry for [indiscernible] (01:03:03), but it started at 4.8% in January, and it was two times positive and three times negative. So nevertheless, my conclusion is that we are slightly and fully aware that you would expect something better.

This is not the trend which is different between probably you and us, it is more the speed of implementation of that trend. But nevertheless, we are benefiting from a better environment and that is reflected in the evolution, slow evolution, but positive evolution of waste volumes.

That's it. Helpful. Thanks.

Thank you, caller. We may now take our next question from Guy Mackenzie, Credit Suisse.

Good morning. A few questions from me. Firstly, maybe just on your CapEx, Christophe, you highlighted a pretty significant reduction in H1, realize you have the Perthwaste acquisition last year, but you tend to have these small acquisitions pretty much every year, it's part of your growth strategy. So I'm just trying to identify whether we should be expecting any change in your run rate on CapEx going forward, or whether this is more a consequence to the fact that you're obviously doing GE Water right now and hence the smaller deals have been on hold for H1?

Secondly, a specific question on Australia. You noted revenue is up by, I think, just under 1% despite volumes being up by 4%. I was wondering if you could elaborate on what's driving that and specifically if you're seeing the higher regional landfill taxes have any impact on your mix in Australia?

Thirdly, on French water, just very quickly, can you remind us if you have any of your bigger contracts coming up for renewal over the coming two to three years?

And then, final question on the UK, I mean, on slide 12, you gave the breakdown of process volumes and it looks like energy-from-waste is the only area that really saw growth. And, I guess, that's largely driven by the 3 EfWs that came online over the past year. I take your point on the slow and steady improvement and the fact that we had one less workday in H1. But wondering if you can give us any kind of indication of what volumes were like aside from the new capacity that came online in H1 particularly in the UK. Thanks very much.

So, I start. Maybe Jean-Louis will comment about the water contracts. With regard to CapEx, frankly speaking, there is no interference with GE. We are following up a very strict but stable CapEx policy. And if you see some discrepancies, I try to explain that this is more linked to financial CapEx. And basically, we bought Perthwaste which have been a very successful acquisition last year in Western Australia. And then you will find discrepancies which are linked to, I would say, phasing of development in CapEx, but there is no difference.

It doesn't prevent us from keeping on a very short leash the maintenance CapEx. But when it comes to, I would say, the medium-term view, our CapEx are globally flat with regards to both maintenance and development CapEx and no interference with GE.

With regards to Australia, I am fully aware and I try to say that it was not that easy that the figures are probably not as good as the reality. The first reason is first that as I said the volumes are well oriented. All volumes are well oriented in Australia, but part of very good orientation of volumes is also related to Perthwaste and it is not because we stick to the same methodology. It's not part of organic. It's part of scope effect.

Third reason, and you will find some items in the appendix and maybe later after the conference, we can dig into that. You will see that there were also, I would say, non-directly business variances in terms of provisions and so on last year. So, all in all those impacts, I would say, minimizing the good behavior and the positive evolution of the business in Australia, we were – we are very satisfied with the business in Australia. And by the way, both in waste and water businesses.

When it comes to the UK volumes, there are three main evolution. The first one is we have significantly increased our capacity in terms of waste-to-energy. You know that those facilities are long term contracted so there is no topic or no interrogation related to volumes. But it is fully offset in 2017 when compared to 2016 by, would I dare to name the plan and forecasted decrease in landfill volumes. It's quite impressive, I think that end of June our landfill volume in the UK have decreased by 350,000 tonnes which means that this year that facility is really the end.

But as forecasted of the landfilling business which was the original business of SUEZ in the UK. We will be even much below 1 million tonne landfill, but which is absolutely plan. When it comes to collection, the orientation is, I would say slightly positive but it is okay. And we have a reduction in a specific segment which is refuse-derived fuel, alternative fuel generation because price is being a little bit lower to our expectation, we have reduced the production and the processing of those volumes.

Jean-Louis, about water contracts in France.

Well. In water contract in France, you remember the turnover of the company is above €2.2 billion and the number of contract we have is around 2,600 or 2,500. And we have no contract of above, let's say, 2% of the turnover.

So, to your questions, are we gaining or losing contract? Yes, year after year. The renewal rate is quite high. We have some gain, we have some losses. If you ask me what are going to be the major contract coming to renewal in the coming month, I can speak about, for example, Bordeaux, which is one – the waste water system of Bordeaux. There is some others coming also. But nothing which really could impact strongly SUEZ activity in the water in France. So yes, we have some gain, yes, we have some losses, but we are in a market which is far more open that it used to be.

We have contract which are in terms of durations smaller than before, the average today is between eight years, something like that, when it used to be 20 years – 20 to 15 years ago. So yes, we will see a lot of movement in the renewal of the contract, but nothing specific, nothing which can really impact the profitability of SUEZ.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you very much, caller. We can now take our next question from Pinaki Das, Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning to everybody. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got two small questions. The first one is on the EBIT growth underlying. I think you've mentioned in your slides something around 5%. I just wanted to confirm the number, it's on slide 10 of your results, the EBIT bridge that you are showing. And I also wanted to know the China €36 million impact, which block is it exactly going, is it in the scope part or is it the International part? That's my first question.

And the second question is relating working days. I guess, it's mainly a Q1/Q2 issue rather than a H1/H2 issue, just a wash between Q1 and Q2? Just wanted to confirm on that. Thank you.

On China, I will ask Christophe to give you more details. But on China you should keep in mind that during the last two years, we made two major operations. We increased our stake with our partner in Derun operations. Derun is a big company which was owned 51% – which is owned today 51% by the municipality of Chongqing, it's a company involved in water and waste management.

So, it was the first operations and to become the shareholders, we bought some shares, we added on the Chongqing Water Group and due to this operations, we had some I should say capital gain that has impacted the accounts of SUEZ two years ago.

Now, last year, we did a second operations. In fact, we put together all the activities of SUEZ under one single company, one single umbrella. Before these operations, we owned 100% the waste business, Chinese waste business, and we own only 50% the water business. We reached an agreement with our partner on New World in order to have water and waste under the same management, and we signed an agreement by which we will have 58% of these new activities, and therefore, as it was mentioned before by Christophe, in one end, we had a capital gain for this operations, and in the other end, we had more minorities than before.

That explains the evolution of the situation in China. Just to say that we are very pleased to have one single name, one single operation, one single management for water, waste and engineering, it's more efficient, and we will grow probably faster in China.

Christophe, if you – can you?

Yes. Good morning, Pinaki. I suggest you refer to the slide 10 of the presentation when it comes to your question related to EBIT. What I said is that I was reminding you that that last year we had that scope effect, which was a positive one as soon as H1 by €36 million, so when you make a comparison vis-à-vis 2017, it is a decrease.

And you'll see that we have a minus €25 million scope effect of which the minus €36 million. So, it means that the scope effect is – if you put that aside – positive. And my comment was just to point out the fact that if you put that €36 million effect aside, the evolution, the total evolution of EBIT was a little bit above 5%. The organic being as explained in the slide by myself, plus 1.4%.

Okay. Great. Thank you. That's clear. And just from the working days, I guess, it's just a Q1/Q2 thing, and there's no sort of major benefit into H2.

What I said is that – so each quarter, you can consider that in Europe, I'm referring to the Recycling & Recovery business by definition, each quarter, we present in average year after year 60-working days. This year that we have some specificities massively in France, but in other European countries. So, in total, at the end of H1, there is an effect which is minus one-working day compared to average. But that minus one is plus three in Q1 and minus four in Q2. We didn't work that much in May – in France apparently, except in the financial division of SUEZ of course.

Thank you. And maybe just a quick follow-up on FX, basically the euro has gone up. I mean, does it affect your full year outlook or you just – you're still going to obviously maintain...

No. When we take the existing present average rates, we say and I repeat that we don't forecast any additional impact until the end of the year, because there are pluses and minuses. The four main currencies, vis-à-vis which SUEZ is interested being U.S. dollar, Australian dollar, Chilean peso and British pound.

Okay. Thank you so much.

Thank you, caller. We may now take our next question from Olivier van Doosselaere, Exane. Please, go ahead.

Yes. Good morning. Thank you very much for taking my questions, I've got four. The three first of them relate to the International division. One is on the Lydec. I think that there is a review going on of the contract in Morocco. I was wondering if you – I think it's an interim review, but I was wondering if you could tell us how that is going and what your expectations are for the activities of Lydec given the political situation in Morocco.

Second one is on the U.S. municipal activity. So, you had indicated that you were stepping up your CapEx there this year by 50%, I think. I was wondering if you can say whether that CapEx will directly flow into your RAB, and if as a result, we should see that quite mechanically in the results or if this is CapEx that you will have to negotiate subsequently in terms of getting it remunerated in rate cases?

And then, the third one more general on International division. You talked about an acceleration expected in the second half. I was wondering when we could assume the high-single digit kind of growth rate that you expect for that division to be achieved.

And then, my fourth question is on minorities. It was up materially year-on-year. I was wondering if you could give us maybe a guidance for the full year. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Olivier. I will take the three first questions, and on minority Christophe will answer. On Morocco, the situation is absolutely under control. I have – as you know, the concession is doing very well. Yes, we have the what we call the extension of perimeter of Casablanca, which is an issue for us.

As you know, in Morocco, it takes time for the negotiations. But the principle has been agreed and we are under negotiations in order to achieve that the more rapidly we can. To say more is very difficult. I confirm only Lydec is doing well, and the relationship we have waste local and national authorities are always very good.

On the U.S. municipal activities, first of all, yes I confirm that we are going to increase by more or less €80 million the amount of investment we are going to do in the regulated business in the U.S.

I confirm that it is investment which will go directly to the regulated base and therefore we'll be remunerated on the – thanks to the mechanism about the return on equity is always the same system. So, return on equity should be around 10% and the ratio debt-to-equity should be 1%. So, yes it will flow. Two, it will push the return – it will push return and the result of all activity.

On the minority, Christophe?

Yes. Very logically, you should take as a starting point the fact that at the end of the year, we should have approximately twice the trend we have during the first half. There are two topics to be taken into consideration. The first one is related to what is going to be any change and forecasted change in the Chilean peso, right.

And the second one which is most sophisticated but we will show that on the day of the Investor's Day is that when it will come to the integration of the reserve from GE Water, don't forget that at equity level, CDPQ, the Canadian pension fund will own 30% but it is a different topic. So, it means that the key – I would say the key variable to be followed up is the evolution of the Chilean peso. Everything else being, I would say, stable.

About the evolution of the growth of the International division, sorry, I did not answer the question, but I will do it now. Yes, on the medium and long term, we have said that as an average, we should be between 6% and 8%. And it is something, I confirm, in some years we are above, in some other years we are under. It depends a lot of the level of construction and the way the constructions goes all around the year. So, yes, you can take it as a normal average growth of this division.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, caller. We can now take our next question from Philippe Ourpatian, Natixis. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, gentlemen. I have, in fact, three very short question. One is regarding the evolution in the Water Europe, you mentioned minus €8 million in terms of revenue of commercial activity. Could you just elaborate from where this minus €8 million is coming? And what we have to expect? I do suppose a positive trend on the full-year basis, but just confirm that.

Two, you mentioned in the same slide, number 11, that there is some margin squeeze due to higher cost increase versus reviews. Could you just a little bit illustrate it? I do think that's partly is salaries due to the difference between your indexation and the, I would say, underlying inflation of your payrolls. But could you just illustrate it what could be the other items which are fueling this increase of cost of production?

And last, just a clarification, what is the amount of energy sold, means electricity sold, in the revenues of the first half, and where is it included. I do suppose it's in the commodities. You mentioned €7 million in terms of EBIT plus €7 million as variation. But what is the amount of energy in the revenue generated by your energy sellings? Many thanks.

Okay. What is the minus €8 million, in fact, combination of gain and loss of contract, and also reductions or increase after successful renewal of the contract. So this is a mix and minus €8 million is a figure at the end of the first half of the year. We will see what is going to be at the end of the full year. It shows that for a turnover of a company which is, let's say, around €1 billion for the half year, as you can see the variations are very, very limited.

You take the one on the indication?

Yes. About the escalation formulae, you're right I would say that the main component is attached to salaries, gross salaries. I remind you, Philippe, by the way, bonjour, that in average, our escalation formulae, they are split into two large parts, the first one which is approximately 50% and being related to salaries. And the second one is approximately equally split between following up indexes which are reflecting prices of energy, services, and construction. So the main component is attached to salaries.

We are not able to answer directly to your question. I confirm that the electricity price improvement compared to last year is in terms of EBIT, an increase by €7 million and in the coming hours, we will give you the precise figure for production because I'm not able to remind each right now, I do apologize. But €7 million I confirm at EBIT level.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you caller. We can now take our next question from Anna Maria Scaglia, Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, madam.

Hello. It is Anna Maria Scaglia, Morgan Stanley, bonjour. I've got three question, if I may. The first one is related to the commercial activity in waste. I just was wondering how do you see that. In the past there was lots of competition and with price wars. We've seen some data from other operators in Western Europe. They seem to indicate that there as an improvement in the overall operating environment and affordability to raise the commercial prices which [ph] drive (01:25:31) to the EBIT and I guess that's the reason why EBIT growth is better than the revenue growth in waste on an organic basis.

The second one is related to contract expiry. We've seen this China contract which has come to end. I was wondering whether there is the risk of other contracts ending towards the rest of the year. Or on the other side, you have – you are quite relax there.

And last, we've heard that the French Prime Minister, when presenting his manifesto, spoke about reducing landfill in France and increasing recycling by 100% on plastic by 2025. What's the consequence is eventually for SUEZ? What's your thinking there? Thank you.

Okay. On the commercial activity on the waste business, I would say that, frankly speaking, we are quite optimistic. We have first of all a series of new contracts coming in like the one I mentioned about the Marseille cleaning, but we have some others. You're right to say that the environment around this business is positive and that, for example, in Netherland now we start to see increase in price. So all in all, we are positive on the waste business activity and our capacity to gain market share and at the meantime, to increase the price.

On the two other questions, Christophe you want to answer?

But maybe for the prime minister, I will give you the floor, but if I go back to your question related to China, so, yes, in the pipe we have significant activities and commercial project. I'll remind you that the main driver as of today in the waste business in China is related to the treatment of hazardous waste. We already built and operate two facilities and four others are under construction. So, this is clearly the main driver.

It doesn't mean that there are no other project. As I said, the commercial pipe which has not yet been translated into, I would say, backlog is quite promiseful and there are several significant tenders in the coming months in that region.

About what could be the policy of Mr. Hulot in France about landfill tax, frankly speaking, it's very difficult to take any assumptions today. For example, he had said that he want zero plastic waste, he wants plastic to be fully recycled. If it is the case, it will be extremely positive for us. So, what is going to be his policy on landfill field, we will see.

But I would like just to make a general statement if the French Government follow for example the, let's say, UK policy which has been to put progressively tax on landfill, but in the meantime, to develop PFI, as you have seen it could be extremely positive for SUEZ.

If the question mark is only to say no more landfill, no more waste-to-energy system, then I don't know exactly what is going to happen to the flow of waste.

If the only action is to increase landfill tax, at the end of the day, it is a consumer which is going to pay for it. So, I think we have to know and I understand from the minister of that, by beginning of when I said – at the end of the first quarter of 2018, he will set up what he called [Foreign Language] (01:29:31), which mean probably he will define quite a clear strategy about what he wants to do. Then at that time, we could make a deeper and more precise comments. For the time being, very difficult.

Thank you.

As we have no further questions at this time, I will pass the call back over to the speakers.

Well, thank you to everybody. Thank you for attending this meeting. Thank you for your questions, and of course all the teams including Sophie Lombard is there to answer to any of your questions, and of course I look forward to see you in the first quarter of the year to explain our strategy and our development for the new acquisitions we are making with GE Water. Thank you so much.