corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Jean-Louis Chaussade, Chief Executive Officer


All right. I suggest we start then. First of all I would like to welcome you all, ladies and gentlemen.


It’s a real pleasure for Jean-Marc Boursier and the whole teams of SUEZ Environnement to meet


you on this 4th of August to present our half-year results 2010. I would also like to greet all of those


of you who are watching us and following us on the Web or on the phone.


We had defined the year 2010 as a year of return to growth with major strategic and, say, inroads.


The results of the first half 2010 are clearly in line with this trend. They were strongly up and there


were major growth for all of our business. Indeed, the revenues of SUEZ Environnement for the first


half grew by 12.3%, thanks to strong sales momentum in Water or in Waste treatment and also


thanks to the remarkable growth of our business abroad. We have one major contract, which will


come to support the development and the value chain in our business and which give us a


favorable position for future growth.


Operating performance of the Group is also strongly growing with and EBITDA growing by nearly


10%. One of the characteristics of this first half is also strengthening of the Group’s strategic


positions with the unwinding of the joint water companies in France and the finalization – the


closing of the friendly takeover of AGBAR. The growth of our EBITDA as well as the capital gains


generated by these two strategic operations helped us achieve net earnings Group share for the


first half of €386 million.


Based on these robust half-year results, also given the close of the AGBAR operation one month


ahead of schedule and given the context of sluggish recovery in Europe, but strong growth abroad


especially in Asia, we are revising upwards our annual guidance for revenues and EBITDA. The


business model of SUEZ Environnement shows its solidity and its resilience; its – which is partially


cyclical with an unchanged strategy for profitable growth and of a robust financial position.


Coming back to half-year results. As I’ve just said, all financial indicators are growing, which shows


the good performance of the Group for this first half. Revenues stand at – almost €6.6 billion,


€6.597 billion or gross growth of 12.3% compared to the first half 2009; EBITDA stands at €1.042


billion up 9.6%; free cash flow generation stands at €457 million, up nearly 7%. And growth is plus


30% compared to free cash flow in the first half of 2009 if we restate it for nonrecurring events.


In this first half, there were major developments, which will generate future growth for our business


and which resulted in net investment for €911 million at the end of June including €429 million for


the AGBAR operation.


These changes, and if you add to that particularly unfavorable foreign exchange effects at the end


of June, have an impact on our net financial debt level because indeed there were €429 million of


net CapEx linked to AGBAR, add to that, €900 million for a change in consolidation to100% of the


subsidiary including the delisting operation. So the total impact is slightly over €1.3 billion on the


Group’s net debt and there were also currency developments, which led to an increase in debt at


the end of June for slightly less than €400 million, €375 million to be precise.


So, SUEZ Environnement delivered solid results, which were growing strongly. All three divisions


contributed to the good operating performance in the first half year. For the whole of 2010, we had


given you a growth guidance for revenues at constant exchange of plus 5% and at the end of June,


revenues were up by 10.8% in total for the whole Group.


The Water in Europe division with revenues of over €2 billion or 4% growth at constant exchange


levels. Revenues for the environmental services in Europe are up 9.5% at constant exchange,
corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


reaching €2.9 billion and the International division grows even more strongly with growth at current


– constant exchange rates of nearly 22% at €1.7 billion.


Moreover, we are strongly pursuing our productivity efforts and we’ve launched quickly our new


cost optimization plan COMPASS 2 that Jean-Marc Boursier will address later. All business units


continue to be mobilized. All employees are also mobilized. So for this half year, we were able to


save €60 million out of a total objective, which, I recall, is €250 million for the financial years 2010,


2011 and ‘12.


We were also very mobilized around improving free cash flow generation, especially when it comes


to CapEx selectivity. So compared to revenues, the free cash flow rate is growing, moving from 6%


to 7% between H1 2009 and H1 2010.


And at the same time, as we took over AGBAR’s water and environmental services activities, we


sold ADESLAS, something that we signed with CAIXA. So we have strengthened our economic


stability by reducing our exposure to the Spanish crisis. We’ve also completed the unwinding of the


so-called joint water companies in France by buying up stakes in eight companies to strengthen our


geographical positioning in France in key areas and selling our stake in two of these companies in


Southern France, in and around Marseille.


2010 will be the year of the creation of our second European pillar in Water with the friendly


takeover of AGBAR. We are particularly proud of having closed this complex transaction slightly


ahead of schedule. The schedule was set at the announcement of the operation in October 2009.


All milestones were reached in line with the plan.


First, the delisting of AGBAR after we bought the minority 10% – after AGBAR bought the minority


10% and the success rate of the operation was 91%. Then AGBAR sold all of its stake in


ADESLAS to CRITERIA CAIXA for €687 million. And simultaneously, CRITERIA sold part of its


AGBAR shares to SUEZ Environnement. At the end of the operation, CRITERIA still holds a


significant minority stake in AGBAR of around 24%. SUEZ Environnement has 75.01% and there is


still less than 1%, which is held by individual investors.


This friendly takeover was closed successfully on the 8th of June and this is the date at which we


booked in our accounts the impact of the whole operation as well as the change in AGBAR’s


modus consolidation, which is now fully consolidated in our accounts starting on the 1st of June


2010.


Of course, I won’t come back to the Industrial and Strategic rationale behind this operation for


SUEZ Environnement. I have detailed that over and over with Jean-Marc Boursier. But if I were to


keep only three elements, first, I would like to insist on our strengthening position in resilient


businesses like Water in Europe. Also the complementarity of our positions abroad, I’ll come back


to that. But, of course, AGBAR has a strong footprint in Southern America that will continue to


grow. And, of course, this operation improves our profile as a pure player in water and waste


management.


Sales for the half year were strong, especially in the Water Europe segment. Apart from good


performance in the management of existing contracts, I’d like to point out sales successes in


Strasbourg in France, as well as in Calvia in Spain.


We’ve also signed a contract with the Strasbourg Public Authority, a public service delegation


contract for eight years for a water treatment plant of 1 million inhabitant equivalents. Cumulative


sales are 93%, of which 70% for Achères and 30% for Degrémont. It’s a joint operation between


Lyonnaise des Eaux and Degrémont because in the contract there are some works for the


treatment of sludge. As part of the differentiating factors that helped to swing the factor I wanted to


talk about the beneficial reuse of sludge that will avoid land-filling, a carbon-neutral sludge process