Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Louis Chaussade — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ SA
Jean-Marc Boursier — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance and R&R in Northern Europe, SUEZ SA
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Catherine Hubert-Dorel — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Vincent Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning to everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you to be here today with us despite some difficulties to reach SUEZ headquarter, and I would like also to welcome those of you who are following us through webcast.

I would like to take the opportunity of this presentation to reinitiate the constructive dialog that we have been created during the 10 years of quotation of the group and demonstrate how SUEZ is powerful and a strong model. 2017 has been a rich and complex year for SUEZ. We have been pursued a deep transformation of the group, while concluding the beautiful acquisitions of GE Water. I will come back shortly on the 2017 results. What I want to mostly share with you today is my confidence in the strategic model of SUEZ to reach profitable growth. I'm going to expose you the decisions I have taken to steadily pursue this strategy.

On my side today, Jean-Marc Boursier. After three years of successful development in Recycling & Recovery activities in Europe, Jean-Marc will ensure and enlarge responsibility as Group Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Finance and Recycling & Recovery activities for Northern Europe. I am pleased to have Jean-Marc back with me. I will from now on be responsible – he will, sorry – be responsible for the monitoring of the broad financial balances of the group, its profitability, as well as consolidating the dialog with the financial market.

Well, coming back to 2017 results. 2017 has been a year of strong transformation with many strategic move, with the acquisition of GE Water, a very dynamic year in terms of commercial activity, among other the contract of Créteil, for example, for €900 million; the PPP in Belgrade for €1.3 billion for 25 years or the O&M contact in Mapuche in Chile for €570 million. 2017 remains in line in terms of financial results, but disappointing on EBIT.

As already explained on January, the fourth quarter has been impacted by specific expenses that were generated by situation in Spain and operational difficulties in two challenging contracts. It is important for me to highlight that 2018 will be a year of growth. Among the four growth engines of the group, three of them: R&R Europe, International and WTS, are delivering high level of growth in growing markets. The remaining engine, Water Europe, suffered from the political context in Spain, and more broadly, low inflation in Europe and flat volumes.

To overcome this challenging time, I have decided to implement a strong action plan to return to stronger growth and higher profitability. This action plan is built in four axis – main axis: first, amplifying transformations and cost-cutting measures; second, fostering a new momentum for France; third, deploying resources to accelerate growth outside of Europe; and fourth, of course, extracting maximum value from WTS. Let me go through the four of them.

First axis: transformation and cost-cutting. We have already performed a lot of transformations and cost optimizations, but we will take one step ahead. Jean-Yves Larrouturou, the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Group Transformations and General Secretary, as well as large industrial account, will ensure the roll out of this transformation. At group level, we will foster profitability through the improvement of our industrial performance with the launch of a global organization, employing five CTOs with dedicated expertise, for example, municipal water, R&R, industrial water, and [indiscernible] (00:05:50) to monitor asset efficiency and services performance program throughout the group.

The acceleration of innovations and digital transformations, the transformation launched in 2017 enabled us to globally monitor industrial performance, innovations, as well as digitalization. Let me give you two illustrations. An innovation platform launched in Q2 this year will give access for the BUs to the full business and performance innovations, as well digital hub to be launched mid-2018 to accelerate any type of commercial and industrial project with digital added values. We go also for the reinforcement of group monitoring on procurement and IT. Further mutualization of our support functions.

As you remember, the first phase regarding support functions has been set up in France at HQ level and for the BUs through a voluntary departure plant (sic) [plan] (00:07:13) resulting in more than 550 departures by the end of 2018. The full year effect of this plant (sic) [plan] (00:07:24) will result by 2020 in a decrease by 20% to 25% of the total support function staff. I have been able to manage so, thanks to the dialog dynamic built with our social partners. The second phase of transformation is being launched to accelerate simplifications, mutualizations and cost cutting. In France, at BUs and HQ level, as well as in the rest of the group [indiscernible] (00:08:02) engaged in the U.S. or in Asia.

We will, of course, also focus our efforts on Spain, where we have already launched a vast plan of transformation to streamline the organization's optimize cost, such as transversal functions optimizations, shared services efficiency, that is currently deployed by Angel Simon and his team. All these measures will lead our COMPASS ambition for 2018 up to €200 million, therefore €50 million above this year's savings. Through further savings measures, we will maintain our COMPASS ambitions at €200 million for 2019 and 2020.

Second axis: a new momentum for France. France, of course our historical and bigger market, the heart of our expertise know-how, with total revenues of €5.5 billion and more than 30,000 employees, we have a key part to play to seize the opportunities stemming from our clients higher expectations. To properly tackle the full potential of those markets, while ensuring the right level of profitability, we will, first of all, set up a new organization to boost our commercial dynamism by building new offers: ecommerce, digital platforms, such as organics, the first marketplace in biowaste; smart city, such as Dijon, the first integrated platform to manage urban services beyond water and waste; smart metering, such as Paris, where 100,000 new meters will be soon deployed; and of course, biogas productions like the new plant we are building in [indiscernible] (00:10:30).

Secondly, by continuing to be at the forefront of technical and contractual innovations such as the first PPP [ph] in set (00:10:43) south of France; the first SEMOP contract in Dole, [ph] in Jura (00:10:49); the first concession contract with partially merchant energy-from-waste facilities in Créteil. We will streamline costs by pursuing the transformation works initiated by the French BUs and accelerate it by going further, by integrating support functions, and setting up shared services centers, by improving assets and operations efficiencies. It will enable more efficiency, agility, capacity to ensure meeting clients expectations, while improving our profitability. To conduct such an endeavor, I appointed Marie-Ange Debon, Senior Executive Vice President in charge of France. Marie-Ange will manage two French BUs, Water and Waste, to accelerate synergy generations and ensure profitable growth.

The third axis is to accelerate the growth outside of Europe. Beyond the traditional drivers of our market, such as demographic and urbanization growth, the group will benefit from key positive trends: new infrastructure plans in the U.S.; higher commodity price in Middle East and LatAm, oil and copper; new regulations and strong environmental measures in China and in India; growing environmental awareness at the global level for both local authorities and industries. Just a figure, since the beginning of 2018, we, SUEZ, signed for €1.2 billion of new contract at the International, among which projects of potable water in India, desalination [indiscernible] (00:13:18) project in the Emirates, water plant in Senegal and Salvador, et cetera.

We are also experiencing the acceleration of development in the waste activities with requests from our clients for high value-added solutions such as remediation, hazardous waste, energy-from-waste. In the meantime, we are addressing strong expectations for large industrial clients and partners for water and waste combined offers. Thanks to our geographical footprint, expertise, know-how, we have a unique value proposition to provide to our customers. The leveraging of these positions will go through the reinforcement of our commercial teams on the field.

Therefore, I confirm my ambitions – the group ambitions to reach 4% to 6% average annual revenue growth outside of Europe. To achieve this ambition, I have appointed two Senior Executive Vice President: Angel Simon will be in charge of Americas and Spain, of course, North and South America; and Bertrand Camus will be in charge of Africa, Middle East, India, Asia, Australia and Pacific.

The fourth axis is to leverage our new reinforced positions in the industrial water market, thanks to the acquisitions of GE Water and the creation of WTS. With the acquisition of GE Water, we took a huge step forward and become a leading player on this market. The leveraging of this new position and the proper integration of GE Water are essential to our strategy. I therefore reiterate our midterm target to reach over than $3.1 billion of revenue by 2020, improve gradually our margin, generate synergies, revenue and cost that will contribute to $95 million to EBITDA by 2022, of which 80% by 2020.

The first milestone of the integrations are very encouraging and well in line with our plan. Regarding top line synergies, today, more than $830 million of revenue opportunity are already identified spread over more than 300 different projects. I am personally committed to the proper rollout of the integrations to the success of these acquisitions, and I monitor it closely on a weekly basis. I am absolutely confident that we are going to achieve our goals and on WTS long term value creations. I have already achieved – we have already achieved some $13 million of revenue and cost synergy since closing, which is a very promising figure.

First successful contract have been also signed with significant key accounts Petronas, Statoil, BP, Total. This dynamic contributes to the whole group performance. As an example, thanks to the key account organizations launched two years ago, we were able to double our revenue in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry between 2014 and 2017, we achieved around €300 million, and thanks to WTS, my ambition is to reach €1 billion by 2020.

Strong of this action plan and thanks to the positive trends of the market, 2018 will be for SUEZ the year that will deliver the full power of our capacity. We expect our revenue grow by 9% at constant forex, EBIT growth around 10% at constant forex, the free cash flow about €1 billion, financial leverage ratio around 3 times, the profit of an attractive dividend policy, superior or equal to €0.65 per share in relation to 2018 results. This dividend policy shows my confidence and the confidence, of course, of the board in our capacity to deliver profitable results. I am confident in the achievement of this guidance with regards to the management team that has been appointed to implement our strategy.

I will now leave the floor to Jean-Marc, who's going to go deeper into the financial result for the year 2017.

Thank you, Jean-Louis. Thank you for your kind words. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, I'm very happy to be with you this morning. I'm very happy to meet you again after three years fully dedicated to the development of recycling and waste recovery activities in Europe, and I'm also proud to be in front of you with enlarged responsibilities.

As Jean-Louis said, 2017 was a very eventful year for the group and each of our three divisions. On the one hand, we achieved an important strategic move to become one of the key players in the very promising industrial water market, where we had historically an underexposure. On the other hand, at your end, we faced some operational difficulties in Water Europe, and to a lesser extent, in the International divisions. That was a clear disappointment for us and left the group EBIT guidance out of reach. We immediately disclosed this information to you, to the market on January 23rd, and we released at the time to you the key figures for 2017. So, I will now go through the highlights of the group financial performance.

First, let's have a look at our P&L. There should be no surprise as those figures are totally in line with the preliminary results that were given to you six weeks ago. As an overall comment, you see that our turnover benefited from an acceleration of growth in H2, which matches with the improvement in industrial production in most European countries. Our EBIT growth, plus 0.2% or 0.6% at constant forex was negatively impacted by €45 million of one-off expenses that you already know about. Below EBIT, we recorded €109 million of exceptional items, mainly related to both the voluntary departure plan in France and GE Water transaction costs. As a consequence, our net result group share amounted to €302 million.

In terms of free cash flow generation, our target of €1 billion was successfully achieved. The acquisition of GE Water had a very moderate impact on our net debt. The leverage which is 3.2 times at year end, but assuming a full year contribution of this acquisition for the full year, the leverage would have been [audio gap] (00:22:37-00:23:08) which comforts my confidence for the years to come.

Water Europe division was hampered by low escalation formulas linked to the lack of inflation in France and in Spain. International has been affected by lower construction activity and by abnormal weather conditions in the U.S., which should both revert to normal levels in 2018. Overall, as you can see, scope adjustment had a positive impact on revenue, it mainly relates to the contribution, the integration for one quarter of GE Water for €510 million. The difference comes primarily from the disposal of [indiscernible] (00:23:51) building in France and the divestment of our Finnish activity for waste. Forex contributes to a decline of 0.5% of revenue, which is mainly due to the weakness of the British sterling and the U.S. dollar versus euro.

EBIT is up 0.6% at constant forex, but minus 2% on pure organic basis. Regarding evolution by division, what can I say? R&R Europe is up 6.4%, driven by better operational dynamics and higher electricity prices. International at plus 1% was hit by the decision we took to interrupt or downsize two challenging contracts in Africa, Middle East, India. Water Europe is down 7.6% after a slight margin squeeze and additional expenses that we decided to incur in Spain to defend our PPP model in a much more uncertain political context. Scope effect amounted to [ph] €27 million (00:24:57), of which €52 million related to the contribution of one quarter of GE Water.

So, let's have a look into more detailed analysis division by division. When it comes to Water Europe, we had to deal with divergence in trends. Overall positive volumes, as you can see, plus 0.6% in France, with an exceptionally good H1 this year; plus 1.2% in Spain after a hot summer; and plus 1.1% in Chile, despite the reduction of the consumption per capita. Price increases, on the other hand, were insufficient to cover natural inflation in costs.

In Spain, we even suffered a 0.3% decline in tariff, which is mainly due to a tariff decrease, minus 2.4% in Barcelona. As a consequence, EBIT was down €43 million excluding forex, of which €15 million is explained by increased cost in Spain in Q4 and €12 million by a provision that we were able to release in 2016 following the settlement that we had with Lille Métropole. The underlying EBIT performance was therefore down €16 million, as you can see, which is minus 2.8% year-on-year.

If I move to R&R in Europe, 2017 was a positive year for R&R in Europe with the continuation of the improvement that has started a few years ago. Treated volumes were up 1.4%, as you can notice, the recovery-to-elimination ratio is up again to 2.3 times, which show our strong willingness to increase our exposure towards sorting, recycling and energy recovery. I remind you that this recovery-to-eliminate was only 1 seven years ago.

Organic growth in revenue is 3.1%, beyond volume improvements we benefited also from an increase in commodity prices, notably for scrap metal. As far as paper and plastic are concerned, we have been affected in Q4 by the Chinese decision to reduce or almost stop importation, and this is something that we will have to closely monitor in 2018. EBIT growth went up 6.4% organically, thanks to additional rationalization of assets, better operational performance, and optimization of support functions.

For the International division, at revenue level, International division is up 0.9% organically, a rather disappointing figure which is explained by: first, a 4.6% decline in activity in the U.S. following abnormal weather conditions, and therefore a strong decline in drinkable water volumes; and the end of construction contract and those contracts explain why Asia is only up 0.3% and Middle East, India is only up 0.2%.

However, given the current backlog in design builds, positive strength will restart without a doubt in 2018. On the other hand, we had very positive evolution in two other geographies. Central Europe is up 13% with the commissioning of the energy-from-waste facility of Poznań in Poland and very positive activity for both water and waste in Czech Republic, and Australia is up 3.2% with higher volume and prices.

At EBIT level, organic profitability is up €6 million, of which minus €30 million is due to specific difficulties encountered in Africa, Middle East, India on those two contracts, and plus €11 million related to a provision that we had to take in a construction contract in Hong Kong in 2016. That leaves €25 million, or plus 4.5%, which I consider as the underlying operational performance improvement of the division.

As a reminder, also please note that the scope impact for the International division is almost nil, it includes two amount of the similar magnitude, plus €30 million as the impact of the change in consolidation method for our partnership with New World in China, and minus €36 million as the provision release recorded in 2016 concerning the Derun project in Chongqing. So, let's continue with the rest of the P&L.

EBITDA is flat and reflect the trend I've just described. And there is no specific comment to be made between EBITDA and EBIT. Below EBIT, we have recorded the cost of the voluntary departure plan in France for €73 million. The process is now terminated. And as explained by Jean-Louis that will lead to a departure of 550 employees in France for support functions. Minus €44 million related to the transaction cost of GE Water, most of those costs were recharged to WTS and therefore 30% was paid by CDPQ.

Finally, €8 million of other net cost including other restructuring initiatives related to our COMPASS program for €86 million, provision and assets for €20 million and capital gain on disposal for €111 million. And overall, as you can see, income from operational activities went down 8.9% to €1.175 billion.

The rest of the P&L – thank you, Sophie – cost of net debt slightly increased after the funding of GE Water which is 3.84% versus 3.67% last year. But the cost of the gross debt as you will see later on has continued to decrease however. The income tax charge went down from €244 million in 2016 to €225 million in 2017. This amount includes first for €42 million the reimbursement that was made by the French authorities of the 3% tax on dividend in France and minus €32 million revaluation of deferred tax assets in the U.S. due to the new tax rates in the country. The effective tax rate is 42.2%. The effective tax rate is linked to the large impact from the restructuring cost borne in France, which led to a negative profit before tax in our country. But I expect the effective tax rate to be around 35% for 2018.

Minority interest went up from €203 million to €218 million, and this is primarily due to the takeover of our Chinese activities at the end of last year. As a consequence, our net result group share amounted to €302 million versus €420 million last year. Adjusted from the two specific elements which Jean-Louis and I had mentioned, below EBIT, namely the voluntary departure plan in France and the cost of transaction for the GE Water acquisition, net result group share would have been €400 million and, therefore, EPS would have amounted to €0.67 per share.

I would like to go back to the GE Water acquisition, if I may, to remind you, the key balance sheet impact on the left of this slide. The acquisition price in our cash flow statement is €2.7 billion. It corresponds to the $3.4 billion that you knew about, less some price adjustment that we negotiated with the seller, less some factoring of receivables done by GE Water just before closing, less some cash left in the company. This acquisition price by – was financed by an equity provided by CDPQ for €668 million; by a capital increase done that SUEZ level, 47.5 million new shares were issued in May for €746 million; and the acquisition was also financed by a hybrid bond of €598 million euro with rate of 2.87%.

As a consequence, the net debt impact of this acquisition is €687 million versus an EBITDA for 2018, as you can see, which is expected at $290 million, which mean that this transaction will not weigh at all on our leverage ratio.

As far as the EBIT contribution is concerned, I remind you that we are expecting $200 million in 2018 from WTS before PPA allocations. So, I would like to come back to this PPA. My objective is to give you a clear view on this PPA before the end of June, but let me tell you already that the goodwill of this transaction amounts to €2.2 billion.

From an accounting perspective, we will have to record four quarters of PPA amortization in 2018, and restate the 2017 financials with one quarter of PPA amortization since the closing was done on October 1, 2017. This is a pure mechanical restatement, which will be very minor.

Beyond the acquisition of GE Water, net investment amounted to €947 million including, as you can see, €626 million for maintenance CapEx that we kept low at 3.9% of revenue including additional budget that we have dedicated with [indiscernible] (00:35:31) to IT and digitalization. €667 million, we have the development CapEx and tuck-in acquisition that we've done in line with strategic priority defined by Jean-Louis. And finally, we've done some disposal of asset for €357 million. Those were non-core or non-performing assets that were disposed in very good conditions and generated capital gains for €111 million. For 2018, my intention is to continue to finance €1 billion of net investment.

If turn rapidly to the cash flow statements, our free cash flow generation reached €1.004 billion fully in line with the guidance, and this free cash flow has been achieved with both strong focus on CapEx and a tight working capital management. As a result, our net debt at the end of last year amounted to €8.473 billion. The underlying leverage is already 3 times if we consider pro forma full year contribution of WTS.

Let me add a few comments on the debt evolution. First, as you can see, the free cash flow is sufficient to finance net development CapEx for €321 million and a dividend to shareholders which amounted to €571 million. And we benefited also as you can see from a positive forex impact of €265 million. You will see in the appendices of my presentation that we finished the year with a very solid liquidity position of €4.5 billion, €2.3 billion of cash available plus €2.2 billion on undrawn credit facilities.

ROCE at the end of the year reached 6.8% in excess of WACC, which is 6.1%. Versus last year, please note that capital employed at year end has increased to €17.9 billion following GE Water acquisition. However, only €15.9 billion is used, part that employees for ROCE computation.

The reduction of ROCE from 7% in 2016 to 6.8% in 2017 is entirely due to the GE Water acquisition, but the spread of work remained constant as our work as also equally declined by 20 basis points. The ROCE for the three historical divisions remained constant over all year-on-year with R&R in Europe which I'm pleased to see going up from 6% in 2016 to 8% ROCE in 2017. In 2018, given the additional weight of WTS in our balance sheet and ROCE computation, ROCE will mechanically go down, all other things being equal, by a further 40 basis points.

As a matter of conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a straight to the point comment. We know you have been disappointed by our 2017 EBIT guidance miss. And I hope that this presentation has provided comprehensive view of our overall performance and perspective.

Our financial roadmap is very clear and can be summarized as follows; first, materialize cost-cutting measures including a strong action plan decided by Jean-Louis. My target is to increase COMPASS savings by an additional €50 million per annum over the period 2018, 2019 and 2020. Second, reinforce investment selectivity to further optimize returns and reduce capital intensity, I will work towards maintaining our net investment envelope at around €1 billion for 2018 and beyond.

And third, support growth ambition and contribute to the necessary acceleration of the group transformation, innovation, IT, and digital is absolutely key in that regard. I am entirely focused on delivering against those action points and personally convinced that they will progressively translate into sustainable EPS and ROCE improvement, and I look forward to our upcoming dialogue.

Thank you very much, and I give the floor to Jean-Louis for some words of conclusion. Thank you.

Thank you, Jean-Marc. Well, my conclusion will be very short. First of all, I strongly believe in the strength of this SUEZ model. I believe in the strategy we are following and, of course, in the action plan I explained to you and we are going to implement, we already implement. The transformations I have engaged is deep. It's a tangible enforcement of our long-term visions to provide the highest added value to our customers and also to our shareholders.

All the SUEZ teams and its top management, 90,000 people, are fully dedicated and proud to fulfill those objectives, meeting the shareholder expectations. I am focused on growth. I am focused on growth, I am focused on profitability, and I am focused on EPS improvement as Jean-Marc just said.

Thank you for your attention. And, now, with Jean-Marc, we are ready to answer to all your questions.

Please, can you bring the mic?

Good morning. Philippe Ourpatian from Natixis. In fact, I have just three main question. The first is concerning your cost-cutting plan. I mean you increase it by €50 million per annum. But could you just elaborate a little bit more about what kind of measure you are implementing since some years you are delivering somewhere between €150 million, €160 million per year? What kind of different action are you implementing in order to generate the €200 million per annum? Seems that these measure have not been implemented before or it's also a continuation and a deeper effort for the already implemented measures? That's the first question.

The second question is concerning the revenues opportunity concerning WTS. You mentioned €830 million of identified project. But dividing by the number of project, it seems that it's quite a small project based on unitary reviews more or less €3 million. Could you just break down this average figure between what could be big project and more smaller in order to achieve this €3 million?

And the last is concerning to €13 million you mentioned about the additional revenues and costs generated on 2017 on WT&S. Its revenue and cost cutting, could you just break down this figure? And the last, sorry, do you have some words – could we have some words about the impact of the China waste ban on your 2018 activity? And how this has, maybe, affected already 2017?

On the first question, on the cost-cutting, as I said to you, we are accelerating a series of measures, thanks to digitalization, thanks to streamlining, thanks to optimization, and working together. I explained, for example, in the plan that we have in France. Yes, we can ensure additional savings. No doubt on that. Digitalization, it helped, of course, to do that. But mutualization, it's another one. So, there is still a lot to be done, and I am fully confident that we will achieve the €200 million I mentioned for 2018, 2019 and 2020. I have no doubt on that. And we are doing that also with all rep – people representatives. We do that in such a way that we can achieve that peacefully in the group.

Now, on what you said about WTS. In fact, you have to understand that WTS has a lot of very small and small project. For WTS, €20 million or €30 million project is a large one, when for SUEZ, the rest of SUEZ is often medium-sized or small-sized. So, yes, you're right. When we said that we have identified €830 million of common project, if I can say, it's a lot of small project of few millions, even sometimes less than €1 million, and the sum of that some 300 project are going to sum of €830 million. So, WTS has a lot of very small or small-sized project. It is, I should say, the way the business of WTS has been build. When you talk about CMS which is a chemical, for example, sale of chemical and know-how project where you have a lot of project under €1 million, so no problem with that. The size of those project is a normal size of WTS.

On the €13 million of synergies already in 2018, Jean-Marc, you want to give the split?

Yes. Its €10 million of cost that will impact 2018 and those are measures that will impact the current year and it's $3.5 million of margin of additional turnover that was generated because WTS is within the group. We are not talking about the natural increase in WTS, but this is due to belonging to the group. So, it's €10 million in cost and $3.5 million in margin.

Yes, on the cost-cutting, I would like to come back on one point also which is very important. We are also setting up, I should say, or purchasing organizations – world-wide purchasing organizations and these worldwide organizations will help us to make some additional savings. It's part, I should say, of the plan. On China, you know that right...

Yes. As far as China is concerned, so China is a very large importer of commodity. China is importing – was importing last year 30 million tons of paper of which one-third coming from Europe and 8 million tons of plastic, one-third coming from Europe. China has decided to stop importation of assorted plastic and has decided to reduce strongly the volume and to increase the quality of the paper that would be imported. For one simple reason, they want to create a recycling activity in their own countries or they want to reduce their exposure to importation.

As far as SUEZ is concerned, the numbers are much limited. We are dealing with 3 million tons of paper and we are exporting 10% to China. And we are dealing with 400,000 tons of plastic and we are exporting 10% also to China. The question is, for us, are we going to find alternative customer? The answer is yes. So, we are finding other customers in Southeast Asia.

But the question – the broader question is what will be the impact of that decision on the current prices? And the answer is the correction has been very severe in Q4. The low-quality plastic [ph] fins (00:48:02) went to negative territory. So, we said to our customers, it's no longer needed to sort because there is no more value for that. It will go directly into incineration. And for the low-quality paper and carbon, the price went down up to something like €10 per ton which is again not sufficient due to sort.

So, the question is what do we do with it? We are going to reduce sorting of those quality and that will go directly to incineration, but there will be a severe correction. There was and there still is a severe correction on the commodity market, so we have to change our strategy vis-à-vis low-quality paper and low-quality plastic which accounts only for 10% of the total material that we're handling.

Yes. Just a second. A question here and then we will take – okay.

Bonjour. Emmanuel Turpin, Société Générale. Three questions. First of all, some details about the apparently positive impact of electricity prices on the 2017 accounts, by how much in million – by how many millions in terms of EBIT and what about your hedging policy maybe for the year 2018, 2019? What is the ratio of volumes – of expected volumes that you've sold? And if possible, could we know whether the average selling price is up or down [indiscernible] (00:49:49)?

Then, about provisions, you said in the walk-through of the 2017 accounts that for two divisions, there was an absence of provision reversals that was beneficial in 2016. So, there was no such effect in 2017. I can see that in absolute terms, net provisions for the 2017 accounts where €25 million, roughly the same amount as 2016, which leads me to try and understand in this 2017 figure, what is the ratio of the provisions that cover EBITDA charges. So, the absence of reversals next year will be EBIT neutral. Others may be generic provisions that are not backed by EBIT charges. So, I'd like to be able to anticipate the 2018 effect of the absence of provision reversals in 2017.

And to conclude, a question about capital allocation, the good surprise is that the net debt over EBITDA ratio is back to the comfort zone of 3 times, debt over EBITDA if you look at the full year figures for GE Water. At the same time, you've announced that you wanted to keep capping net CapEx to €1 billion. [ph] ROCE (00:51:11) for GE Water is decent, it's even changing positively for some businesses. So, since the balance sheet is robust again, since some activities are looking good, even better, I can understand that after large acquisitions, you want to show some discipline, but is it really the right time? I'd like to understand the thinking behind it beyond mere discipline. Isn't it time to [indiscernible] (00:51:39) on one hand?

And on the other hand, could you give us a split of the net CapEx of €1 billion between large CapEx and disposals? You had €1.2 billion in big CapEx so far. Is that the figure to include? Are you going to try and have two €100 million to €200 million in disposals? Could you then comment on some things we've read in the press, saying that you would wish to dispose of some activities for €600 million to €800 million, including part or whole of the U.S. activity?

Jean-Marc, can you take the first two? Maybe I'll take the third.

Regarding electricity, you'd remember that in 2016, we highlighted a very negative impact of electricity of almost €30 million, which was due to a strong decline in electricity and a shift to – from regulated tariffs in France and Belgium to the free market. So, all of our waste-to-energy facilities are now in the free market, and we benefited from a slight increase in electricity prices, which in the improvement of operating profitability of R&R Europe is about one-third.

For your question, Emmanuel, about electricity prices and hedging, our policy is to hedge – at 31st December of one year, hedge 75% of electricity sales for the next year and about 25% of the second year. So, we are well-hedged for next year at average prices slightly higher than the prices of 2017, but there will be no additional impacts, excluding the improvement in the way we run our facilities and the increase in the number of kilowatt hours or terawatt hours sold. Energy for R&R is 7 terawatt hours of energy, so you can calculate the terawatt hour is €35, you can see about – you can have a rough idea of the revenues from energy sales.

For 2016, I highlighted two provisions that offset each other, if you look at things. We had a reversal in 2016 in Lille, and then we had a new provision for the construction of a facility in Hong Kong. So, the net of the two was neutral, but I wanted to make that explicit, so that you can see the walk-through, the cascade profitability from 2016 to 2017 easier. So, we had net reversals of €25 million two years running, and these reversals are mostly disbursements of EBITDA for long-term provisions that were dispersed and that are normally neutralized in the operating income. So, negative impact on EBITDA. If you disburse provisions for pension commitments, if you close down storage facilities, you have a net – negative cash effect, but it's neutralized by the provisions we've been building up for years. And if reversals were effective and then the impact is zero and that was the case.

For capital allocation, what I may say only is that, as you said Emmanuel, after a large acquisition, we are still cautious. We'll carry on giving guidance about our net debt over EBITDA ratio of 3 times. We'll still have some asset recycling as we've had every year. There was more or less recycling in assets. If you look at the past, we had roughly €150 million to €400 million of that, and right now, we're roughly in this range.

So, I would say that my goal is mostly to preserve the financial strength of SUEZ. That doesn't mean that we would turn down any acquisitions or greenfield projects. We are doing that. Simply that means that we need to be conservative after a large acquisition. And then, when it comes to asset allocation itself, it's clear that we want to allocate more capital where there is growth and that's specifically true for the rest of the world. [indiscernible]

(00:55:55) Michel Debs of Citigroup. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome back Jean-Marc. I have a couple of questions, please. The first one, we understand that you are ramping up your cost-cutting. Is it in reaction to increased margin pressures or is it a net positive effect? In other words, you are going to do an extra €50 million of cost-cutting. Does it mean that every time that your numbers go up by €50 million or should we net that off with some increased pressures?

My second question has to do with the organization of the business. You have announced this morning a restructuring of your Executive Committee. And the way I read it is that you will now have a mixture between a business line organization, Water, Waste, and International and WTS, and managers that are in charge of countries of which yourself, Jean-Marc are one. So, my question is where do you want to go, do you want to stay in business lines or do you want to go to a country managed system?

And my last question has to do with the CFO position, which I understand will be a time-share with part of the Recycling business. Is this a permanent thing? Will the CFO position be a part-time one or will you, at some point, transition fully to one role? Thank you very much.

We have been very clear – hello, Michel, and thank you for your kind words also. With regard to the cost-cutting, I think we have been very clear. The guidance doesn't change, but this cost-cutting is very important for us to increase the certainty that we have to deliver the program. So, please do not add €50 million on the top of the guidance that we gave you. It's all inclusive, but clearly, it was the decision made by Jean-Louis to take into consideration a specific reality in France and in Spain for [indiscernible] (00:58:01) which is low inflation. And therefore, if we want to avoid margin squeeze as we had this year, we are forced to take additional measures, and Jean-Louis has been very clear on France and on Spain.

On the other question, the CFO position is, of course, a position which is very important to the group. Jean-Marc has the full knowledge of that. He has also a strong experience in terms of R&R activities, and I saw that it was good for him to keep an eye on this North Europe activity, and in the meantime, to taking charge the full CFO position.

Now, on the organization, in fact more and more, we have an organization in which in each geography, you have one people in charge of all the businesses of SUEZ – water, waste, construction, but you have one exception to that which is WTS: first of all, because WTS is a fully International business; and second, because we have a partner, as you know, we have been deciding to get this – to make these acquisitions with CDPQ.

If I can add, Jean-Louis, to the question of Michel, obviously, we are going to amend our reporting presentation to the new organization of the group and that would be done from June onwards.

Please. Mic, please.

Thank you. Catherine Hubert from Barclays. Two question, please. Just on cost-cutting, should we expect any cost of implementation of this additional cost-cutting effort, especially when you're talking about, for example, the global purchasing strategy? And then, on the ROCE, can I just ask you for next year is the lower ROCE is coming from the PPA allocation? Where is that taken into account?

As far as our exception is concerned, I think Christophe guided you a few weeks ago to the fact that there will be a charge below EBIT of €150 million, and I confirm that charge including, as expressed in the presentation by Jean-Louis, $80 million due to the integration plan that we have launched in WTS. So, yes, below EBIT there will be a further charge of €150 million next year.

And your second question, sorry, was on -?

ROCE.

On the ROCE? The ROCE will decline by 40 basis points because of the contribution of WTS in the global ROCE of the group, including obviously PPA amortization. In an acquisition like that ROCE of year one cannot be 7%, so mechanically it will wait.

But ROCE should go up when the acquisition will be totally finalized in terms of cost of synergies, et cetera, et cetera, I would say by year 2020 something like that.

You have in the presentation, in the appendices, full balance sheet impact of GE Water acquisition. So, you can recompute the contribution to capital employed. And for the NOPAT contribution of WTS, you have $200 million of EBIT, you put a tax charge which is an average tax charge the one in the U.S., you deduct a little bit of PPA and you will be able to compute the ROCE contribution of WTS in year one. But obviously, as you have seen, this ROCE will improve year-on-year because of the strong development and synergy program that we have in front of us.

Yes?

The next question is from Guy Mackenzie of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I have three as well actually, the first on the action plan and the cost-cutting, and then the other two on CapEx. Just to push you a little bit further on cost-cutting, I mean, it's pretty clear from your answer to a previous question that this is helping you to achieve and confirm the guidance of 2018. But just looking beyond that, I mean, qualitatively you're sounding quite bullish. I just want to get a better view of what this means quantitatively for results from 2019 onwards? And I hate to ask how comfortable you are with 2019 consensus, but you've been very clear on next year's numbers. I'm just wondering whether this enhanced cost-cutting will help you to meet the consensus for 2019 or whether you see any scope to exceed it?

The second question is just on your [ph] United Water (01:03:38) CapEx specifically. It looks to be up about 45% year-on-year. I know growth to this business [ph] is just like peers (01:03:45) a little bit. I'm just wondering if we should expect higher levels of CapEx here to continue, and whether this signals a stronger push for growth in this area specifically or if it's just a function of CapEx there being a little bit lumpy?

Finally, just on your group CapEx. I mean it's nothing new on this, but just given the growth that you're talking about, how should we look at the fact that your D&A charge is almost double your maintenance CapEx and more in line with your total CapEx including the development CapEx? It seems either your total CapEx is needed to maintain the existing asset base or your existing assets are kind of winding down and their contribution is being offset by the new contribution from where you're allocating development CapEx, i.e., it's more a question of a change and maybe an improvement in mix rather than growth in the overall business. And I'm just wondering if you can help clarify that discrepancy that would be really helpful. Thanks very much.

Do you want to go ahead?

Good morning, Guy. With regards to the 2019 consensus, yes, we are comfortable. Obviously, give me a little bit of time to look into your model one by one. I realized that that was a matter of disappointment last year and I don't want that to reiterate. But as far as I've seen so far, yes, we are in line with the market consensus for 2018 and 2019.

As far as regulated CapEx is concerned, this is true that we like the regulating model. We've been investing a little bit more in 2017 and 2016 also by the way to increase our asset base in Chile and in the U.S. We are particularly comfortable with the U.S. regulated water model. You will see also in the appendices a subtotal with the contribution of Chile and the regulated water activity in the U.S. Are we going to continue to fuel the growth of those two regulated activities, the answer is yes, and that will be made within the €1 billion net envelope that Jean-Louis and I described.

With regards to amortization and provision, I will need to come back to you, and I'm not so sure I fully understood your question. As you have seen in the bridge between EBITDA and EBIT, the amortization and depreciation remain constant. As a matter of fact, there are two very small effects in that. We've got the reduction of the Chilean peso that weighted positively and we have the increase of our scope in China. But overall, with the €1 billion net CapEx envelope, you shall not have an increase in G&A for the years to come.

What I can add on the CapEx side – on the growth CapEx side, you have to take into account that more or less GE Water or WTS use more or less between €80 million and €100 million a year of CapEx. So, you have to add that to the base you had historically with SUEZ.

I complete my answer, Guy. Stable D&A, obviously before WTS, because you will have an additional impact mechanically on WTS, because as you have seen, EBITDA will be around €290 million and EBIT around €200 million. So, you have obviously amortization and depreciation for €90 million, but beyond that it will remain constant.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question from Pinaki Das of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Many thanks for taking my questions. I've got a couple of questions. The first one is on disposal, and the second one is on divisional growth. So, on disposals, I just want to understand you've sold about [ph] €350 million (01:08:04) assets. If we assume that run rate continues in the next couple of years, is it fair that the €600 million to €800 million disposals that the press had highlighted is actually not far away from what we might end up doing in the next two years? And then, if that is the case, then what would be the sort of impact in terms of earnings dilution from disposals?

And also, just related to this question is also, how do you look at leverage? Do you look at only just net debt by EBITDA or do you actually consider the hybrids as well, when you look at the overall leverage picture of SUEZ? That's my first question on disposals.

The second one is on divisional growth. So, there are two legs to it. The first one is I just wanted to understand in waste and recycling, you had just under 1% of organic growth in 2017. That looks quite low to me considering the backdrop was quite good. So, I just wanted to understand why the organic growth in Recycling & Recovery was relatively low. And secondly, on the divisional growth side, I want to look beyond, let's say, 2019, 2020. Could you give us an indication of between the three or four divisions, what sort of growth rates should be put in model in Water, in Waste, in International and WTS? Thank you so much.

Good morning. With regard to this puzzle, you have two options, either you read the press and you believe in it or you listen to Jean-Louis said and I think his message is more accurate, if I may say so. So, we are going to invest €1 billion of net investment year after year, of which there will be a little bit of disposal. And Jean-Louis made it clear that we have done between €200 million and €400 million year after year, and we believe that this is the good rhythm for the years to come to make our balance sheet [ph] breathe (01:10:13) a little bit.

As far as organic growth is concerned, you seem disappointed by R&R performance, but I think with the 3% growth in revenue and 6% growth in EBIT, we've done a decent year. Obviously, we have been helped a little bit by commodities but, all in all, R&R Europe is well-oriented. You've seen that the volumes went up 1.4%, and I can give you another color, which is that the beginning of the year is good and that trend might increase a little bit for the next few quarters.

On the 2019, 2020 growth, we gave you some indications telling you that the revenue growth, once WTS is fully integrated in SUEZ, will be around 3% and that the EBIT should grow faster at the top line. It is what I forecasted today for 2019 and 2020 at group level. As I told you that the Water in Europe is not growing very fast, that means that the other three divisions, the three other engines of SUEZ are growing, as I mentioned during my presentation, at a quite high path.

Can I ask you – sorry, on the Recovery & Recycling (sic) [Recycling & Recovery] (01:11:43), can I just follow-up. I mean, the EBITDA growth was 0.8% organically, so that's what I was looking at, that's kind of indicative of cash flow growth rather than EBIT or revenues.

I apologize; then my answer was imprecise. As a matter of fact, we have engaged over the last past years, a reduction in capital intensity, for instance, we are no longer buying trucks, but we are using a different leasing model. Another example, we have closed the landfills in the UK and in France, and we had the cash out of the landfill closure. Therefore, for this division in particular, EBIT ratio is more important and more pertinent for the analysis of the performance than the EBITDA, which will mechanically go less quick up because of the landfill closure and the renting of truck I was describing, but look at the impact on ROCE, which I believe, is much more important.

Thank you so much. Thank you.

Our next question from Vincent Ayral of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. Good morning. Coming late in the stack, I think most questions have been asked. So, I'll come back to two points. The first one is we see an increase in the cost-cutting, but the guidance however does not changed and this is to secure the guidance. Could you give us some color, can we expect any potential upside here, and if anything, could this mean upside after 2018? And just to be sure, to understand exactly where we are regarding expectations?

Similarly, you do not provide any guidance of the net income or net debt to net income level. When I look basically at the current consensus, we have about €374 million of net income group share on your website, which is a bit old. On the more recent consensus, we can see we've about €333 million. It's difficult for us to know who has put any PPA here. Could you give us some indication of where you think the consensus is free of PPA, and if possible, any guidance there on net income? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Vincent. On the first question, obviously, if we have good news throughout the year, we will come back to you. But given the disappointment that we have generated last year, we want to stick our commitment. And again, this cost-cutting, which is very ambitious, is there to secure 2018 and to improve 2019 and beyond.

Regarding net income, I mean, EBIT is as clear as it can be. The PPA, I will come back to you before the end of June. The cost of net debt, you know it, 3.87%. The tax charge, I gave it to you this morning, at 35%. And exceptional item, I guided you through €150 million. So, you have all the elements to recompute the net result group share. You know also the minority interest, they have been up last year because of China, but given the stability of the perimeter you should be in a position to compute a very precise net income group share.

Thank you. But my question, I have done the computing indeed, as you would expect. It's difficult for me to know what is embedded in the consensus which is published on your site in terms of PPA, who has done it and how much. And it would be very useful if you had an idea of what would be a clean net income group share ex-PPA, if you had any idea on that, if you could communicate it? Thank you.

We will have plenty of time with each of you to go through your model, and at the end of June, given the PPA number, which I will give you, we will all converge to the same number. Don't worry, we have time, and I will restart the dialog as soon as next Monday.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Anna Maria Scaglia of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. I've got a few questions, if I may. The first one is regarding restructuring charges. You have this €150 million this year, but as well you have more cost-cutting going forward. So, should we expect around €70 million for restructuring charges even in future year or do you expect that the restructuring charges related to the cost-cutting to go significantly down?

The second question is regarding Argentina and the potential cash in there, if there is any update or can you give us quantification of anything there? And the third question is regarding Chile and Aguas Andinas performance. I noticed in the numbers that actually the performance is fairly flat, while probably the expectation was [ph] for something (01:16:57) help to offset the impact of Spain and France weakness. What are your expectations there going forward? I mean, do you think that the Water division will be able to grow EBITDA at some point or the cost-cutting is really just offsetting the pressure elsewhere? Thank you.

Good morning. Jean-Marc Boursier speaking. The restructuring charges will be specifically high next year, because of the reorganization we have to undergo in WTS to accelerate the integration. And this is why I guided you towards €150 million, and obviously, we have also to fund restructuring plan that we are currently undertaking in Spain. But you're absolutely right, it will go back to normal level as soon as 2019, and the normal level is around €70 million to €80 million, as it was the case in 2017 also, if we put aside the voluntary departure plan in France and if we put aside also the transaction cost on the acquisition of WTS.

On Argentina, I can confirm a series of information. The first one, that's the [ph] Créteil (01:18:21) sentence is well-known and definitive. It means that normally Argentina should pay to SUEZ, for Aguas Argentinas, which is one of the two concessions where we have discussions with [ph] Créteil (01:18:38). So, the first one, the value is €405 million. Of course, we are – under discussions with the Argentinian government. We got the sentence more or less in May last year which mean roughly to be a bit less than one year. And, usually, it can go up to 18 months in Argentina to settle the case.

So if you ask me if I believe that normally we should find an agreement by the end of this year, the answer is yes. But you know, Argentina is Argentina and as long as we do not have the money in the pocket, it's very difficult to talk about that. What I can guide you is the fact that, of course, we will have a [ph] haircut (01:19:31), as usual. And if you look to what is going to – at the end of the day, if we are successful, what we can expect in the account of SUEZ, it would be around €200 million.

On Chile, Chile is doing and going well. Of course, the tariff increase, as you know, it depends of various elements. One is the amount of investment that we are doing, second is inflation and, third, you have a 3% freehold that you have to achieve before getting additional tariff. So, we are positive on Chile. Chile will continue to grow. As was mentioned by Jean-Marc, in Chile, we are going to increase the amount of investment on the regulated base asset. The new President is in favor of all the, let's say, Chilean concessive model. So, I think all the conditions are there to continue to make Chile Aguas Andinas a successful SUEZ.

You have in page 36 of the presentation detail in Chilean peso of the contribution of Aguas Andinas to the P&L and the cash flow statement of the group. I just would like [indiscernible] (01:21:06) what are you up to remind everyone that in the guidance of the group, the assumption is a flat EBIT year-on-year for Water Europe, France, Spain and Chile versus a 2.8% underlying decline this year. So, the action plan is there to stabilize the situation that will rebound later on.

Yes. On Water Europe, I think that, as it was just mentioned, we are arriving in my view at, I should say, the lowest point and we should recover. And all the action plan I am putting in place with Marie-Ange Debon is to make sure that in France, we rebound strongly and you have action plan in Spain to do the same. So, yes, we expect in the year to come some rebound both in terms of profitability as I was mentioning before and also in terms of turnover. So, both turnover and profit should be boost in the coming years, thanks to the plan we have been putting in place – we are putting in place.

Yeah. One additional question, so please.

And we will take our next question from Vincent Ayral of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yes. Just doing a follow-up on Argentina. You've been talking about the Buenos Aires concession if I understand. There was also the Santa Fe concession, and the arbitration, the last decision or last appeal is expected in the coming weeks from what we can understand. Could you give us a bit of color on this one as well please? Thank you.

Yes. So, of course, thank you so much for the questions. I am not sure that we will have the definitive sentence in the coming weeks. I would say that we expected – we are very cautious because don't forget that we start the process in 2004. So, we are talking about the 14 years process. So, I will be cautious. But, yes, you are right to say that we should get the final definitive sentence, let's say, by yearend or at the least or at last beginning of next year.

Yes, it will confirm the €225 million that has been already mentioned. And of course we will go through the same process as the one you can – I explained for Aguas Argentinas. So, we can expect to be a rough number of an additional €100 million arose. When exactly? I really don't know. I am not sure it will come in 2019 or 2020 exactly. We will have to make a negotiation.

The negotiation with Aguas Argentinas is, I should say, really engaged. There is no negotiation for the time being with the government of Argentina for Aguas Buenos Aires, the Santa Fe because we are waiting, as it was mentioned, the final sentence, but it will come. It will probably as I said [indiscernible] (01:24:39).

If there is no more questions, I would like to thank everybody for coming this morning at our headquarters despite all the, I should say, difficult conditions you got this morning. So, thank you so much.