corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Jean-Louis Chaussade, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome. We’re very happy, along with the whole team from


SUEZ Environnement, to welcome you here this morning so as to report the earnings of SUEZ


Environnement for 2010. I’d also like to greet those who are with us on the Internet or over the


telephone line.


Now, before starting my presentation, I cannot but express our great pleasure in announcing that,


that night, we got good news from Australia. We’ve been selected by the city of Adelaide for the


operation and maintenance of their water and waste management facilities for a period of 10 years


with our council partner. This is a contract which, aggregated together, represents about AU$1.1


billion. So just to confirm to you that we’ve been very active commercially here in SUEZ


Environnement.


So I’d like to start my presentation by reviewing the salient features of 2010, with a year of strong


growth for SUEZ Environnement. After that, I’ll give the floor to Jean-Marc Boursier, who is our


CFO, and he will detail out the financials of the fiscal year; financials that were marked by growth,


improvement and profitability, and good cash-flow generation. Christophe Cros, who is Senior Vice-


President in charge of Waste, will then do some recapping on the business development in that


area in Europe, reassessing our strategic choices and the unique positioning of our Group in the


Waste Management business. And then Thierry Mallet, who is in charge of International Affairs, will


give you a presentation on our developments outside of Europe, with the soft talking of growth in


that segment in 2010. And myself, I will come back in to conclude on our objectives and our


corporate strategy for 2011 and the following years.


To come back to 2010 now. 2010 was a year of strong growth for SUEZ Environnement, with many


industrial and commercial successes, results going markedly upwards, and the position of our


efforts in terms of sustainable development. 2010 was indeed marked by strive-forward, business-


wise and in terms of our strategy.


We won many long-term contracts in our two main core businesses, and I’ll give you a few


examples of that in a short while. Our Sorting and Recycling business made strong progress also,


driven not only by the upswing in the prices of recycled materials, and Christophe Cros will talk


about that later on, but also by the upswing in volume in the already-built treatment capacities by


the Group or else ones that had been acquired by the Group in the last few years. International


developments also set up, thanks to the sustained growth in all of our segments and our business


units, and that will continue, in particular with the announcement made at the end of 2010 of the


acquisition of the Waste Management businesses of WSN, a company that belongs to the City of


Sydney, that will boost our businesses substantially in waste in Australia. Finally, we also finalized


the taking-over, on a friendly basis, of the AGBAR Group at the time that I think was very


opportune, and I’ll go back to that also later on.


So this intense activity was reflected by earnings that go markedly upwards, with growth superior to


10% growth in the revenues and in the EBITDA.


All of our segments fed in to the improvement of our operational performance in our Group, and we


made steady progress in our COMPASS 2 plan, affording us in the year €120 million worth of


savings. So this upswing in our operating results, combined with the savings made, thanks to the


strategic ventures connected with AGBAR in particular, but also because of the unwinding of the


companies that we held on the joint venture basis that we held in Water, and Water business in


fact, all of this helped us to achieve in 2010 net earnings, Group share, running at a high level,


standing therefore at €565 million.
corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


At the same time, we pursued our sustainable development policy via a certain number of


innovative offerings. And also, we set ourselves a certain number of priorities, among which we


have the improvement of the cultural and human diversity of our Group.


So with these sound results and long-term growth drivers that afford us more clarity now, more


visibility in the current context, where there is a macroeconomic recovery taking place slowly but


surely. With the strategic positioning that we managed to reinforce in 2010, we’re quite confident


going forward and we’ve clearly defined our objective for 2013, between now and 2013.


In my conclusions, I’ll come back to the outlook for 2011 with the specific objectives, but 2011 is


only a step along the way in sustaining our long-term growth strategy also, and continuously


improving our profitability and providing attractive returns for our shareholders. And this is part and


parcel, of course, of the SUEZ Environnement strategy, as you know. That’s the story we’re writing


at SUEZ Environnement.


So our medium-term objectives between now and 2013 stand as follows. Firstly, average growth of


our revenues that will be higher than or equal to 5% on the constant ForEx basis. Secondly,


average growth of our EBITDA that will be higher than that of the revenues; that is, greater than or


equal to 7% on the constant ForEx basis again.


In 2011, we should note that the consolidation scope effect of AGBAR will enable us to achieve an


even higher profitability level; greater than or equal to 10%. We shall continue in the period


between 2011 and 2013 to grant special importance to having a sound, healthy balance sheet.


That’s why the objective we set ourselves is to achieve a net debt over EBITDA ratio that would


stand at about three times the figure as of 2011.


We also have a precise dividend payout policy that is, of course, subject to the approvals of the


shareholders’ meetings. We want to pay out a dividend of €0.65 per share in the set of financial


year 2010, and we hope to increase by about 5% per annum in the coming three years, with a long-


term objective of a payout ratio that would be greater than 60%.


So let’s talk back now to 2010. I’d like to focus on the fact that there are three segments, Water in


Europe, Waste in Europe and International businesses, fed into the good performance of the year,


and also fed into the preparation of the future growth of the Group. So the Water segment in


Europe stood out by dynamic commercial performances in France and in Spain. For example, we


could mention the Strasbourg contract for the operation for eight years of the waste water treatment


plant in Strasbourg. It serves 1 million population equivalent area, and there is high environmental


value in this contract because we have the conventional biological water process side, as well as a


sludge process side, so as to generate green energy.


Also, I’d mentioned in Spain, Calvia in the Balearic Islands, there’s a concession contract for 50


years for a revenue figure of €980 million, so as to supply the City of Mallorca, whose population


triples in fact during the summer holiday period.


2010 was also a year that was marked by the construction of our second European pillar, so to


speak, in Water, with the acquisition on a friendly basis, and the surface reintegration of AGBAR.


And I will go back to that, as I said, in a short while.


Finally, we’ve been pursuing the development of new services in the water sphere in response to


the growing requirements of our plants, so as to lock in our future growth. For example, we’ve just


celebrated the 120,000th customer who has bought into our Dolce Ô water offering. The Waste


Management segment in Europe also fed into the performance in 2010, thanks to the strong


upswing in the – what we call the valorization; that’s beneficial reuse activities. That is materials we


use with the bouncing back of the prices of recyclable materials and the upswing in volumes, and