Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Philippe Varin — Chairman, SUEZ SA
Bertrand Camus — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ SA
Julian David Waldron — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance, SUEZ SA
Ahmed Farman — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Juan Camilo Rodriguez — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. Thank you for joining us on this call. I am Philippe Varin, SUEZ Chairman, and I'm here with Bertrand Camus, CEO of SUEZ; and Julian Waldron, Group CFO. Bertrand and Julian will later, in the presentation, detail SUEZ good results in 2020 and the strategic achievements of the SUEZ 2030 roadmap that puts today the group in a strong position. But before that, I would like to make some introductory comments in relation to the deliberations made by the board about the offer of Veolia on SUEZ shares.

In preamble, I want to reaffirm the confidence of SUEZ Board in the strategic roadmap that has been launched in 2019. In less than 18 months, SUEZ 2030 has already created significant value for all our stakeholders. In my pretty long experience in industrial companies, I have implemented or overseen several turnaround plans. I can tell you, SUEZ 2030 does pull the right levers in order to have a rapid impact on the performance of the company on its financial trajectory and its value creation.

Let me remind you, as Chairman of the Board, of our fiduciary duties when considering this offer. And this, in the light of the corporate interest of SUEZ, in the context of the Veolia project, this responsibility can be split in three parts. Our first preoccupation is to ensure value creation optimization for all our shareholders. Second, we have to take care of the commitments we have made to our clients and so that they can be preserved over the long term. And finally, we want to make sure that our employees' rights and guarantees – or well-being, sorry, are guaranteed.

So let me elaborate now on the topic of optimization of value for SUEZ shareholders. Following careful deliberations, SUEZ Board has decided unanimously that it cannot accept and recommend Veolia's offer, including its price at €18 per share which significantly undervalues SUEZ. Veolia chosen approach is, let's say, somewhat opportunistic and fails to reflect the intrinsic value of our company. Veolia's communication on a share premium calculation based on August share price that was deeply impacted by the COVID crisis, is opportunistic.

Just know that the premium compared to February 2020 is 15% pre-COVID. It fails to recognize also the outside factors of improved economic conditions in the second half of this year. And the CAC has improved by 20% since the deal that was made between Engie and Veolia. It also fails to recognize the strong financial and operational performance delivered by SUEZ in the same period, and this will be presented to you in a few moments by the management team. Also, the estimated synergies are not including the price of €18 per share put forward by Veolia. They are valued by the consensus at between €4 to €8 per share. And so, SUEZ shareholders are denied access to those synergies and could only get a future and risky €18 in say 13 months.

Finally, I will not comment today on the sum of the parts methodology. Nevertheless, it's important to note that the multiples that we've achieved in our recent transactions on one side, as well as the trading multiples of our peers in each of our businesses, they are in significant excess of the valuation that has been communicated by Veolia. So in short, Veolia price seems to us opportunistic and fails to reflect the intrinsic value of our company.

Let me now conclude my introduction about, first, our commitments to our clients. They are seriously at risk due to critical issues of competition when 22 antitrust authorities are currently reviewing the case and the quality of service and affordable prices are, for them, at stake. Finally, as far as our employees are concerned, they would be seriously impacted by a potential dismantling of the company. And the commitments of Veolia cannot be accepted as such because they are limited in time and only cover a few months after closing.

So with that, and before handing over to Bertrand, who will walk you through the 2020 strategic achievements, I simply want to reiterate the willingness of the board to find a negotiated solution. Bertrand, up to you.

Thank you, Philippe. Good morning to everybody. I am pleased to have the opportunity today to come back on what has been an extraordinary year for SUEZ and in many aspects. In a context marked by the COVID-19 pandemic which put ourselves and our business under unprecedented pressure, 2020 was also the first year of the execution of our strategic plan, SUEZ 2030, and this first year proved to be very successful.

Slide 8 is a high-level summary of the strategic roadmap, which intends at transforming SUEZ to become an undisputed leader in environmental services by 2030. How do we intend to do that? By becoming more innovative, more focused and more agile. SUEZ 2030 is about building on SUEZ unique strengths developed throughout time and history to adapt the company to a changing world, and we will capture strong growth and profitability on the way.

As reminded by Philippe in his introduction, value creation on a sustainable basis is at the core of our strategy. With the aim to drive value for our shareholders, our strategic plan, SUEZ 2030, has been built on three pillars: selectivity, simplicity and engagement. You will see throughout this presentation how we made great progress this year on all these fronts. Value creation this past year has to be appreciated from the point of view of our stakeholders. We are improving our financials. This is value for our shareholders and this is a very clear focus for me.

Our industrial roadmap and our strategy focused on a targeted set of activities and, in particular, smart and new technologies and this make us different. This is value for our clients. Our employees are our most precious assets. The successful execution and delivery of our strategy relies on them. We have collectively built over decades a strong corporate culture and we take care of our employees. This is value for all of them.

Finally, there is also strong value for all in the way we have focused our efforts and development for a sustainable world. Committing to ESG is committing to the environment and to society with a clear roadmap and ambition. This is value for our planet which I know is increasingly important for our shareholders when they make their investment decision. Let me now detail how we created value for our stakeholders this past year.

SUEZ has the best-in-class sustainable development policies and is a great choice for investing in sustainable value. We are ranked AAA across all the main external rankings. We disclosed earlier this week and one year earlier than anticipated that 74% of SUEZ's revenue is integrated into the European taxonomy. Taking into account activities covered by the framework, it is actually 90% of our activities that are identified by European regulation as contributing to environmental protection and the fight against global warming.

Our commitment to sustainability has been the core of our development for many years. For you who are listening with ESG being at the heart of your investment thesis, I can tell you that SUEZ is a true champion. Let me come back now on our group-specific culture. SUEZ is supported by 86,000 women and men who have a common set of values and collective ambition, driving our performance relentlessly. They have a deep commitment of their clients and their longstanding engagement for a better environment, working as a team with passion and respect for all.

Throughout the worst part of the pandemic crisis and during all 2020, I have been impressed by the outstanding efforts and commitments of all our colleagues in such difficult conditions. This commitment to the group is also illustrated by the great success of our fifth shareholding plan this year. We will reach circa 5.6% employee shareholding ownership at the end of the subscription period. Our employees are fully aligned with the rest of our shareholders in their determination to create value sustainably.

Now, in the next three slides I want to talk about shareholder value specifically. I will start with long-term fundamentals that sustain our growth. Veolia significantly underestimates our capacity to grow. My confidence comes from direct experience of the value SUEZ offer to its clients. This value drives new businesses at better margins, and that means more value for our shareholders sustainably. The world has experienced the COVID crisis, but what is striking is that the pandemic did not challenge these underlying trends.

On the contrary, COVID has validated and accelerated those trends that we had identified early on when we structured our strategic plan. This is true for sustainability as a long-term imperative for the need to incorporate digital and tech at the core of operating models and true for regulation which tightens all environmental standards. Regulation, together with massive investment, will come in support of SUEZ trajectory. You may know that Europe will invest €2.5 trillion until 2027 to meet the climate change objectives, and there is also another number.

Globally, there is a need for $1.9 trillion in terms of investment for water supply and sanitation. SUEZ is ideally positioned for the green recovery. We have teams, the technologies and innovation capabilities as well as the agility required. Winning business at the right margin for our demanding clients require offering them unique expertise for innovative solutions based on the excellence of our technology and research capabilities. In the recent months, this has led to a series of outstanding business wins.

Let me focus here on two illustrative examples. We are investing more every year in innovation, R&D and digital. Calm Networks, the joint venture developed with Inflowmatix where we are developing a disruptive technology to reduce water losses. This is a testimony to SUEZ ability to drive differentiation through targeted R&D investment. These technologies win us business. A good example is Adelaide, Australia, where SUEZ has won a €170 million contract. We will implement there an integrated smart and digital solution package to improve the overall performance of the water systems of the region, with a reduced impact on environment. There are many other examples.

Overall, we have collected €4.7 billion of order intake in 2020. Almost every contract we win has a technology and digital component. The commercial dynamism we experienced in 2020 is not showing signs of slowing down. Our pipeline is strong. And in our three segments, we have a growing set of future opportunities that will boost organic growth. The growth priorities set in SUEZ 2030, whether international or industrial, are well illustrated here. Sustainably, we have said we can boost our growth to 4% to 5% per annum. I am very confident of this, and I consider it as the fundamental driver of our long-term value.

With SUEZ 2030, we committed to increasing our ROCE. This is well on track; 200 basis points more in 2022 compared to 2019. Our selectivity is reducing capital employed. We are positioned to grow faster, including through acquisition as illustrated by our recent announcement. The non-controlling interest in Chinese operations and water operations in Canary Island are two examples of those acquisitions. Our performance plan is improving our margins and cash flow. Selectivity, simplicity, engagement, all drive better returns.

I am concluding this part of the presentation on slide 16, looking back at 2020 value creation specifically. Clients have entrusted us with €4.7 billion of their essential services in 2020. Our asset rotation plan was delivered at attractive multiples. The selective investments are immediately accretive. Our performance plan is delivering above expectation. This is allowing us to raise our objective for 2023, with €1.2 billion in cost saving. In 2020, we delivered €326 million, roughly €50 million more than our initial target. We generate cash from working capital for the first time in four years. Thanks to the team; we exceeded our guidance.

Overall, we have reduced our debt. This puts us in a position to propose a growing ordinary dividend at €0.65 per share, and we can confirm our plans for €1 billion extraordinary distribution. And we look forward with confidence that 2021 and now expect revenue in excess of €16 billion, EBIT to stand between €1.4 billion to €1.6 billion, a recurring EPS between €0.80 and €0.85, and the recurring free cash flow in excess of €500 million. This confidence is supported by our 2020 results. They show that SUEZ is determined to create sustainable value for our shareholders.

Julian is now going to walk you through those numbers.

Bertrand, thank you very much; and Philippe, thank you very much as well. And good morning, everybody. As you will recall, we published our preliminary 2020 results in mid-January. So rather than go through the detailed slides detailing that performance, I wanted to highlight rather some of the key factors which show the confidence that we have in this trajectory going forward. You'll find the usual bridges by segment and all of the other details in the appendices published this morning.

So if I move on to just some key highlights on 2020. As you saw on January 25th, we outperformed our H2 guidance both in terms of the top line and in terms of profitability and cash flow. After our first half, of course, impacted by the pandemic, the business model and the mix of the group has proven very resilient in the second half. And the performance against our expectations has continually improved over that period.

Against guidance of an organic decline in the second half of between 2% and 4% which we set at the end of June, we ended up 0.9%, so a significant outperformance. EBIT and EBITDA, despite some continued impacts of the pandemic in the second half, also held up. The second half EBIT of €704 million, with an 8% margin, is well above our initial guidance and slightly above what we expected on January 25th.

Within the segment, Water ended the year with a steady volume recovery notably in Europe, and resilient still in the Americas and in Asia. In Recycling & Recovery, volumes and pricing in Europe, although somewhat volatile with the pandemic still, were solid at the end of the year. Commodity prices are improving. And in ETS, a stronger hazardous waste activity in the second half and a very positive and resilient performance from WTS, despite quite challenging year-on-year comparisons.

If we turn now to profitability, so on this page you have a bridge from the 2019 to the 2020 EBIT. As you would expect, the largest negative impacts year-on-year are due to COVID, with €303 million of one-offs and €623 million of estimated volume impacts. But against those headwinds, the group has adapted and made great progress in cutting its cost and improving its performance. First, €240 million were saved as part of the emergency measures we took against the pandemic. We are keeping part of those savings as we move forward.

Most importantly, we've driven our performance plan above expectations. In total, the plan delivered €326 million to the bottom line in 2020, far offsetting headwinds around cost inflation. I'll come back to this more precisely in the next slide. In addition, the year was positive from a pricing and mix perspective, particularly in Recycling & Recovery. So we can be confident that 2021 will be sustained by the structural improvements to our business coming out of the pandemic, further positive impacts from price and mix, and a further €275 million to €325 million of savings from the performance plan.

So let me go into more detail on the performance plan. First, on the left, the organization, how we work. Three waves. The first two waves identified performance improvements of €1,070 million. Wave 3 has just started and it should represent between €100 million and €150 million. So taking the total to at least the €1.2 billion that we targeted. In 2020, as I mentioned, €326 million have been translated to the bottom line. And that's significantly in excess the €275 million that we initially targeted. And in 2021, we expect to go further with between $275 million and $325 million of additional savings.

The acceleration of the savings is a testament to the drive and motivation of our teams, particularly in the midst of the pandemic. The performance plan makes us more resilient in 2020, and it will boost profitability further as you can see in 2021, with more to come in 2022 and 2023. The progress shows clearly the potential for further structural improvements in the profitability of SUEZ in 2023 and in the years thereafter.

I want to turn to cash flow. We're creating significant value through shareholders through our increased cash flow. This translates immediately into deleveraging into a better bridge from enterprise to equity value. So, higher value per share for the group. Longer term, it obviously improves dividend growth potential, but also improves our ability to invest; invest in the business in R&D, invest in the business in CapEx and invest in the business to grow it through M&A. Our net debt at the end of 2020 was €9.6 billion or €9.75 billion excluding the held for sale assets. This is €1 billion below the situation at June.

The biggest drivers of the net debt reduction were a very solid conversion of profit into cash and a small, but I think vitally important, positive contribution from working capital. The €202 million positive contribution from that line is a strong step forward after, as Bertrand said, nearly four years of consuming working capital. And I think highlights the way in which the SUEZ 2030 plan that Bertrand has put in place, looks at creating value across the board for shareholders. The two greatest areas of focus that we've commented with you before, R&R in France and WTS, both showed striking improvements in their DSO in 2020.

And a word about quality of working capital and the role of SUEZ in the community. We were able throughout the year to help customers in financial difficulties in Water, for example, by deferring their bills. And as far as our supply chain is concerned, paying in advance where necessary and everywhere paying on time. So a very solid and high-quality working capital performance. If I look how that translates into shareholder value, we've reduced the bridge from enterprise value to equity value by €2 a share since June. A comment on Veolia. Taking into account the contribution from both minorities and associates, and the provisions and other debt-like items, we estimate that Veolia's bridge is an undervaluation of SUEZ by at least €1 a share.

Looking ahead, in 2021 we expect to benefit from higher cash flow from operations, continued good management from our working capital which I see as a source of cash over the coming years, and the sustained strong investment in our business, particularly in CapEx. We will further deleverage the business and we reiterate our target of having gearing at the end of the year at around 3 times EBITDA.

So, I'll close by talking in more detail about 2021. As Bertrand mentioned, we expect this year to be a further strong year of progress in creating value for our shareholders. The guidance that Bertrand has given you is backed by €4.7 billion of order intake and the contribution of that to revenue growth in 2021. The performance plan that, as I mentioned, will contribute between €275 million and €325 million to the bottom line. And at this stage, we see a solid price momentum across our businesses. And in R&R, a solid start to the year in commodities.

Below EBIT, the 2020 financials show a substantial and sustainable improvement in financial charges, which will further decrease in 2021. And our tax situation, although distorted obviously by the pandemic in 2020, is evolving in line with our 2022 target of being at 32%. So we return to organic growth for the top line boosted by order intake, and further profitability improvement from the performance plan, improvement at net level from financials and tax, and improved cash flow including from working capital. Those are the factors underlying our confidence in 2021 and its value creation potential.

And with that, I will hand back to Bertrand. Thank you.

Thank you, Julian. Before opening the floor to questions, I would like to conclude with today's key takeaways. In a challenging and unprecedented context, SUEZ and its teams demonstrated in 2020 the resilience of its business model and the pertinence of its strategic plan. Ultimately, the trajectory we have set ourselves on for 2021 and 2022 is significantly strengthened by those results, and we are even in a position to improve some of our 2021 objectives.

All in all, SUEZ is creating sustainable value for all its stakeholders and prospects for the year ahead. We are uniquely positioned to take advantage of green recovery plans. I am convinced that the commercial dynamism experienced this year will continue. We will also continue to execute rigorously and even accelerate our strategic plan. This will keep strengthening our financial trajectory, delivering more value more quickly to our shareholders. In this context and as outlined by Philippe at the beginning of this presentation, you understand our position with regards to Veolia's offer.

Thank you very much for your presence this morning with us, and we are now ready, with Philippe and Julian, to take your questions.

Hi. This is your operator. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ahmed Farman from Jefferies. Ahmed, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, everyone; and thank you for taking my question. Three from my side, if I may. Just wanted to ask if you could probably start with just helping us with a bridge for the FY 2020 to 2021 EBIT guidance, just would be interested – better understand some of the moving parts there. Then also, maybe sort of a comment on the moving cost between the previous 2021 outlook at the EBIT and your update one, what's been sort of the driver for the upgrade?

Then secondly, maybe a quick update on the disposal program where we stand today in terms of Wave 1? And any color on Wave 2 would be helpful. And then finally, just on the capital – sort of the €1 billion capital distribution. How do you sort of plan to sort of execute that? Is that sort of going to be some sort of a special dividend? If you have anything else in mind, that would be helpful. Thank you.

Maybe I will just make a general comment around 2020-2021 bridge and what changed in the 2021 numbers compared to what we said, and I will let Julian detail it. But basically, it's really our results in 2020, which have validated a lot of the assumptions we have taken to estimate 2021, 2022. And as you could see from all angles being – growth being booking new orders, being our performance plan, being our cash generation; all of that is above and beyond what we had expected. We go faster than what we had expected when we launched the plan in 2019, and this is what we are factoring in our numbers.

On the disposal program, we are not going to comment any specific this morning. You will understand, given the situation. But what I can tell you is that our asset rotation, particularly acquisition, is part of the plan. We want to accelerate our repositioning on the high-growth activities, high-growth geographies. We have made our first acquisition in the last month of 2020 and the first month of 2021, and we want to go on like that.

I will let Julian precise a little bit more your first question and the last one around distribution.

So, thanks very much for the questions. Maybe if I just start on the distribution first. We'll finalize plans for that with Philippe and with the board, as we firm up our plans for our general assembly. I think, two or three comments on the dividend however which seemed to us to be important. Firstly, it was a commitment that we took. Back on September 22, we committed to increase the ordinary dividend in this year because we had confidence both in the way that we were coming out of the pandemic, and also in the trajectory that we saw driven by top line growth in 2021.

You've seen the results for 2020, and they fully confirm I think the confidence that we expressed at that point. So paying the ordinary dividend at the level and continuing to see growth in that thereafter, seems to us to be in line with the long-term trends we have. In addition, in the second half of the year we've taken the EV equity bridge, as I mentioned, down by €2. We've reduced €1 billion of debt. All of that is value which should accrue to our shareholders today.

It reflects the 2020 performance which for those of you who have been invested in the stock throughout the year, that is your money and that's why we think it's important for that cash to go back to you. It was a commitment again that we took on the 22nd of September. And as a commitment and as the numbers are there, there's no reason for us to change it. The exact modalities will work out as the AGM agenda and timing comes together.

If I move to your points on EBIT, I'd reiterate everything that Bertrand said. We finished the year better in pretty much every respect when we look at EBIT; whether it's in order intake, the resilience of the business in the pandemic, whether it's in the performance plan. And therefore, when we look forward to 2021, we expect, broadly speaking, to be back to 2019 levels. We were nearly there in the second half of the year in terms of activity. And you can see from the EBIT bridge on page 19 of the slide deck, but that's a very significant amount of EBIT that would come back.

Then there is additional growth in key areas. If we look, for example, at price and mix, we expect that to be more positive in 2021 than it was in 2020. If we look at the headwinds around cost inflation, we'd expect that to be less of a headwind in 2021 compared to 2020. So top line growth, growth in key areas of our business, and in particular, in Water this year. Price and mix, the additional contribution from the performance plan. All of those will still be in place in 2021, and that's why I think it gives us the confidence just to slightly move up that EBIT guidance to €1.4 billion to €1.6 billion.

Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Juan Rodriguez from Kepler. Juan, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good morning, everyone. Two questions from my side, if I may. First is on discussions with Veolia going forward. Whether are you willing to negotiate and what can be considered a red line for you? And as a follow-up on this, can you remind us what you consider Veolia's €18 per share offer that it undervalued the company, but you consider the Ardian and GIP offer at the same price [ph] as theirs (00:36:36)? So, is this only about price or what else is on your view here? This would be the first question. And the second is more on the operating side. What is the tariff preview that you have seen so far in 2021, and how are volumes holding up on the first quarter? Thank you.

Maybe I will take the operating part, and let Philippe answer on your questions around Veolia. On the operating side, I would say that except for UK where confinement was a little bit stringer and stricter than in the other geographies, we see something pretty much in line with what we observed in the last month of the year for the places where you still have confinement measures. And of course, the one which are out of the wood like China, for example, see a much better improvement.

So basically, in the areas affected by COVID, Water volumes are pretty stable except in touristic areas. I think that when we look at, for example, France was pretty much stable except, for example, the French Riviera. So, this is factoring a couple of basis points less in our volumes. And in terms of waste activity, the drop of activity is in the range of 5% to 10% according to the geographies, where you have confinement measures. So as long as it stays managed like that, we have something that is pretty much in line what we've experienced over the past few months.

Philippe?

Yes, Bertrand. Thank you for your question. And first, you asked about the red lines in the negotiation. I think I made it very clear that there are three areas that we have to discuss. One is value, and I explained to you why. Remember my five points. The second point is about the ability of our customers to see the commitment there to them fulfilled in the future.

And the third one is about the social guarantees that we give to our employees. So we say that, one, we are ready to negotiate, and we would welcome, we have tried, as you see – as you know, since the beginning of this year. But then, if you enter into a negotiation, it's obviously that at the end of the day we want to be satisfied on the three points. So we'll see what the future will say on the negotiation, if it happens, which I hope.

The second point on your – a very valid point on the Ardian and GIP offer compared to what is the proposal of Veolia. Even if you have the same figure, it's not the same value. Why? Because, one, the Ardian and GIP intent that we approved indeed, it's an intent where our shareholders would be paid very quickly because there would be no risk and competition or whatever. This is one thing. And so, if you have – there is value in time. And so, there is value in the lowering of risk.

And in this context, it is an approach which has been supported by the board, the employees and the management which is not the case at this stage [indiscernible] (00:40:32) as you can see. So, this is the reason why we have taken this position and this is the reason why we take this position today. Thank you.

Thank you. A quick follow-up question, if I may, is on the tariff side. What is the tariff indexation or so far what is the tariff indexation formula for 2021 for the negotiation in tariffs?

Julian?

Thank you. It's good question. I think when we look at the top line, we are 2021 against 2020, looking at between 3% and 5% organic growth at this stage. I think that's the right way to think about things. And within that, obviously you have a recovery in volumes straight from less impact from the pandemic. If we were to recover back to 2019 levels that would be at the bottom end of that range. That would be, in and of itself, 3% growth. The rest is around price/mix and the new contracts that we won in 2020.

And when I look at price, that'll be quite a significant component of that part of growth. Tariffs in Water in Europe look reasonably well orientated for 2021. Indexation in France, probably about 1.7%, 1.8%. When we look at the US and Chile, again positive indexation this year. So, that I think is favorable. When we look at pricing in R&R, two things to mention or two things to restate. First, overall pricing in Europe looks positive at this point both in hazardous waste and in normal or non-hazardous waste, if you will. And that's pretty much across the board.

And commodities have been slightly better, particularly coming into the end of quarter four and in the beginning of 2020. In ETS, I mentioned hazardous waste. And although within WTS you've got a continuation of some of the trends that you saw in 2020, the mix, particularly the percentage of products in the revenue line looks positive, and that's positive for mix. So overall, quite a positive price and tariff environment going into 2021. Thank you.

Makes sense. Quite clear. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Olivier, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking our questions. I have questions on the outlook and then also on the Veolia situation. Maybe first on the outlook. I understand all the positive that you mentioned about the pricing and cost savings for 2021. I just picked up some points, where maybe there's a bit of weakness which I wanted to understand a bit better. So, the ETS division was actually weak towards the end of the year. I wonder if you can explain this a bit, what is going on there? And what you see in terms of outlook for 2021?

Same thing, you didn't mention the pricing evolution for Water in Spain which has been volatile in the past. I was hoping you could help us on the current dynamics there. Same for volumes in Chile, which seem to have been down end of last year, I wonder what the outlook is on that front? And then to come back to the Veolia situation, two questions there. I think, initially, your strategy and you said that your plan was to have a second offer to present to your shareholders at the AGM. At the moment, it is not on the table. So I wonder what your sort of final goal and strategy is in terms of fending off Veolia.

And then the second question on price. So Julian, thank you for your indication that you mentioned that Veolia seem to underestimate by around €1 per share the cash flow generation in 2020. Mr. Varin, so you mentioned that time value of money is not enough recognized in Veolia's offer versus Ardian. If we think that €1 per share is probably worth around 6% of an €18 offer, which maybe in the long run have average return on equity market, would it be fair to say that Veolia to offer €19 that that would then maybe be closer to covering the concerns that you have? Thank you.

Thank you [indiscernible] (00:45:35). Just a general comment on the outlook, and I will let Julian cover it, and then Philippe will cover the Veolia part. I mean, we are in a very dynamic situation in terms of business, geography by geography, activity by activity. What we can just tell you is that our clients being municipal, being industrials, are still moving forward with the project.

They have launched the necessity also to rebase our operations wherever they've been affected by the COVID because they need the services, they need the excellence of the services, especially in this pandemic. So, that's one part. This is part of the discussion of tariff. It may not only be a tariff increase, but we may have tariffs staying flat and negotiating compensation in terms of cost with our clients. And at the end, bottom line in terms of margins, we are in a better situation. So, that's one point. And this is a case – for example, the case in Chile. That's one piece of it.

And then the second part of it is that you cannot look at volumes in the way you look at the business without looking at cost. The work done by the teams to adapt to the situation and to variabilize cost and to be much more flexible, as we can see it in our numbers, end of 2020. Our clear demonstration that – in fact, we have been able to better absorb those variations on business volume, even if they are very good overall in terms of backlog, to make sure that our profitability goes on increasing.

Julian, on the specifics of Olivier?

So Olivier, good morning. Thanks for the specifics. So before I hand over to Philippe, on ETS, two things just maybe to repeat. So first, hazardous waste had overall quite a good half, obviously with the re-confinements in France, for example, in December, that does impact a little bit construction activity. In WTS, very strong year-on-year comparisons. So, I think I'd put it more to that than anything else. Underlying, looking at the business, order intake, no change in the trends that we saw that. So, that's good stability. And as I look into January and February, there've been one or two very significant contracts that have come through to us, including in Europe; and in areas of business which are – where we want to grow.

So for example, a significant food contract won recently. And also a mix, a positive mix towards products which is a higher-margin part of that business. So a tough year-on-year comparison, but no particular underlying change in the dynamics. For Water Spain, you will know that from a tariff point of view, 2020 was very tough, particularly within Barcelona. So, that was a negative drag on us in 2020. We will not see that in 2021.

I would expect Spain to be neutral, maybe slightly positive as we go through the year. And as far as Chile is concerned, tariffs should be indexed; and therefore, positive. Water volumes will depend very much on the evolution of the pandemic. But where I think the teams have two ways to improve year-on-year. The first is around cost, and cost is linked to the second point which is around the availability of water and drought, both of which should be significantly less of a headwind in 2021 than 2020.

So, you mentioned them as points of weakness; I don't see them like that. I see Spain with – from a tariff point of view, a better 2021 than 2020. I see Chile, from a cost point of view, from a drought point of view, with a better 2021 than 2020. And within ETS, the mix I think and our ability to continue to win contracts in new areas and new segments, I see both of those as being positive. Afterwards, you can always debate the quantum, but positive for the next couple of years. I would have to say on WTS, when I came into the business nearly two years ago and looked at it, I thought it was an excellent asset.

I didn't think it had been properly integrated; 12 months on with the impetus that Bertrand has put through SUEZ 2030. To me, the cash generation is the best possible sign that that business is beginning really to turbo. There's more to do. There's a lot more to come from that business. But after a full year of SUEZ 2030 and the CEO's push and the help from the rest of us and you'd be on the team, that business is beginning to motor. Thank you.

Thank you, Julian [indiscernible] (00:50:52) your two questions. One about the alternatives. Well, I think we made it clear that the AGM was an important milestone for us, and that we will [indiscernible] (00:51:08) our shareholders have proper choice. I think what is obvious, as you can see today, is that our baseline is that we can rely on the SUEZ 2030 project which delivers value. We can accelerate this project, so that, indeed, it's a reference option. Then we have the Veolia proposal.

So, I put aside the technical flaws, but you know that – you see that on the in-depth matters, I've made the point of where our value was lacking, where our commitments were lacking and so on. And so, we are open to discuss. You know that we have the support of a consortium, which have two very important players. So, they are here in the context of a negotiated solutions. So if there were a negotiation, there could be different options. It's too early to say, because the negotiation has not taken place. So I restate our objective to give appropriate choice to our shareholders. It's very clear to us.

Your second point is linked to value. Indeed, it's good that you asked this question because when I gave the answer to the question of Kepler comparing the €18 of Ardian and GIP with the €18 of Veolia, I didn't mention a very important point which are the synergies. When you have such amount of synergies which is put forward by Veolia and the consensus of the analysts said, it's worth €4 to €8 per share, I think this is something you have also to take into account. So, this is what you have to factor in when you want to have an assessment of our expectation. Thank you.

Thank you very much for all of that. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Olivier.

We currently have one further question queued by the phone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Emmanuel, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. My first question is to come back on trading update. Looking at slide 55, you gave us growth rates for the main KPIs in Q4, I'm particularly interested in the waste volumes. If there is any particular comment you have on recent trends for waste volumes, maybe per business or per geography? Similarly, if you've seen any valuation of trends regarding waste treatment prices? And a specific question on industrial water. I haven't seen any data point on backlog, maybe I've missed it, but if you could comment on that. Thank you.

Second question on China. You increased your presence or rather bought out minorities last year. Would you mind giving us a couple of data points about the increase in net earnings contribution you expect from China in 2021 versus 2020 all-in? And lastly, on page 14, you [ph] through our (00:54:58) interest on R&D, a SEDIF contract which is one of the largest in the business and which is becoming due for renewal, I guess, next year with the tendering process starting this year. Would you mind reminding us on the timeline of the tendering process?

That's an interesting point in case because, of course, Veolia and SUEZ are the main two contenders for this type of contract. I was wondering if you had had any exchanges with the representatives from SEDIF on how the ongoing offer of Veolia on SUEZ could affect the overall tendering on what their position is on this situation. Thank you very much.

Maybe I will take the last one. And maybe before -just on China, as you know, it has been a very successful venture and story with our partner, New World, that started in 1985 and which was really the beginning of the internationalization of [indiscernible] (00:56:05) SUEZ, at that time, which was very French. And they are the one who decided to move on by focusing their own businesses. So we took this opportunity to increase our participation; of course, buy them out. And we will look at risk of stage what we do in terms of restructuring of those operations in China, where we want to accelerate our growth. And for that, we need to have strong partners.

Julian is going to give you the number. On the SEDIF contract, yes, you are raising an interesting question because the tendering process should start sometime after summer. So, at this stage the SEDIF authorities are going through the process of deciding, first, are they going to stay with a private operator or are they going to go in-house, which is something that is requested by law; and then they do it in one piece or several pieces, are there several options there given the size of the contract. And more importantly, the ambition they have in terms of improving the quality of service for the clients.

And yes, I mean from the contacts we had, they are quite skeptical about the overall situation. So we'll see how all of that evolves, but it's a clearer issue about being able to maintain a true competition and a true intensity in competition in France. And of course this is for SEDIF, but this is for all our clients, all the municipalities. And this is one point that is linked to what Philippe said around the issues we have to look at when we look at the offer of Veolia. Julian?

Bertrand, thank you very much. So trading first, I think in – at the first weeks of the year. No particular material change in volumes in waste across the main geographies. Obviously, more disruption in the UK, say, compared to Q4 as a whole, but not much more compared to, say, December. And in France, January is always a relatively weak month. And as you might know, Emmanuel, those have been 10 days of bitterly cold weather and that always disrupts activities. So I would say, overall, in terms of volumes, no particular change between the back end of last year and the first four, five weeks of this year.

In terms of pricing across R&R in Europe, France included, we do see that well orientated and we'll see how the whole year goes. But I think for the next few months, we continue to be confident in that. And as I mentioned, commodities as well is positive. In terms of industrial water, backlog at the end of the year was, I think, about $1.8 billion for the products side of the business which is the area where we have most of backlog. That is probably down a little bit on the end of 2019, which is in line of what we've told you throughout the year.

Given the pipeline of opportunities, at this point I would expect us to end this year at flat to up compared to where we ended 2020. As I mentioned, I think there's been quite a good start to the year. And what's particularly important is that that start to the year has been in the sectors of growth that we've been targeting, and I mentioned food and bev earlier on.

As far as China is concerned, just before getting to the number, two things to mention. Firstly, when we started out on SUEZ 2030, we did want, where we could, to reduce minority interest across the group. And in this case, we've had a longstanding and excellent relationship with New World. It has come probably to the end for both of us of where it's central. And that's why taking 100% control of those two businesses, SNL in Hong Kong and Suyu underneath seemed to us to be the right thing to do.

What that will do, and it's something we'll update you on as we go through the rest of the month, I think, leading up to the general assembly. What it also does is changes, again, that EV equity bridge that I mentioned earlier. And making sure that we translate as much of the value of the group into value per share has been a focus of the way that we've looked at the business since Bertrand took over. And I mentioned earlier on that there are differences between the bridge, again just coming back to Olivier Van Doosselaere's point, this is not about overall value; this is one specific point about the bridge calculation.

And there's €1 difference between the actual bridge and the way that Veolia presents it, just on that bridge alone. So again, that doesn't take away from any of the other valuation points that Philippe has mentioned; it's just on that bridge alone. So continuing to look at buying in minorities where we can, continuing to have the right partners where we can, that strategically continues to be a focus for us. As far as China is concerned, there was about $30 million of net income from the whole of those businesses – sorry, from the minority interest in those businesses in 2019. So you can maybe model using that number going forward. We expect that deal to close sometime early Q2.

Thank you. I think we're done.

Thank you very much. I think that there is no more questions. So thanks a lot for attending this call, and I'm sure that we'll have the opportunity to speak again in the coming days when we meet in a reduced setup with our shareholders. Thanks a lot for your attention and see you soon. Take care.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.