Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christophe Cros — Group Deputy Chief Financial Officer, SUEZ SA
Julie Tamara Melanie Arav — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Vincent J. Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the First Quarter Results of SUEZ Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Christophe Cros, CFO of SUEZ. Please go ahead.

Hello, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you all for attending this conference call regarding SUEZ Q1 2017 publication. We have released this morning our revenue, EBITDA, EBIT and net financial debt figures for the three months period ending March 31, 2017.

I would like to highlight three main elements at the beginning. First, this quarter, again, our revenue increased both in absolute and organic terms. Revenue is up by 4.7%, 3.8% organic, which is €3.721 billion. This encompasses material differences between our three divisions.

If I start with our Recycling and Recovery Europe segment, it performed very well this quarter, posting an organic revenue growth of 7.4%. It is mainly due to a strong increase in commodity prices, but also to an increase in process volumes by 1.9% and by a positive price effect of 1.2%.

Even if those results are enhanced by the mediocrity of Q1 2016, one-year ago, it is obvious that the economic trend has been more positive delivering the expected profitability improvement, which is a significant matter of satisfaction after years of very tough environment.

When it comes to our Water Europe segment, the absence of inflation in France and Spain is still a break. Nevertheless, this division grew by 2%, organic growth by 1.1%; thanks to the positive evolution of the business in Chile, which posted an organic growth of 10%, compensating flattish or a slightly negatively flattish evolution in Spain and France. Finally, the International division performed well with an increase by 8.5%, 3.3% organic growth, in all divisions and geographies.

My second key message is the group EBIT, which reached €281 million, which is up by 10.8% and organic growth by 2.6%. The lower growth rate of EBIT [ph] that use (02:48) revenue is logically mainly due to the revenue impact from commodity prices, which is much larger at revenue level than at profit level.

Third key message, we are in the process of finalizing the closing of the strategic acquisition of GE Water announced March 8. That move will increase long-term profitable growth profile and it will allow us to become a leader in integrated water solutions and services for industrial clients.

Therefore, that was very active and exciting quarter for us, highlighted by first signs of improvement in European waste markets and the successful and important strategic step towards the industrial water markets.

Before giving you more details about our performance by division, I would like to point out that this quarter, ForEx had a significant or quite significant impact on our P&L metrics; €27 million at turnover level, which is 0.8% growth; €17 million, 2.9% on EBITDA; and €13 million, at EBIT level, which is 5.1%.

The largest part of that impact is due to the Chilean peso and the Australian dollar, which increased respectively by 11% and 9% versus last year in average against euro. On the contrary, the sterling slightly affected our P&L metrics.

I would now give you more details division-by-division.

If I start with Water Europe, our activities increased by 2%. They reached €1.131 billion. It means 1.1% organic growth and dynamism among countries is heterogeneous. Volumes are satisfactory for first quarter, plus 1.6% in Spain and only minus 0.5% in France.

Prices were impacted by sluggish escalation formulae. They were hampered by the low inflation context and low price of energy. In France, tariffs decreased by minus 0.1%. The leverage in Spain, there was an increase by 1.6%. Given the last trends in inflation, we could expect those indices to be more favorable in France for the second half of 2017.

The performance of the division has been clearly boosted by our Chilean activities, increasing volumes by 3.3%, while tariffs grew by 1.7%. In this global context, EBIT of the division is slightly down versus last year.

If I look now at Recycling and Recovery Europe, revenue was up by 5.1%, which is an organic growth by 7.4% and revenue was €1.530 billion. This strong performance is due first with positive price evolutions of commodities, notably scrap metal, which has increased by 64% Q1 2017 versus Q1 2016, and paper, which was increased by 22%. But it is due also to clear improvements in volumes and prices in all geographies. Our total processed volumes increased by 1.9%. That reflects the better trend in industrial production in the first three months for the year.

In this context, the evolution by segment matches with the structural shift of the industry. Overall, the landfill volumes declined. This results from the continuation of site closures in the UK, where they are down significantly, but in France, they are up by 4.9%. Overall, landfill revenues are flat; thanks to firmer pricing.

Recycled volumes increased 3.8%, mainly driven by Benelux and the UK, especially for metal, paper, plastics and also for the production of refuse-derived fuel. Commodity prices have positively impacted the revenue by €64 million with some favorable, but more limited impact on profitability.

Finally, energy-from-waste volumes increased by 10.1%, which is clearly due to the commissioning of the [ph] four (07:40) new energy-from-waste facilities in the UK. Last year, we were penalized by the electricity prices. This quarter, the pickup in energy prices, associated with the coordinated global hedging policy put in place, the higher performance of our energy-from-waste facilities led to a positive impact of €5 million.

If I look by geography, France is up by 10.1% organic growth, driven by the increase in commodity prices, notably for metal, but also higher volumes in sorting and recycling. Benelux and Germany is up by 5.9% organically, because of increase in plastics household revenues, but also because of increases in industrial and commercial sales prices.

UK/Scandinavia is up by 1.9% organically. This is due to the new facility. And last but not least, of the European toxic waste, the business unit name being Industrial Waste Solutions has also performed very well, with a growth of 11.1% organic; thanks to the rebound in soil remediation activities. As you can imagine, EBIT of the Recycling and Recovery Europe division is improving overall.

If I finish with the International division, it keeps on growing at a high pace. Revenues reached €931 million, up by 8.5% or 3.3% organic. This is due to the strong dynamism of almost all our geographies and businesses.

In Africa, Middle East and India, our activities are up by 10.4% organic; thanks to additional revenue linked with new contracts like Barka or Mirfa large operations in Middle East. Australia reported also good increase in activity with revenue up by 4.8% organic. This is due to higher collected and treated volumes.

Asia achieved an excellent quarter with the contribution of new hazardous waste plants in China. That growth has been offset by the lack of construction activity compared to a higher basis last year. So, organic growth is 1% only. It is noticeable that water volumes distributed in China increased by 6%, which demonstrates the ongoing dynamism of this area and notably in Chongqing area.

The new business unit, which is incorporating Italy, Central Europe and some other areas is also up by 8.2%, which is mainly due to the positive contribution of the new Poznań energy-from-waste facility in Poland, but also to strong activity in recovery in this country.

Only in North America, our revenue is down by 5.1%. This is organic decrease and it is basically due to the termination of two municipal contracts in Indianapolis and Jackson. Otherwise, regulated water business is performing quite well.

Our Design & Build backlog amounts to €1.2 billion end of March 2017, which we see at a fair level. So, all-in-all, EBIT of International division is up also.

As a conclusion, this good start of the year is slightly ahead of our expectations. The overall environment looks increasingly encouraging despite the current political and economic uncertainties. This is the confirmation of the first positive signs that emerged at the end of last year. You all know that I dare to say [indiscernible] (11:38) is in the backbone of the DNA of our company. Hence, we remain careful and we are fully mobilized to [ph] keep on this pace (11:42).

One word again about GE Water transaction, the funding and financing has been partially executed. As you know, we issued a senior debt for €1.2 billion, [ph] made over each year (11:54) at 1% for €500 million and to 12 years at 1.5%. We also issued €600 million of new hybrid at 2.875%.

The capital increase – the increase in capital will be launched at appropriate time according to market conditions, following approval by both General Shareholders' Meeting, which will take place on today, and regulatory approval. It would likely consist of a capital increase [ph] vis-à-vis (12:27) preferential subscription right, but with a priority period for all existing shareholders.

We are working very hard on the integration with GE Water in order to share together experience, [ph] teams (12:39) and know-how. As initially indicated, we expect the closing of the transaction to take place in Q3 2017.

Thank you very much for your attention about the summary of the Q1 2017. I'm now ready to answer all the questions you may have. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our first question from Julie Arav from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes. Thank you very much for taking my questions. I have three, if I may. The first one, Q1 numbers are well ahead your full-year targets and I was wondering if at this stage, you would consider that you are very comfortable that it could exceed your targets or should we expect lower growth in the quarters ahead? This is my first question.

The second one is just to come back on the 1.9% increase in volumes treated. Can we have an idea of how much of this growth is related to the new energy-from-waste plant in the UK and also understand better what is the driver for the rights in landfill volumes in France? Veolia last week mentioned that it's mainly related to increase of buildings' volumes due to the Grand Palais infrastructure project. Is it the same driver for SUEZ?

And my last question related to GE Water. Press article last week reported that the performance of GE Water is quite weak, notably impacted by the oil and gas. I know that you mentioned several times that over the last two, three years, the performance has been difficult. My question is what makes you so optimistic that going forward, you could reach at least the 4% to 5% revenue growth that you mentioned and also sustains the margin even without the synergies announced? Thanks very much.

Good morning, Julie. Thank you for your three questions. Yes, the figures for Q1 are satisfactory, but I dare to say that the more we deliver and the more [ph] you want, more seriously (15:02), we reached a 3.8% organic growth in revenue, but I dare to remind you that Q1 is not fully representative of our annual activity, because, as you know, there is a seasonality effect in the water business, notably Q1 is not a larger quarter, if I may say so.

So, even for Q1 2017, revenue is slightly ahead of our budget. We still prefer to be cautious. We stick to our guidance and we will wait later in the year to see how this encouraging Q1 would impact our 2017 global performance. Don't forget, if I may, that Q1 2017 benefited from higher commodity prices, but [ph] above (15:46) our own budget assumptions in the recycling and waste recovery business and this contributed to the revenue growth. Nevertheless, it's clear that we are facing, I would say, encouraging figures.

When it comes to that 1.9% of growth in volumes, there is effectively a contribution from the new EfW, energy-from-waste, capacities in the UK, which is just plus 0.3%, but which is fully offset by a decrease linked to, you remember, the disposal of a small activity in Finland. So, it means that – which is also minus 0.3%. So, plus 0.3%, minus 0.3%. So, it means that the 1.9%, if I may say so, is a true figure without any other impact.

When it comes to the landfill, we need to speak, as I tried to explain, evolution, logical [ph] normal plan (16:44) and program evolution of end of landfilling in the UK. When it comes to France, our landfill volumes were up Q1 2017 compared to Q1 2016, slightly below 5%; 4.9% to be precise. A light difference is that our exposure to construction and demolition waste, which has very low margins, is very, very limited.

So, I would say basically that the evolution in volumes, including the evolution in landfill volumes in France, reflects, before anything else, the evolution of the industrial output, which clearly was better.

If I take your third question about GE, I therefore remind you that if in the morning you read that press article, I don't know if I should separate article, on the same day, there was a [ph] sharp (17:38) price increase, if my recollection is okay, which was 1.4%. So, it was a nice and logical [indiscernible] (17:46). That press release was rather unfair. You will have noticed that there was, for instance, a big confusion between enterprise value and equity value.

I'm not supposed to comment about the result of the company of which I'm not the owner. Nevertheless that to cut every comment short, the Q1 2017 result that were given to us by GE, which is the owner of GE Water, are perfectly in line with our expectation and our business plan. There was no ambiguity.

Thank you very much.

The next question comes from Michel Debs from Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes, good morning. I have two questions, if I may. The first one is looking at margins in waste. So, you told us, revenue is up, before that, EBIT is up. Can we say that in waste, we are starting to see an improvement in margins as well?

And my second and last question, please, would be for the tariff indexation. So, you gave us the number of elements on tariff indexation in your water businesses in Q1. Are there any leftover things to do in Q2 or are we done for 2017, all your indexations went through? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Michel. Yes, there is a margin improvement in the European Recycling and Recovery division, not in the same proportion like increase in turnover, because as we always said, there is more, if – I should say, volatility at turnover level because of the commodity prices than at EBIT level, which is fortunate, because you remember that we are not a trading business. We are just receiving margins for the specific activity [ph] where we have (19:42).

But, all-in-all, we benefit from an improvement at the margin levels, which is basically due to the fact that there is some kind of productivity cycle. We have more volumes. We did a lot of streamlining in that business line during the last year. So, logically, we benefit from a margin improvement.

When it comes to your second question about tariff indexation, I suppose that you are referring basically to France. As you know, the key parameters, which are taken into considerations, the picture is taken on, let us say, 1st of January and 1st of July, so it means that for Q2 compared to Q1, it should be the same.

But – and that was implied in my comment. If we take into consideration evolution of energy, for instance, we expect a more positive evolution of the indexation formulae, starting from the second half of this year. So, Q2, no change, but H2, there should be an improvement because of that evolution.

If I just may ask a question there, Christophe, what you're basically saying is that, for 2018, you will have a better tariff indexation in your water businesses than you had in 2017?

Sorry, we misunderstood. I said as soon as 1st of July this year, the picture, which will be taken on that date, should reflect the evolution of energy prices. And so, we should get an improvement because of the logical and mechanical mechanism as soon as July 2017.

Okay. That's earlier than I thought. Thank you very much.

The next question comes from Pinaki Das from Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. Many thanks for taking my questions. I've got a couple of them. The first one is just around the Q1 comp. You mentioned that Q1 was a rather difficult one last year. So, it was sort of a relatively easier base. Could you also tell us how the comps look in sort of Q2 and Q3? Is it still difficult in Q2 and Q3 maybe because of, I don't know, water volume, something? And secondly, whether any sort of one-off within Q1 that we should be aware of? That's my first question.

My second question is on the indexation, can you just also confirm what proportion of your water contracts in France you are potentially exposed to hedge to tariff indexation? Thank you.

Good morning, Pinaki. The Q1 figures are [indiscernible] (22:27). So, there is absolutely nothing specific in terms of – on [ph] 1H (22:31).

Your question about what do I see from Q1, for Q2, Q3, you are asking me a global forecast, which I would be glad to deliver, but I'm not able. I would split my answer into two different parts. When it comes to recovery and recycling, the only one thing I can say is that April was in line with the first three months. We didn't notice any significant change. So, it was in line.

When it comes to Q3 and the following quarters for the water business, you know there that we need to take into consideration weather forecast, if I may say so, because Q1 is a small quarter compared to Q2 and Q3 in France and Spain. So, we will see later on what is going to be the impact of the situation in terms of weather. I could tell you, but I am going too deep into details, which are meaningless. April was obviously okay. In May, it has been raining a lot, we will see. So, I'm not able to make any other forecast.

But for the waste business, the indication, which is provided for by the April month, is in line. When it comes to the water indexation, my answer to your third question is 100%, because, as you know, we have approximately 2,500 contracts in France in the municipal water business. And the design of those contracts is approximately identical. The average rate of each parameter can be different, but the global design is the same.

So, if we expect a better impact of energy prices in terms of indexation, it should positively affect each contract of the portfolio of the company.

Great. Many thanks. I'll just quickly sort of ask you the first question slightly differently. I think you mentioned at the beginning that, although, you had favorable comps in Q1, the trends are still encouraging underlying. So, I was just trying to understand if the comps are also favorable in Q2 and Q3.

Okay, understood, definitely. So, I would say, if I delete what was under normal situation for Q1 2016, nevertheless, Q1 2017 is positively progressing and that's why I said it was encouraging. I would stick to that adjective.

Okay. Thank you so much.

The next question comes from Philippe Ourpatian from Natixis. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning. Just a short question concerning the French water activity. Could we just have an idea about from where is coming the minus 0.5% only in terms of volume, because we were in winter? And I have just tried to understand why there is this deviation versus the normal minus 1%, minus 2% trend, historical trend, we are recording? Thank you.

Good morning, Philippe. Your question is quite complex, because – so, what I repeat is that you know that our global mid-term forecast is that in Europe, volumes should grow by minus 1%. So, when I say we had minus 0.5%, it was better compared to that very average figure. There was no geographical specificity. So, it was slightly better but, please, it is just Q1.

Q1 is, I would say, relatively small compared to the full year. So, I wouldn't try to build any theoretical explanation. We just take the figure, which is slightly better, but once again, the overall impact is limited. So, no need, I dare to think about too much comment about that.

In fact, my question was not about to see if there is improvement versus the average, it was more to understand why in the first quarter, which is not a strong quarter normally in terms of volume sold, there is this, under bracket, a quite good figure, which is a little bit above – it's above the long – is there any specific item you recorded? I do understand that you say no, but just confirm that.

Yes. My answer is no. I'm sure that if we take quarter-after-quarter for the last 10 years, we would find the other figures like that one. So, I don't think it would be meaningful to try to look for a specific explanation. It is an interim figure. No more, no less.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Next question comes from Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes, good morning. Thank you very much for taking my question. Yeah, good morning, Christophe. I have four questions actually, if I may. First one is on the International division. I had an impression that actually [ph] was mainly (27:25) in the first half of this year which would face the toughest comparison base effects from those contracts that matured. I think quite a number of them matured last summer. So, am I right to believe that we have an acceleration in top-line growth of the International division in the second half of this year?

Second one was on the U.S.-regulated activity. You had mentioned that your full-year results that you were planning to step up the CapEx in that operation by 50% this year. I was wondering if that was still the plan, if you expect it to remain at those kind of elevated CapEx levels for a number of years, and if as a result of that, we should expect your revenue to also accelerate in that operation.

Third one was on Chile. I was wondering if you could give us an update on the regulatory risks that we could still face there after all the commotion that we have at the end of December last year.

And the final one is on Argentina. I think that yesterday or on Friday, the International Arbitration Court rejected the appeal of Argentina, which was trying to stop them having to compensate you for I think it's about $350 million. I was wondering if you could give us an idea of how – what the next steps are and to what extent this decision increases the likelihood of you getting that money back. Thank you.

Okay. Good morning, Olivier. I'll take your question in the same order you raised them.

When it comes to the top-line growth for the International division, effectively, if we look quarter-after-quarter and because you remember that there is no, I would say, irregularity or cyclicity in terms of construction activity, we have reached a low point in Q3 last year. It was better in Q4 and I would say that Q1 is still slightly above. So, there is a positive evolution once again, but we will give all the necessary explanations, because part of the business, I would say, is quite regular and part of the business is due to Design & Build activity, which have, by definition, no regularity. We need to split, but, yes, the evolution in Q1 was again an improvement compared to the previous one in Q4 after a Q3 which, as we had explained previously, was so soft, but mainly because of construction activity.

If I take your second question about the U.S. water regulated business, my answer would be globally, yes. As we explained at the time of the presentation of the 2016 results, we are more active in terms of capital allocation and we said very bluntly that we try to, I would say, decrease slightly the CapEx in the traditional water business in Spain and in France in order to benefit from the water-regulated business model in North America. And we said that we had increased in our budget for 2017 by $80 million the amount of CapEx allocated to the municipal water regulated business in North America.

First, is it going as planned? Yes, but we are talking about CapEx. So, you cannot just snatch and get them instantly, but we are following the budget and nothing specific. Will it impact favorably the revenue in the coming years? The answer is, yes, because of the nature of the regulated water business model, it is some kind of pass-through, if I may say so. So, that will have a positive impact on revenue and profitability in the coming years.

Now, when it comes to Chile, you said commotion in December. Okay, I must respect your vocabulary, but I wouldn't say it's totally a commotion. What you know is that in the very highly political year in Chile, because there will be a Presidential election at the end of the year, there is a challenge against the regulated business model in Chile, it is not against a water-regulated business, not against the water business, it is against the minimum remuneration, which is 7%, which is granted to the regulated business season.

As you know, I think that there is, I would say, some kind of sensitivity to that topic in a specific political context. Are we nervous? Are we highly concerned? We follow up carefully the situation, but once again, I remind you that, for instance, pension funds are large owners of shareholders of regulated business and that would affect their own capacity to deliver revenues and yields to their own, I would say, shareholders or owners.

So, all-in-all, the situation must be carefully followed up, but it is fully under control. And as you will have noticed, the contribution of Chile in Q1 was once again without any weather accident like last year, rather satisfactory. I dare to remind you finally for our own business that we renegotiated for the next five years the tariff. So, the next negotiation would in any case never take place before 2020.

So, when it comes to Argentina, your information is perfectly accurate as usual, because very recently, a specific international body [indiscernible] (32:55) didn't give way to the appeal, which has been raised by Argentina. So, it means that from a purely legal standpoint, we have a definitive decision, which should be implemented, when it comes to Argentina, even if you [ph] were oblessed (33:15) by such a decision, we are fully aware that it will take time.

Is the direction a satisfactory one? Very clearly. Are we able to make precise forecast in terms of, I would say, precise financial consequences? It would be probably too early right now, but it was a positive decision and a logical one, if I may add.

That's very clear. Thank you very much, Christophe. [Operator Instructions]

And the next question comes from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. Most questions asked, so I'll stick to two. One is the movement in recyclate prices. So, overall, I understand that your processing – commodities do not benefit from their absolute level. However, when you move strongly, you may have a one-off in the P&L. So, could you tell us if you benefited in the EBITDA in Q1 from the strong movement and by how much?

The second question is regarding the French elections and the program under Macron. What do you foresee in terms of potential regulatory changes for SUEZ and basically what would be the impact in your view? Thank you.

Okay. Good morning, Vincent. When it comes to the recyclate prices, there is no real one-off, I would say a very, very light one, but it is very marginal with regards to the scrap metal prices. But please do consider that it is close to nil, because, once again, but you know that, we are not a trader in commodities.

What we always said and we said that when it was – negatively impacted our P&L and now we say that when it is more positively impacting our P&L is that what we appreciate is the regular, the steady evolution of recyclate prices. We don't like, I would say, volatility, because even if the stock of the recyclate is always very limited, three weeks of activity, there could be an impact. So, globally, we benefited from the steady positive evolution. As soon as April, by the way, the prices in the recyclate paper were going down.

But nevertheless, if I compare average to average, 2017 to 2016, the situation is more favorable. And as you know, there is an indirect massive macroeconomic effect, which is that when the prices are better, the incentive [indiscernible] (36:08), including incentive at the customers' basis level are stronger. So, it is good for the business generally speaking.

When it comes to the French elections, I just could make a comment, which is that it's quite obvious that the newly-elected President is pro-business and pro-European. So, we are satisfied with that evolution. I dare to say that environmental topics were not the hot topic of the political debate during the last months. So, as well, we expect to benefit from the more positive macroeconomic environment, but there are no specificities related to the business due to the result of the elections.

The next question comes from James Brand form Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Just one question. You've commented in the results that you benefited from some additional capacity additions coming through in the UK. I was wondering whether you could just remind us in the Waste Europe business what new capacity you're expecting to kind of roll out over the next few years and maybe some kind of quantification of the impact that would have on your overall volume throughput. Thanks.

I go back to the figures first and I'll answer your question. Good morning, James. So, we said that the growth in volumes Q1 is 1.9% and I repeat, the positive limited impact from the new energy-from-waste capacities into the UK was offset by the disposal of the [ph] Finnish (37:36) activities. So, 1.9% is the, if I may say so, true figure.

If I look at the same in terms of turnover, I said that we have an organic growth by 7.4%, of which you could consider that commodity prices is 4.7% and other prices are 1.2%, 4.7% for commodity and 1.2% for other prices, which means that the global price orientation was satisfactory.

And then, there is the impact of volumes, which is approximately 2.1%. And if you tell me that the addition is above 7.4%, it is due to the fact that in the Q1 2017, we don't benefit from construction turnover, which was logically in Q1 2016. So, we have positive impact at price level of commodity prices, but also, as it is interesting, positive impact of general pricing, irrespective of commodity prices and positive impact of volumes.

If I look forward, after, I would say, the starting of operations of the three new energy-from-waste facilities in the UK and the one in Poznań, there is just the positive exception of the new Surrey PFI as the facility should be delivered next year. So, to answer very basically your question, we don't plan so far any significant increase in our production and processing capacities. [ph]

Right. I'll stop there (39:27).

The next question comes from Guy Mackenzie from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. And a few quick questions from me. One follow-up on recyclate prices actually. Sorry, firstly, Christophe, you mentioned and you said this before that you don't tend to benefit as much at the EBITDA level or you're not as exposed? My understanding was that was the case with scrap metal prices, but you do have some exposure from paper prices. So, I was just wondering if you could confirm my understanding there.

Secondly, on North America, you mentioned a couple of waste product contracts that ended leading to the 5% or so decline. Just wondering if we should be expecting any more sort of contracts that might come to a close over the course of the year or conversely any big contract starting up that might [ph] cause any big shifts (40:10) in revenue there.

And then, finally, on Spanish tariffs, again just to confirm my understanding, but I think you mentioned positive indexation overall despite the tariff cut in Barcelona late last year, which I think was about 2% overall. Perhaps you could just first confirm that is correct and, secondly, if you can give us any indication of what we should expect on the evolution of pricing in Spain this year. Thanks very much.

Okay. Good morning, Guy. When it comes to the recycling of paper, the business model for us is the same like scrap metal or even plastics. I mean, that we collect the paper from our customers and we are billed for that. Then, we sort it, we [ph] bear (40:57) it and we sell it inside global coordinated contracts. So, once again, this is not a trading activity. And our margin is more linked to the processing that we implement rather than to playing with differences between selling prices and offer pricing.

So, there is no difference compared to the scrap metal business model and it means also that the nature of the impact is in the same [indiscernible] (41:29) for the scrap metal. The only one difference being very basically that 1 ton of scrap metal is more expensive than 1 ton of recycled paper.

When it comes to North America, I would like to preside in order to avoid any ambiguities that the main contract that was finished, which is in Indianapolis, is not a regulated water business contract. It is what we call environmental services.

So, it's not part of the regulated part of the business and the municipality decided to take back the contract. So, it was not lost against the competitor. It was a decision taken by the municipality that they would prefer to manage than sell that environmental services contract.

We don't expect any other significant change like that. And on top of that, I mentioned that when it comes to the regulated municipal water business, the evolution of the business was quite satisfactory.

Last, your comment about Spanish tariff is absolutely right, which is that also we [ph] add (42:37) the impact, the marginal impact of the renegotiation of the tariff in Barcelona, there was an agreement about a light decrease by 2%, but as I explained previously, it was part of a more global [indiscernible] (43:03), including tariff, including what we call the [indiscernible] (42:54), which is the upfront payment that we make every year, which was decreased and the total amount of CapEx, which was also slightly decreased.

So, it means that, thanks to the evolution of price and formulae for indexation, we benefited from that 1.6% satisfactory evolution. Once again, Q1 is, if I may say so, a small Q with regards to the water business, seasonality and weather and volumes consumption.

I dare to go back to the question raised by James. Just to preside that when it comes to large facilities, except the Surrey PFI, we have not planned anything else. It doesn't mean that we are lazy and we do nothing, but in terms of volumes, the new facilities that we are building and operating are much smaller, but they are a good illustration of the strategy, we are still quite active with regards to plastic recycling.

It is clear that the volumes, if I look only at the process volumes or one facility in terms of plastic recycling, are much smaller compared to the volumes of the large PFI-like energy-from-waste facility.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much. [Operator Instructions]

And the next question comes from Anna Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. It's Anna Maria Scaglia. I just [indiscernible] (44:33) a quick question regarding your cost-cutting initiative. Can you just tell us how it's going? You've been talking [ph] Q3 up this (44:40) upgrade in the cost-cutting. And also can you give us the guidance in terms of what restructuring charges you expect for the year? Thank you.

Good morning, Anna Maria. When it comes to cost-cutting, we are fully in line. You remember that our Compass initiative is supposed to deliver as agreed two years ago €150 million for that share. And the figure we have end of Q1 is fully in line with what should be expected. It's not just one-fourth, because there is also seasonality, but it is absolutely in line and every business unit delivered the expected contribution. So, nothing specific to point out.

When it comes to the restructuring plan and the restructuring charges, which are associated, we stick to what we said, which is that we will get a definitively precise view for the H1 figures. Just to mention that in France, when it comes to the support function, restructuring operation and exactly as described and as explained, we have started to receive the demands from voluntary staff, which is interesting into benefiting from the plan, because you remember that there will be no forced redundancy and we will get a precise figure of the cost, which is associated for the H1 figures.

There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. I can just thank you for your presence and your attention. And, of course, with the IR team, we are available in order to answer any further questions. Have a nice day. Thank you very much.

The conference has ended and you may now disconnect. Thank you for your participation.