Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bertrand Camus — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ SA
Julian David Waldron — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance, SUEZ SA
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane SA (United Kingdom)
Vincent Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Arthur Sitbon — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and thank you for joining us to talk about our 2019 Full Year Result. I'm very pleased to be with you today together with Julian Waldron, our CFO, to present our very good set of results. This call is also the opportunity to give you an update on the deployment of our Shaping SUEZ 2030 strategic plan and to confirm our ambitious mid- and long-term targets.

Starting on slide 3, we have our main subject today, our very good set of results for 2019. Our performance is in-line and even, in some case, above the targets we had fixed at the beginning of the year. We delivered a 3.6% organic growth for revenue, above our initial guidance of 2% to 3%, at the record level for the second year in a row. We also delivered an operational leverage in 2019 with an EBIT up 4.3% organically in-line with our 4% to 5% target. Each segment participated in its very good performance.

We benefited from a very favorable environment on waste tariffs almost everywhere, both on hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Our municipal water activities managed to deliver solid top line trend, thanks to international commercial development but also thanks to favorable weather conditions in Europe.

In our high value-added activities, we recorded a sustained growth in our industrial water order book. We also deployed our smart solutions with our customers as illustrated by the Smart City projects in Dijon, Angers as illustrated by the smart city projects in Dijon, Angers, and also Dunkirk in France.

In 2019, SUEZ also consolidated its excellent performance with regard to the criteria of non-financial rating agencies and its presence in the main international ESG indices. The group has been included for the 11th consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. This index rewards among the 2,500 largest market capitalization the 10% most-performing in the sector in terms of social and environmental responsibility.

Vigeo Eiris has confirmed SUEZ first place among the Waste and Water Utilities sector and its inclusion in all of the Euronext Vigeo Eiris Indices. SUEZ also ranked third out of the 5,000 companies in the world assessed by Vigeo Eiris across all industries. Finally, as it has been the case since 2016, SUEZ has been included in CDP's Climate A List. This list distinguishes each year the 2% global companies having obtained the best rating in terms of climate performance.

Before going more in details on those results, I wanted on slide 4 to come back on the solid underlying trends in our businesses. We are operating in a market where the fundamentals are stronger than ever where the urbanization, where water scarcity, where tighter regulations, where citizens and industrial corporates awareness are all going to drive structural growth in areas where SUEZ has much to offer to meet these challenges.

If we take for example water scarcity, which is frightening 2 billion people by 2030. It is essential to mobilize solutions such as water reuse and increased network performance. SUEZ is ideally positioned to bring solutions to those fundamental needs.

For example, in Qatar, we recently won a contract to operate and maintain the wastewater, rain water and reuse water systems of the northern zone of the world. This 10-year contract represent €80 million revenue per year which makes this construct one of the biggest annual contribution in terms of revenue, ahead of any of our contracts in France.

We are becoming partner to accelerate the environmental transition of our clients. Our business model will no longer be driven by volume of wastewater that we produce and distribute but by the performance that we offer to our customers.

On slide 5, our successes along 2019 confirms the evolution of our value proposition and our ability to deliver sustainable solution with a positive impact for our customers. Let me come back very quickly on three moves I am particularly proud of: In France, we renewed the public service litigation contract of Dijon Métropole within an innovative contractual framework. For the first time, drinking water and wastewater management are gathered within the same contract and under a joint venture company with the municipality. These new nine-year contracts starting April 2021 is worth a total of €310 million. Our innovative solutions were particularly differentiating in the software as our proposal included micropollutant treatments.

This is multiservice joint venture will be the first drinking water and wastewater management service to be energy-positive, providing the city with the excess biogas produced in the wastewater treatment plant, but also the first zero waste service.

In Thailand, SUEZ will be the recycling plant that turns plastic waste into circular polymer in Bang Phli district, near Bangkok. This plant will contribute to Thailand's ambition to achieve 100 (sic) [100%] (00:06:24) plastic recycling by 2030, while today only a quarter is recycled. This project confirms SUEZ's presence in Southeast Asia and confirms its position as an expert in plastic recycling worldwide.

The third example I would like to share with you is an example of how we leverage the portfolio of technologies from our WTS global business, combining with our project and services capabilities in India which led to the awarding of a major design, build, operate contract for a complete sewage recycle solution in [ph] Panki (00:07:02) in Uttar Pradesh, India. For this project, we will design, engineer, supply, construct, and erect the plant on a turnkey basis. Our solution includes our proprietary membrane bioreactor technology and reverse osmosis for wastewater reuse. We will thus provide high-quality treated water for reuse in industrial applications which will keep sewage out of the nearby Ganges River and reuse fresh water consumption. After construction, the SUEZ India team will operate the plant for a period of 15 years.

Those construct wins are a good illustration of the evolution of our growth priorities. While consolidating our position in Europe, notably thanks to innovation, we are developing two businesses, water and waste in the international markets. We are also progressively growing the share of our activities with industrial clients and we are stepping up our efforts in innovative fields to propose differentiating offer on high value-added segments.

Moving to slide 6, the past year marks first and foremost the beginning of SUEZ transformation with the launch of our new strategic plan, Shaping SUEZ 2030. I had the privilege to present to you on October 2 this very comprehensive plan whose objective is to reposition ourselves and create more value for all our stakeholders while preparing the future. However, it also drives short-term improvements. This plan is built around the vision: SUEZ will be the global leader in environmental services by 2030. We also have a purpose shaping a sustainable environment now. It is also structured around three concepts: Selectivity, simplicity, and engagement. Since we last met, we turned these three concepts into concrete roadmaps.

First on slide 7, selectivity. Accelerating where we see the best opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves and create value, exiting commoditized and low value-added businesses. Since end 2019, we have provided the guidelines of our selective growth. We will continue to grow organically. We will accelerate that growth but we will grow with much more selectivity, including on where we put our CapEx and we will dispose of businesses. For 2020, we target an organic growth revenue of 2% to 3%. From that level, we will accelerate as soon as 2021.

As for asset rotation, we will execute this year the first wave of our portfolio rotation plan. Part of the sales proceedings will be dedicated to fuel our future growth and transformation.

Second, on slide 8, simplicity. We have laid the foundations of our operating model to simplify the way we work and transition towards a leaner organization. We have also defined the rotations of our performance plan, which among other things, should give us the means to invest in innovation and digital technology in-line with our ambitions.

We implemented a performance-driven organization; we've locally empowered accountable business areas. Since January 1, we are organized around six regions and two global business units. Those two global business units are WTS, which, as you know, gather our industrial water activities and a newly created business unit, [ph] SCS (00:10:52) for smart and environmental solutions. [ph]

SCS (00:10:59) gathers digital and decentralized solutions, asset performance management, environmental quality, smart agriculture, air and climate businesses. Agile, decentralized and more customer-centric, this organization has been designed to support performance management, selective growth and momentum and the ramp-up in digitalization and innovation.

With this new organization up and running and the setup of a global steering framework for our efficiency initiatives, we are fully confident in our ability to deliver our €1 billion gross annual savings target by 2023, with the first positive impact on our EBIT as soon as 2020.

Third, on slide 9, engagement. As I explained to you in October, much of the success of our strategy is based on execution and management. We are now a bit more than four months after we last met. 50% of the Excom has been renewed, and 70% at level of our top 30 executive team. We are making sure we have the right people at the right place to drive our transformation. People have moved within the organization and the share of our top 160 executives coming from operations has increased to 64% from 52% in 2018. Diversity has also increased with notably more women. Diversity is something that is particularly important to me.

We have also defined and implemented new incentive schemes, long-term and short-term, that are designed to ensure that everybody throughout the organization is aligned and accountable for the proper execution of our plan and the results we [ph] expect (00:12:51) from it.

Finally, I would like to say a word about governance. As you know, about a month ago, the board announced its decision to submit the nomination of Philippe Varin as Director and Future Chairman of the Board, subject, of course, to the approval of shareholder at the next AGM. I am delighted by Philippe's arrival. His industry and global experience will be a major advantage in the implementation of our strategic plan. Yesterday, the board also decided to propose a reduction in the numbers of directors as soon as May 2020.

To wrap up and before handing over to Julian, I would like to highlight some key facts about 2019 and beginning of 2020. First, a word on COVID-19 which impact our activities in China. First and foremost, our concern has been to keep our employees safe and sound. For example, we have supplied them with enough masks to ensure their security at work and reorganize the way we work to enable continuity of service at the lowest risk. This matter is evolving fast, but our teams have been very reactive. So this week, we are able to reopen our offices in Hong Kong and Mainland China.

We are starting the process of restarting our [indiscernible] (00:14:19) from waste facilities that had been shut down. Our Shanghai water and waste operation are working as is our WTS Wuxi plant. Of course, we monitor the situation closely in China but also in the rest of the world, particularly in Europe and Italy. We are able to closely assess both the current status and the impact on us. Julian will give you the impact we anticipate so far given the actual situation. We will, of course, keep you informed in due time in the future if any of that is necessary.

Now on 2019, this has been a very intense year for the teams. SUEZ people are very committed to the company, so expectations for a new plan were high. And here we are driving a deep transformation. Then externally, unrest in Hong Kong, Santiago de Chile, Barcelona, strike in France. Despite these difficult situations in many of our geographies, we managed to deliver our strong set of results. These demonstrate the quality of our assets, the resilience of our models and high implication of our teams. Our [indiscernible] (00:15:32) and our ability to anticipate allowed us to deliver our solid performance in 2019 with a good commercial momentum.

We certainly know how to grow our business. And with Shaping SUEZ 2030, we will continue to do so more selectively. All our work streams are well underway and we are entirely focused on the execution of our plan.

And with that, I will hand over to Julian who will take you through a more compressive presentation of our financial performance.

Thank you very much, Bertrand. Good morning, again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us. So, as underlined by Bertrand, there are many aspects of this year's performance which are positive.

We're on the right track to deliver our 2021 objectives but we're also focused on the areas where we need to work differently and improve and I will try to talk about both aspects in my commentary. And with that, I'll now turn to page 11 of the presentation and dive into the numbers starting with revenue.

So, group revenue is just above €18 billion in 2019 and that was up 3.6% on an organic basis; that's above our initial guidance for 2019 of 2% or 3%. The fourth quarter was a good one. It was a strong quarter with organic growth of 4.8%.

A couple of technical matters, I think the main one is foreign exchange. It had a positive impact of 106 million. That's principally the appreciation of the dollar and the dirham with some offsetting by the peso in Chile and the Australian dollar.

Now, let's turn on the next slide to EBIT. EBIT came in €1.408 billion, compared to €1.3 billion last year. We have a couple of impacts: For example, IFRS 16 adding €13 million, scope effect was €4 million. But organic growth at 4.3% was in-line with our expectations and our guidance. The margin rose slightly to 7.8% versus 7.7% a year ago. But as you know, one of the objectives we have for Shaping SUEZ 2030 is to accelerate the improvement of operational leverage in the business.

Let's now dig into the performance of the four divisions and I'll start on slide 13 with Water Europe. Revenue for this division was up 1.4% organically. The drivers of that I would summarize as follows: In France, volumes were up 1% this year and tariff indexations were also up at 1.8%. That's good news. It will, of course, provide a bit of a challenge in comparison basis for 2020. When we look ahead, we'll start the year with our normal expectations of flat to minus 1% for volumes. And this year given the level of inflation that we see, we can expect tariffs to be up around 1% in France.

If I turn to Spain, revenue was up 1.7% organically, driven like in France by hot and dry weather during the summer. Tariffs were close to stable, even factoring in a 1.65% decrease in Barcelona impacting January to May. And I remind you that looking ahead for 2020, we'll have a 4.95% decrease in tariffs for that contract.

Latin America, growth has been strong this year again, also against a tough comparison. In Chile, tariffs were up 1.6% with indexations and volumes were up point 0.6% year-on-year. Drought was and will remain an issue in Chile and it did weigh on our costs in 2019. But as you know, looking ahead, we've agreed tariffs for the next five years in Chile at minus 3%, which will be compensated and offset by increases for our CapEx and increases for inflation.

The rest of Latin America construction activity was good, particularly in El Salvador (sic) [Ecuador] (00:19:27) and Panama, although, as you know, in the medium-term, we're looking to reduce our overall exposure to construction.

EBIT was helped by revenue growth but also by the efficiency measures we started to implement, notably in France and Spain where the teams worked particularly hard on those aspects.

Let's turn the page to slide 14 on Recycling & Recovery. Revenue was a strong increase here, up 4.9% organically to €6.5 billion. Behind that headline, we had waste volumes up 1.5% and that was in line with our expectations. We benefited from Manchester, of course, but volumes held up pretty well across all of Europe with the exception of France.

As we've said before, most important factor in 2019 performance was pricing. Treatment facilities across the industry for SUEZ, but also we think for our competitors are largely saturated, and that supported pricing changes in particular with industrial and commercial clients. Against that, commodity prices were and are a headwind for some recyclates like paper, for example, prices reached historical lows and have had a negative impact on our Q4.

In hazardous waste, the activity posted record performance with strong volumes, in particular around soil treatment and soil remediation, and prices have also been well-orientated. Overall, the positive factors and the work of the teams to improve efficiency fed into a solid 7% organic growth in EBIT. Looking ahead, although commodity and recyclate prices will remain headwinds, we think pricing and saturation should continue to be favorable trends for the industry and for us.

Slide 15, International. Here, we had solid commercial momentum. Revenue was up nearly 3% on an organic basis. Asia showed good organic growth that accounted for close of half of the division's growth, in fact. We benefited from the consolidation of the Shanghai assets from July 2018 and from new construction projects in Macao and Zhuhai. Also, good contribution from hazardous waste. Activity in India is dynamic with some new network construction projects, as Bertrand mentioned earlier. Against that, Australia was down. And as you know, volumes linked to infrastructure around Sydney have come to an end. In North America, performance in our maintenance business was poor, although we had another good year in the main utility and environmental services activities. Overall, International, good organic growth in EBIT at 6.4% and an improvement of margin by 50 bps.

Last, but by no means least, WTS on slide 16. Revenue up 5.6% organically to €2.6 billion. Now, let's look behind that. First, as we've said, we were not happy with the performance in Q2 and Q3. Q4 was better. Revenues grew 9.1% organically. And an order book that had grown 11% for the year as a whole grew 14% in Q4. In both Engineered and Chemical, we were better in quarter four. Now, given the volatility of growth between quarters and the slow performance of CMS in the US, profitability was flat year-on-year, and we need, of course, to continue to work hard on that.

Just a further word on order intake. It's important for us because we have seen a bit of a shift in our business in 2019 towards projects rather than simple product sales, different aspects of that. But given the partnership part of it and, in particular, the visibility it brings us over the long term for service and replacement activity, I would say this probably improves the long-term quality of the business. In the near term, it means revenues are slower to come through the P&L. So, all in all, after a good Q4, there's a lot more work to do and I expect this year to be one where we focus on internal performance, on a cost structure that we need to improve, on ensuring that the value of what we sell is recognized in our pricing and on areas like cash flow and working capital. Good Q4, but we know we can do better in WTS.

Now, moving on, on slide 17 to group numbers again. And here, the result below EBIT. We posted €350 million – €352 million of net income group share. That's up 5%. EBIT contributed an increase of €73 million to that. We, of course, benefited from the settlement of the arbitration in Argentina, which had a bottom line impact of €145 million after tax. And as we said we would, that was offset by €134 million of restructuring and other costs linked to the rollout of the plan and the start of the performance improvements that we need to make.

Further down the P&L, we took charges linked to the plan in both financial and tax. In financial, two particular items to note, €28 million linked to the application of IFRS 16 and €33 million of charges for the liability management operations in September and October, to which I'm going to come back in a little while. Excluding those, interest charges and the effective interest rate was slightly better year-on-year.

Tax, two items to note. First, the gain on Argentina was taxable as you know. Second, we wrote off most of the deferred tax assets for France held in our books for an amount of €48 million. And excluding the deferred tax write-off, the underlying tax rate was 38.8%. Most importantly for me, we're able to carry out many of the reorganizations we need to carry out in order to trigger the potential for a positive impact, both on financial charges and on taxes with the underpinned part of our 2021 objectives.

Slide 18, net debt. Net debt was down on a constant accounting basis, €246 million, and we delivered on the target to bring our leverage down to three times EBITDA on that basis. Our target gearing remains 2.8 times to 3 times including IFRS [ph] or around 0.3 turns (00:25:47) below where we are today. And the drivers of this would be, of course, better cash flow from our profit and the proceeds in 2020 and 2021 from disposals, but also working capital. Working capital was a drag on cash flow in 2019. But when I look at the underlying metrics business by business, we're starting to see progress compared to year-end 2018.

So, for my last slides, I'd like to look forward. First of all on segment reporting. Changing segment reporting is never to be done lightly, but I think the three segments we will start to comment on looking ahead will make our business easier to assess and fully in line with how we intend to deploy capital going forward. And that's what you can see notably at the bottom of this slide. Less capital employed over the life of the plant in Water and in Recycling & Recovery and increased investment in Environmental Tech & Solutions.

Briefly on slide 20, you've got the 2019 performance under the new segments, couple of highlights. Water grew 2.9% organically and we delivered flat EBIT margin of 13%. Recycling & Recovery also grew at 2.9% organically, but the pricing dynamics I mentioned earlier enables to grow EBIT by 10% for margin of 5.5%. And lastly, ETS revenues grew a strong 7% organically with EBIT nearly 11% up. Although the 6% margin that we delivered in 2019 is really where we need and we will be able to kick on in the coming years. There's more reconciliation information in the appendices that you'll find.

Next, a comment on progress towards our strategic plan and our 2021 objectives. So, first, the disposal program is gathering pace. All the projects we target are moving forward, some of them with critical internal work and some of them into the external phases. We'll deliver a first wave of disposals in 2020 and then a second in 2021. And in terms of capital employed, the two should be of similar size.

Second, the performance efficiency plans that Jean-Marc outlined in detail on October 2 are now cascaded through the organization. We report out on wave 1, which Jean-Marc and I reviewed earlier this month, confirm both the scope and the timing of the operational efficiencies that we target. The teams are really mobilized on this and we will see some net impacts already this year.

Third, in terms of net debt and cash. As I mentioned earlier, the results of 2019 show that we're on the right track and are targeting the right aspects to improve here. Disposals and proceeds of working capital are for me key optimizations levers here. And last and tangibly, actions to reduce cost below EBIT continue.

You'll recall that at the end of Q3 we said that the liability management actions that we've taken would deliver on a full-year basis €18 million of savings. And the first steps we've taken to change the way money is funnelled around the company will add a further €20 million of that in 2021. Tax, that's around €0.04 a share, which is a substantial part of the €0.24 a share we need to deliver to meet our €0.80 a share minimum target in 2021.

Briefly on slide 22, guidance. So, we expect organic revenue growth of 2% to 3% this year. Our aim is continue to be to prioritize value over volume and to be selective in the projects we win. We've also taken into account, as you would expect, the potential impact of the COVID-19 situation in China on revenue.

Organic EBIT, we expect underlying growth of 5% to 6%. That reflects the top line growth on the one hand and the first net impacts of the performance plan on the second. However, we do call out specifically that we see an impact on our activity in Greater China, which we'll deduct from that, a €30 million to €40 million in February, March and then a progressive pickup in Q2. We can come back on that in Q&A. But although we remain cautious and vigilant, as Bertrand said, this estimate is based on a detailed quantification of the impacts including up to today.

In 2020, we'll start to show tangible progress towards our recurring net income and recurring free cash flow targets for 2021. We expect to be €0.65 a share this year in recurring net income and deliver €300 million of recurring net cash flow this year. Just to be precise, the €0.65 a share is all in. So, it includes the impact of COVID-19. It also includes any impact of disposals this year on recurring income. Although in point of fact, I think the businesses that we have in wave 1 don't have a material impact on our net result in any case. All other aspects about 2020 that we gave you on the 2nd of October, for example, one-off costs remain valid. So, our progress in 2019, our expectations for 2020 enable us to reconfirm or 2021 financial targets today.

And with that, thank you, and I'll hand back to Bertrand.

Thank you, Julian. So, moving to slide 24. Once again, the solid set of results show our strong capabilities. We have clearly been one of the pioneers of the global expansion of water and waste management businesses, and we are today a truly international player. We enjoy a very strong reputation and our clients trust us for the commitment of our teams, for our unparalleled expertise and know-how, for our technologies, for our operational experience and always at the highest levels of ethics and health and safety standards.

We also successfully deployed technological, contractual, and social innovation. Based on these solid assets, our Shaping SUEZ 2030 plan will allow us to seize market opportunities in a changing market that requires differentiation. By 2023, SUEZ will deliver a return on capital of at least two points above 2018 level. SUEZ will be transformed in 2023. Nevertheless, the change will be visible as early as 2021. We committed and confirmed today a target of €0.80 recurring EPS and €500 million recurring free cash flow in 2021.

I am deeply convinced that SUEZ contribution will be essential to the needed turnaround in terms of preservation and restoration of our environment. We decided in the framework of Shaping SUEZ 2030 to increase our commitments. We are now targeting very ambitious objectives like for example 20 million tonnes of yearly CO2 emissions saved for our clients in 2030 compared to 10 million tonnes in 2018.

It has been a year since I introduced myself to you. I told you then how proud and enthusiast I was to become the CEO of SUEZ. We are now a year later. My mandate started nine months ago. We already achieved a lot and I am even more enthusiastic and confident in our future and our ability to deliver the plan.

Thank you very much for your attention and we are ready to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from the line of Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you very much for the presentation this morning. Just three questions on my side, please. First one is maybe to understand a little bit better how you – and I guess this could be something that would be valid [ph] values (00:34:11) for the company going forward. How you expect to assess the actual impact of this coronavirus because, I guess, there could be implications throughout the business and that could be indirect? So, I just wonder how you quantify €30 million to €40 million and how you will track what the impact actually is.

Secondly, when you speak about growth going forward, I was wondering if you could give us maybe a little bit more of color on the key business activities, which you think will actually get you the most capital deployment from your side and maybe which segments of the world you expect to deliver you the stronger growth.

You've said you expected an acceleration in 2021 versus the guidance you give for 2020. I was hoping to get maybe a bit more color on that side. And then, finally, also again, sticking to this acceleration in 2021, when we look at the guidance, you effectively expect your EPS growth to double in 2021 compared to the recurring EPS growth that you expect for 2020 versus 2019. And that is despite the fact that we should, I guess, get the biggest impact from the disposals in 2021 from a dilution effect. So, I was just hoping if you could give us any clarification, any color to help us understand a bit better how you will be able to deliver that. Thank you.

So, thank you very much for your question. Maybe I will start on the COVID-19, the virus. First of all, I think that you know all that we are in essential public services. We're ensuring continuity of the services, both providing water or treating wastewater and of course correcting and eliminate – recycling and eliminating waste is absolutely crucial.

And therefore, as a business, we are very much prepared to any major disruption that can affect those essential services being extreme weather situation, a strike or a virus. So, we have a plan of continuity of activity as we call them in all our operations. And the last time, we prepared was for H1N1. And therefore, all the operations of the group have been preparing themselves to mitigate as much as possible the consequences of the virus in operations and making sure that we can maintain continuity of the service.

In China, the situation was very clear is that during February and part of January, there was a clear decision from the government to shut down most of the industrial activities to avoid the spread of the contamination. And therefore, as a provider of water, wastewater and [indiscernible] (00:37:09) services, we had simply much less demand for our services.

So, we were able to detail very much the impact on our books. And therefore, this is what we have been announcing and quantifying, assuming that the situation goes back to normal progressively in Q2. And this is what we are observing. We are reopening our offices in Hong Kong. In Shanghai, our plants are restarting. And therefore, this is what we can estimate today in terms of impact. And of course, we will keep you updated if we see any major update, one way or another, in the coming weeks.

Business activities, I would say that we see a lot of opportunities in the three areas of business, Water, Recycling & Recovery and ETS. Demand is everywhere. And therefore, it's about selectivity and having the right business model for the right activity in the right geography. And I think that we have been demonstrating in the last months that we are able to go for new projects. I'm very proud of what we do in Senegal starting 1st of January. The group did not have such a larger takeover in 10 years. It's 7 million inhabitants. With that, we are number one in the world in water and wastewater services in terms of population served.

Qatar is also a very nice example of wastewater reuse services. We have a very healthy turnover and good margin. We have our waste to energy project in Serbia, which is another way of developed infrastructure in partnership, and we have a couple of very nice opportunities in the smart solutions, not to speak about industrial water as we spoke, for example, of Dijon and Angers. And I'll remind you that our targets, this is what we explained during the roadshows after the presentation of the plan, is SUEZ was viewed to grow 1% to 2% before the acquisition of GE Water and the creation of WTS. Today, we are in a rhythm of 2% to 3% and our goal is to be in the range of 3% to 4% after the plan is fully implemented. Julian, you want to complement?

Yeah. I think a couple of additional points on your third question, Olivier, for which many thanks – and I'm probably going to take this a little bit in reverse order of the P&L. First of all, we have started to deliver an improvement in EPS. It's very small but I'm pleased that the recurring EPS is up in 2019 compared to 2018. Secondly, we need to deliver out of the €0.24 between 25% and 35% of that from below EBIT, so that's €0.07 to €0.09. We know, and that's why I called it out specifically, from the actions that we took in quarter four that around €0.04 of that is delivered through the liability management actions and the internal reorganization that we carried out in 2019, and that's the impact on financial charges. We know – and therefore tax; that's around €0.04 a share. We haven't started yet to think about tax in terms of an impact, but a lot of the initial work that we needed to do to start to drive the effective tax rate, those actions were taken last year. And I think there are more actions that we will take in terms of funneling money around the group which will enable us to meet that €0.07 to €0.09 target. I think I'm very pleased with the progress the teams have made to-date and it's very tangible.

Secondly, the performance plan. We're going to have the first net impact of the performance plan this year. But again, that's a ramp up. And if I look at 2021, I would expect the performance plan to be as important a contributor to our bottom line in terms of growth than I would the organic growth of the business because it's ramping up very well and, as I said in my comments, the teams are very well mobilized, and the first reviews that Jean-Marc and I did of wave one earlier this month confirm that and confirm the trajectory.

Last but by no means least, organic growth. And I won't reiterate everything that Bertrand said, but the 2% to 3% revenue growth we have this year, we can see that improving. We can see ourselves getting more operating leverage, so that 5% to 6% again is something that looks good on an underlying basis but we think we can do better. We need in 2021, and that's always been part of the plan, always been part of the plan, to deliver pre-disposals more than €0.80 because we will lose EBIT, we will lose some net income next year from disposals. I think once you take into account tax, financial charges, and occasionally minority interests the fall down from EBIT to net income is probably less than people tend to think. But nonetheless, when you look at below EBIT, the performance plan and organic growth we should be driving and I think we will be driving, and that's why we've confirmed the numbers today, into a position where we can absorb the dilution. So that's why, just to reiterate the comments we made both today, the €0.65 for 2020 is all-in including both disposals and COVID; and 2021, the €0.80 is all-in including the – any impact that we have from disposals. Thank you.

Thank you very much for that. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Please go ahead [Technical Difficulty] (00:43:53-00:44:11) Okay. We have no response from Emmanuel. Would you like to go to the next question?

Yeah. Emmanuel, if you want to come back later on let us know and we'll be delighted to take you. But let's move on to the next question, please.

The next question comes from the line of Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Good morning everyone. I would like to ask a couple of questions. So first, a follow-up on COVID and what is the – did you take any buffer on this? Basically, you had some impact in Q1. What if the situation were to last for another quarter or two? I think we all agree it's a non-recurring item that it would be good for us to really understand how much buffer you've taken on this assumption. Second point regarding the tax which is to deliver some EPS growth as part of the restructuring. You've taken a write-off on the French tax asset. Could you explain a bit the rationale behind this and how much basically tax asset you have left and how this can contribute to your earnings growth past 2021? And finally, regarding the disposal, you're talking here about two waves of equal size, so that's about on a program which is €3 billion to €4 billion of disposal on a capital employed basis. A quick question there. What is the capital employed on your waste activity in Benelux and Scandi? We've seen the press release recently talking about this asset potentially being under review. Thank you very much.

Julian, I think they are all for you.

Maybe the last one for you. COVID, so the number that you have today, first of all, it is a range so I hope that gives you some idea of where we see best and/or let's say optimistic and pessimistic case. Again, I want to stress this isn't an assessment of what might happen; this is based on an assessment of what is happening. So in February and March, we know that we have lower activity in Macao, we know that we have six waste incinerators shut, we know that the activity in Wuxi, we know the activity in Shanghai. So we know the activity during the month of February when the lockdown or the shutdown of the activities in the country has been at its firmest.

We also know what we're being both allowed and requested to do by the authorities this week, and that's what Bertrand said in his comments, re-opening the offices and starting the process of restarting those six incinerators. We know that the industries supplying those incinerators are also starting. We do not expect that will contribute significantly. It'll be a couple of weeks, three to four weeks' worth of process to start those up. That means that progressively we will start to see volumes go through those incinerators in quarter two. We do not expect on April 1 to be back at full capacity. We're expecting February-March and then a progressive ramp-up in quarter two. And again, it's not based on an expectation of what might happen; it's based on what is happening this week, what is happening today, and what we're being asked to do and permitted to do.

Clearly, things can go into reverse; clearly, things can be shut down again. But that is not the way we see things today, and therefore we've given you a range. We've tried to be a good mix of optimistic and prudent, and that range I think gives you good guidance to that. And again, I think most importantly it's based on the specifics of what we see in the market today and what we're being allowed to do and what we're being asked to do.

Second question on tax. So first, I tried to explain on October 2 and in some of the meetings since that we think one of the levers both for financial charges and for tax will be to change the way that we funnel cash through the group.

Now, there are a few aspects to that. We need to improve some of our ability to cash pool. And also, by being selective in the countries in which we operate we can change from occasionally lending intra-group with the foreign exchange risks that go with that to capitalizing those subsidiaries where we know we're going to be present for the long-term. Those things have impacts on the different deferred tax assets of the group, but the main one that we had last year was France. And I think you asked the question on the Q2 call about what was the amount of that deferred tax asset, and at that point it was €140 million and we've taken it down to €37 million. The €37 million, if I look forward, is well-covered by a few things, but one of the aspects of Argentina for example this year was the taxation of that. There is another dispute which has been resolved. We will get cash in from Santa Fe sometime over the next two to three years; that will be taxable when it comes in. So I look at the amount we have on the books today and I don't see any potential in particular for it to go up and I don't see any potential for it to go down.

Elsewhere, what I'm focused on is reducing not so much the effective tax rate, although I think that will be a natural consequence, but to make sure the amount of cash we pay is a logical amount, is the right amount ethically for where we operate, and is optimized in the right way. There's no specific delivery on tax at this point but I know the actions we've taken in 2018 will help us – in 2019 will help us deliver over 2020 and 2021. So I'm quite confident in our ability to deliver those €0.07 to €0.09 below EBIT.

Lastly, on disposals, I guess this is where the two of us put on our stubborn faces, and thank you very much for the commentary. The wave one is around half of the capital employed. But as I'm sure you've noticed, we've not detailed the exact assets in wave one. We know that there are rumors out there. We don't find the rumors helpful in any way. They're not helpful to our employees. They're not helpful to us in managing those businesses as we move them to different owners. So we will continue to be, by and large, stubborn and opaque about commenting in detail including on capital employed by country. So forgive us for not taking that question and answering it directly.

Thank you.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Good morning everyone. Hopefully you can hear me.

We can.

Yes.

Good morning.

Good morning. Right. My first – sorry about the early one. My first question is to come back on the guidance for 2020, and I appreciate the effort you've made to be transparent on the parameters. Just to clarify a few things. You do mention it is all-in including after wave one of disposals. Just to dot the i, the disposals may happen at any point during the year; they may even happen very late in the year with arguably no accounting impact. But notionally, what you're saying is that even if they were to happen early in the year and therefore for the full dilution to affect 2020, your EPS would still be the €0.65. Is that what you are intending to convey as the message?

Yes, sir.

And that would be part of my first question. Second – secondly, still part of the guidance...

Can I answer that right now? Absolutely yes.

...would you mind sharing with us the amount of cost-cutting? You are assuming that's [ph] €65 million (00:53:20) and what you best guess estimate or assume the tax rate could be in the full year 2020 considering the comment you've just made that the efforts of 2019 should start bearing fruit in 2020. That would be my first question on guidance. My second question would be on WTS. Considering the performance delivered in 2019, on the outlook you are seeing for 2021 could you place those two back in the context of the business plan established in 2017? Are you still in the good run rate for that business plan? What things have gone better, what things have gone slower maybe compared to initial expectations?

And my very last question is on ROCE. I noted – is it a slight restatement of the ROCE base year for 2018 at 5.1%? The capital employed has not changed, so I was wondering if there was a slight change in the definition that I may have missed. And would you be able to share with us a split or initial split of capital employed end of 2019 along the three new reporting lines? Thank you very much.

Maybe I will comment on WTS. Well, first of all, market drivers are stronger than ever. I think that we also – the concern in the mobilization of industrial clients around those topics of sustainability being for their water usage or even the waste pollution. We also are seeing that the financial committee is putting a lot of pressure on the actors to move seriously in improving those – the impact of their activities so the drivers are stronger than ever. And we can see it in the book order (sic) [order book] (00:55:34) that has been growing quite substantially in 2019 and which materialized in very good organic growth of the business especially in Q4. So this is I would say a point of satisfaction and validates really the strategic move that SUEZ made two years and a couple of months ago to strengthen its firepower in industrial water activities by – with this acquisition.

Second point which for me is also a satisfactory one is integration of the teams within the SUEZ group. You know it's a company that – with a very different culture or clients with have also different culture from the one we were used to. We were able to realize in less than two years a good blend of people coming from the two organizations. And definitely, I'm very, very happy the way the teams are blended and work together. And the example I gave you on the India [indiscernible] (00:56:47) project is the perfect example of the additional synergies we can extract from our businesses.

So when we look – so market drivers, growth, integration of the teams, synergies, we're there. We are in line with what was announced at the time of the acquisition and even a little bit above. But then, we realize that there are points that need to be improved and we are working hard on that to be able to get back to the business plan that was the one – that was projected at the time of the acquisition. I think the one thing we underestimated was the cost of setting up a structure for a global business like WTS as though the activities of GE Water were embedded in the greater GE, and there you have no choice; I mean, you need to be able to bill your customer, to collect cash and so on. So you just put them in and then you work on optimizing them once it's operational, and this is what we are going to work on. So optimizing the cost but keeping a good balance not to slow down the growth.

And then we have some products and some line of businesses that are underperforming compared to what we are expecting. We have an issue in term of chemical services in North America that we are currently addressing. So all in all happy but a lot of things around this business. Strong drivers, strong dynamic but a lot of work to do to make it a success as we are committed to with this business. Julian?

First answer to your very first point on the 2020 guidance, everything you said I agree with and the answer is yes. So it doesn't matter when during the year the disposals take place, the [ph] €65 million (00:59:00) is all in.

Cost cutting, we delivered based on the old way of thinking about the way that we reduce cost and improve performance around about €200 million gross in 2019, and we need across 2020 and 2021 a new way of working. Jean-Marc and I need to deliver €450 million or more of gross savings over that period.

Historically, we've generally kept within the P&L everything above around €170 million, €175 million. So, again I think we see ourselves keeping an increasing portion of what we save on a net basis over 2020 and 2021. So, at the start of a ramp-up and then an acceleration next year. In terms of tax rate, I think we will see a change in 2020. My focus is to make sure that we do all of the actions right to sustainably change how we move money and how we move profits around the company.

So, my focus is very much on how to do that sustainably over a period. Tax is not something you move within two or three months. Financial charges you can as we've done. So, I think you will see a difference in 2020. But again I think it will probably be the beginning of the difference rather than the end of the difference.

On return on capital employed, a couple of things to say, first of all, we want to look at return on capital employed in a simpler basis maybe than we have in the past, and there was a definition on slide 51 of the October 2 document, return on capital employed being EBIT less income from associates taxed at a normative tax rate, add back the income from associates and do that over the average capital employed beginning in the end of the year. So, that should give you a simple basis looking forward. And we've applied that and we'll apply that going forward. We've also got IFRS 16. So, that complicates the read from 2018 to 2019.

On our estimate, we stabilized return on capital employed on that basis from just about 5% to slightly more just above 5%. So, we're pleased that it's stabilized, but we have 2 points to gain between 2018 and 2023. We're at the start of that journey now. Stabilization is good. But in 2021, 2022 and 2023, that's when we need to start to see that return on capital employed go up.

In terms of capital employed by activity, again, I'm just going to tie you back two pages and then maybe stop on slide 19 of today's deck. You have the capital employed for the three new segments for 2019. And if you look at the equivalent slide in the second October deck which I'm struggling to find my page, it's actually slide 40, you'll find the same thing for the 2018 financials. So, capital employed for water was 54% of our capital employed in 2019. Recycling & Recovery 25% and Environmental Tech & Solutions 20%. The numbers are actually not a lot changed from 2018, but you do have the data there. If there's anything – sorry, I appreciate we're running out of time. But hopefully that's helpful. Thank you.

Thank you very much.

The next question comes from the line of James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I also have three questions. The first is just on WT&S. There's been a few questions on that already. And you've talked about trying to drive improvements, but just to check, is it your expectation that that business will actually grow in 2020, or would you expect a decline in profitability?

The second question is on the disposals. You mentioned the first wave in 2020 and you have this overall target to rotate 20% of your overall capital. What should we be thinking ballpark for the first wave? Should we be thinking half of that 20%, or is the first wave going to be a smaller wave? And then the final question is just on the liability management. It seems that you've been doing a lot of buybacks and that's been quite material actually in terms of the share of the earnings growth that's going to drive potentially in 2020 and it's been bigger than I initially expected. Are you done on buybacks now, or should we be expecting that to get bigger and have a bigger impact over the next year or so? Thanks.

Thank you for your question. I will answer the first one. Yes, definitely, our expectation for 2020 is growth both at the revenue level, orders and profit. Julian?

Capital employed for Wave 1 is going to be around half of our target. The two waves will be roughly equal size in terms of target capital employed. And on liability management, I think we're done for now. We wanted to drive some changes to our debt. You can never say never but I don't see any particular operation planned as I sit today.

Again, what I think what was good about 2019 is the combination of the changes internally and that liability management drove respectively €20 million and €18 million of savings which you'll see partly in the P&L this year. But in full steam in the P&L in 2021 and tax, that's around €0.04 a share in our €0.24 target for improvement.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. One more?

We have time for one final question and this comes from Arthur Sitbon from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. Basically, could you remind us the sensitivity of your EBITDA to changes in noise volumes in order to understand the potential impact of the, let's say, collateral damages caused by coronavirus on the global economy?

And the second one is as a follow-up to Emmanuel's question, does the 2021 EPS target include 100% of the dilution impact from the disposal plan or should we assume some of it will slip over 2022? Thank you very much.

Arthur, thank you very much. So, you should assume that the 2021 EPS target assumes any dilution that we do from the disposals and we do expect as we've said to get the disposals completed 2021, not as close to 100% as we possibly can, Wave 1 this year, Wave 2 next year.

In terms of your second question, I think there are two comments I'd like to make. Firstly in China, it is simple a question at this point of being required and requested to shut down our facilities and now being allowed and requested to reopen those and the client base around also being required and requested to reopen their facilities. So, it isn't a question of volume. It's a question of what we can and can't do.

In Europe around waste volumes, I do appreciate the question but I think as we see things today, the most important impacts on our waste business in Europe in 2019 and we think that will continue in 2020 is a combination of saturation across the industry, some regulatory changes, things like Brexit and therefore the impact on pricing. And you've seen the impact of pricing in 2019 on the waste business – on the recycling and recovery business was very significant.

And I think when we look ahead at all of the different things that we have to manage in 2020, when we look at that segment of recycling and recovery, it continues to be pricing and saturation on the one hand and any potential offsetting of recyclate and other commodity prices on the other side. Those are the two things where we see the biggest impacts and therefore the most sensitivity. We'll benefit in 2020. We know from the continued contribution of Manchester which was only six months and overall in France we experienced lower waste volumes in 2019 against 2018 but we are saturated. So again we want to continue to prioritize value over volume. Those are the strategic things that we're trying to do this year and the main sensitivities. Thank you. I think that we close.

Thank you very much, all, for attending the call and I'm sure that we will cross path in the coming days. Thank you very much.

Thank you.