corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Jean-Louis Chaussade, Chief Executive Officer


Hello to everybody. Along with Jean-Marc Boursier and all of our teams here in SUEZ


Environnement, we’re very happy to host you today, so as to present the half-yearly accounts for


the first half of 2009 for SUEZ Environnement. I’d like to salute also those who are looking in and


listening in via the internet or on the telephone.


So first of all, I would like to start off this presentation by underscoring that in a macroeconomic


context that’s rather sluggish at the moment, the half-yearly environment – of SUEZ Environnement


results are, in fact, in line with the priority that we set ourselves in terms of generating free cash


flow and maintaining a sound financial performance.


The operational performance of the second quarter of 2009 is better than that of the first quarter


2009, thanks in particular to the speeding up – the fast tracking of our COMPASS cost cutting


program. SUEZ Environnement remained dynamic in terms of sales and marketing development,


both in France and on international markets.


We’ve also been commercially very active over the summertime. As you know probably, we’ve just


been awarded a tender that is a contract for Melbourne for the financing, design and construction


and operation of the largest desalination plant in the southern hemisphere, representing for our


group a revenue figure of €1.2 billion over a 30-year period.


We were also selected as the preferred bidder for the design, construction and operation of our


waste treatment plant in Guernsey. And finally, we’ve just renewed an important contract for us in


the US. That’s the West Basin contract in California.


So SUEZ Environnement has a business model that’s balanced, positioned on buoyant markets


and we will have competitive advantage in terms of technological leadership and financial profile.


For all of 2009, in a macroeconomic context that’s still very uncertain, SUEZ Environnement is


aiming at achieving an operational performance that would be overall stable compared to 2008 on a


constant exchange rate basis, thanks to the pursuit of a strong sales and marketing drive and we


want to exceed, as I said, our COMPASS cost cutting program that all of our employees are tied in


with and involving and understanding of its great importance.


Given the extent of the crisis, as of the end of 2008, and we’ve already stated that, we granted


priority to the generation of cash flow and profitability, the strict stewardship of our balance sheet


and its soundness. Our half yearly results are therefore in line with those objectives. The EBITDA


margin level as compared with the revenues in SUEZ Environnement remains high at 16.2%.


16.2% EBITDA over revenues margin for the first half of 2009, with the progression of sales in


Water Europe and internationally and margin levels increasing for the Water Europe segment at


21.8% and stable for the International segment at 14.7%.


We were, of course, impacted by the decline in the economic context and the margin of our waste


management activities in Europe stands now at 14.2%. As we stated, the COMPASS cost cutting


program was fast tracked; and at the end of June, exceeded 75% of the annual 2009 objective. The


net income group share of SUEZ Environnement stands at €175 million for the half year. That’s


€0.36 per share for the half year.


The free cash flow of the group stands at €428 million compared to €275 million in the first half of


2008. And capital expenditures are strictly stewarded. The investments in maintenance over


revenues is at a figure – that’s the low figure of 4.8%. SUEZ Environnement had been also
corrected transcript


SUEZ Environnement Co.
 
SEV.FR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


pursuing its policy to diversifying its source of financing and it’s extended the maturity of its debt by


successfully making a bond issue to the tune of €2.85 billion at the end of July ‘09.


The success of our bond issues I think reflected the quality of our name as a company. Finally, the


Group paid out at the end of the half year, as stated, a dividend of €0.65 – €0.65 therefore – €0.65


per share. And we’ve maintained our financial profile that’s sound with a level of debt at €6.5 billion.


That’s a ratio, net debt over EBITDA, of 3.18 times.


On the next slide, you’ll see the illustration of what I’ve just been saying. There are facts and figures


I’ve just outlined. They are in schematic form. And I’d just like to focus on a couple of points. Firstly,


the revenues at SUEZ Environnement is quite resilient over the half year, showing a drop of just


1.2%, given constant exchange rate. The drop of the EBITDA at constant exchange rates limited to


just 4.2%. And Jean-Marc will go back to that and will give you some further explanations in detail


on that, but I’d just like to flag up here that the EBITDA in the second quarter of ‘09 is in line with


the EBITDA of the second quarter of 2008.


The margin level, I indicated that already, it remains high at 16.2%. And then I also intimated the


fact that the COMPASS program has now been fast tracked, and so we’re engaged in rapid


fulfillment on that program now. It’s proven its efficiency toward the end of last year and the middle


of this year. And it’s a powerful tool for us to get back to a good level of profitability; it mobilizes the


whole of our staff, the whole of the company and its performance will be superior to the initial


expectations we think.


Finally, our free cash flow is going up quite a lot, up 56%, standing at €428 million, at 7.3% of this


revenue figure as against only 4.6% for the same period in 2008. So as you see, SUEZ


Environnement is maintaining a high level of profit and it’s pursuing the improvement of its


generation of cash.


I’d like to go back now to the first half performance levels. Well, here I think we’ve got to really


emphasize the fact that when we stated our objective at the very beginning of 2009, we indicated


that they put together, with the guidance given by the IMF at that time, that was that there would be


a drop of 2% roughly for advanced economies. That was the figure put forward in the beginning of


the year, whereas right now the forecast – let’s say, middle of the road forecast, we talk about a


drop in GDP of about 4%. And we should note also that apart from the GDP, industrial output


declined considerably in the first quarter of 2010, and that’s compared with ‘08, a bit less than 20%


down and continued to decline in the second quarter.


This economic slowdown therefore and slowdown in industrial output would particularly, of course,


affect waste management services. So that’s been the case. And in Europe, we see a drop in


revenues of 7.3% on a constant exchange rate basis, well about 18% down, minus 17.8% to be


quite exact, of the EBITDA – there again on a constant exchange rate basis.


But one half of the drop in the revenues of the European waste management businesses, about


3.6% of the 7.3%, that stems from the reduction in the sorting and recycling business. And Jean-


Marc will focus in particular on that in a short while.


Regarding the whole of our scope, the volumes processed and incineration or land filling show a


drop of 6% and that stems, firstly, from a reduction in the industrial volumes and commercial


volumes too, of course, and a slight drop in the municipal volumes.


The water businesses are quite resilient. However, they’re marginally affected by the drop in


construction works activity.


So overall, the operational performance is better in the second quarter of ‘09 than the first quarter


of ‘09. The EBITDA of the second quarter of ‘09 in SUEZ Environnement is close to its level that it