Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bertrand Camus — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ SA
Julian David Waldron — Group Senior Executive Vice President-Finance, SUEZ SA
Emmanuel Turpin — Analyst, Société Générale SA
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, ODDO BHF
Olivier Van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Juan Camilo Rodriguez — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Verity Mitchell — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the SUEZ 2021 Quarter One Results. My name is Judy and I'll be your coordinator for today's event. Please note that this call is being recorded and for the duration of the call, your lines will be in listen-only. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand you over to your host, Bertrand Camus, the CEO of SUEZ to begin today's conference. Thank you.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us on this first quarter 2021 results call. I am pleased to be with you today together with Julian Waldron, our CFO. The focus of today's call is our continued strong operational performance and we will only comment in a limited way on our recent agreement with Veolia during the Q&A.

With that in mind, let me come back on our April 12 announcement and the agreement in principle reached with Veolia. After eight months, the fact that the two companies now reached an agreement in principle is a positive for SUEZ shareholders and the clarity this brings is also a positive for all our stakeholders.

Since the first day, the board and management team have always been focused on three priorities. The first one was optimizing value creation for our shareholders. We believe we have successfully achieved this goal in our agreement in principle since it provides for an offer price increase by approximately 32% compared to Veolia's original intended offer last August 30.

The second goal was to ensure customer commitment can be made in the long-term through research and development and innovation. The new SUEZ will indeed remain a key player in the industry with a strong potential development and therefore, we assume and we consider we also achieve this goal.

And last but not least, we wanted to obtain binding and clear social commitments to protect our employees both within and outside of France, and the agreement in principle also ticks that box, too.

In addition, the agreement provides for speed of execution with a transaction that could be concluded within 6 to 12 month. Second, certainty as cooperation between the two company is supportive to a smooth process work on the required antitrust and regulatory approvals.

SUEZ is today working in a highly collaborative way with Veolia with the objective of entering into a definitive merger agreement by May 14. Once we'll reach a final agreement, the management team will work on the quick and smooth implementation in the interest of all our stakeholders, shareholders, clients, and employees. I would like to thank our shareholders whose conviction in SUEZ's true intrinsic value was an important component in our ability to negotiate an increase in Veolia's original offer and a satisfactory outcome for all stakeholders.

The second topic I wanted to mention in introduction to this presentation is that the board of directors decided yesterday that the AGM will be held on June 22. We will propose to distribute an ordinary dividend only. As previously announced, it will amount to €0.65 per share. Subject to shareholders' approval, this dividend will be declared on June 28 and paid on June 30.

With that, I will now get back to the topic of our performance in Q1 and our excellent start into the year. I am now on slide 2. I would like to start by highlighting again the work achieved by our employees. They continue to focus on delivering on our essential services and at the same time, they've driven our strategy for a while. Thanks to their hard work done during this quarter and despite the challenging and still volatile and uncertain context, we recorded a very strong first quarter.

We are harvesting the fruits of our SUEZ 2030 strategy, and this materializes into strong results in Q1. First, in term of revenue, we delivered solid organic growth at plus 5.9% versus 2020 and plus 6.2% versus 2019, reflecting commercial momentum and positive contribution of all our business activities.

Secondly, in term of profitability, the acceleration of our performance plan led to strong EBITDA at €768 million, with an organic growth at plus 17% versus 2020 and plus 14.6% versus 2019. This performance is a result of our selective growth strategy, successful implementation of our performance plan, and our continued mitigation actions in the context of the global pandemic. Julian will come back more in details on it, but what we can say by division is that Water businesses have been resilient during the quarter and we're recording a strong performance from Recycling and Recovery, notably in France and ETS, particularly SES and WTS.

Last, the actions we've implemented to improve cash generation are bearing fruits. We are starting 2021 with record level of underlying cash flow, notably thanks to the very good control of our working capital. We therefore confirm our 2021 targets. We will continue to strengthen our market positions by winning contracts by innovating, thanks to focused selectivity and by delivering our strategy.

Moving to slide 3, during this quarter, we continued to develop our commercial momentum with the signature of new contracts. From what I've seen this morning, that we announced various contracts with industrial clients worth a total revenue of €341 million. I wanted to highlight some new developments concluded over the quarter and which result from SUEZ's strong culture of partnership. We believe joining forces and combining the right expertise and innovation capability is key to meet the very specific needs of our clients. We made some major moves this quarter in that domain.

First, we announced a joint venture with Schneider Electric to create the leader in digital water, to develop and market a joint offering of innovative digital solutions of the management of the water cycle both for municipal and industrial players.

Second, we had highlighted earlier in our fiscal year full year result presentation our participation in Inflowmatix and we announced today its acquisition which will allow to enhance our range of digital solutions for the performance and resilience of water networks.

Last, we are proud to unveil the registered name of the JV recently created with Fermentalg, CarbonWorks. Our objective with CarbonWorks is to accelerate the industrialization and the commercialization of solutions to capture and recover CO2 in bio products.

The contracts won and partnerships established this quarter illustrate the group's strong growth potential and demonstrate the confidence of our partners in our ability to help them implement cutting edge solutions and technologies and to help them develop more virtues and environmentally friendly models.

Moving to slide 4, I would like now to focus on our Water Technology & Solution (sic) [Water Technologies & Solutions] division called WTS. This unique platform is a strategic asset for us that drives the acceleration of our sustainable profitable growth. WTS improved the contribution of industry customers, and provides a better balance in term of our geographic presence.

We recorded the highest performance in Q1 for WTS, with the highest EBITDA for Q1 at €65 million in progression of 35% compared to last year. This strong growth is driven by: first, the solid start into the year for products with a double-digit growth in order, thanks to our ambitious positioning in growing industries such as pharma; and the strict control of our cost structure.

WTS also recorded a strong cash flow in the quarter, thanks to firm control of our working capital requirement. This is something we had also mentioned at the end of 2020; and you can see that for the first time, we have a positive contribution of the working capital requirement in the start of the year. The excellent performance of WTS reflects once again the pertinence of our strategy, but also the excellent execution of our committed teams.

Moving to the next slide, I now would like to come back on ESG theme. This is a major theme for you, shareholders and investors, who favor responsible investment. First of all, I would like to highlight that in spite of the particular context of the last eight months and that of the pandemic, we remain fully focused on delivering on our commitments in this key matter.

SUEZ has always been and will always be a company committed to sustainability. Our commitment to the environment is part of our DNA. We have been taking actions for the climate, for biodiversity, as well as actions to protect the oceans. We are helping communities and companies developing new work model that consume fewer resources and emit less CO2.

In line with our commitment to comply with the IPCC 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory, we have decided this quarter to allocate from now on, in our performance plan, an investment envelope fully dedicated to reducing greenhouse gas emissions on our operations. We have also decided this quarter to increase our innovation budget dedicated to implementing technologies of CO2 capture and utilization of our energy from waste facilities.

On the social front, our commitment materializes in our actions for our employees who are our most precious asset. Their engagement is at the core of our strategy. SUEZ is also committed to promoting access to basic services, helping people to access water, sanitation and waste management. We also pursue actions to support social inclusion through purchasing agreements and dedicated structures of providing jobs and opportunities to the most vulnerable.

On governance; as you know, our board of directors is thoughtfully composed. Its size has been reduced to 14 members as of now and it was strengthened with four new directors who enhanced the board's collective skillset. It comprises 53% women and 40% of directors of foreign nationality.

Last, we are constantly seeking to improve our ESG positioning and alignment and we are proud to be one of the French leaders in this segment as underlined this quarter by first being upgraded to low risk category in Sustainalytics' ESG ranking. SUEZ is ranked second in the multi-utilities sector among 58 companies.

Second, the integration of the newly created CAC 40 ESG Index signaling the 40 companies within the CAC LARGE 60 that demonstrate the best ESG practices. This is a great recognition for SUEZ and its teams.

I now leave the floor to Julian, who will walk you through our outstanding Q1 performance.

Bertrand, thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much for joining us on this sunny day. Slide 7, just some overview comments. The operational performance has been strong across the board and, as Bertrand said, that's a testament to the dedication of our teams worldwide.

I think to complement what Bertrand said, I would like to underline the following. As you've seen, a solid organic revenue growth of 5.9% versus Q1 2020. Both Q1 2020 and this year were affected to different degrees by the pandemic and in different ways. In the first quarter a year ago, we had impacts essentially in France and in China with around €60 million of revenue lost, you'll recall. The impacts were more broadly spread this year. And I will come back to some of these aspects segment by segment.

But there's an element of recovery evident across all of our businesses. When we look at the segments, R&R grew fastest, as you've seen, followed by ETS. But what's most striking is that our business grew not only versus last year, but also just as strongly versus 2019. Growth against 2019 was above 6%.

This reflects the new business we've won over the last 24 months as part of our selective growth strategy, as well as the resilience of the group's markets positions. Despite an environment that obviously remains somewhat volatile, our strategic plan, SUEZ 2030, its selective growth and its cost discipline is showing through in today's numbers.

Our top line growth gave us operational leverage. That's good to see. And that was added to by further progress in our performance plans. As a result, EBITDA growth was robust at 17% year-on-year, organic, reaching €768 million; and versus 2019, this is 14.6% growth. Our margins improved. Gross margin rose by 0.6 points year-on-year, EBITDA margins were up 1.7 points year-on-year and 0.9 points compared to 2019.

If I focus on one aspect of the performance plan, SG&A. SG&A in the first quarter was down €55 million year-on-year. This probably underestimates the underlying improvement as there's a one-off charge in SG&A for the employee shareholding plan, which was put in place in January this year.

Overall, EBIT improved strongly to €340 million; and this is a 39% organic improvement versus last year. And that's adjusted not only for forex improvements and perimeter, but also for the impacts of IFRS 5.

So if I then dig in segment by segment, slide 8, Water. Water segment revenues were €1.6 billion in the quarter, up 0.3% organically. If we look at volumes, we have significant volume recovery in mainland China, which is recovering fast compared to a year ago from the pandemic. In France, volumes were stable but there were differences between regions. So, for example, volumes were impacted from low tourism activity in ski resorts. We noted lower volumes due to COVID in Chile in particular and also in Spain. We have poorer weather conditions in the US. So that's for volumes.

If we look at tariffs over the quarter, flat overall; in France, plus 1% on average. In Spain, down 0.8% on average. And that's essentially due to the mix between different concessions and volumes. In the US, rates were up, plus 4.2%, notably in our concessions around New York. Tariffs for the rest of the year are likely to be slightly better orientated than the first quarter given recent positive rate agreements, for example, in the Americas and some impacts from inflation in Europe.

For the first time in a while, commercial activity in Water was slightly positive. We did have again lower construction volumes year-on-year notably given the pandemic. And given the combination of volumes, pricing, and mix noted earlier, profitability I would describe as overall flat in Water.

R&R, slide 9, very strong performance in the quarter. Revenue came in at €2 billion, up 11.8% organically. And if we look at volumes, volumes only rose slightly, 1% in total, for processed waste with some distinct geographic variations. France was just above flat. Continental Europe and the UK stronger across the board. Recycling volumes were strongest. Overall, collected volumes still remain below pre-COVID levels. So, there is more volume increase to go for as the year progresses.

Overall, revenue growth on an organic basis in Europe was 13.7%. These revenues and therefore the underlying profitability were driven most of all by the solid work of the teams in recovering margin through pricing and mix and by ensuring a full saturation of our treatment facilities during the quarter. Revenue was supported by strong positive impact from metal, paper, and plastic commodity prices. But it's worth noting that even without the positive impact of commodities, underlying organic revenue growth would have been 6.3% versus 2020 and 7.3% versus 2019. So, overall, the strong impact of pricing, mix, operational performance improvement, and cost reduction drove a strong improvement in profit in this segment.

Slide 10, ETS. Revenue stood at €805 million in quarter one, up 2.2% organic. Underlying this, good growth in Smart & Environmental Solutions, up nearly 8%, led in particular by digital activities in France and laboratory activities in Asia. Hazardous Waste also showed some growth, up 4%. And therefore highlighted the good performance of WTS, have the softer Q4, you'll recall, but has come back to growth again in quarter one. And I noticed that this is despite a negative impact in Texas around our chemicals activity, thanks to the weather there in January and February, and we would have grown faster had it all been for that in WTS.

But overall, the focus of our attention the last two years to broaden the client base, to improve the operational glue of the business, to integrate it better, to improve invoicing and cash collection, all of that shows up in the first quarter. Revenue was up 0.9% organically. Products in particular was very strong, and overall, as you've seen, therefore profitability and cash generation are moving in the right direction. There's more to come from WTS but the teams have done a super job over the last two years. And overall, ETS, as you would expect, therefore improved its profitability year-on-year.

I want to finish with two slides on cash collection, slide 11 – sorry, on cash and debt. Slide 11 is around cash and working capital. Quarter-after-quarter in 2019, to some extent, but in particular in 2020, you've seen the results of the actions undertaken by our teams to better control our working capital. Over the last two years, there's been blocking and tackling around our basic processes across the board. Our control of the issuance and collection of receivables is tighter now than ever. And in addition, we're paying our suppliers more quickly and more reliably.

All these things are evident in the good working capital performance in Q2, Q3, and Q4 last year. It was excellent despite the pandemic. We ended last year with a very solid working capital position. And the results of that is, for the first time in many years, we've seen a positive change in working capital in the first quarter.

If we exclude €369 million impact from canceling our securitization program, we recorded €113 million of positive inflow from working capital over the quarter. The termination of the securitization program is a very positive step in managing our balance sheet and our working capital. I'm personally not a supporter of securitization or factoring as a means of managing working capital. The teams at SUEZ, both the commercial teams because some of this is client-related, and the financial teams have worked very effectively to enable us to cancel this program and to keep our working capital not only under control but as a source of cash flow for the group. There's more to go in working capital still in the coming quarters.

So, lastly, on slide 12, our underlying net debt continue to come down. Headline net debt at the end of March was €9.78 billion compared to €10.4 billion a year ago, excluding one-off elements. So, FX, that securitization cancellation that I mentioned, the employee capital increase, underlying cash flows reduced debt by €189 million. And we still, in the quarter, had no major impacts from the asset rotation plan. The purchase of the non-controlling interest in our Chinese operations will start in Q2. And we received over the last week anti-trust approval for the disposal of both our Northern European R&R business and our Aussie's business and they will close during the month of May.

Thank you. And with that, I turn back to Bertrand to close.

Thank you, Julian. And moving to slide 14, as you have seen, our first quarter results have been excellent not just in comparison to 2020 but also compared to 2019. And I must tell you that I am especially proud of what our teams have achieved. These results reflect our strong operating performance. We continued with success to deliver, to create value for all our stakeholders, and to meet our commitments to our clients.

I would like to underline the following points. The solutions we provide to our clients are in demand everywhere and we have signed a number of major contracts this quarter. And at the same time, the continuous acceleration of our performance plan continues to deliver and all areas of concern in prior years like WTS are doing well. Our cash generation was very strong this quarter, testifying another operational improvement. And also, as mentioned previously, there was tangible recognition of SUEZ's clear ESG leadership.

Moving to the last slide, I would like to say that in the coming months we will continue to run the business as usual with the same three key priorities. First, grow the intrinsic value of the group. Second, provide visibility to our clients and continue to deliver the best quality of services thanks to innovation and technologies. Three, ensure our employees remain fully committed to our collective success, and to do so, we will continue to take care of our people, making them grow and act as committed and responsible employer.

I am grateful to everyone at SUEZ for their hard work and I am looking forward to continuing on our journey. This first quarter showed that our group is well positioned to achieve its objective for 2021 which are: an EBIT between €1.4 billion and €1.6 billion; a recurring EPS between €0.80 a share and €0.85 a share; revenues above €16 billion with a return to organic growth; and a recurring free cash flow above €500 million. We will have the opportunity to exchange again ahead of our next AGM on the 22nd of June.

Thank you again for your attention this morning, and Julian and I are now ready to answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]

The first question in the queue is coming from the line of Emmanuel Turpin from Société Générale. Emmanuel, you're unmuted and may now go ahead.

Thank you very much. And good morning, everyone. Two questions on my side: one on the performance in waste; and second one on the overall EBITDA and EBIT performance for the group.

Trying to understand the revenue and volume trend in waste, I'm looking at slide 25, which gives the industrial KPIs, and I see that essentially we have volumes slightly up for the waste activity, but with a marked difference between activities. And essentially the higher-margin elimination and incineration are down on the typically lower margin. Sorting/recycling is quite strongly up. And I wanted to know on these volumes, are they all at the same scope, no scope effect? And maybe getting your comment on the relative margins of sorting/recycling versus the other two.

Nevertheless, it didn't prevent you from posting a growth. So I don't know how you qualify the growth in EBITDA and EBIT in waste. You said it was up. I don't know if it was strongly up, but I guess that's what's pulled the overall performance of the group up. I wanted to understand, at group level, what was the impact of – the positive impact on cost cutting. I think you referred to SG&A, but I wanted to get a broader view on the cost cutting effort in Q1 compared to the overall effort of the plan. And again, at group level, to what extent the bank of provisions for restructuring and others that you booked last year and the year before have been put to use in Q1? Thank you very much.

Thanks, Emmanuel. I would probably take these in reverse order, as is my want. On provisions, very, very little, if any. The provisions we took for the pandemic in June last year were, therefore, structural matters like, for example, bad debt. You'll remember that. And I think it's too early at this point to draw definitive conclusions in a lot of our markets. So it's why I link in this quarter the cash performance and the revenue growth and the EBIT. I think this is a very clean set of results indeed.

In terms of cost cutting, I think we've made good progress in the first quarter towards the overall performance plan target, probably around €60 million contribution from that plan. And that's in line with getting somewhere around €300 million for the full year. So that's moving forward well.

And I think in terms of where we're seeing that, I mentioned SG&A in the call, but I think over and above that, for example, in the availability of our energy-from-waste plants over the first quarter, we got good performance, good yield, good saturation of those facilities. I think that comes back, not only to the industrial performance of the facilities themselves, but also the waste flow management. And I think the teams across Europe in particular have done an excellent job over the last 12 months adapting to a volatile environment with the pandemic, but also just working some of their basic processes. And I think we're seeing that coming through in the underlying profitability.

In terms of waste volumes, so, first of all, and I think most importantly, I don't think this quarter is about volumes. I think this quarter is about mix. It's about pricing. It's about commercial relationships. And as I mentioned, it's, to an extent, as well about the industrial performance of our plant equipment.

We are learning to live with a volatile volume environment. If I just look at France over the last three months, from a week-to-week, depending on where we operate, the materials we're looking at, you've seen the first two weeks of the year, we were above pre-COVID levels. Then, for a period of time, we were below. We've had weeks above, weeks below, weeks on, depending on where you are in the quarter, you've been more or – you had a bigger or lesser smile on your face when you look at volumes.

So I think we're no longer in a game where we make money primarily because of the way volumes move. It's been much more – and that's why I think read across to other companies, it's probably more complicated than it would have been in previous years or in previous quarters.

I think a lot of performance here today, as you've seen, is around pricing, is around mix, and that's about commercial relationship, that's about the service being offered. It's about your speed of adaptation. There's also a certain amount of presence across different markets. So if I take, for example, the Northern European perimeter in terms of volumes, that was less positive than France, probably more positive, say, than the UK across the quarter.

Recycling volumes have been the strongest, that's for sure. But energy from waste and landfill have both been actually quite robust over the quarter in terms of volumes as well. So I don't think there's anything in particular to read around those things. It really has been a question of operational performance, mix, and price and customer service which has driven the good performance over the quarter, Emmanuel. Anything to add to that?

No. Thank you.

Thank you, Emmanuel, for you question. And the next question in the queue is coming from the line of Philippe Ourpatian from ODDO BHF. Philippe, you're unmuted and may now go ahead.

Yes. Good morning to everyone. I have just two question not relating to the, I mean, Q1 but more to the trend of the scheme of the agreement with Veolia, if I may. The first one is, what are the bottlenecks, if there is some bottlenecks, regarding the final agreement scheduled the 14th of May with Veolia? And, I mean, you already confirmed the date, I do think, but is there something to discuss a little bit more probably about the different parameters? That's the first question.

And the second one is, can't the management rule out a combination of new SUEZ with German player Remondis? Could this make some trouble with the deal with Meridiam? And also, could you confirm that GIP is still in the process for the new SUEZ? Many thanks. [indiscernible]

(00:34:50). Many thanks for your questions. I think that you like complexity, if I may say. No. So just for the 14th of May, I think that, as you can understand, I mean, this is a very complex transaction. We are speaking about merging a large part of SUEZ assets within Veolia, on the other hand, being able to structure and create the new SUEZ. And, therefore, we are already focusing on the date of the 14th of May on the key elements that are necessary for the board of director of SUEZ to approve a tender offer agreement, binding one, and also, I mean, meet the objective that the board has, which has always been to preserve the social interest of the group and finding the right balance between, of course, creating value for our shareholders first.

The second point is around meeting our commitments to our client and, of course, adding strong social commitment. So, therefore, we have started working right after the agreement in principle to structure this tender offer agreement. And I would say that a lot is around the creation of the new SUEZ, as we call it. And once again, it's a complex transaction. Two, it has to be dealt with in collaboration with Veolia. And because, as you understand, I mean, this part of the group has a link with the global value they are offering to our shareholders. So, all of that is being put in motion.

And when we speak about the new SUEZ, there is several aspect that we need to align. First, the shareholder, I mean, finding and I think the shareholders together, working together on governance and also having underlying vision on the business. On the other hand, we have also to specify the business plan and the potential of the group, which is something also our board of director will be looking at.

So, this is part of the world and there are all the complexities, of course, of concluding a transaction like that. I mean, as you know anti-trust, for an investment approval that we'll need to get in a lot of jurisdiction. There is all the social processes and that we have to respect in terms of consulting and getting the opinion of our union. So, all of that is what is at the core of the discussion to get a final agreement by the 14th of May.

So, at this stage, I mean, we don't see any major problem to reach that deadline of the 14th of May as both parties are clearly in the spirit and mood of getting that done. And therefore, so far, we are clearly aiming at that target.

Then in term of shareholding, I think that we have today a set of investor that are the one that has been involved in the process since the beginning, being partner of one party or partner of the other party. They have been studying the project for quite a while. They have ideas. And therefore, this is what we are favoring, once again, to be able to meet the 14th of May deadline. Then, of course, if it's not possible, we will have to look at other options. But at this stage, we have one favor option, which is the one that will ensure the speediest – the resolution of the conflict and moving forward with the various transactions.

Many thanks.

Of course. And, as you could see, GIP confirmed a couple of days ago that they were interested in the transaction. So, today, the basic set is GIP, CDC, Caisse des Dépôts, we have Meridiam, and of course, the employees will be shareholders of the new SUEZ.

Just one actual thing, are you part of the discussion concerning the future scheme of your shareholding?

I think that this is something that today is for the shareholder – the future shareholder to agree together. That's – actually, that's the basic. Of course, we are following in the process. We have launched. It will be one of the key aspects to ensure the viability of the new SUEZ. This is something that our board will look at very carefully, but first and foremost, a discussion among the shareholders. And we will, of course, give our opinion to – whether this – the agreement they reach together is something that our board consider reasonable and positive for the future of the new SUEZ.

Our job, Philippe, is to make sure that we get there, to give all of our help and support to make sure that we get there so that we can keep the commitments that were made to our shareholders and our other stakeholders in mid-April. And that you can count on the management team here focused on making sure those commitments are held. That's where our focus is.

Very clear. Many thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you, Philippe, for your question. [Operator Instructions] The next question in the queue is coming from the line of Olivier Van Doosselaere from Exane. Olivier, you're unmuted and may now go ahead.

Thank you very much for taking our question and also nice activity. Congratulations for the strong quarter. Most of my questions have been asked, but I would have two remaining. First one, apologies if I missed that. I was wondering if you had set anything more specifically around the EBITDA performance of your R&R division year-on-year. And I was wondering if you could help us understand how much of the EBITDA growth would be linked to the – around [indiscernible] (00:41:50) improvement in revenues from higher commodity prices.

And then second question, again, maybe it's a bit of a detail, but just to understand a little bit better the dynamics you explained when you said that tariffs will lead to specific mix of contracts. I was wondering, have there been any change on the Barcelona side or is there something else that you can tell us to understand a bit better why the tariff suddenly been down in that country? Thank you very much.

Olivier, thank you. So just on the profitability of R&R, in your question, you said is the improvement in commodity prices a critical driver of the profitability of R&R and the answer is that the operational performance, the mix, the customer work, the pricing of our services, those things are by far and away the biggest contributors to the improvement in profitability of R&R year-on-year.

And I think throughout going into the – towards the last 12 months in particular, self-help around internal performance and pricing has been our focus but as you know, over the last two or three years, our focus around R&R has been to isolate ourselves as much as possible from the profitability impacts on commodities. So it's a positive impact on revenue but the driver of the EBITDA performance in R&R is around our own pricing, our internal performance, and our costs.

And R&R was significantly better in quarter one as you can expect in terms of EBITDA. However, in terms of percentage increase, ETS is probably the biggest percentage increase that we have across the segments. You know that again, going back a couple of years ago, we've not been happy with the performance of WTS. There is a lot more to go but you've seen the substantial improvement in that multiplying EBIT by 3 and a 35% improvement in EBITDA in the quarter one. That's why we called that out, slightly better performance in hazardous waste and the beginning of good growth and contribution from the smart activities.

So, ETS in terms of organic improvement of EBITDA was the fastest of the three then R&R, which had a very strong improvement and Water was more or less flat, as I mentioned. So that's some additional comments on that.

In terms of Barcelona...

Yes...

...comments on tariffs.

Basically, when we look at Spain, we expect a flattish tariff for 2021. There was a slight decrease, but it's more due to the fact that we have lower volumes, especially in touristic areas and very often you have progressive rate tariff structures. So the lower volume you have, you are in ranges where marginal tariff are lower and, therefore, this drives down slightly the average tariff.

And when we speak about Barcelona more specifically, so far, tariff are the same, are not expected to change. And what we have to consider for Barcelona as more global perspective is that the last eight months have been marked with very important elements. I mean you remember the Supreme Court ruling that was in favor of SUEZ. Of course, on the other hand, you have the impact of the pandemic and, therefore, I think that Barcelona has to be looked at in a very new context, a new chapter in term of relationship with the client.

And what's positive is that in the last month, we have been able to reopen discussions on key topics about what do we want for the future, what level of services, what level of investments. So I will say that we are entering into a more rational way of dealing with the company like the one we have in Barcelona.

Very clear. Great. Thank you very much for your comments.

Thank you so much, Olivier, for your question. And the last question in the queue is coming from the line of Juan Rodriguez from Kepler. Juan, you are unmuted and may now go ahead.

Thank you and good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking our questions. I still have two questions on my side and mainly R&R and on pricing. The first is can you please give us more color on the pricing impact and what have been the tariff reviews on the R&R segment? As you said, this is a main driver of all the good performance.

And the second is on hazardous waste. If we look on slide 25, we see that the volumes are actually down, but revenues were up 4%. So is this mainly as well a pricing effect or the reasons behind this? Thank you.

Juan, thank you very much. So I think on – coming back to R&R, so if I just focus on slide 9, so construction activity roughly flat year-on-year and additional €100 million of revenue from commodity prices. Volumes roughly up €9 million, so flat up, and then price/mix plus €102 million.

So as you can see, revenues are boosted by commodity prices, but the impact driving through to the bottom line is much more around price and mix. Now, that's not tariff reviews, as you would find in the Water business. That's blocking and tackling customer by customer, subsegment by subsegment. It's a lot of very detailed investment across all of our activities. There's no one particular zone which I would call out. We've had positive pricing during the first quarter pretty much everywhere we're operating in R&R, whether that's in Australia, through to the UK, through to France, and a positive improvement on underlying operational performance as well.

In terms of hazardous waste, similar sorts of comments. Again, I think our principal drivers across the hazardous waste activity have been pricing, the mix, and that have been the underlying performance – the operational performance of the assets. Again, I don't think I have anything particular country by country to call out on hazardous waste.

In China, volumes are back. I would say China is the only place where at the moment we're seeing a little bit of weakness in terms of pricing, but volumes have started to come back there. And construction activity across Western Europe, for example, is still somewhat volatile from period to period, but overall, again, I think it's around pricing overall and industrial performance which has driven hazardous waste activities.

Within ETS, it was plus 4% in terms of revenue. I think in terms of profitability, the strongest contributor within ETS, as I mentioned earlier and as Bertrand mentioned, was the strong improvement of WTS. That was far more important driver than hazardous waste. Thanks.

Perfect. Thank you.

We've got time for one more question.

The next question in the queue is coming from the line of Verity Mitchell from HSBC. Verity, you're unmuted and may now go ahead.

Morning, everybody. Thank you for taking our questions. I just have another question about the revenues, particularly on the Americas section in Water. Could you talk us through the decline in revenues and well, actually, in all divisions impact or what is happening in the US and why has there been a fall, particularly in Water? And I think you mentioned Environmental Tech & Solutions. Thank you.

So, a couple of things on the Americas, not just in Water, if I cover the Americas more generally.

Firstly, just on WTS, I mentioned that we would have had stronger growth in WTS in the quarter had we not had the very difficult weather conditions in January-February in Texas that knocked a couple of points of growth of our Chemicals business, for example.

Getting back to Water, I think as far as the Americas is concerned, you need to think of that in three main groups: the US and Canada first and there, construction aside, the performance of the regulated business was positive in tariff, negative in volumes. There are some premature effects because we did too some change in activity in some disposals, very small ones over the last 12 month. But in the US, it's essentially regulated business slightly down in volumes, positive in tariffs.

In South America, two things: first, construction activity. Construction activity continues to be adversely impacted by the pandemic. That's particularly the case in Mexico, for example, in Panama where we did have some large construction projects in water starting in 2019 going into 2020. Those are still not back to normal and you saw that if you look at the bridge on slide – I think it's slide 8. You see about a €22 million impact year-on-year in construction.

And then you move to Chile and in Chile, we're still in the midst of measures against the pandemic. We are still in elements of confinement. So, you have significant drops in water volumes year-on-year, positive in tariff but minus 5% water volumes on average across the quarter. We expect that to improve. It's certainly better in quarter one than it was in H2 last year, but you're still seeing some impacts from that.

Some scope impact because we disposed of ESSAL, but I think the underlying thing to bear in mind is that we're still seeing volume declines in Chile. In terms of tariffs in Chile, a small positive in the first quarter. We expect that to accelerate over the rest of the year. So, hopefully, Verity, that's a reasonable summary of everything that's going on across the Americas.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you very much for attending the conference and I think that we are very proud on behalf of our teams of what was achieved this quarter. And as I said earlier in introduction, I mean we will go on managing the business in the same way in the coming weeks and months. And I'm sure that we will have the opportunity to exchange in the coming days and definitely before our AGM that is scheduled for the 22nd of June. Thank you very much.

Thank you, everybody.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us on today's call. You may now disconnect your handsets. Speakers, stay connected.