Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Louis Chaussade — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ Environnement Co. SA
Jean-Marc Boursier — Chief Financial Officer, SUEZ Environnement Co. SA
Michel Debs — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Patrick Hummel — Analyst, UBS AG (Broker)
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA (Broker)
Emmanuel P. Turpin — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Martin C. Young — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Vincent J. Ayral — Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker)
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK)
Olivier P. van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Julie Tamara Melanie Arav — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux
Ivan Pavlovic — Analyst, Natixis SA (Broker)
Harry Peter Wyburd — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody. We're very happy to meet with you again, Jean-Marc Boursier and myself, and all of our SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT management team with us, this morning to report our annual 2014 earnings for our company. I'd like to say that this presentation is accessible via webcast. And you can also download it from our website.

Before we go into the details, I'd like to, first of all, recall that we're in a world which is confronted with an increase in population. We will be 9 billion [indiscernible] (00:00:41) by 2030, mainly in urban environment, in big cities. And water management, distribution of water, waste disposal and recovery and more generally the stewardship of natural resources, these issues are and will be in the future even more so at the forefront of the challenges for mankind.

So, we've got to come to terms with these glance for our trends. And, as you can see, as you will see, our company is pursuing its strategy for transformation and development, so as to grasp the opportunities that exist out there and preempt these challenges for the management of our scarce resources for our different plans within the municipalities or industrial plans.

Now, we will focus on the following today. Firstly, we will present our performance in 2014. We're satisfied to see that we achieved or even overstepped our objectives, all of them, in spite of a business cycle in Europe that was harsh, that was difficult. This performance is underpinned, first and foremost, by clear progress from the commercial standpoint with lots of business successes all over the world and sustained M&A activity, mergers and acquisitions, supported by a strong increase in our capital expenditure and investments in the course of the year.

Our strategy – and I would recall the main objectives of it in a minute. Our strategy enabled us to contemplate a speeding up of our development in the coming two years. We are quite confident in our future. And I'll conclude with them later on with our prospects going forward, our outlook for 2015 and our ambitions for 2017.

We talked in February last year that 2014 would be a sluggish year, a year of doldrums. And, in fact, it was the case. This last financial year was indeed a complex one for us, but our business model proved its worth, once again. It proved to be efficient and resilient because we managed to stick to all of our commitments. So, we were able to improve the profitability of our group. The EBITDA grew by 2% in organic terms and we had stated that in our guidance and 7.1%, up excluding the ForEx effect.

Our free cash flow, which is a major financial metric for us, a key metric, increased by 12% compared with 2013 to come close to €1.1 billion. We achieved €1,320 million net investments, an increase of 42% compared to the previous year and €500 million nearly were financial investments. So this is a major step change with respect to financial years previously. And we have financial headroom that remained intact and slightly increased, in fact, with a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 2.7 times. And, therefore, we would propose after the agreement of our board, of course, the payout of a dividend of €0.65 per share.

So these results, you would agree with me, I'm sure, are quite satisfactory in the environment you're familiar with. Especially the underlying assumptions announced in February of 2014 have not been realized. Lesser growth in industrial output, commodities prices that are going down, volatility that is quite substantial in terms of currency movement, so all this could have led to disappointing results. But our strategy, in fact, once again, proved its worth.

It's underpinned, as you know, by a few major principles that I'll recall. Firstly, our portfolio is a balanced one. It's balanced between activities that are sensitive to the business and economic circular and others that are not long-term contracts like in motor in Europe or in regulated markets and in generation and other contracts that are shorter term months with industrialists.

We also have contracts that are split up all around the world with different models depending on due risks incurred. So this balance and this diversity were key priorities past year but it's not sufficient. The group has its growth under control with, I would say, an iron hand. We're keeping a tight rein on everything, so as to come up with the best possible decisions in terms of CapEx, capital expenditure. Growth and profitability of the future will be fueled by good decisions now. So we're convinced that through innovation and partnership, we will have a leading edge as opposed to the competitors. We attach the greatest importance to that.

Let's have a look now at the commercial success, our business successes. You have the map here, that's about to appear on the screen, on which you see the major commercial successes we've won in 2014. All of our business units fed in to these successes. And I'm really extremely proud of these achievements. It's not easy for me to choose one or two out of all of the names you see on the screen because they're all the fruit – the outcome of teamwork.

People were terribly excited, very motivated about the job, but, at the same time, we would pick out some iconic ones. For example, the one we won in China, the Yangzhou contract and sludge recovery. Sludge that comes from wastewater, in this case, enables us to generate power, electricity and consume less coal. That will therefore limit air pollution in the country.

In the U.S., with United Water, we signed a contract for sewage disposal with the county of Nassau for a duration of 20 years and the total amount of $1.2 billion. So this is a major project which will enable us to remediate some of the issues created by Hurricane Sandy, but, also, we will create savings of $230 million worth, thanks to the improvement in the operational efficiency there, especially bringing down energy consumption and the use of chemicals.

Finally, in France, I just like to underscore also the fine success of the IP13 grouping, the Paris contract we designed for system facilities. This is an upcoming installation for waste recovery which provides a concrete response in terms of the energy transition for Paris – to Paris urban area, €1.8 billion worth over 23 years, one-half of which will go to SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. So, obviously, we're very, very proud. This is indeed a feather in our cap to have been chosen here and to be the leaders in this consortium – in this grouping.

Last year, we told you that our balance sheet and our rules when it comes to financial decision-making policy enabled us to contemplate the acquisitions. In 2014, we indeed did adopt major chances in our historic markets. Firstly, the purchase of the balance of the shares in Agbar from the Caixa entity, which bolsters our positioning in two markets, which are promising and buoyant, that is, Chile and Spain where we are leaders.

This transaction that's accretive as of 2015 in terms of our net earnings, that's €25 million worth, brought Caixa to up its stake in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT, so that it will have about 6% of our equity. We're very proud and satisfied at this transaction because it's indeed the bringing to fruition of a lengthy cooperative full step between Caixa and ourselves.

Another financial transaction that we conducted this year is worth noting is the bolstering of our stake in ACEA. As I said too fairly often, I confirm this. I do believe myself in the Italian water market and the political and regulatory provision that has been enacted and are being enacted currently by the Italian government, I think, will prove that I was right in believing in that market. So these significant transactions represent cash out for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT of about €300 million given the increase in the rights issue for Caixa and also disposals of adjacent assets.

Also, we conducted the acquisition of several companies in water and industrial waste. I could have mentioned also Process Group, a company in Australia; MAILS, Evatherm which is a company specializing in zero-liquid discharge. All of this fed into the completion of our technology range, Derceto, which is a global leader in energy cost optimization for water production and distribution systems. It's located in New Zealand, United States, Canada and the UK.

So, after this good year in 2014, we do intend to speed up our developments, thanks to four main levers that I'll outline briefly now. The first lever is organic growth, the whole time, organic growth. Second one is international expansion. Third one is external growth that would be selective. And the fourth is innovation.

Our strategy, as you know, is underpinned by a sound foundation which we're trying to develop. Our core businesses are transforming these days. And that's speeding up. But we preempted that and we try to anticipate innovative offerings of added value services for our customers on a push basis. So in water, this means that we're trying to renew in the best possible conditions the concession contracts we have and retain our market shares compared with the competition.

82% of the contracts are renewed and limited though and almost all of the contracts is for the Agbar company. Also, we seek to grow our asset base, our regulated asset base, that is, in the U.S. and in Chile. Let's recall as well that that generates about 8% of our revenues, 20% of EBITDA consolidated for the group. So these assets, as you know, enable us to achieve yields that are almost guaranteed. But they're reflected in high CapEx figures as well.

We're very present on the future markets, that is, Advanced Solutions, which enable us to give more value to water as a molecule. Innovation, digitization, IT applications, these are technologies to help us to better generate – manage networks and keep a lid on energy use. And this is going to be a priority focus for our development going forward.

In waste management, we've opted for waste recovery for a long time now. And our asset base in Europe is indisputably a remarkable one. The circular economy is in the forefront of our strategy. And we now provide to our clients much more than just a waste treatment service. We supply solutions in the main renewable solution. So we have now become energy producers and, secondly, raw material producers, not just merely managers of waste collection and landfilling activities.

So these upheavals, which are well established now in Europe, are also developing around the world elsewhere. And that gives us probabilities for action in other countries where we've already got a footprint. Like in China, for example, we recently signed a partnership with Beijing Enterprise (sic) [Enterprises] (00:13:59), so as to work alongside them in incineration.

And, finally, in a cross-cutting manner, I would say, we're seeking to bolster our linkages with industrialists. In water, a lot remains to be done. And our objective is to grow our revenues by 10% per annum. And this is something that we achieved already in 2014 with a progression that was greater than 14% in our revenue figure in that area.

In waste, our relations with industrialists are predominant, but we are also seeking to stand out from the bunch, if I may put it that way, by signing global agreements with industrialists, partnership agreements also. This is the case of our contract with the Renault company.

Even if the group is still very European, we must note that our International businesses have developed quickly and very well, as you can see in this graph. An annual 8% gross figure for our activities outside of Europe between 2008 and 2014, as you see here, with the performance in terms of EBITDA and EBIT that exceeds 10 percentage terms.

That means revenues that went from €2.5 billion to almost €4 billion and EBITDA that went from €490 million up to €954 million. We'll be continuing to invest in countries where we are already located which are developing quickly like China, Morocco, Australia, but also in the United States.

In North America, we're developing models in line with the country's needs and we're developing the municipal models. The recent Nassau County contract is indeed a good example of that. But we're not limiting our efforts to just those areas and those countries. We're going to go further with tailored models in other emerging countries and taking care of India, Southeast Asia. And we also have high ambitions for Africa, which is a continent with 4.5 billion inhabitants with many environmental challenges, huge ones, indeed. And we'll be tailoring our model, of course, to meet the local specificities.

The growth objective between 6% to 8% per annum that we set ourselves might seem to be modest in proportion, given the global challenges we've got to face out too. But we should bear in mind that we've got to manage these contracts, tailor our human resources to the local culture, to be part of the local realities, appraise efficiently and [ph] easily (00:16:40) the technical challenges and all of this is, in fact, quite a big gauntlet to pick up.

So the growth of our group will also be fueled by our acquisitions. Financial headroom that we flatly grew over the last financial year will enable us to look serenely, calmly and collectively, so to speak, at any possibilities that come along for us on our markets. So that means we've got to stand back from the situation and take a close look and be vigilant about the financial criteria that must prevail and also look at potential synergies that can be tapped into.

We'll be looking at targets that will link up with our major focuses – the four focuses we have. Targeted tuck-in acquisition that bring in technology for us or portfolios of customers that will be of value to us. So research and innovation, of course, will be of the essence, too. They will enable us to meet the market expectations and especially preempt future needs, anticipate future needs such as, for example, investment climate on water resources or on biodiversity.

Our sustained efforts in this area guarantee a continuous improvement of our productivity and help us in that way to achieve profitability, financially speaking. This is a great driver as far as our knowhow in all of our business areas. Our innovation and industrial performance department aims at delivering offerings and services that [ph] went over too far as clients (00:18:23). Also, the idea to speed up industrialization of our processes and guarantee optimum circulation of our knowledge base that we have in our group. It's underpinned by an internal network of research centers and laboratories.

Also, expertise centers thus with universities and competitiveness clusters in France. Also, there are technological clusters, PLAST'lab. I'll talk about that investment fund you're familiar with. It's Blue Orange. And I'll give you some examples now of some research we're doing. For example, the management of water resources.

New regulatory requirements afford opportunities these days to bring us all forward in terms of advanced management of water resources, groundwater and surface water, so as to protect them while taking care of the impact of climate change on the water cycle. Now, this programme addresses diffuse pollution in terms of the catchment areas, also the development of green treatment processes, also the real-time monitoring of the quality of the environment, also ecological offsetting measures and the use of alternative resources.

Another example in waste is PLAST'lab that I mentioned in [indiscernible] (00:19:51). This is a laboratory that we inaugurated recently, PLAST'lab, which enable us to analyze and test and characterize, describe plastics, and then, formulate using recycled products, new range of plastics that will meet the requirements of industrialists.

I'm quite convinced that the production of plastics has multiplied by 150 in the space of 50 years is a major challenge for industrialists and for ourselves as well. This laboratory is also at the forefront of the regulatory efforts to recycle hazard waste to the tune of 50% by 2020. So all of these research and innovation efforts fit into the response provided by our group to face up to the new challenges that we're all confronted with in the modern world. We've got to design and operate smart cities, sustainable cities as well. [indiscernible]

(00:20:52) of our group is to effectively support in company, cities and industries, so as to pick up these new challenges I've just outlined that concerns the sustainable management of our scarce resources, which is at the forefront of our businesses and our ambitions. We also decided to rethink our local and regional organizations, so as to foster the integration and reinforce commercial synergies and operational synergies.

So we have an International division that we've reorganized with five geographical business units, which we call AMEI, North America, Australia, Asia, Europe, Latin America, so as to bolster commercial efficiency and four business lines, DBO, industrial solutions, water services and waste management, so as to capitalize on all of the expertise that we have in our group.

Each business unit will rely on multi-disciplinary teams in order to manage and develop on their respective territory's all of the group's activities. We have also stressed cross-cutting work in our businesses. So we've created a common business unit between our water entities in order to market what we call Advanced Solutions, a new range of tailor-made solutions, for public and industrial clients.

This is a full offering for, for instance, optimized water network management. Another example of cross-cutting work in waste in Europe with over €25 million in waste treated and 12 million tons of secondary raw materials put back on the market, now SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has become a major player in recycling. Now, we rely on the European trading platform made of experts and specialized salespeople in the trading of these commodities in order to better serve our export clients.

The strategy, which I've just recalled, helps SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT take the lead on the markets. We aim to maintain it and even heighten it. We are confident about the future. And we are ready to grasp interesting development opportunities that may come up on the market.

Although we can't conceal it, the environment remains uncertain in Europe in spite of dropping oil prices and euro rates. But, for 2015, we're expecting to have revenue organic growth in excess of 3% and EBIT organic growth of more than 4%. SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is also determined to accelerate its development with external growth operations or possibly greenfield project, but all of that in compliance with the net financial debt/EBITDA ratio of around three times.

SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT maintains its attractive dividend policy and will propose to the AGM in 2016 a dividend greater than or equal to €0.65 per share. Moreover, thanks to sustained organic growth and targeted acquisitions, along our four strategic priorities, our ambition is to achieve €3 billion worth of EBITDA in 2017, which is a symbolic figure which evidences our mid-term confidence about the developments of our company. This ambition will be a powerful driver to mobilize the whole company. Yet, it will not happen at the detriment of profitability. Our organic growth and acquisitions will be accretive or they will not happen.

To conclude, I hope that I convinced you that SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is a group that's able to withstand and grow in times of sustained economic doldrums and that it's ready to rebound. Our 2014 objectives were met. Our group is looking to 2015 with a robust financial situation. Debt is under control and it's been declining for two years. Our teams are mobilized and tightly knit.

We have now some headroom in order to grasp opportunities to serve an ambition that I've just described, which is intact and even bolstered at the dawn of this New Year. We can see that pressure on commodities and natural resources is such that we have to rethink and reengineer our consumption and production models. And we need to work to implement the principles of the circular economy.

Our ambition is simple. We want to prepare SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT for a new page in its history, the resource revolution, which aims to generate and regenerate resources. This circular economy is based, as you all know, on a simple principle that one man's waste may be another man's raw material. It also generates reductions in the consumption of natural resources but also a reduction in energy consumption, as well as a reduction in carbon CO2 emissions.

In the field of water, this is our ability to protect water resources to optimize uses to produce alternative water resources. This is what we are addressing. I am, of course, convinced that the climate conference which will take place at the end of the year in Paris, COP21, to which, of course, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT will contribute fully – I am convinced that this conference will give new impetus to all players, so that they find solutions to resource challenges.

This requires us to mobilize our human capital which is our most important asset to promote our innovative abilities and collaborative abilities to bolster our image as well as our brand. Thus, our project for a new brand architecture is ambitious and fundamental. It will enable us to take strong and powerful positions on our markets. It will be revealed in mid-March. So, don't ask any questions about this today, please. As you'll have understood, our ambition is to turn our company into an industrial leader devoted to resource-based activities. And I think that we're on the right track.

I will now hand over to Jean-Marc Boursier who will give you a detailed presentation of our 2014 results. Before he takes the floor, let me add that while you'll have read in the press release that this is the last time that Jean-Marc Boursier will make this presentation as Group CFO, indeed, I am glad to announce a twofold appointment, that of Christophe Cros to the position of Deputy CEO, in-charge of Finance and Purchasing and Jean-Marc's appointment to the position of Deputy CEO, in-charge of the Waste Europe division.

This swap, as it's called in finance world, come into force in early April. This change aims to give new impetus to the existing momentum in our group. I wanted to have these changes in the central management committee and the two great leaders that are Jean-Marc and Christophe have accepted their new challenges enthusiastically.

Christophe Cros is very well acquainted with the waste business because he turned this group into a global company over the last 10 years. He especially turned SITA France into a compact and lean group whereas it used to be a multitude of small companies. And he will bring his whole expertise to the pursuit of our challenges to create value and continue our development. For me, at a time when Jean-Marc was going to leave his position, it was important for me to be able to rely for financial matters on someone with great expertise and whom I trusted fully, which is Christophe Cros' case.

Jean-Marc Boursier started his career at SITA. His mission will now be to accelerate the transformation that's underway, which already positions us as a benchmark in the circular economy. He will put his inexhaustible energy to the service of the group's ambition in Waste Europe.

Both men have tremendously contributed to SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT's success over the last eight years, maybe 10 years. In their new positions and with the other members of our management committee and executive committee, they will accelerate our growth through their talent and energy. And we wish for this growth to be profitable. I wish them the best in their new positions.

So now, I will hand over to Jean-Marc for the financial presentation.

Yeah. Thank you, Jean-Louis. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to be with you today to present the 2014 financial results for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. And after what Jean-Louis just disclosed, I'm slightly moved that this is the last presentation for me as CFO. And I'm particularly happy that Christophe will be my successor in this role. But let's come back to the topic at hand this morning, the financial results for FY2014. As Jean-Louis said, in 2014, our performance was robust. And we achieved all the annual objectives that we set.

The three main take-homes from the presentation are the following. First of all, all objectives were met. Organic EBITDA growth was 2% after a very good fourth quarter. Secondly, we generated €1.093 (sic) [€1,093] (00:32:22) million in free cash flow or 9% more than the initial objective and 12% more than last year. And we accelerated our development with net CapEx significantly growing plus 42% year-on-year. And despite the persistent crisis in Europe, we further improved the profitability of the group.

These are the two main indicators, EPS and ROCE. Our net income is up 18.5%, €417 million. And since over the fiscal year, we've increased the number of circulating shares after the launch of the second global employee share ownership plan. And also, after Caixa took a stake in our capital, now, net earnings per share grew by 10.4% at €0.71.

ROCE grew by 85 basis points year-on-year, standing at 7.8% for FY2014. Last message, at 7.2%, our net debt remains strictly stable over fiscal year, despite negative ForEx, to the tune of €219 million. This means that our financial space headroom has increased. Our leverage ratio is 2.72 versus 2.84 in 2013. And it's way below our mid-term objective of around 3. And these robust results illustrate, once again, the group's robustness and health and the relevance of its industrial model.

If you look at developments, since the IPO, and despite two crises, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has consistently showed the resilience and the effectiveness of its model. As you can see on this slide, we've had a virtuous growth, a 3% to 3.5% growth, for all indicators on the P&L. And this strategy did not deteriorate the balance sheet because our leverage ratio is only improved and our ROCE grew by 52 basis points to 7.8%.

Jean-Louis gave you details about the group's strategy. Now let's look at how it resulted positively into the group's financial statements. First of all, let me start with three exogenous events that are probably the most important for us and the most volatile and which weighed negatively on the financial statements this year.

First thing at the top left, industrial output. Two-thirds of waste volumes that we process are intricately correlated with it. Here, we've shown you an indicator, industrial output weighted by the revenues that we have in Europe – in the various countries where we operate. And industrial output contracted by 0.3% after a similar contraction in 2013 and a much higher contraction in 2012.

Secondly, what you can see at the top right, secondary raw material prices developments. And you can see that, for the third year running, 2014 saw a contraction in the prices of secondary raw materials, minus 6% for scrap metal, minus 9% for paper. And we've been showing you electricity because, as Jean-Louis said, we're now a fairly significant electricity producer. And this year, we took a 7% drop in the prices of electricity sold by our waste recovery unit. And this is because of the expiry of some protected contracts with EDF in France and the scheduled end of green certificates in Belgium.

Thirdly, particularly detrimental ForEx developments with main impacts on our financial statements that I'll explain. But, just bear in mind, that our EBITDA was reduced by ForEx by €70 million and EBIT by €47 million, which are quite sizable amounts, mostly linked to the average drop in the Australian peso and the Chilean peso versus the euro. You'll see the details in the annexes to my presentation.

Now coming back to the more traditional presentation. First, revenues, €14.324 (sic) [€14,324] (00:36:46) million, organic growth of plus 1.3%. But beyond the overall figure, I wanted to talk about the annual trend. You can see that the trend has returned in the second half of 2014 with a marginally positive growth, a growth rate of 0.8% in the first half and plus 1.9% at second half.

It's probably still too modest but we are convinced that the increasing trend that we've shown over the last two years will be exacerbated as early as 2015. Revenues were also impacted by ForEx for €143 million and by scope effects that were also negative €47 million after disposals of small industrial sites in Waste Europe, especially in the UK and Germany, because these sites were not profitable enough.

The three segments posted different developments. Water Europe is up by 3.7%, thanks to the good performance of regulated activities in Chile and the development of new Advanced Solutions that Jean-Louis explained, but also the increase in tariff in France and Spain. Waste Europe posted a decline in organic revenues growth by 1%. The division was negatively impacted by all the macroeconomic aspects I've just explained, the decline in industrial output, a decline in secondary raw material prices and also more aggressive competition in Europe. Internationally, our revenues grew by 2.7%, thanks to the safe dynamism of most of our business units.

Now, if we analyze the same graph for EBITDA, they are €2.644 billion after negative ForEx to the tune of €70 million, as I said. Organic growth was positive by 2%. So EBITDA organic growth was faster than that of revenues. Let me also say, as we said in late June, that EBITDA includes the €129 million linked to the capital gains on the disposal of our Macau power generation activities.

Now, a few words on operational segments. An improvement in operational profitability for Water Europe to the tune of 4.7%. It's absolutely outstanding, driven by tariff developments in all regions, but also thanks to rigorous management of operating costs. Waste Europe declined organically by 5.7% in terms of EBITDA. This is the consequence of the untoward developments on secondary raw material prices and electricity prices, but also it's due to the erosion in the average price of services rendered in the more complex competitive landscape that I've just talked about.

International EBITDA grew organically by 11.9% because of the very strong development of all our businesses, but also thanks to regular optimization in the management of operating costs. And now turn your attention to the EBITDA margin at 18.5% or 17.6% if you restate for the capital gains of CEM, which is a one-off, of course.

And, as you can see at the bottom, in spite of three years of macroeconomic tensions and untoward ForEx, our operating profitability remained very stable, because of the strategic balance that Jean-Louis talked about. So, the utmost resilience in spite of the complicated economic landscape in Europe. This resilience was made possible, thanks to the discipline of our operating and financial teams, something that's measured through the efficiency of our Compass process. All subsidiaries has chipped in. And, this year, we generated €160 million worth of net recurring savings.

And so, OpEx dropped by 1.4%. It's even more than what we had in mind at the beginning of the year because we announced hopes of reducing cost by €125 million. These savings affect for 58% continuous operational savings, 12% reductions in SG&A through the constant optimization of our organizational structures and 30% the performance of our purchasing subsidiary, the governance of which have optimized in order to make it more efficient.

If you look at the breakdown, not by nature of cost, but by operational segment, of course, once again, Waste Europe was the biggest contributor to the efforts because we've kept optimizing our vehicle fleet and our operating sites, those that are the least efficient in order to offset the margin effect of the drop in prices.

While deciding to keep optimizing operating performance is essential in our strategy, the Compass programme will, therefore, continue under Christophe's leadership. Our proactive approach to optimize costs and processes and to transform organizations will save us at least a further €150 million in 2015. And we're aiming for overall savings between 2015 and 2017 of at least €400 million on a cumulative basis.

Now, a more detailed analysis of the performance of each of the three operating segments, starting traditionally with Water Europe. So, we were driven by the great performance of our regulated business in Chile, price hikes up a good level in France and Spain, and also great commercial dynamism that was renewed in the Advanced Solutions area. Now, in detail, we obtain tariff indexing in France to the tune of 1.1% and much higher in Spain, 2.9%, and Chile, 8.2% on average.

Regarding the drinking water volumes sold, they're up in Chile by 1.9%, down – flat in France, minus 0.6%. But the year was a bit better than the usual trend that we note, minus 1.2% on average over the last 15 years, actually. And in Spain, we almost remained flat with a tiny drop of minus 0.2%.

The [ph] buoyant (00:43:17) activity in the division illustrated, once again, by the commercial balance, going up modestly, but still up by €36 million. So we're continuing to nibble away further market shares from private competitors and public competitors. And you see the figures mentioned by Jean-Louis about the new services development, the 10.8% in revenue. So we're a bit above the ambition we set ourselves for up 10%. That was what we were shooting for. So you see the organic growth up 4.7% with margin up 27.8%.

Now, the margin looks like it's down compared to the previous year. That's because of the shrinking of the Chilean peso versus the euro because that our regulated activities in Chile have an average margin greater than the average in other European business. If you restate as a function of ForEx changes, you will see an increase of 20 basis points compared with the previous year. So it's because of the currency effects and also the free cash flow in the division was obviously remarkable with €534 million.

In waste in Europe, then, four main features on the landscape to be taken onboard. Firstly, the upswing in the volumes treated, plus 0.6% because of the market that shrunk [ph] first half (00:44:38), 0.3% down and also the commissioning of new facilities, 1% roughly. And I'll go back to that in a minute when we talk about CapEx. At the end of September, we've got 1% growth in volume. So the fourth quarter was a bit more complicated for us from that point of view. And that's quite in line with the industrial output statistics in Europe showing some signs of weakness in the fourth quarter.

So then you have that volume effect, up 0.7%. But the price effect – you see the price effect here too was different geographical disparities. There was a shrinking of prices in the Netherlands because of overcapacity for treatment and Poland for municipal activity, gave rise to a total transformation of the market. But for the last few months, we feel there is greater competition in France.

Third thing is the drop in secondary raw materials and electricity. I won't go into that. And fourth thing is the impact on the revenues of negative construction. That is because of incinerated that we conducted in France and UK in 2013. So, you see the EBITDA figure going down. Now, the commodity effects, electricity and secondary raw materials, that all together accounts for €29 million in the minus €47 million.

So, in spite of the great restructuring efforts undertaken for several years now, the margin rates still continue to be eroded a bit. It now stands at 11.8%. So, if I give you additional details geographically, the EBITDA goes up in Scandinavia and UK, stable in Central Europe, and down in France and the Benelux country. And if I can give you another word looking at it, not geographically speaking, but by operational segment, well, the EBITDA is stable for the recovery activities in spite of the drop in commodities.

That's the upswing effect of the volumes in these activities that came into full effect and also the elimination activities, which mainly have fixed costs affected by the volume of landfill you see better on the chart to the right and the service activities affected by the weakness of prices. Free cash flow in this segment remains very positive at €221 million.

Then, internationally speaking, what should we note briefly, strong growth organically speaking in Africa, Middle East and India, you see plus 10.3%, thanks in particular to the good volume of business recorded in water and waste in Morocco. Asia Pacific, revenues gone up by 4.4%, driven by China and then by the waste management businesses in Australia.

We've recorded growth in the U.S. of 2.2% because of our regulated business and our development and services, but, on the top of the right, you will see despite of slight erosion of volumes of drinking water sold. Degrémont, conversely, posed revenues that were down but down just to a small extent, down by 2.7% because at the start of the year, it was rather difficult and Degrémont managed to bounce back very well in the second half. And you can see on top of the right that the Degrémont backlog already booked by Degrémont stands at €1.21 billion, up more than 17% compared with the start of the year. So that would over well for design build activities in 2015 that should go smooth.

So, segment is going up quite a lot, €728 million, as you see €129 million of capital gains on the disposal of CEM, when we restate the assumption just for non-recurring items, the revaluation of an asset in Australia prospect that we mentioned last year and the capital gains on CEM. Nonetheless, organic growth stands at a very strong level for the International segment, plus 11.9%, and you also see that the margin went up by almost 2% plus from 15.7% to 17.5%. Also free cash flow, very positive, to the tune of €333 million.

If I go down right on the P&L, what do we see? Well, we also see that we have earmarking to amortization, quite flat. This really testifies to the fact that our capital intensity is well under control. We even brought it down a bit in the last year. The other charges that are computed came out a bit higher because, in particular, of the write-back of a provision for the end of the Melbourne dispute that we booked, €58 million worth in 2013. And it was written back and, of course, it wasn't done in the same way in 2014.

Also, the EBIT standing at €1,205 (sic) [€1,255] (00:49:39) million, growth of 2.6%. Under constant currency basis, it's 6.4%. If we exclude ForEx on a comparable level to the EBITDA, that's, as Jean Louis talked about, 7.1%. Now, below the EBIT, if we look at the exceptional items. Well, a couple of points to make. Firstly, I'd recall that we started consolidating ACEA as equity since the middle of the year. That was the result of the increased importance that we had in terms of the board membership. Also, we booked a capital gain on revaluation plan. We made the change in our accounting system, €65 million worth. That was the bulk of the capital gains we accounted for in the year.

Next, we had restructuring charges, €58 million worth, so as to generate additional savings in the coming three years. And also, we booked provisions for different assets to the tune of €105 million in a prudent manner, let's say, and the results from ordinary activities, €1,174 million.

If I continue going down further in the P&L, financial charges €375 million, almost stable year-on-year. But bear in mind that thanks to active balance sheet management and debt management and thanks to the drop in rates, our debt cost has been brought down to 4.5% this year compared to 4.59% in 2013.

The tax burden this year – it was €189 million in the previous year. Now the ETR going up from 26.1% to 33%, mainly the result of a change in the fiscal law in Chile. Chile decided in four years to gradually increase its corporate taxation bringing it up to 27%. And this year, we had to revalue our deferred tax asset item.

And then you have a minority interest, [ph] September 2014 figures (00:51:53), also a drop impacting the International division and one impacting the Water Europe division. One in the internationally – that is because of the fact that we had minority interests that were particularly high in 2013. And I disclose that at the time it was connected with two phenomena, firstly, the prospective in Australia and then the revaluation of assets in Indonesia also.

Now, the drop of minority interest in Water Europe – that can be explained differently. It's not so much the 2013 comparative effect. It's because that was the result from minority that was lower in 2014 for three reasons. Firstly because we have an additional tax burden in Chile, so mechanically the Chilean results were less high. Secondly, shrinking of the value of the Chilean currency, the peso. So, in euro terms, of course, that shrunk. And also third phenomenon is the deal with La Caixa. So now, we wholly own Agbar since September. Mechanically, minority interest in Spain went down. So all told, the net result group share €417 million and the EPS €0.71, as I said earlier.

A point then on investments, capital expenditure. We invested in total €1.3 billion, up by 42% compared to 2013. Jean-Louis explained this earlier that we started in 2014 a new circular of external growth. We invested about €800 million nearly in the last year. Now, you'll only see €500 million of financial investments here. That's because investments impact our cash flow statements. So we've netted them out to take account of non-cash items.

The Caixa deal is €600 million, for example, the €300 million funded by capital increase and €300 million funded by cash from the company. So what you see on the slide is only the €300 million that impacted our cash flow statement. But, in reality, it's €800 million that were actually spent in the course of the year.

As well as those financial investments, we also actively pursued our major projects to do greenfield developments with €500 million worth on most invested in terms of development CapEx in all the strategic ventures we have described by Jean-Louis.

So it's also an opportunity to [ph] offer you (00:54:15) that we obtained – I mean we commissioned our waste recovery plant in several parts in the UK in December 2014 – the waste-to-energy conversion plants. And we also commissioned an incinerator in South Tyne & Wear in the UK and Thomas Perianu in the first half.

The details on these are all in the appendices. There are five major waste-to-energy conversion plants still on build, so this is a future market and it's getting better and better the whole time. And all these piece of capital expenditure will fuel the growth and the profitability of the company going forward as of 2016.

Free cash flow, after the first half, that was marked by seasonal effects that were particularly unfavorable. And in terms of the working capital requirement, well, the group mobilized its efforts and free cash flow comes out at €1.93 billion, up by 12%. This is something that reflects the fact that the results in the fiscal year were very robust. So, the free cash flow integrates maintenance spending also. So, that's 4.1% related to the revenue, so that's been constant for the last number of years.

Our working capital requirement of €124 million. From memory, it was much more, €300 million at the end of June. And also, we should note that tax expenses and net financial expenses, they went down by €36 million from one fiscal year to the next.

So, the cash flow items impacted our debt, €7,186 million. [indiscernible] (00:55:50) that the amount remained totally flat compared to the start of the year, in spite of the ForEx effects which were quite substantial, as you see. This strong free cash flow generation and our active balance sheet management enabled us to bring our leverage ratio down to 2.72 times. And this financial headroom detriment impact we've enhanced will enable us to speed up the development of the group in the coming few years.

Perhaps three other items for further appraisal of our debt. Firstly, we see that the dividend paid out, €582 million, that's €332 million to the ultimate shareholders of [ph] SEC (00:56:27). Also, we did liability management during the year in terms of our hybrid bond. And that's enabled us to drive down our debt by €181 million. And, thirdly, you will recall also that in the first quarter, we deconsolidated our waste-to-energy conversion plant in Clermont-Ferrand, €212 million worth there.

So, a couple of words about return on capital employed. This is a theme that's close to our hearts. It is an ongoing objective we have to improve in the SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. Now the ROCE for 2014 posed an increase, comes out at 7.8%. At the same time, the WACC, the weighted average cost of capital, remained stable at 6.3%. So, [indiscernible] (00:57:12) has enhanced the creation of value, which is measured by the delta, most about by the total of the capital employed. So, you have the graph on the bottom of the right that shows you also the improvement in the ROCE. It's the result of a twofold improvement.

Firstly, an improvement in the operational profitability. Our NOPAT margin increased by 2 basis points going from 6.9% to 7.7%. And also it shows you the way in which we're more asset-light with a slight reduction in capital intensity, as you see here. So we've gone here from 1.01% to 1.02% in terms of revenue over capital employed.

So, we'll be making sure that the improvement of the ROCE continues because our medium term objective is indeed 9%. Also, by division, Water Europe posed an ROCE of 7.5%, Waste Europe 5.6%, and International 13.6%, posting a marked improvement.

Couple of words of conclusion then. On the medium term, as Jean-Louis told you already, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has sound basis and a clear strategy. So, we can contemplate the future quite confidently and resolutely. For 2015, our priorities are, firstly, growth in our revenues greater than or equal to 3%, thanks to the commercial dynamics that we already [indiscernible] (00:58:42) and also the contribution from the upcoming greenfield project that we're working on already.

Then, secondly, an improvement in operational profitability, which can be gauged in 2015 by organic growth of the EBIT, at least by 4%, so faster than the revenue growth. So, the EBITDA – that will be affected by cash out that will be non-recurring to the tune to €50 million, but that's already been provided for now, provision that won't impact the profitability of the group.

We also think despite of the €50 million exceptional cash out that organic growth of the EBITDA will be positive nonetheless in 2015. And also, we've adjusted for cross-cutting €150 million rather of Compass savings in 2015. And the generation of free cash flow should stand at about €1 billion, as it was in 2014.

We're [ph] pushing (00:59:39) an attractive dividend payout policy for all the shareholders of the group. And we plan to pay out a dividend greater than or equal to €0.55 in 2015 in respect of the 2015 results. In the medium term, Jean-Louis told you this already, we want to fast-track and continue fast-tracking our development like we've been doing recently. And the ambition is to reach €3 billion worth of EBITDA in 2015. That's our ambition. We hope to make targeted tuck-in acquisitions that will be accretive and will continue with our Compass programme with the different accrued effects of at least €400 million over the period.

So that is what I'd like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, this morning. And I'd like to thank you for your attention and for the trust you've all shown in us. And I'd like to say that we'll take your questions, Jean-Louis and myself. If you have questions, we'll be happy to answer them.

Michel Debs, Credit Suisse. I have a few questions about both the group strategy and the figures presented by Mr. Boursier. In terms of strategy, could you please explain, Mr. Chaussade, whether the acquisitions you want to make are purely on an opportunistic basis? If you find an asset that's undervalued, you'll buy it or are there specific industries or countries that you have in mind?

Secondly, Mr. Boursier, could you please give us some extra details on the objectives you just highlighted for 2015 and following years? Could you further characterize the EBITDA guidance? Are there any scope effects, recurring and non-recurring effects and could you give us a quantitative range? And about 2014, could you tell us whether, in 2014, there are some one-offs that we need to restate for?

And in terms of ROCE, I think that the objective was 9% in the mid-term. This morning, you said that you were more confident than you were last year about your EBITDA growth. What are your prospects in terms of return on capital employed for the next two years to five years? Thank you.

Well, this is Mr. Chaussade. As regards our strategic aspects, first of all, we said that our growth would be based both on organic growth and acquisitions. Acquisitions, well, they're almost always opportunistic, as you said. However, we conduct them with a clear vision that I'll try and explain.

The first characteristic is that we won't make acquisitions if they're not insignificant – well, significant acquisitions in countries that we are familiar with. The first reason is that when you know a country well, the risks that you take are more limited. And, of course, generally, if you're already operating in a country, there are synergies.

Secondly, these investments of greenfield developments, everything will be done in line with the four strategic priorities that we've described, be it recycling in Europe or Smart Water or industrial water or industrial development. So we'll focus on these four priorities. That's what I can say at this stage. And I would add one last thing. What we did in 2014 is probably a very good proxy for what we wish to do in 2015 and following years.

Regarding ROCE, I'll confirm that our mid-term ambition is indeed to have an ROCE around 9%. We've always said that it would come from two sources, of course, continuous improvement in the group's efficiency and the group's profitability, something that's now underway and that's visible this year. And it will also come from market improvements. It's true that it's easier to have 9% ROCE if growth in Europe is close to 2%, whereas it used to be negative or extraordinarily low in these past few years, including 2014.

Jean-Marc now. Good morning, Michel. Regarding EBITDA developments, we shared a number of information with you. I'll try to summarize them. We said that organic EBITDA growth would be positive next year in spite of non-recurring cash-outs that I talked about. Two, we would continue external growth strategy and make it profitable, of course. And there are a few ForEx effects that you need to bear in mind.

To sum up, we are starting from EBITDA of €2.644 billion minus the €129 million for the capital gains. So we start from €2.515 billion positive organic growth. Well you appraised yourself, add in to that the contribution from the acquisitions that we'll make and those we've already made, these fixed acquisitions that Jean-Louis talked about, the revenues contribution will be €100 million in average in a normal year. So you can look at the EBITDA. And there's also ForEx. If ForEx remained as it is now, there's mechanically a positive effect of €60 million on EBITDA. So organic aspects, external growth and also ForEx for at least €60 million and you need to add that to a starting point of €2.515 billion.

We will now take our next question from Patrick Hummel from UBS. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. First one, can you help us understanding to which extent your 2015 efficiency measures in waste also include capacity reduction on your side? And B part of the question, what are you seeing in the competitive landscape? Do you see any competitive reductions in the trickiest waste markets in Europe?

And second question relates to the underlying macro assumptions for the 2017 ambition. You say that you assumed a progressive GDP growth in Europe, but can you be a bit quantitative here. Are we talking about 1%, 1.5% per annum that would get you to the €3 billion or what's the underlying assumption here? Thank you.

Okay. Jean-Marc will [audio gap] (01:06:44) question. I will talk about the assumptions for 2015-2017.

What are our assumption as far as the waste is concerned? We have assumed flat volume and flat commodity prices in 2015. So I need to elaborate a little bit upon that. Flat volume despite the fact that mechanically, the new plant that we have commissioned in 2014, notably Suffolk, will bring 1% additional to our 25.7 million tons that we have within Europe. That means that we will see reduction as well. And the answer is yes. We will see reduction notably in the landfill activity in the UK.

We are not going to close any other site but landfill activity in the UK that will be progressively replaced by new energy-from-waste facility and new sorting center. So, first assumption is flat treated volume from the landfill business in 2015. Second assumption is flat commodity prices. And this one is not given [indiscernible] (01:07:55) today because paper price and scrap metal prices are still in downward trend in January and February when we compare it to January and February 2014. That's our two major assumptions for the Waste division in 2015.

Okay. Well, about the macroeconomic forecast for the year 2015, 2016 and 2017, I would say that we are following the IMF assumption, which are 1.2% in 2015, 1.4% in 2016 and 1.5% in 2017. So it is what we can take and what we have been taken to dimension, if I can say, our ambitions in the three years to come.

Philippe Ourpatian, Natixis. I have several questions. Some of them are operational. The other ones are more financial. Regarding competition waste in France, you've mentioned the suspect. Could we have some more light on that? Are these the usual suspects or some more aggressive, smaller competitors? Similarly, in Water in Europe, we think that competition has abated with the relative withdrawal of SOL from some activities. Could you come back over that?

Thirdly, you said in some conference calls that you wanted to increase capacity in waste in the Benelux despite the complicated environment. But it seems that you could optimize acquisitions with existing sites. So, where are those projects and are they part of your external growth projects? Fourthly, I had a question about the €105 million in provisions made impairments. Could we have some details about that?

And, finally, well, about Lille, you've put in a challenge. Where are you with this contract that was announced? It was announced that you were eliminated at the beginning of the year. And then regarding the €3 billion in EBITDA, should you square that with the ROCE mid-term objective? And given your external growth developments, what is the base that we should use regarding capital employed?

Well, regarding competition in waste in France, you were asking whether we were talking about the usual big suspects or new players. Well, the answer is that we're talking about the usual suspects. The market is undergoing a major transformation, as we explained. There are a number of groups that are having a hard time adapting and they prefer cash to profitability.

Regarding competition in water in France, I'll confirm your standpoint. It's not just that SOL has calmed down, so to speak. It's much more than that. In fact, we're at the end of an investment cycle. It was fairly easy to reduce tariffs by reducing investment. This is what was done. Now once you've done that, it's difficult to do a lot more. So I'll confirm that the water market is not a quiet one. It's very competitive. But it's now much more predictable now than it used to be in the past and I'm not expecting any specific upheavals.

Our design to increase waste in the Benelux, no, we're not contemplating anything. This is not how it's translated. Well, first waste, well, you can talk about hazardous waste or municipal waste. Well, the only interest that we've shown – and this is something that's very official. We are interested in Indaver, which is mostly, not only, but mostly involved in hazardous waste. And, of course, we're interested in it but I can't say much more because, as you know, there are several groupings that have put in bids. And at this stage, I have no indication about our offer.

I'll answer about Lille. Regarding the Lille case, we were indeed eliminated for purely legal reasons. And we don't agree with this decision. The consequence of which €400 million, €500 million contract is to leave only one competitor discussing with the authorities. So, we've challenged the decision. The challenges will be twofold.

First of all, there's one challenge about the issue of the Sapin Act. I'll recall that the Sapin Act is, by definition, a law through which there is constant competitive dialogue. You start with a call for tenders. You start with bids by competitors. And you end with something after three or four rounds with something that looks very different than what you started with, usually contracts or proposed contracts, be they from the clients or from the protagonists involved or the competitors. The contracts were severely amended. That's the law and it's always been that way.

So, if a client decides that the slightest deviation from the list of specifications means exclusion, well, that's a fundamental problem with the interpretation of the Sapin Act. And so that's why we need to refer to the Conseil d'Etat and will refer to the Conseil d'Etat. The Conseil d'Etat will need to decide who's right on this front. And if we are right, then they'll need to decide on the compensation we're allowed to – the damages we're allowed to.

And for a big municipal client, LMCU, there's a problem with having only one competitor. I haven't really understood the point. So we'll fight till the end for Lille. Although you're right, at this stage, we're excluded from the race because our bid was not opened. Then, Jean-Marc for the rest.

Good morning, Philippe. First question about €105 million in provisions. As I said, there are no significant underlying assets. It's just a series of small issues that we wanted to be cautious about in accounting terms.

Then maybe some additional color. The split is more or less uniform between the three divisions. In Waste Europe, we made provisions for several small assets in the UK and France. In Water Europe, we made provisions for intangibles at Lyonnaise des Eaux. And International, there was decline in the valuation of one of our assets in Indonesia, given the drop in the Indonesian rupee and the subtotal is €150 million, but there's nothing specifically fascinating inside it.

Now, regarding our mid-term evolution. We've given you different information. First of all, our ambition, which is to achieve €3 billion worth of EBITDA in 2017, as you know, we aim to grow SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT with the leverage cap at 3 times. So you can estimate the debt level that we'll achieve. Other information, we want to have an mid-term average ROCE of around 9%.

What's mid-term? Well, it will depend on the economic situation. And also, on the gradual recovery, Jean-Louis recalled the assumptions that we took. We expect to get 9% ROCE by 2017, maybe 2019. What's the basis for capital employed? Well, most of the increase in debt between now and the end of the period will give rise to an increase in capital employed. So you've got everything you need to model SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT as smartly as possible for the next four years at least.

Emmanuel Turpin, Morgan Stanley. First question, please, about modeling assumptions of the budget for 2015. You've shared a few with us already. You're anticipating further Compass efforts. Are there restructuring costs to be included in the models like every year when there are such efforts?

Secondly, you've talked about assumptions for commo. Could you give us the EBITDA impact? And now about power. Power prices have declined further in Europe. How much power generated in Europe is exposed to market prices? And inflation is reaching very low levels in countries like France. This should have an negative impact unfortunately on indexing. Indexing will be lower. So how should we capture that in terms of EBITDA impact? That's the first question for operational matters.

Secondly, regarding your financial expenses. On one of the slides, I saw reduced liquidity at €3.2 billion. Maybe through reorganization initiatives or treasury initiatives there may be further efforts to be made to reduce the cash on the balance sheet, so that you could make gains by reducing the carrying costs. This is something that you're passing onto Christophe, who'll take over from you, Jean-Marc. And regarding ROCE, which is absolutely relevant as an indicator, regarding 2014 figures, how do you account for one-offs like capital gains or others in – how do you capture that in your NOPAT?

Well, maybe I'll answer about the issue of inflation, it's true that, as we've always said, all our municipal contracts – I'll come back to industrial contracts later, but all our municipal contracts, especially in France, so that applies to all European countries, all these contracts are correlated. They have a revision formulae that correlates the increase in tariffs with price increases. And France is more precise than that because, in water, for each contract, we have correlations between the cost of labor, the cost of chemicals and the cost of power.

It's clear then that when inflation is declining, in France, it's even more than that. If energy prices increase, well, they can go in production and they can increase for the end customer. It's not necessarily correlated. But when you've got increases in power prices, we've passed them on. But it's true that inflation evolutions that you've described will reduce our tariff increases automatically.

So, how does that translate? This means that we need to manage all our costs, so that our costs don't increase more than our formulae. This is what we're doing, of course. And I'm not expecting any EBITDA impact for the year 2015, for instance, because we'll be able to keep both our top line under control, being namely sales and also costs which come lower down the P&L. So, on the municipal market, I'm not expecting any impact on our EBITDA margin.

Now with regards to more industrial type contracts, most of our industrial contracts that applies to waste specifically, these are one-year contract. So, of course, there will be renegotiations but I can't say how that's going to happen with clients. It's true that there is a pressure, so that cost increases are more in line with inflation. It's up to us to pass on higher increases. It's not always possible given the capital intensity.

Now, Emmanuel, for all your questions regarding the 2015 budget in Compass, before I hand over to Jean-Marc, who will give you details, I would simply say the following thing. Compass is our cost saving programme. These are sustainable savings located at the level of EBITDA. Of course, we started looking at reductions in our SG&A, so that we can constantly adjust the company to the surrounding economic realities.

We operate in an industry where we think that we can further improve efficiency to the tune of 1% of OpEx, around €120 million, €125 million, €130 million. And it's very visible. If you look at the pie chart shown by Jean-Marc, which change over time, you'll see that, first of all, we focus greatly on cost reductions. Now we are focusing strongly – and Jean-Marc can explain that – focusing strongly on purchasing – how to optimize purchasing and make savings on our purchases.

And the third stage of the rocket that we've launched is organizational improvements. When we're talking about more cross-cutting work, when we're talking about more compact company, when we're talking about organizational changes made in the International division, all that should result in better operating efficiency, but also cost reductions. Or if cost increase, then we'll have to change things. That's our ambition. That's how we're working. And so Compass will change over time, but we are keeping pressure up because the figure for the next three years is €400 million. Maybe, Jean-Marc, you could be more precise about the other questions?

Yeah. I'll start off with restructuring. Should we plan for restructuring costs, therefore, in the P&L of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT in 2015? That's the question really. Well, the answer is yes. But I have to detail my answer a little bit. At the end of 2014, we booked €15 million worth of restructuring costs, as you may have seen. And those restructuring costs will enable us to make savings that will be sustainable, as Jean-Louis has just said.

So, as of now, we don't need additional restructuring, as far as we know. But, over time, if we see there may be a need for other restructuring moves so as to enhance the profitability, well, then we'll add that in, if necessary. Each year, there's always a little bit of restructuring costs that's needed. So, there will possibly be a bit more. But we'll see.

And the second thing I would add to what Jean-Louis said is the change in the brand architecture in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. That will require some investment in the coming year. That will be accounted for under the EBIT. So it won't impact our current operating income. So, in your models, you could take a counter-investment of about €40 million worth for 2015. I'd recommend that you should add that into your assumptions.

Then regarding electricity, firstly, let me go back to commodities in general and electricity in particular. Now commodities in general. This was an impact of €29 million on our profitability. So that's quite a lot. In the €29 million, electricity €21 million. So that's really what weighed on us, not so much the secondary commodity, the raw material prices that beat you. But through management of short lead-time, operation and so on, we manage to cushion ourselves against the effect of the changes in secondary raw materials. It's basically the electricity that impacted us more than anything else in 2014.

Now, in the electricity, the thing is we're very well balanced in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT because we generate [indiscernible] (01:25:14) 2.9 terawatt hours' worth of power, and we consume through our water companies [indiscernible] (01:25:20) 2.5 terawatt hours. So in theory, we have a natural hedge there to immunize ourselves against price effects.

But the thing is it's not the price of electricity on the European market that affected us. It's the end – our guaranteed prices – guaranteed contracts that we had in France with EDF and in Belgium with the scheduled termination of the green certificates in France with EDF with a feed-in tariff guaranteed about €60 per megawatt hour in the past and now it's about the market price. So it's between €38 and €42 depending on how it trends. So that's really the big impact that we felt in our content. Also, I'd like to add that in the guidance for 2015, we've built the assumption that there will be an additional effect of €10 million, too dense, because of electricity next year in 2015 that is.

So, Christophe will go back to the details concerning the average debt cost, I'm sure, in due course. But I'd like to add a couple of points on that. We've reduced liquidity. Just following the integration of Agbar, we managed to escalate all the liquidity of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT headquarters. So, we said to ourselves like, in previous years, we don't need any more what we had out there. So we were able to reduce the liquidity because we were able to escalate it up to the center.

We didn't need to keep it down there like we did in the past. So we think the level is now quite satisfactory, €3.2 billion worth of liquidity. And in the annex – the appendix to the presentation, you've got the due dates for the debt. And even though we might generate €1 of free cash flow, we're certain we can pay back 100% of our debt maturities in the coming five years. So we're quite comfortable with that.

And, Jean-Marc, I could add – this is Jean-Louis – that when we give thought to the €4 billion amount for financial liquid assets, it was in the period where there's much less liquidity out there than there is right now in the market. So we consider that liquidity will be around in the coming few years anyway. So obviously apart from what Jean-Marc said, there is also a balance to be found between security that's availability of liquid assets. You want to have monies available straightaway and also there is a cost in keeping to those, about €3 billion, €3.2 billion. That's the figure that Jean-Marc gave and that's the one, indeed, that prevailed.

Now on the cost of debt, I'll give you kind of a broader answer. We would hope to continue to improve the situation further in 2015. Yes is the answer to your question, especially by a hybrid debt. Now it's not – the cost of the debt is once impact to P&L. But in the end of the day, it's the same concept because it will impact EPS. So it's the hybrid that will come to maturity September next. But if the markets remain where they are at the moment, there's no doubt that we'll make financial savings, quite substantial ones, when we look at the future of that hybrid bond.

What about the ROCE says [indiscernible] (01:28:26). Would you like to give some details about the hypothesis for the ROCE and roughly how you compute it for 2014?

Well, to keep it simple. There's an appendix that gives you the details going from the EBIT to the NOPAT. You'll see the way we compute it. It's EBIT minus the eligible taxes. So, it's everything in there, really. So it's €1.155 billion and you take out the eligible taxes. That's all detailed out in the appendices in the booklet. Yes?

We will now take our next question from Martin Young from Royal Bank of Canada. Please go ahead.

Good morning to everybody. And, firstly, just to wish Jean-Marc all the very best in his new role. Just three questions. The first one relates to the 2017 EBIT target of €3 billion. Could you just give an indication of how much of that you expect to be accounted for by the acquisition possibility that you've talked about this morning?

Secondly on the issue of the Compass cost reduction programme. You've got an excellent track record over the past few years of surpassing the targets that you set out at the beginning of every year. So, as we think about 2015 and beyond, should we really be thinking maybe about a number of, say, €170 million to €180 million around in delivered cost reductions? And then, finally, in respect of the dividend, where do we need to get to for you to actually start to move the dividend in an upwards direction? Thank you.

Okay. First of all, about – to start with your last question. When shall we start to increase the dividend? Well, clearly, we mentioned that in several occasions when roughly the dividend would represent to serve to give a figure of 60% to 65% of the net profit of the company.

About Compass, well, listen, we have an excellent track record. Thank you for your comment. So we would like to continue to have such a track record. And when we say that we are able to do €150 million or €160 million, it's because we believe we can do it. And don't forget, we are doing that now for the last six years roughly. And, of course, it's more and more difficult. So, I think that the target we have already set, which is a three-year target. And when we say €400 million for the coming three years, 2015, 2016, 2017, I think it's already quite a target difficult to achieve.

Obviously, we will try to beat it, to be able to do better. Now, it's not something I'm going to tell you today. I am going to speak to the numbers given by Jean-Marc. Now, about the mix between acquisitions and greenfield project, frankly speaking, it's very difficult to give you the figures. So, I will just stick to what we have said. It is an ambition. It should be relative. And it should be achieved at the end of 2017. And we have to do that, being sure that the financial strength of the company will be maintained – I think is already a lot of indications about what we have decided to do. Thank you.

We will now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. I would have few questions. First, I will go back on the M&A. If I recall properly, last year, you gave an indication of the size of M&A you're looking at doing in the course of the year. Could we get something similar this year?

And another question is regarding the massive drop in the oil prices we have seen over the recent few months. You have a [indiscernible] (01:33:13) with a number of clients. However, this is not something which happens overnight. So there is potentially here a potential to capture some upside in 2015. Is it included in your guidance and what order of magnitude are we looking at here?

And, finally, talking about the consensus net income for 2015, which is around €450 million, I wanted to have your opinion. Are you comfortable with these levels? Thank you very much.

On the M&A side, as you mentioned before, you have seen what we have been doing in 2014. We are comfortable with this size of operations. You can probably take it as a potential policy for the coming years. On the net profit 2015, we have been giving you a lot of information as I don't believe we are going to give you much more. And about the impact of the oil price drop, Jean-Marc, can you give some indications?

Yes. It is certainly very good news for our waste collection business. Even if as you have rightly pointed out, we have a escalation formula and most of this evolution, at least for our municipal customers, is given back to the customers. But positive piece of news for the collection business.

Having said that, we have two potential question mark. The first one is with regards to the recycling business, the plastic recycling business. You know that there is mechanically a one-for-one correlation between oil price and plastic price. So, no doubt that the reduction in oil price will affect the profitability of the plastic recycling business.

Second question mark is with regards to the development of water services for oil and gas business. If we were to see a significant and long-lasting slowdown in the various projects that we are working on. So all in all, what is the net impact? We believe that the net impact is positive but marginally positive and, certainly, less important than €10 million at bottom line level.

And with regard to the consensus, I don't believe the consensus has taken into consideration yet. Otherwise, it's very good. My comment about one-off costs for 2015 are notably the costs related to the new bond architecture. So you have mechanically to reduce it by €40 million next year.

We will now take our next question from James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Three questions, please. Firstly, on the return on capital numbers that you showed. Obviously, you're making very attractive returns in the International business segment. I was wondering whether you could give a bit more detail on which of the businesses in your International segment are the most profitable and where you see the most attractive returns.

Secondly, just a question on the guidance for next year. Obviously, you provided a specific quantification for EBIT and kept the guidance on EBITDA pretty vague. I mean, normally, we'd expect a similar kind of movement in EBITDA. Is there any reason to think that that could deviate this year? There are no big changes in depreciation expected, are there?

And, thirdly, just on Chile, obviously a pretty big tariff rise. You mentioned the renegotiation. Just wondering if you could give some details on why that increase was so significant. Was it reflecting investment or what does it look like? Thank you.

Jean-Marc, do you?

Well, good morning. What are our most attractive return in International? I mean, International is a mix of the various element. You have a very sound regulated business in the U.S., whereas the ROCE might sound lower than average. But the visibility is extremely long. And the profitability we had over the year the occasion to disclose our regulated business in the U.S. is very safe.

No, we have very good return in Morocco. We have very good return in China. We have very good return in Australia. And remember also, that in some countries where we want to develop our [indiscernible] (01:37:55) services, we are using non-investment model. This is why overall the ROCE of the International division is so great. But, as you have noticed, the performance of this division has been absolutely remarkable in 2014.

Second question. Are there any reason why EBIT and EBITDA should deviate from each other? Normally, no, because as you have noticed, the level of amortization has been kept constant because of the good management, I believe, in the capital intensity of the company for the last few years, unless there is some cash out that we have to do. And among the various cash out, because I told you, those cash out amount to €50 million. There is one element that you need to keep in mind, which is landfill, closure and post-closure provision. We have in the books approximately €400 million of landfill provision. And at some stage, we will have to cash out those landfill. And the speed will depend of the speed with which we are going to close the landfills. And part of this cash out for 2015 is specifically related to landfill closure in the UK.

Third question was on tariff escalation in Chile. Effectively, the Chilean tariff increase was healthy. If I can use a British understatement in 2014, in this tariff, you have three components which account for each of those approximately one-third. First, the normal tariff escalation in Chile, which is 3%. Second, we have a catch-up effect when it comes to inflation. As soon as inflation reaches 3%, we have mechanically a catch-up effect in order to compensate the company for inflation evolution. So we had the second element of 3% of additional tariff increase.

And third, we put a specific plant – a waste water treatment plant in operation late in 2013. So we inherited it from a specific tariff increase from a further 3% related to this plant – Mapocho wastewater treatment plant in Chile. So you have the explanation for 2014. Shall we count on a similar tariff increase for 2015? The answer is no. I would recommend you to take into your model the fact that tariff increase shall be around 3%, up 3% in 2015 in Chile.

What we can add on the EBITDA 2015 impact is one element which were not given by Jean-Marc is a fact that, as you know, in Australia, they changed the rules about carbon tax and that could impact our EBITDA 2015 around, let's say, €15 million to €20 million. It's very difficult to, in fact, establish what is amount that we have to reimburse to the people who had already paid for it in the past years. But that is more or less the magnitude and that is included in the €50 million Jean-Marc was talking about. Yeah?

And now a question from Olivier Doosselaere.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. I had one question left. If the indication that you're giving that EBITDA will grow this year in 2015 and if I include the €50 million extra costs that you've talked about, this means that in underlying terms, excluding these costs, it seems that the organic EBITDA growth will be at least 1% organically.

What I'm surprised about is that this is something that you did in 2014, minimum 2%, with revenues that grew by 1.3% organically. And now, you're saying that for 2015, revenues should grow organically by at least 3%. And so I'm wondering whether there are some pressures on the cost base maybe what you said about competition in Western Europe, something that may affect your profitability in terms of EBITDA. Does that reasoning hold water, you think? Could you give us some more indications?

What I can say on top of what Jean-Marc already said is that the reasons why we talk about EBIT is that the business mix for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is changing. And we probably have businesses, especially overseas, that are less capital intensive than what we had. The change in this capital mix makes for a very complex reading of EBITDA developments over time. That's the main explanation apart from the €50 million. And I'll confirm what you've said. We have an underlying EBITDA growth of 2% to 3%. The difference is the mix that I've just described. Maybe, Jean-Marc, you'd like to add something?

No.

Okay.

Thank you.

And now the following question from Julie Arav from Kepler Cheuvreux.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. I have two questions, in fact. The first one is about CapEx. What are the normative CapEx levels that are necessary to sustain your growth? How do you intend to allocate growth CapEx between your four strategic priorities? And then what are the minimum returns that you expect from your growth CapEx per type of activity? Could we have more details?

And second question is La Caixa. In the Spanish press, there were articles about Caixa's desire to reach at least 10% of your capital. It seems that the government is opposed to it. How are you seeing this wish by Caixa to increase its stake and maybe we could have some indications about whether negotiations are underway? Maybe they may apply for more seats on the board?

Well, about Caixa, I know exactly what articles you are referring to. And from my viewpoint, they are not substantiated. When we carried out the operation, Caixa committed to increase its stake to 7%. Now, they are close to 6%. So, they are in line with their objectives. Besides, I can't predict whether shareholder may want to do. But I don't think that Caixa will want to increase above 7% without turning a cent. So far, there have been no discussions about it. And as far as I know, there hasn't been any discussion with the French government either.

I think that we should stick to facts, what are the agreements that we have with them. They are people with whom we work in close cooperation. I am myself a member of the board of Caixa. So, one way or another, I would know if something was in the works. And at this stage, this is false information apart from whatever we really said, which is part of the agreement that we've signed with them.

Now, regarding the difference or the split for our CapEx, what you're calling our normative CapEx, this is what we call recurring CapEx, what we've had almost since the IPO. This CapEx hovered around €1.2 million, €1.3 million and last year rather €1.1 billion, roughly into 50% maintenance CapEx and 50% development CapEx. So, these capital expenditures enable us to grow the foundation for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. And, well, I don't think it will be a good thing for the company for us to reduce it much further.

Now, if growth accelerated, are we ready to increase our CapEx? Well, we've proven that in 2014. And I think that what we did in 2014, I've already said, is a very good proxy of what we may do in the future in strict compliance with our financial criteria. But, as Jean-Marc said, again, in gross terms, gross means the payment in shares for part of the capital of Agbar by Caixa. Well, we had an additional €800 million in gross terms. We're not going to do that every year. But on top of the €1.1 billion, €1.2 billion, if we comply with our financial criteria, which is very important in terms of accretion for our shareholders, these are operations we may contemplate very certainly. This is what I can say about these two things. Jean-Marc, anything to add?

No. Only regarding the traditional profitability analysis indicators. Well, there's value creation, EPS contribution, and free cash flow. And in the appendices of the presentation, you have all the details about how our investment committee is working.

Yes?

We will now take our next question from Ivan Pavlovic from Natixis. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, all. Could you please clarify your intentions regarding your hybrid with the first call in 2015? Do you plan to redeem it? And in light of the current rate environment, do you intend to refinance it with a lot of hybrids? Thank you.

Jean-Marc, do you want to answer that question, please?

All of our option are open as of today. But to give you a clear answer. If we were to take the decision tomorrow, which is not the case because we have until September 2015 to decide, the likelihood is yes, very high, that we would call it and reissue a new one. And this is purely based on market conditions.

All right. Are there further questions?

We will now take our next question from Harry Wyburd from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi. Just two quick questions. Firstly, could I just clarify something on your EBITDA guidance? You said the starting point was €2.515 billion for next year. Then you added organic growth, acquisitions and FX. You also mentioned an impact from the Australia carbon tax and some one-off cost from rebranding. Do we need to add those on to the €2.515 billion or are they already included? And the second quick question is just on the capital employed. The regulated activities went down slightly in water and the non-regulated went up slightly. Could you just clarify why that happened? Thanks.

Jean-Marc, regulated?

Sorry. Can you repeat your second question, please? Regulated.

It's just on the capital employed in the water business. The regulated activities went down slightly in terms of capital employed and the non-regulated went up. And I just wondered why that change.

Well, exactly, this is purely due to ForEx impact because year-after-year, we are increasing. We were together in New Jersey, as you know, we are increasing our regulated asset base by approximately $100 million in the U.S. So the fact that it appears lower is purely due to FX.

On your first question, you have to be careful with your analysis because as far as carbon tax is concerned, this is part of the €50 million cash out, which is already included when we are telling you the organic growth will be positive. So you don't need to take it out because it's already embedded into the positive evolution of the EBITDA that we were giving to you. So that means that excluding one-off items, that was the computation of Olivier van Doosselaere, the recurring underlying EBITDA would have gone up more than 2% mechanically. And you have also to be careful with the branding cost because those will fall below EBITDA and EBIT as non-recurring or exceptional item. So they are not part mechanically of the EBITDA guidance that we are giving you.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah. All right. Then, if there are no further questions, with Jean-Marc, we'll now thank you for your time. And we'll start the road show soon. So we'll meet again and discuss things in more details with you. Thank you very much.