Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jean-Louis Chaussade — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SUEZ Environnement Co. SA
Jean-Marc Boursier — Senior Executive Vice-President in charge of Finance, SUEZ Environnement Co. SA
Nathalie F. Casali — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Martin C. Young — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Patrick Hummel — Analyst, UBS AG (Broker)
Olivier P. van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Michel Debs — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Vincent J. Ayral — Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker)
Dario Carradori — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Denis Lepadatu — Analyst, Kempen & Co. NV (Broker)
Verity Mitchell — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the conference call of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT Interim Results. For your information, this conference is being recorded. Thank you for holding. The conference chat my Mr. Jean-Louis Chaussade, CEO, is about to begin. Mr. Chaussade, you have the floor.

Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are delighted to be with you this morning with Jean-Marc Boursier, myself and the SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT team to present the interim results for the first half of 2014 for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT. I will remind you that this presentation is available as a video webcast and that you can download it on our website.

During this presentation, I shall start with a reminder of the highlights for this half-year as well as a description of the associated key figures which you'll see are robust. Then after a brief reminder of our strategy, I will give you an update on the progress achieved for each of our main development areas.

Faced with constantly changing markets, I felt the need to adapt our organization and to make it gradually more integrated. In each division, we're trying to share more-and-more experience and local successes.

At the same time, we can only see that our markets are becoming more international, more European or even more global in the case of new water services or the recovery of energy raw materials or secondary raw materials in waste.

Moreover, absolutely convinced about the strong growth potential of our markets abroad, we resolutely continue our development. There again I thought it was necessary to unify our sales teams in order to promote business cross-selling and offer our clients the full range of our knowhow.

Last but not least, I shall come back to the sector of industrial water, which is a segment we expected evolution of which over the next few years should be tremendous, given the growing industrialization on the planet. We have high ambitions. Our roadmap in order to achieve them is very clear.

I shall illustrate it with the achievements of the half year, which is what I've just said. Then I will conclude with a few closing comments before handing over to Jean-Marc Boursier who will give you with his usual accuracy and clarity, details about the interim results.

Let's start with the highlights. As I said in February 2014, the group is mobilized at every level in order to improve performance in an economic context that seemed to stabilize in Europe. Consequently, we were ready thanks to enhanced financial flexibility to speed up our development. Well then, we have indeed signed significant agreements that go in that direction.

You will understand that I say a few words about the acquisition of our stake in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT by Caixa announced on July 18. We've already given you a lot of details about this transaction, but it is so large that it deserves a reminder about the main principles.

First of all, Caixa will become the second largest strategic shareholder of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT in exchange for the sale of its stake of 24.14% in Agbar, of which we are going to hold almost 100% after the transaction.

Simultaneously, Caixa will remain our industrial partner in Spain, buying into the operational company's Aguas de Barcelona, which manages the water and sanitation contract for the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and in Aguas de Valencia. With this operation, we can strengthen our position on the Spanish and Chilean markets which are marked by different dynamics, but that offer very interesting prospects both for our group and we strongly believe in these markets for our future growth.

As they will be better integrated into SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT we will speed up our development in these two countries, especially in the area of new water services for which we have a strong ambition.

Last but not least, this operation creates value for the group. It does not only simplify structures with lower minority interests, the net income group share will increase by about €25 million as early as 2015. Moreover, over the half year, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT bought from GDF SUEZ, the almost 4% percent of ACEA shares that they had, raising our stake to 12.5%.

In my view, Italy is, as you know, the third pillar of Water Europe, and I am very currently happy about this position which gives us access to two director positions out of a total of seven directors on the board. I want us to become an essential player in this country where growth prospects are major and where consolidation in the Water business is inevitable.

We have also strengthened our position in other priority areas, in Waste, especially recovery. We have received the Clermont-Ferrand and South Tyne & Wear plants. We have opened a wonderful sorting center in Holland, which is radically innovative where we separate glass depending on its grade and color. These references are undeniably a matter of pride for the group which is able to innovate and conduct large-scale technical projects.

In Industrial Water where we are trying, as we said, to buy business with specific clients or to flesh out our technological range, we've conducted three acquisitions of different sizes, but in the key sectors that we had previously identified and which will help us both geographically and in sales terms. These acquisitions are Process Group, Mining & Industrial Labour Services or M.A.I.L.S. and Evatherm, and I'll say a few more words about that in the rest of my presentation. So, as you can see, there were many events in terms of development during the half year and, of course, we always obviously abided by our strategic and financial criteria and ambitions.

Simultaneously, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT posted robust performance in spite of the difficult macroeconomic context in Europe since the beginning of the year, as evidenced by the change in industrial output indices. To summarize, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT results are very satisfactory in Water in Europe and abroad, but they were more difficult in Waste Europe and at Degrémont.

So, now a few words about the key indicators. EBITDA grew by 1.6% organically which lets me confidently say that we'll reach our guidance for the end of the year. On top of the disposal of the Macau electricity company CEM which helped us achieve a capital gain of €129 million. Net income group share grew to €280 million.

This good performance is explained not only by the effectiveness of our industrial strategy but also by the efforts made in order to offset the consequences related to the absence of a clear recovery in processed waste volumes, because the increase over the half year which includes the impact of new capacity that was commissioned, the growth is globally 1.2%. This figure shows a slowdown compared to the first quarter in line with European statistics for industrial output.

I also wanted to insist on the quality of our balance sheet, especially with controlled debt and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.77%, which keeps our financial flexibility intact and let me highlight that even though we have paid out all of our dividend at the end of May.

I am also very satisfied when I look at the commercial successes that we won in our three divisions, especially around our four priority areas. Let me just give you a few examples.

So far, we've sold 1.8 million smart meters in Europe, which positions us as the leader on the market. We've concluded very interesting agreements in the U.K. in order to produce alternative fuel from wood, in particular waste wood, for RWE which is a major first. In Industrial Water, we've had a breakthrough with Petrobras. We are now equipping 80% of their offshore rigs with systems that help them produce their own processed water. Last but not least, abroad we've won beautiful contracts in China and in U.S. and I'll give you more precise details about that later on in my presentation.

As you know, our strategy is based on a twofold approach; developing our core business and innovating evermore in order to push in the four strategic areas that we've identified and in order to adapt to our changing markets and businesses. The relevance of this strategy helped us gain market share. Consequently, in Water Europe, our sales outcomes are positive for the half year. We've also intensified the implementation of best practices between Lyonnaise des Eaux and Agbar for greater integration between the teams and better efficiency in the field.

In Waste, recent regulatory changes only confirm the strategic choices that we made several years ago, be it with the waste and recycling aspects of the Circular Economy Package of the European Commission or the French bill on the energy transition in terms of waste recycling in France, we were able to anticipate on new measures in terms of recovery and we are already ready to implement them. Finally abroad, we are rolling out our strategy and winning major successes, thanks to our original models tailor-made for the specific needs of the countries and clients with which we work.

Regarding the changes in our strategic areas, we keep innovating to remain pioneers. INFLUX is, for instance, a unique model developed by our teams in order to manage rainwater issues in major cities in real time. In Waste, we're using all our skills in terms of waste flows and logistics in order to set up a European trading platform for secondary raw materials. And abroad, we are pooling our marketing teams in order to be stronger and more impactful, and we are monitoring key accounts at a very high level in order to promote sales actions in the field as part of an integrated approach.

As you can see, all the SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT teams are strongly mobilized. The group is able to anticipate on market evolutions. It's showing exemplary discipline in terms of profitability. And we are now moving towards our future businesses where water and waste will, in fact, become new resources.

Let's now move on to the progress achieved in each of our priority areas. First of all, let's come back to the notion of new water services, and let's be clear about the terminology. We will break it down into two subcategories; what we've called advanced solutions including smart water and other solutions. Advanced solutions are here to be rolled out throughout the group, i.e. both in our public service delegations and for our potential clients like municipal authorities.

These solutions are threefold. First of all, smart solutions, which are here to make the real time management of water services, sanitation or rainwater flows, easier. Then there are smart solutions which helps customers know and control their consumption; for instance, automatic metering even when users are away, regular billing based on actual consumption in order to reduce litigation, online monitoring of water consumption, text alerts or email alerts whenever there is a suspicion of leaks or whenever a specific threshold has been exceeded. And then there are innovative techniques that help us improve network performance or facilitate leak detection.

Other services are here to respond to local demands and they are here in very diverse domains. For instance, the market of real estate environmental performance, which brings together information systems and real estate management advice or the management of harbors; all these new services are here to flesh out our sales offering and to differentiate ourselves further.

Now let's dwell more precisely on the so-called smart solutions. The pyramid that you are seeing here illustrates our deployment strategy on the segment. The foundation of this pyramid is made of smart meters because they are the basic architecture which is essential in order to collect data. To date, as I have already said, we've fitted over 1.8 million meters in Europe, for instance in Malta, Alicante or [indiscernible] (16:34).

After we've installed meters, we put sensors on the network to identify problems as quickly as possible. All of these sensors provide us with the information to manage the network in actual real time. This is where the true value of our services is created. This is also how with data processing software that we've called Aquadvanced for the drinking water network and INFLUX for the wastewater network. There's software that we launched in June for the Singapore Water Week event.

Smart energy helps optimize the energy expenditure of our facilities. We think that it is very valuable against a backdrop of rising energy prices in many regions of the world, and smart environment is the first step towards protecting the planet being the conservation of natural environments or the creation of sustainable cities.

Now let's move on to waste recovery. As you know, the waste market has changed considerably. In the past, the group was mostly involved at the end of a product's life, waste that was only to be disposed of. Now we are the link between waste to be collected and the raw materials of future products.

In order to make waste into a secondary raw material, very early on we invested in innovative recovery techniques which provided us with a lead compared to our competition. We mean to maintain this lead by pursuing our technological efforts internally through our research and development or new partnerships.

In the area of waste to energy we have a clear lead in terms of incineration and anaerobic digestion techniques that we've got perfectly under control. We produce almost three electrical terawatt hours per year and over two terawatt hours as heat in our energy recovery facilities. Now we are going further in the production of biofuels, for instance, thanks to a new partnership with Deinove in order to create an industrial business to turn organic urban waste into ethanol through Deinococcus bacteria.

We are also pioneers in RDF substitution fuels, especially in the UK, produced from wood, and that way we can sign long-term contracts with industrial companies like Cemex or RWE. In terms of material recovery, our efforts aim to constantly improve sorting quality in order not only to reduce discharge but also to improve the operating performance of our sites and ultimately to produce secondary raw materials of such quality that they can be reused, pure or mixed with virgin materials in the manufacturing process of new materials.

With the ZRR system, for instance, that we've developed with ZenRobotics, we are now able to extract raw materials from construction and demolition waste like wood, stone and metals quite safely and with great efficiency. The construction and demolition waste recovery sector is growing very strongly. This system experimented by SITA Finland has improved the sorting rate from 70% to 90%.

In our plastic sorting center in Bayonne and France we have inaugurated a new optical line that helps us better sort plastics and turn them into better quality recycled raw materials. This supports their reuse by industrial companies as fibers 43% in order to make automobile carpets or to make new bottles, bottle-to-bottle or 38%, or in order to produce food tubs for 19%, for instance.

The SITA Group with its unique network of pan-European processing tools and its material recovery optimization strategy has decided to launch a European secondary raw material trading platform. In the past, we mostly operated locally.

Now we'll follow a very different rationale based around three main ideas: waste collection must remain local but based on direct and constant dialog with municipalities and the industrial companies which are waste providers; sorting made either roughly or more finely is done on a regional basis in order to pool the secondary raw materials that were sorted before being reused. The sale and processing of secondary raw materials is done at the national or even European or global scales; our main clients are asking us to become supply partners in the processing of materials or to be simple suppliers, but with very strong requirements in terms of volumes, quality and regularity of supply. This very fast evolution in the world allied to our European collection and logistics capabilities puts SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT in a unique position faced with its competitors.

As you know, in both our businesses, international activities remain a priority. Our development strategy is clear and relies on four main ideas that I would like to share with you. First of all, we would like to strengthen our existing positions in the areas where we've already acquired a significant size. The very recent signature of a significant contract of a 20-year contract in order to manage the wastewater of Nassau City in the U.S. near New York for $1.2 billion illustrates, amongst other things, our commercial success.

Secondly, our ambition is to grow from bases like Morocco where through Lydec, our water and power concession in Casablanca signed in 1997, we've started a new waste activity which has doubled in size in the last two years with contracts, for instance, with the renewal of existing contracts in Casablanca, Meknes and Tangiers which were signed this year.

Of course, our business is local but we are constantly trying to anticipate on our market's needs in order to understand them and adapt to them. Experience gained in one country can help people in other countries move faster, and so we've garnered successes in both our activities in all geographies with diverse contractual models which are innovative and tailor-made like Mumbai in India where we've signed a contract to improve the management of the water supply network of this main metropolis.

Last but not least, we also want to strengthen partnerships with main local players in order to keep benefiting from their experience and support and also from their ability to grow our sales in different countries. These partnerships grow with the size of our business and local strategy.

A recent partnership was signed when the Chinese President came to Paris, and the agreement was signed with Chongqing Water Group in China and it should be very promising in the future. As illustrated on this next slide, our sales activity was very sustained and fruitful over the first half.

I won't walk you through the long list of commercial successes you have up on the screen. There are very many of them as you can see, but let me point out two successes that are of particular interest. First of all, in North America we have a joint venture with AECOM, a large engineering and construction group that's U.S.-based. This joint venture was selected in the first half to perform the management of the top two units of the Waste Management Center in Edmonton, Canada. And this is a five-year contract that amounts to €54 million in sales. We don't have a very strong presence in the country yet, but we have a foothold and we wish to grow there, of course.

Secondly, we entered a contract for the construction and operations of a new hazardous waste treatment and recovery plant. This is in the Economic and Technological Development Area of Nantong, which should generate around €575 million in the 30 years to come. This is a shining example of our development in China in hazardous waste where little by little we have had our know-how recognized. We have had the opportunity to demonstrate our knowhow in the SCIP project, which is operating at cruising speed and, as a matter of fact, there should be an extension in the coming months.

So next to our four strategic priorities we have the strengthening of the overall weight of industrial clients in our portfolio. Water is at the heart of most industrial activities worldwide. Of course, there's drinking water, boiler water, processed water, cooling water, wash water, wastewater, reused water, recycled water, desalinated water. See, there are plenty of usages and the management of the water cycle in industry is of paramount importance in economic environmental terms whatever the industry may be.

The industrial water market holds exceptional potential in the medium term with sales of around $21 billion globally. The market has been growing 9% per year on average and, of course, there are buoyant industries such as oil and gas and mining where there's double-digit growth and there are other industries such as paper or microelectronics where growth is around 5%.

Therefore, we've decided to have all our hands on deck and to develop our proposition in the segment and we have targeted six priority areas that I am going to comment on quite briefly as far as the most important ones are concerned. First of all, oil and gas. Oil and gas consumes a great deal of water. The oil and gas industry also generates a lot of water that's produced by the extraction of oil and gas.

Let me remind you that every time one barrel of oil is extracted, well, 3 barrels to 10 barrels of water are picked up from the wells, whether it be exploration and production upstream or refining and oil services downstream, in every step of the process there are specific and substantial needs when it comes to processed water, treatment of wastewater, and recycling. We are also looking at shale gas operations, which also has tremendous process and recycling needs and which is, of course, growing in North America and in China where we are well-positioned.

The second area is mining. Companies have to extract ore from areas that are not very damp. Therefore, they must face up to their water-related needs. The treatment and the recycling of wastewater is also of considerable significance and there is harsher and harsher regulation regarding water supply and the treatment of wastewater, not to mention the draining of acid water and therefore new solutions have to be found. We provide those solutions, such as desalination and we are looking at advanced technologies to support these clients to help them reduce the consumption of water for every ton extracted.

So water is, of course, necessary in the field of energy too whether it be for conventional plants for the hot source, the steam circuit, or the cold source, cooling circuits, or production of quality water is of paramount importance and it does have a considerable impact on the energy efficiency of the facilities.

SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has longstanding experience and it has had very good relations with clients over the years, so whether you take the resource at the beginning of the process or the discharge, well our expertise and our technological solutions cover every single area in the water cycle. Therefore, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has set itself ambitious objectives when it comes to growth in the industrial water segment. We are banking on our technical expertise, on our stronger commercial forces that I just described to you. We are also banking on our robust ties with our industrial clients, and we do intend to achieve organic growth and this has been illustrated by a number of commercial successes. Nevertheless, we are not hesitating to go out and do acquisitions in order to step up our growth by supplementing our client portfolio and our technological propositions.

Our commercial successes already show that significant advances have been made when it comes to this strategic priority. Here on the slide you have a few global major companies with which the group has established long-term partnerships, namely in the very demanding areas of oil, energy and mining. New agreements have been awarded with Petrobras and Klabin in Brazil or Delta Electricity in Australia. Industrial companies use us to mitigate their environmental impact, secure production continuity, optimize consumption of water energy, and control costs and investments to, of course, improve their productivity.

When it comes to acquisitions now, well, we went ahead with three transactions that I had already mentioned to you. First of all, Process Group, an Australian company; with Process Group we have enriched our technical expertise because they have engineering, manufacturing and commissioning of equipment experience, notably in de-oiling. We have supplemented our portfolio with a number of oil and gas industry companies such as Shell, BHP Billiton, Chevron, Premier and ExxonMobil.

We've extended our geographic reach in industry in the Middle East, in Asia and in Southeast Asia and in Australia based on their existing clientele. With Mining & Industrial Labour Services, also known as M.A.I.L.S., we've strengthened our position in the management of industrial waste in Australia by broadening our proposition to mining companies in the Goldfields area, which is one of the leading mining areas in Western Australia; and with Evatherm in which we recently took a stake, we are developing innovative solutions to afford water savings and to achieve ZRL, zero liquid discharge as it's known in French, with Evatherm's expertise in evaporation and crystallization technologies. These technologies are essential steps that are aimed at disposing of the salt from effluents and getting water recycling solutions in excess of 90% as far as our criteria is concerned. So, as you can see, we're very active when it comes to pursuing our strategy and we've made considerable progress to become one of the leaders in this area.

So in conclusion, I can assert that in the half year we have made one further step in building this group that I would like to unify, that I would like to shape in order to make it more structured and more efficient. The context is not an easy one, but opportunities are more than one for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT given what is at stake in the world in terms of the ecological transition. We have strengthened our [ph] existing win positions (34:34). We've taken on other positions to grow our businesses of the future. Our strengths are genuine and the human capital is one of our main strengths.

Preparing for the future means pushing our limits. Our geographic borders have to be pushed and that's what we're doing. We have to tap into the growth where it is the most buoyant. We're also pushing the limits of our businesses because we want to be present in the whole value chain of water and waste. That is why with the team at SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT we are acting with resolve to adapt and transform this group to face up to a new reality, to the new needs of our clients, to the new markets that we are discovering, exploring and tapping into.

In summary, this is a very exciting task, and now I'd like to give the floor to Jean-Marc who is going to give you the details of the half year accounts.

Thank you, Jean-Louis. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am very happy to give you the details of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT's H1 2014 results. Let me try to summarize things in three messages. First, as Jean-Louis said, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT has robust operating results against a European macroeconomic backdrop which is lackluster but with pluses and minuses geographically, and there is an effect due to forex which is quite substantial this half year as well.

Sales growth was 0.8% organically, gross operating profit grew 1.6%, and [indiscernible] (36:16) operations inched up 1.9%. So you see growth is in a virtuous cycle because we are further cutting costs, and we are further reducing the capital intensity of our businesses.

Second message, well, net attributable profit grew sharply to €280 million from €132 million. Of course, as you know, there were capital gains from the disposal of CEM, our former electricity business in Macau and the capital gains amounted to €129 million. Restated for those capital gains, group share of net profit grew over 14%.

Third message, €7.3 billion; that's our net debt, and it's down €0.5 billion from June 30, 2013. Our leverage ratio is 2.8%, which is below our medium-term objective. Our financial flexibility is therefore unscathed, even after our higher [indiscernible] (37:13) share and making the acquisition of Process Group in June.

Now let's look at the details of the P&L. The group sales, to go on the next page, group sales amounted to €6.891 billion, up 0.8% organically. Of course, there were positive volume effects in water and waste, but there were two negative items that hit the business this half year. First of all, forex, €168 million, strong euro against the Australian dollar, the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar, of course; then there was the one off drop in Degrémont's business, €78 million. This is ascribable to an exceptional €34 million contribution due to the commercial renegotiation for our water production contract in Sydney and due to the fact that some significant construction contracts were terminated in Chile and the Middle East and this is unprecedented.

Also there was good performance for Water Europe, up 3.6% organically and Waste Europe the business was flat given that industrial production is pretty lackluster as mentioned. And on international markets the mere 1.2% organic increase is ascribable to Degrémont only.

Let's take a look at operating profit, €1.326 billion, up 1.6% organically. This, of course, includes the capital gains and disposal of CEM of €129 million. This was done by Sino French a company the results of which are on an equity basis in our books. Conversely you see the gross operating profit was negatively hit by significant forex to the tune of €61 million. Our three operating segments had pluses and minuses over the period. In Water Europe there was strong organic 9% growth in gross operating profit because of stronger volume in Spain and Chile and due to good tariff indexing in all regions.

Waste Europe had flat operating profit, minus 1.1%. That was a direct consequence of the uncovered evolution of the price of secondary raw materials and the price of services in countries where competition was tougher such as the Netherlands and Poland. The International segment dropped 0.9% organically, but if you restate that for the renegotiation of the Sydney contract that I mentioned that impacts all the indicators in the P&L, while the organic growth in gross operating profit would be 10.5%.

Now let's take a look at the contribution of COMPASS to the performance over the half year. As already demonstrated in the past, our aim to continuously improve operating performance is of a consequential merit in our performance policy. On the left of the graph here you can see there's a lot at stake.

All the group's subsidiaries, without any exception, were mobilized this half year, thereby generating €60 million in net sustainable savings, which accounts for roughly 1.1% in the reduction of all the groups OpExs, including inflation. 41% of those savings include the improvement of our operating performance, 39% is the additional efficiency of our procurement processes and 20% is a reduction of overheads in the group by seeking further integrated and even more efficient organization. You can also see that Waste Europe was once again the largest contributor to the group's efficiency performance. So the achievements in the first half, place the group in a very good position when it comes to its annual objective of cost reduction which is €125 million. I'm even hoping that we can do a little better than that.

Now let's take a look at the detailed numbers of the operating performance of all our three segments. At Water Europe, sales were driven by three factors. First of all, good tariff changes in all countries – you can see this on the right hand chart – from 1.2% to 7.3% in price hikes. Also, there was positive commercial activity. It was positive in France, Spain, Chile, which once again demonstrates the ability that we have in offering innovative solutions to our clients and also new businesses have made inroads along with new services and there we have 6.2% in growth.

Now, gross operating profit in the segment rose at [ph] Lyonnaise des Eaux (42:08) and at Agbar reaching €607 million with a 27.5% margin, up 60 basis points. Let me also remind you that the 2013 gross operating profit had involved a €5 million amount paid to the clients of Aguas Andinas following the foul weather in the first quarter.

The scope effect in Water Europe is positive. Half of it is the new contribution of Aguas de Sabadell which we acquired in H2 2013 and the other half is the new contribution of ACEA, because following the recent rise in our stake and the change in the governance at Italian group, we can now consolidate this stake now on an equity basis and this has been possible since Q2 2014. Also Water Europe made further productivity efforts thereby generating €19 million in COMPASS-related savings.

Regarding Waste Europe, here we're on page 23, what I would like to highlight is that this first of all. There was a rise in treated volume, 1.2% over the half year. Roughly 1% of that has to do with new treatment capacity that we commissioned. Let me remind you that the rise in volume was 1.7% at the end of the first quarter which shows that Q2 was less buoyant, nevertheless, in line with the indices that reflect industrial production in Europe.

Also, the price effect on our services had a negative impact, roughly 0.5% with pluses and minuses geographically depending on local competition. As already pointed out, two countries are particularly concerned here, the Netherlands due to local overcapacity and Poland where municipal waste collection called for fully overhauling the market.

Also the drop in the prices of secondary raw materials was mentioned by Jean-Louis, this continued to bear upon recovery. And on average in the first half, paper lost 6% of its values, scrap iron 7% and there was also a reduction in the price of electricity buybacks in continental Europe. Notably in France there was termination of historical contracts.

Nonetheless, the operating profit of the segment is roughly flat €374 million. And I'd like to once again stress good cost control with significant COMPASS efforts, €26 million margin and jumped 20 basis points to 11.9%. Geographically speaking, operating profit rose in the UK. It's stable in France, in Benelux and in Scandinavia, and it dropped in Germany and in Central Europe. Now if we analyze this by business and not by geography, the operating profit was stable for services, it was up for material and energy recovery, and it was down for disposal.

Let me close with International, as is customary. Sales in International amounted to €1.545 billion. Regionally, Jean-Louis gave you plenty of numbers but let me say this, Asia Pacific rose 5% organically driven by good volume in China and good growth in the waste business in Australia and North America rose 2%. The price hikes that we got were offset by shrinking volume due to foul weather in the spring in the Northeast of the United States. Africa, Middle East experienced strong organic growth, 8.9%, notably driven by very good business in Morocco.

Degrémont conversely had a 13.5% sales decrease. I've already explained why, but bear in mind that its design build log book amounts to €900 million. It's flat from last year. We're not pessimistic as far as construction is concerned because the outlook is promising. There are plenty of calls for tenders in progress and we are looking at sales for Degrémont similar to the levels of 2013. The segment's gross operating profit is sharply up to €389 million, including the €129 million in capital gains from the disposal of CEM, as you've understood. If you restate this for the Sydney agreement and for the capital gains, gross operating profit would rise 10.5% and margin would be sharply up 16.8% versus 15.7% last year.

Let's continue to walk down the P&L. Amortization €525 million, down 2.3%. This decline, as you can see in the appendices, is essentially ascribable to Waste Europe and it demonstrates our constant ongoing efforts to reduce the capital intensity of our businesses. The other expenses are slightly up, but on the whole, as you can see, the increase in profit from our recurring operations from €103 million to €615 million is greater than what we had for gross operating profit which is merely, if I may so, €98 million. Below profit from recurring operations you see that exceptional items amount to a modest minus €5 million.

Nevertheless, I would like to say this to explain that. First of all, the first equity based consolidation of our stake in ACEA generated reappraisal of our shares at their fair value. This has to do with the group's accounting principles and now we had €65 million in gains. Secondly, there were restructuring expenses, provisions for small assets, and that all that amounted to €79 million and that should help us generate additional savings from 2015 onwards. So, on the whole, the profit from recurring business amounts to €653 million, up €105 million or 19.2% from fiscal 2013.

Now in the rest of the P&L, you can see that interest amounts to €182 million and it's flat but on the strength of proactive management, maturity and liquidity of the debt that I'll come back to, the average cost of the debt was pushed down to 4.43% from 4.71% in June 2013.

Corporate income tax, while €59 million versus €82 million a year earlier, the income tax rate is 23% versus 26% in 2013 due to low tax paid on the gains from ACEA and there's less of a tax rate in such countries as Chile, for instance.

Minority stakes €109 million; it was €35 million higher than that in 2013, but at the time there were non-recurring items due to the reappraisal of our assets in Australia and due to the reappraisal of assets in Indonesia. So, on the whole, net profit group share €280 million, up 112% from 2013.

Now let me move on to investments and the rest of the cash flow. In the half year we invested €499 million in physical and financial CapEx, up 2% from fiscal 2013 as Jean-Louis pointed out. And as announced, we have started a new cycle of acquisitions; the stake in ACEA, Process Group in oil and gas, and the recent announcement of the remaining 24% of Agbar that Jean-Louis spoke about at great length and gave you the objectives.

We updated the list of our more significant development project and have been giving progress reports. We are not behind apart from the waste gasification project in County Surrey that's been delayed for permitting reasons and this is due to the public authorities in County Surrey.

Conversely, you can see the Merseyside project in Liverpool is slightly ahead of the schedule that we had set ourselves. This is an opportunity for me to remind you that we commissioned new energy-from-waste centers, Clermont-Ferrand in Central France and South Tyne & Wear in Great Britain. So as we speak we have six significant energy-from-waste projects under construction. This, of course, is quite promising for the future and our positioning has become even stronger and this shall provide even greater contributions to our results from 2015 onwards.

Let's take a look at free cash flow; €215 million, up 2.4% from H1 2013. This good performance was achieved in spite of deterioration in working capital requirement. This €300 million increase here; there are two explanations for this unusual phenomenon. Well, first of all, there was a seasonal effect that was stronger than usual. As you know, our working capital requirement is hit by seasonal swings. It rises sharply in the first quarter and it will drop significantly in the fourth quarter. Secondly, we have been setting up new IT tools for billing, notably for Sita in Belgium [indiscernible] (52:19). This, of course, leads to billing and [ph] cashing-in (52:24) delays. But this one-off increase in working capital requirement should ease off towards the end of the year.

If I may, let me conclude with the debt over the half year. As at June 30, 2014, our net debt amounted to €7.295 billion, up near €109 million from December 2013, but significantly down €503 million from H1 2013. Now apart from the various items that have already been mentioned, let me just provide you with some additional information. First of all, the dividend paid in cash to our shareholders amounted to €479 million, including €330 million for the shareholders of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT Company. Secondly, our liability management transactions on super subordinate securities or hybrid securities, helped push debt down €183 million. Thirdly, as you know, we deconsolidated our Clermont-Ferrand energy from waste plan to the tune of €211 million, and there was an FX impact that hit the P&L, but it's insignificant on debt.

Also neither the price of the disposal of CEM €220 million cashed in on July 15, nor the impact on – the debt impact following the transaction also on July 18 with Caixa meant €200 million are in the half year numbers, but as you can see they offset one another.

Net debt over EBITDA 2.77% below our ratio at the end of the year. Moody's renewed A3 rating for SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT last May with stable outlook and that's excellent news indeed. There you are, ladies and gentleman, what I wanted to share with you. The half year performance of the group is robust. As a consequence, we are maintaining all our annual objectives.

I thank you for your attention and once again give the floor to Jean-Louis for a few words of conclusion.

Thank you, Jean-Marc. As you just explained, we are now moving on to the second part of the year with great resolve and ambition. Our business is buoyant. The strategy is clear, our teams are motivated, our accounts are robust, our financial flexibility is intact as Jean-Marc just said, and we want to grow faster.

So, with Jean-Marc, we are ready to take your questions and we'd also like to thank you for paying attention to our presentations.

Thank you, sir [Operator Instructions] . We will take the first question from Nathalie Casali, JPMorgan.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. First of all, I have a question about processed waste volumes. You talked about I think 0.2% increase in the first half on the like-for-like basis of. Without new capacity, I think last year the figure was 0.7%, so that involves a drop in like-for-like processed volumes in Q2. Could you comment on this drop?

Secondly, could you give us some guidance for the full year about the minority levels because there has been a significant 25% drop over the first half? And a more long-term question about ROCE, the long-term target 9% versus 7%, could you give us an idea about how much of the improvement will come from recovery and waste and how much comes from management actions?

Thank you, Nathalie, for these questions. I'll answer the first one and Jean-Marc can take the second and maybe we can answer the third together. Regarding processed volumes, I'll confirm the three figures that you gave; 1.2% growth in the first half. Out of 1.2%, 0.2% comes from an improvement, a slight improvement in volumes related to the macroeconomic developments. And I can also confirm that they're slightly down, growth is slightly down compared to the first quarter.

How can you explain that? Well it's fairly simple. Just look at both the developments in GDP on one hand and on the other hand, above all, look at industrial output and you'll see that industrial output in our countries and we've made a calculation, a weighted calculation of the activity that we have, for the first half industrial output is slightly negative.

So it's rather good performance to think that in a depressed industrial output environment, SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT was able to slightly increase volumes compared to last year but the drop observed is fully correlated to industrial output in Europe, which as you know drives our business and volumes.

Regarding minority interests, could Jean-Marc give us some indications?

Hello, Nathalie. The level of minority interests for the half year at €108 million is quite normal. It's the same as last year which was slightly artificially inflated by an operation in Sydney and one in Indonesia. Two weeks ago I would have said that you can consider that the amount would be slightly identical in the second half. But now, of course, there will be the buyback of minority shares of Agbar, and as you know, there will be a €25 million contribution on EBIT in 2015, mostly from a switch between minority interests and group share.

We'll close this operation at the end of Q3 2014 and the impact for the end of year will be quite modest. So, €108 million is quite normal, and apart from the Agbar deal, it should also be found in following years. Of course, it will increase in the following years based on the growths coming from our various operations.

Regarding ROCE, our ambition is still to have an ROCE back to 9% mid-term. To achieve that we are not expecting a strong economic recovery. I want to come back to what Jean-Louis said about the sluggish economic environment in Europe. The assumptions that we have in our models are the IMF assumptions; GDP growth in the euro area of 1.2% for 2014, but 1.2% is inflated. If you restate that – if you correct that for inflation, it's very close to zero for 2015. And the IMF anticipates 1.5% in our model. Growth would remain stable at 1.5%. So, it's truly a continuous improvement of our operating profit and the commissioning of new facilities that will drive most of our ROCE growth model from more than economic recovery in Europe.

Of course, if there were an economic recovery in Europe that would tremendously boost us but that's not the central scenario that we have. And we also need to achieve 1.5% growth in Europe and that's part of the assumptions that we've made in order to improve our ROCE in the mid-term.

....from Martin Young from RBC.

Yeah. Good morning to everybody. I'm just going to limit it to the one question. I'm just interested in your view on what had exceeded your expectations that you had at the start of the year in a positive way, in the first half of this year, and what had been a bit of a disappointment in the first half? Thank you.

Undoubtedly, Martin, good morning. This is our estimate. Water Europe has performed a little bit better than expectation, notably in Chile and Spain where the tariff increases were very significant.

On the contrary as you have noticed, we are slightly behind expectation as far as Waste is concerned. Not so much by volumes, by the way, because we had anticipated that volume would go up 1% year-on-year and as a matter of fact, we are at 1.2% at the end of June. So we are totally in line with expectation. But we are a little bit concerned by the evolution of commodity prices because we had anticipated flat commodity prices in Europe and as a matter of fact really we are slightly down.

So overall, Water in Europe is slightly better than expected and Waste in Europe is slightly below expectation, but it will not prevent us from reaching our annual guidance globally, we are very confident with regards to our 2014 objectives.

And the next question comes from Patrick Hummel from UBS.

Yes. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Two please. First one regarding the D&A line which has decreased year-over-year. Can you help us a bit on that line item? What's, for example, the currency impact there? Was that a benefit to the D&A line and how should we think about the D&A growth, let's say, over the next two years to three years in light of your growth strategy?

And the second question, sorry, I got cut-off in that very moment when you discussed the tax line, which is very low compared to the previous year, is there any update you can give us in your tax rate guidance for the full year and then for the coming years? Thank you.

Jean-Marc do you want to answer those two questions?

Yes. Good morning, Patrick. With regards to D&A, you raised two questions; the first regarding forex impact and second regarding possible future evolution. Has forex helped a little bit in the decrease in D&A? The answer is yes. Just to give you a precise indication, the impact of forex at EBITDA level is €61 million and at EBIT level it's €40 million. So you have a precise indication on how forex is playing on our P&L.

Going forward, do I believe that D&A will go up sharply? The answer is no because if you multiply it by two the apparent charge you end up to a total annual D&A of €1.050 billion. But since we are investing in the industrial CapEx between €1 billion and €1.2 billion, mechanically D&A will remain flattish or so in the future. So, you have the two answers to your two question regarding D&A.

With regards to tax, the reason why the apparent tax charge is below last year is just because the revaluation of share gain is not taxed. But if you did that mentally it's a gain of €65 million rendered to the conclusion that the apparent tax charge is flattish year-on-year.

In your model, going forward, I've always recommended you to take 30%, which is probably a little bit cautious, because the tax rate in Chile and Hong Kong and other countries is lower than the European average. But I still continue to give the same recommendations. So, going forward, it will come closer and closer to 30% in the future.

Yeah. Thanks very much. And can I just double check on the currency impact? Is that still guided at €100 million in EBITDA for the full year, or have things just improved slightly during the second quarter that the full year impact might be a bit less than the €100 million?

Difficult to assess given the volatility, but I strongly recommend that you stick to the €100 million impact at EBITDA level.

Okay. Thanks very much.

From Exane we've got Olivier van Doosselaere on the line.

Yes. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. I just have three questions. One is in terms of the improvement of the cost of debt, which came down significantly compared to last year, but I think you're got about six years of maturity. If I look where your bonds are trading, it actually suggests that you could issue debt of that maturity at a cost mid -- below 2%. So I wonder if you think that there is significant scope to further improve the financial charges going forward, and maybe also playing a bit on the liquidity side as well.

Then the second question is regarding to the French energy transition. There is an ambition there to reduce overall volumes, and also to reduce the landfill volumes in Waste. So, given that you are the number one player I believe in landfilling in French Waste, I wonder if you see this as a risk or as an opportunity.

And then finally, just to get a bit of a better feeling on the cost savings that you realized in the Waste side, does that still include some rationalization of Waste with some closing of waste plants, or are you keeping all of those open at the moment because volumes are maybe doing slightly better?

Okay. Thank you. Jean-Marc, you will answer the first questions and also the one on the cost saving. I will take the one – let me take the one about the transitions, ecological transitions or energy transitions. Yes. It is true that in the law, even if the law has not been passed for the time being, so we have to be cautious. But it has been said that we should reduce the volumes going to landfill by 50% compared to 2000 to 2010 in 2025, okay? So it's a reduction of 50% of the volumes, which were going in landfill at that time.

Well, first of all, if you recall, well, what we told you already in past presentations SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is totally engaged in a transition of this volume going from landfill to what we call recycling, [indiscernible] (1:07:53), et cetera. And you remember that we gave you the figures of going from one to one. One tonne is going to landfill, so one tonne going to recycling to two to one by between 2010 and 2017. So, first of all, yes, we have already engaged in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT this transitions.

Second, when you look at the situation up to now and you look to what is going to happen in between now and 2025, you will realize that we need more or less to reduce volumes going to landfill by between let's say 1.5% and 2% per year, which is something totally acceptable and reasonable.

Third, we have been preparing during all the past years and still now all the necessary tools, industrial tools, in order to get all those volumes which are shifting from landfill to recycling. So at the same time it's a transition which is smooth in my view and a transition which is offering us opportunities, so I do not see that, absolutely not, as a threat. Jean-Marc?

Good morning, Olivier. Regarding your first question on the cost of debt. First to remind you that I believe that we have been smart enough to buyback more expensive debt and issue a new one at much lower cost. If I only keep the example of the liability management we've done for the hybrid, we brought back one hybrid at 4.82%, reissuing a new one at 3%. So in that respect it was an inefficient liability management. I also would like to remind you that we've issued a €350 million zero coupon or convertible bond which was also a clever operation.

Would we be able to continue to reduce the cost of debt in the future? I hope so, but I don't want to take any quantified commitment. Keeping in mind that we're always willing to extend the maturity of the debts. So it will be easy to reduce the cost of debt if we were to reduce the maturity but we don't want to enter into that type of game and we have increased maturity as you rightly pointed to almost seven years. And we want also to keep a safe liquidity. We have ended up the semester with €2.9 billion of liquidity which is evenly split between the cash in hand and an undrawn credit facility.

So all-in-all, yes, I expect to do a little bit better in the future, but I believe that with 4.4% we are already at the low point of the curve. Keeping in mind also that this cost of debt does not include the effect that we have in Chile. In Chile we have an inflation linked debt, so nobody knows exactly how we levered the inflation in Chile and it could affect also a little bit going forward the cost of our debt.

And finally, your third and last question was regarding waste sites. Have we closed any further sites in Europe in H1? The answer is yes, but very limited amount of sites. In fact the vast majority of the restructuring is behind us, depending obviously on the evolution of volume. If volumes were to decline again in the future, if the recession would come back, yes obviously we will be, again, more flexible in terms of a number of sites. But the vast majority of the closure of sites was organized in the last two years.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Now, we take our next question and it's from Michel Debs from Credit Suisse.

Good morning. I have a few questions on numbers and then on strategy and outlook. The first question on numbers is that if you take your figures as reported and you retreat them to take away the capital gain from the Macau sale, the €129 million, on my calculation EBITDA falls to €1,197 million which is 2.6% below the same period last year and that includes FX. Our net income is still up and net income is up as my colleagues have remarked because of lower minorities and lower taxes. How persistent will that be in the years to come?

Second question on maintenance CapEx. I know that it's down 10%. It's down to around €250 million, it was a bit more last year. Is this something that again is recurring? Would you be able to keep maintenance debt low for the long term?

And the last question I have please is on French Water. We have discussed opportunities in French Waste and my understanding is that the Minister of Environment in France is also trying to look into water bills with a view to stabilize them and include social tariffs.

My understanding is that you already have social tariffs in place. But nevertheless could you remind us what the impact on your numbers would be if the government starts cutting tariffs or starts to create more socialization of them. Is there any impact? Is the impact positive or is it negative? Thank you very much.

Well, Jean-Marc, we will take the questions, the minus 10% impact on long term. In terms of your question also about EBITDA position, I remind you what we said during the presentations. We have a strong impact and Jean-Marc has repeated that on several occasions due to forex situations.

When you look to in my view what is the most important part is, what is the evolutions on EBITDA, you should say internal growth. You will see that as we said before it is in the range of 1.6% totally in line with the 2% we have said we will reach by the end of the year. So we are absolutely confident to achieve our target.

On the French Water and [indiscernible] (1:14:40) last comment on social tariff, et cetera. As we mentioned if there is one industry which has been able to implement social tariffs before any other in France is the water industry. We have various – a lot of different situations in different concessions in France where social tariff applied.

Of course, obviously that has been put in place with an idea that at the end of the day the profitability of the company is maintained. If not it doesn't make sense. So I do not see any difficulties to generalize social tariff as long as it respects the balance, if I can say, between cost and return.

And I am ready of course to discuss with the Minister in order to see how we can generalize this kind of social tariff, I should say new systems. But in any case I remind you that in France, it is the Mayor who are in charge of water services and water contracts, therefore as you know we have more or less 2,600 contracts in France, so we could have 2,600 discussions. And I do not see how the Minister could apply directly or intervene directly in negotiations which are, I should say, between municipalities and companies. So, at the end of the day, yes we are ready. Yes, we have already implemented social tariff. Yes, we are ready to more discussion including with the Minister, but at least for the time being, these discussions is in between local authorities and SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT.

Good morning, Michel, maybe I will do the math with you again on EBITDA but I believe that your understanding is correct. EBITDA is up €100 million year-on-year, of which €129 million is related to the disposal of CEM since Sino French's equity accounted in SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT consolidated account and including also minus €61 million of forex, which leaves €20 million of organic growth or 1.6%, as we said.

Remember also that this €20 million is achieved after an impact of minus €34 million, which is due to a renegotiation, a commercial renegotiation of our Sydney contract that you knew about, because I've explained that to all of you when establishing the guidance six months ago. So, 1.6% all-in-all organic growth and 4.2% organic growth if we exclude mentally the Sydney revaluation.

With regards to the maintenance CapEx, that was your second question, we've always told you that with the level of maintenance between €600 million and €650 million, we're now at the lowest point of the curve. And I can confirm to you that we will not go below €600 million. So, the amount of maintenance CapEx will be, if I put aside the forex impact, will be flat year-on-year, between €600 million and €650 million.

[Foreign Language] (01:18:18 – 01:18:23) Our next question is from Morgan Stanley.

Good morning. My first question has to do with waste management. And as far as services are concerned if one excludes commodities, you mention that the price environment was difficult in the Netherlands, if I recall, correctly. Could you tell us about France and the UK and in particular, could you tell us whether the competitive landscape has changed and whether there has been price pressure exerted by other operators?

Secondly, regarding amortization, Jean-Marc, you mentioned €1.050 billion doubling therefore. So could you tell me if I'm correct? And you mentioned forex. Could we also take shrinking volume in landfills into account, given the medium term drop in landfilling mostly to regulations? Is this good for your amortization or not? And then a quick question on provisions and restructuring costs. Capital gains are offset. How is that handled from a tax standpoint? We're talking about the €79 million.

Jean-Louis Chaussade, well, as far as prices in waste management in Europe are concerned and specifically when it comes to services, notably collection, it's quite clear that indeed in the half year, the pressure exerted has been strong. And that explains part of the situation we described as far as EBITDA is concerned. Regarding each and every country, Jean-Marc, what can you say?

Well, we don't disclose the numbers for each and every country, but on page 23 [ph] Emmanuel (01:20:56) you can see that apart from secondary raw materials, prices dropped €17 million out of €3.2 billion in sales, which is why I said minus 0.5%. There are two countries where it's notable. The Netherlands, where the situation is one of overcapacity as everyone knows. And I also mentioned Poland, where the household waste collection market was totally overhauled six months ago with major price drops to the tune of 20%.

Prices are looking good in France. There's still some pressure in certain British regions. Some operators still have been landfilling and cutting prices. But in Belgium and Scandinavia, things are looking good price-wise. And this is the second half-year where the price effect is negative 0.5% down therefore and that's not very good news. Your second question has to do with amortization. I can confirm that we shall have €525 million times two equals €1.050 billion. If you refer to the appendices there is one with the EBIT breakdown by division. You see that amortization of performance can be found in Waste Europe. Does this have to do with the shrinking landfill volume? The answer is no.

Our amortization does not have to do with the volume that goes through the assets we build. It has to do with the number of assets that we operate, you see, and if amortization drops, well it's because over the past two years we reduced the number of assets and we have optimized our capital intensity. So in the future, I suggest you can use that €1.050 billion number. It will not go above €1.1 billion if we invest in physical CapEx anywhere between €1 billion and €2 billion.

Your third question had to do with the €79 million in provisions, in exceptional items in profit. Now, let me give you some further information. One-third of the €79 million is provisions for restructuring to come. I won't give you any more details about that. And two-thirds is ascribed to impairment of various assets. We had some intangible asset impairments in Water Europe, tangible in Waste Europe, tangible asset impairment and mark-to-market in our stake in Indonesia, given the recent drop in the Indonesian rupee [sic] rupiah (1:23:45) against the euro. So there are pluses and minuses that are not very significant one-by-one. But all told, it amounts to €79 million, as you realize. From a tax standpoint, the provisions will mostly be deductible from a tax standpoint.

Vincent Ayral from Société Générale.

Yes, good morning. Just one or two questions here. We already discussed about the EBITDA corrected for the capital gain of CEM. I'd like to know what would be the retreated number for the net income year-on-year growth when you retreat for the same capital gain in the ACEA revaluation. If we were to add the forex, I think that would give pretty much the number that I'm looking for here.

Second question, would like to have potentially an update on what is your current estimate of the forex impact for the full year. I understand that the forex impact was mostly to be expected in H1 as the currency movement happened in H2 last year. And the third question is related to the M&A. When you talked about how you proactively manage your cost of debt, you highlighted indeed the 0% coupon convertible, as well as the hybrid issuance, so you increased your hybrid capacity by €200 million. I wanted to know if these is indeed spare capacity for additional M&A. Thank you very much.

Jean-Marc, you want to take the two first questions, I will take the M&A one?

Yes, good morning Vincent. With regards to the net profit evolution excluding CEM, the answer is plus 14%. If you do the math, €280 million less €129 million is €151 million, if I can count properly, versus €132 million last year, means an increase of 14% year-on-year. Your second question is regarding the forex impact. I still believe that the estimate I gave you six months ago, which is a possible minus €100 million at EBITDA level, is still the right assumption as of today, after minus €61 million in H1.

Okay. About the M&A strategy, you remember probably at the beginning of the year we said that with a ratio, a net debt on EBITDA around 2.8, we had something between €600 million and €800 million of potential M&A capacity, if I can say. Well, as was mentioned by Jean-Marc, thanks to all the operations we have been doing, including the sales of CEM and even including the money we have to pay to acquire the 24% of Agbar. At the end of September, we will have probably the same flexibility.

So yes, we will be able to do some additional M&A. Well, once I have said that, as we have always said, it will depend of opportunities, it will depend of I should say price to be paid. It will depend of capacity to find opportunities, both strategically and financially interesting for us and it has always been the case in our strategy. So, we have flexibility, doesn't mean we are going to use it. But as you can see, we said to you that if an opportunity will occur, we will move. And in the first half, we did it – or the beginning of the second half of the year, we did it.

Okay, thank you very much. And just want to come back on the first question. I wanted to retreat it for the CEM capital gain, but as well the ACEA reevaluation and the forex, because the 14% excluding CEM, I think you've put it in your financial reporting, but retreating for as well ACEA reevaluation and forex. Would you have this number by any chance?

We don't give the impact of forex at net profit level, but obviously the impact existed and is slightly negative. With regards to the exceptional result, I think you have to look at all of it together and as you have understood from our presentation, the total amount of exceptional items is almost zero. So, at the end of the day, I think your near noticeable impact is the one with the disposal of CEM.

Thank you.

Next on the line from Goldman Sachs, we have Dario Carradori.

Yes, good morning, just a very quick question on the Dutch waste market, if I can. If I understood correctly, the Dutch Finance Minister a few weeks ago has proposed to extend a €13 per tonne tax to incineration starting from next year. So, we're just curious to know if you expect any impact for your business and in particular, whether you see any risk that some of the volumes are diverted to other countries where there is no tax. Thank you very much.

But you have nearly answered the question you raised. As you mentioned very well, first of all we have to make sure that what is going to happen exactly, so I will be a little bit cautious in the comment. But if it apply, as we understand it, it will be for us an opportunity because it means that this tax will be only on Dutch waste and not on imported waste. And as you know, we have a large amount of volumes coming from UK. Those, it will not apply to any waste going to a foreign capacity and we have one capacity which is just on the border between Germany and Netherlands. So therefore, we have to analyze in details the new situations, we have to know the detail of the law, but for the time being, we see it also as an opportunity for us.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Denis Lepadatu from Kempen. You might unmute your lines, sir.

Sorry, once again. Good morning. I still have a couple of questions on the Dutch waste market and in particular on the competitive landscape, and I was wondering if you see any structural changes in this market that could deal with the overcapacity. And if not, if you have a view on the volume recovery required to reduce this overcapacity?

Secondly, I was wondering if you could provide your updated view on commodity prices for the remainder of the year and the potential impact on EBITDA of the European waste division. And thirdly, in respect to the international division, I was wondering what is still your expectation for medium-term growth and what are the key areas within this division, which should accelerate faster in order to bring this division to mid-to-high single-digit growth.

Okay. Listen, about the Dutch market, you have to consider that there is two different markets. You have the waste-to-energy market, which in my view is recovering, partially thanks to the volumes which are coming from elsewhere and many from UK and you have the collection market and it is what we spoke with Jean-Marc about service. And in this particular area, where you have a lot of small medium-sized competitors, for the time being the competitions remains extremely tough because the volumes collected are less than it was before in the order and I insist on the fact that our waste-to-energy systems are totally functioning at full capacity and that the price [ph] objectivity (02:33:08) is going up.

For the commodities rest of the year evolution, frankly speaking I don't know what Jean-Marc believes, but it's very difficult to give you any specific comment. The only thing which is true is when I come – in terms of comparability, the commodity price was slightly lower at the end of last year than it was at the beginning. And therefore, that could help. But in terms of what is going to happen in the coming six months, Jean-Marc, I don't know if you know much better [indiscernible] (01:33:45).

No, we have no clue. I mean the visibility we have is for one month or two months but not more than that. Maybe what I can add is that compared to our guidance, to give you a rough indication, if commodities were to remain as they are, we will lose probably something like €25 million of pre-tax profit. That's an order of magnitude that we would need to compensate. Maybe to give you further information about the Dutch market, the overall capacity as of today is in burnable waste, approximately 707 tonnes. It is not massive but still it's an overcapacity and this overcapacity will be served in the future – or might be served in the future through three different means.

The first one is closure of sites; there are sites that will need to be closed in the next two years, three years because they are aging a little bit, notably sites which are still owned by local authorities. Second will be served by the increase of industrial output. As a matter of fact, the Netherlands has suffered in H1 from a severe contraction of its industrial output with minus 5.1% when I compare it to H1 2013. So, the economic situation in the Netherlands as of today is worse than the European average. And the third element for the resolution of this overcapacity is as Jean-Louis mentioned, the exportation of RDF from the UK to Netherlands and SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT alone is exporting a vast amount of RDF between those two countries.

The third question is medium-term, on which segment market were you referring in particular when you were questioning us regarding medium-term perspective? The international division, you mean?

Yes, the international division as a whole.

Well, as of today, if you put aside Degrémont, which is a more volatile activity, the growth of the international division excluding Degrémont is 5% in H1. So we are not too far away from the 6% to 8% we have spoken about historically and that will grow notably through the increase of our exposure with industrial customers.

Jean-Louis mentioned the two very significant contracts that we were awarded in Brazil with Petrobras in oil and gas and Klabin with the paper industry. But clearly that will be through the increase of our activity in industrial customer on one hand and probably also through the development of our Asian activity that we will reach this 6% to 8%. But we maintain this objective and as we will demonstrate in H2, the situation will be much better for Degrémont in the second part of the year and in the future years.

Yes, I would like to insist on that point, I think that's okay, the first half has been disappointing in terms of Degrémont activities, but frankly speaking the second half should be much better with pipeline of projects and project awarded is now growing quite fast.

And second, I see various activities going up in Asia, as mentioned, especially in China, as mentioned by Jean-Marc. We also mentioned that we have been awarded this month a contract in the US, et cetera.

So I am quite optimistic and I think that the medium-term assumption of 6% to 8% is something we should achieve in the coming, let's say, average years, but it will be an average but it will be achieved.

Okay, that's very clear. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Martin Young from RBC.

Hello, once again. Just one follow-up question and that's in relation to your longer term strategy in respect of Italy and ACEA in particular. If I look back at the long history of the SUEZ Group, there are certainly a number of instances where you established a bit of a bridgehead and then subsequently built on that, achieving full ownership, notably SITA and more recently Agbar. Just wondered how that might play out in respect of ACEA in Italy? Thank you.

Well, I already answered this question. We have a long-term, long view strategy in Italy. This strategy is built around two pillars. One is our activity in the Water business I should say in the north of Italy.

And the second one is around our participation in ACEA. For the time being, we are happy with what we have. If we can help ACEA to develop this business, we will do it. As I mentioned before also, ACEA clearly will be one of the companies which will be part of the consolidations in Italy. It will come, it will take time but it will come.

And for the Northern activity in Italy, in Florence, et cetera, in this Tuscany regions, we continue to grow it. We are quite happy and if there is some opportunities to extend it, we will seize it. So very clearly our strategy in Italy, it's a strategy of developing our activity but on a long term view, as I mentioned before. Thank you.

Can I ask what impediments there are to further increasing the stake in ACEA at a corporate governance level there?

As I told you before, we are very happy with the present situation where we have 12.5% and two board members out of seven which give us a reasonable influence on the board. And therefore, on the strategy of the company, but obviously the mayor and the City of Roma, still have the majority with 51%.

Great. Thank you.

And we take our last question for today, it's from Verity Mitchell from HSBC.

Hey, good morning. I just got two strategic questions. One is on the industrial market. I just wondered if you would talk through. Clearly, there are huge opportunities, what you think your competitive advantage is in such a market? Is it geography, or is it technical reach?

And also on some Water – my second question, and what's your view of affordability, clearly there are, again, enormous opportunities in Southern Europe. And can the local authorities actually afford to pay you the tariffs for actually achieving the work?

Okay. On the second question on the Southern European strategy of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT, we have always said that we have decided to focus SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT's strategy on three [indiscernible] (1:41:38) countries which are France, Spain and Italy, because one, the tariff in this part of Europe is far below the average.

When I look, for example, to Italy the average tariff is only slightly above €1 when the average European tariff is much more in the range of €3.5, now even €3.8 compared to what you can have in Denmark or Germany, where you are above €5 or €6. So first reason is tariffs are low.

Second reason is the tariffs are low usually because there is a lack of infrastructure. And therefore, people like us with [indiscernible] (1:42:26) technology, we are able to build at a good, reasonable price those necessary infrastructures. So for both reasons, and I should add a third one which I have mentioned before, which is a necessity, especially in Italy, of having a consolidation in the market. For all those reasons we believe that it's an appropriate choice to focus on the Southern part of Europe in terms of water strategy.

And as it was also mentioned by Jean-Marc before, if you look to the tariff increase, you will see – and that's obvious and that has been said now since nearly the time we became a listed company. We told you that the tariffs in those parts of the world are going to grow faster than inflation, just to be able to pay infrastructures. And it is exactly which is happening in Spain and something which is going to happen also in Italy. So, yes, I confirm that our strategy, water strategy in Southern Europe, is probably the adequate one. At least, it is what we believe. And it is what the facts are telling us also.

Now about the industrial market, well, we are a large group and we are strong in many geographies and also in many technologies. Therefore, there is no reason why we should not be a good player. Okay, it could take some time if we develop our own technologies in order to cope with, I should say, industrial clients' demand. But in the meantime we could also buy some new technologies and it is what we have done on several occasions during this first semester.

We bought M.A.I.L.S., which is a small company in the West, but we bought also the big Prospect Group (sic) [Process Group] (01:44:38).

Process.

Process Group in Australia. Typically it is a kind of buy that we can do to really strengthen our capacity to answer to our customers, industrial customers, in the water or industrial field. So I am positive. I am ready to continue to invest. And clearly it is one field where SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is focusing a lot of energy to become a major player.

Okay, thank you so much. I understand it was the last question. So thank you for attending the meeting. Thank you for listening to us and asking so many questions. And of course, Sophie Lombard and all the team of SUEZ ENVIRONNEMENT is ready to answer to any of your additional questions if you have any. Thank you so much. Have a nice day.