Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christophe Cros — Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer-Finance, SUEZ SA
Pinaki Das — Analyst, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Vincent J. Ayral — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Michel K. Debs — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Julie Tamara Melanie Arav — Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Guy Mackenzie — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Philippe Ourpatian — Analyst, Natixis SA
Olivier van Doosselaere — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Anna Maria Scaglia — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd. (Italy)
James Brand — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the SUEZ Nine Months Results 2017 Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Christophe Cros. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Thank you all for attending this conference call regarding SUEZ Q3 Publication. We have released this morning our revenue, EBITDA, EBIT and net financial debt figures for the nine-month period ending end of September 2017.

I would like, as an introduction, to share three main messages with you. First one is, I will point out the increase of activity, both in absolute and organic terms. We have reached end of September €11.3 billion of revenues, it is up by 0.7%, and 1.3% organic. As you remember, we had reached organic 0.9% end of H1, so it implies stronger dynamics during Q3. There are of course differences between all three divisions.

On the one hand, our Recycling & Recovery Europe division outperformed this quarter, posting a revenue growth of plus 2.9% organic. This performance is notably due to a strong increase in commodity prices, but also irrespective of commodity prices evolution, due to a positive evolution of general prices by 1.5%.

Treated volumes were up this quarter by 0.4%. It's positive figure, and it [ph] testifies (00:01:48) that the economy trend has been more positive in Q3, delivering on top of that, the expected improvements in profitability. On the other one hand, the absence of inflation in Europe is still [ph] great (00:02:02) for our Water Europe segment, which posted a flattish revenue evolution in the first nine months, organic growth of the division reaches 0.2% while the total [ph] evaluation (00:02:14) was 0.1%. The slight decrease in Europe is mainly driven by lower revenue which was offset by the ongoing dynamism of the Latin American business unit. Last, but not least the International division improved strongly its performance compared to first semester with an organic increase of 4.3% and despite a very below average activity in the American regulated water business due to a rainy year.

My second message on top of the organic growth improving in Q3 is that EBIT is fully in line with our guidance. Group EBIT reach €926 million. It's organically up by 1.4% and that is consistent with our expected trajectory. Here, I would like to point out a technical item. I anticipate very likely questions, in the first nine months, we had the negative scope impact on EBIT by €26 million. And this is only due to the phasing of the earning generations of the related assets. I confirm that for the full year, we expect a negative impact by €10 million only as indicated at the beginning of the year.

My third message is that we have finalized the strategic acquisition of GE Water, an operation we announced in March and that we closed on 30th of September as planned. It will enhance our long term profitable growth profile and it will allow us to become a leader in integrated water solution and services to industrial clients.

Net debt at the end of September was €9.13 billion, 3.4 times EBITDA. And the increase in net debt reflects exclusively that acquisition and forex effects at constant [ph] rates (00:04:19).

Now, I would like to give you more details division by division, I start as usual with Water Europe. Our activities increased by 0.1% to €3.4 billion. It is an organic growth by 0.2%. Performance among countries is unequal. The volumes globally are quite satisfactory over the first nine months, with an increase by 0.5% in France, and plus 1.3% in Spain. And volumes increased by 2.2% in Chile, where Q3 was slightly weaker [ph] with the (00:05:00) winter months.

Prices were hampered by the low inflation context, and low price of energy. In France, tariffs increased slight – still very slightly 0.3%, and in Spain equally 0.3%. We can expect that these indexes could be more favorable in France for the rest of the year, due to the evolution of the energy prices.

In Chile, tariffs were up by 1.4% due to tariff indexation. In this context, EBIT of the European Water division is slightly down versus last year. If I consider now Recycling & Recovery Europe, revenue was up by 0.8% to €4.5 billion and the organic growth is 2.9% end of September. This strong performance is due first to an ongoing positive price evolution for commodities notably scrap metal of which prices have increased by 42% for the first nine months of 2017, paper up 15%. But even irrespective of that commodities price effect, we have enjoyed an improvement in prices in all geographies, which is outside of commodities approximately by 1.5%. The processed volumes increased by 0.4%, which reflected a better trend in industrial production in the first nine months of the year. I remind you that the previous figure were minus 0.5% at the end of June, contrary to June, there is no impact in Q3 from variation in the number of working days, hence, the underlying encouraging trend is coming out.

If I put aside that context, the evolution by segment [ph] inside our (00:06:55) division matches also with the structural shift of the industry. The landfill volumes declined strongly in the UK with a schedule continuation of site closures. But landfill volumes end of September are up in France by 1.2%, which is another good positive indication. Recovered volumes increased by 3% mainly driven by the shift in energy from [indiscernible] (00:07:22). Commodity prices have positively impacted the revenue and the quick evolution had some favorable impact on profitability. The ongoing underlying trend in this segment is clearly a positive sign.

If I look by geography, France is up by 4.6% organic, and it was driven by the increase in commodity prices, notably in scrap metal. Benelux, Germany is up by 3.4% organic also, thanks to higher prices in the collection segment and stronger macro economy.

And UK/Scandinavia is down by 2% organic, which is explained by lower revenue in the landfill segments, but also by a much smaller impact from the construction inside the revenue. Don't forget the hazardous waste solutions business, which has also performed very well with a growth of 5.6% thanks to a rebound in soil remediation activities. So, EBIT of Recycling & Recovery Europe division is well improving overall.

Last but not least, the International division is coming back to a more satisfying trajectory after a delayed and so disappointing trend in H1 2017. During the first nine months, revenue reached €2.9 billion, it represents an organic increase by 1.3%. And that marks [ph] a trend (00:08:53) inflection – positive inflection in Q3, with an organic growth which is for that quarter, plus 4.3%. And that also if we consider, that revenue in Northern America, because of poor weather conditions was down by 6.3% organically. In Africa, Middle East, India, our activities went up by 5.3% organic, thanks to additional revenue linked with new contracts.

The new business unit, which is spanning over Italy and Central Europe enjoys an organic growth by 12.4%, which is mainly due to the positive contribution of the Poznan energy from [ph] west our (00:09:36) new facility in Poland. Australia reported also good increase in activity with revenue up by 2.7% organic thanks to higher collected and treated volumes, and also thanks to an increase in the water business in O&M revenue.

Asia is showing organic revenues are down by 3%. But I remind you, as I said in June, revenue had been impacted by the end last year of large short-term contract for the supply of equipment and it means that otherwise the underpinning organic growth in Asia is quite dynamic. So all-in-all, we had that 4.3% organic growth for the year Q3.

A word now on design and build backlog which amounts to €1.4 billion. This represents a 13% increase versus last year and it reflects the quite active and successful commercial activity in this segment.

In total, as you can imagine, EBIT of International division is up. As a short conclusion, I would like to emphasize that these set of figures is well in line with our targeted financial trajectory for the year 2017 and we remain as confident in our ability to meet our full year guidance.

On top of that, we are of course very proud and enthusiastic to work on our new business unit, Water Technologies & Solutions. And as you know, we will give you more information on December 13 to help you understand our strategy, our expectation in industrial water. And we consider it will be clearly a booster for activities – all our activities.

Thank you very much for your attention. And as usual, I'm now ready to answer all the questions you may have. The floor is yours. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our first question from Pinaki Das from Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Many thanks for taking my questions. I've got a couple of questions mainly on the earnings side rather than the sales side. I wanted to understand why the sort of growth rate in Q3 have been rather low even at the sales level it's flat considering that the economy has actually been quite good, you've had tariff increases, commodity prices are up, industrial production is up. So I wanted to understand what's sort of holding back growth at the sales level. And at the EBITDA level actually we see that the numbers are actually are quite weak in Q3, [ph] but you've given (00:12:43) the trend for the last three quarters, in Q1 you had plus 7% then you had minus 6% in EBITDA in Q2 and then this quarter is minus 4.4%. So I just wanted to understand what's affecting the EBITDA of the group in this quarter? We were hoping that actually this could be actually a good quarter because of the macro backdrop? And my second question is – is more on EBIT side and mainly around the difference between EBIT and EBITDA. Could you explain to what's happening to the D&A element, are there any provisions there because when I look at Q3 of 2016, there's about €350 million of D&A, the difference between EBIT and EBITDA and now it looks like it's €325 million? Are there any sort of provision reversals there or anything else that we should understand? Many thanks.

Okay. Good morning, Pinaki. I'll start with EBIT and the EBITDA that you brought the answer to your question and that's why as we have been saying constantly for some years, we prefer to guide about EBIT than EBITDA because as you know, the difference is due to the fact that basically there are some events which could have occurred, for which we had provisions. And when the events take place, there is an impact at EBITDA level and no impact at EBIT level. Why are we sensitive to that? For one main reason, which is at the end of the landfill business quarter-after-quarter we have been closing landfills, and it means that we are using provisions which are in the balance sheet. So it's neutral at EBIT level and it has an impact at EBITDA level.

On top of that in Q3, there was a specific event last year which was a provision, an [ph] UE (00:14:32) provision. So we had the EBITDA impact this quarter, and it is neutral at EBIT level.

On top of that, but it is a totally different explanation. As you know we have not the same level of EBITDA and EBIT rate in different geographies, so that could also explain some differences. And this is why there is no I would say [ph] correlation (00:14:59) between EBIT and EBITDA and mainly because of the evolution of the closed landfill business model.

When it comes to industrial production, I still stick – I know that you would have preferred to be – us to be overenthusiastic. I'm just encouraging and I confirm that what we have noticed, when I look for instance at the waste volume processed in that division, we have a positive figure, it's a very light positive figure in terms of volume, so plus 0.4%. It was negative end of June, it was increased by [ph] in the valuation (00:15:40) in the number of working days. [ph]

Our main view (00:15:43) and you know that that we have no direct link between I would say GDP and the evolution of the waste business. We are more sensitive to industrial production. And if like you I take the statistics related to industrial production, there is always a lag. I told you for instance that the landfill volumes in France [ph] they are up by (00:16:06) 1.2% which is a positive figure. But at the beginning we benefit from I would say a [ph] source (00:16:16) and nature of waste like that which are linked with the construction activity. So we expect to see further improvement because the relation between evolution of industrial production and generation of waste is not in one instant. But nevertheless I confirm that the signals we pointed out are encouraging, are still there and [ph] free there (00:16:44).

Can I just come back on a couple of points there. So just to – on the provision side, can I confirm that you've had some provision reversals that are helping – you have lower D&A?

No, they are not – if I may, they are not helping. It's part of the business model, you know that inside the balance sheet we have approximately €550 million of provisions, which are related to the care and after care of closed landfill sites. And you know for instance that we have been exiting the landfill business in the UK. So that's why every time there is an additional amount of closed site, we are using those provisions. Once again it's neutral at EBIT level. And it has an impact at EBITDA level. It's not in order to help, I would like to correct that very clearly.

That's very clear. And just on if you wanted to really put it simply, why was EBITDA down 4.4% in Q3, are there sort of one or two reasons you could highlight, why it's down in Q3 EBITDA?

Okay. The second reason with regards to EBITDA is, as I mentioned also at the beginning, due to forex and scope effects. It's clear that – I know that we have to [ph] review a (00:18:11) light difference between our EBIT figure and the consensus EBIT figure, and it is due as I mentioned in the beginning of my presentation, the fact that we have what I call a phasing effect. And if you look at the scope effect at EBIT, it is minus €26 million if I remember correctly end of September. And I told you, that I confirm that end of this year it will be very near to the minus €10 million that we forecasted at the beginning of this year. So, we have also a phasing effect.

Great. Thank you so much [ph] for this (00:18:43).

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Vincent Ayral from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning. Would it be possible to provide us with the scope effect we could expect from GE Water in Q4? And I see we discussed a bit the waste volume trend, so I would have a question regarding the water tariff indexation, and get a bit of guidance on how to look at it. So, basically and some color on when the inflation should fully kick in your portfolio, so when are the tariff resets on the different contracts. See, if it's a story which is important in Q4 and if there is any further effect you expect in Q1 next year? Thank you.

Okay. With regards to GE, as you know, we will consolidate Q3, we'll have 100% of the contribution from the Water Technologies & Solutions business unit in December. I would prefer to give, I would say, more color and more precision on the 30th of December. But what you could consider, if it could help you is that if you take the figures and the assessment we gave on March 8 if my recollection is okay and you take one-fourth of that, you would be very close to what should be the contribution for this year due to GE.

When it comes to inflation, you say when inflation is going to kick again, so far I didn't notice that it was kicking if I may say so. What I wanted to point out with regards to the tariffs and noticeably in France, is the fact that as you know there are four key parameters in each escalation formulae inside of 2,300 water contracts in France. One of them is significant approximately I would say 20% is energy and we know that starting from end of June beginning of July, there was a better impact due to the energy parameter. I expect that it will improve again in Q4, what has been the evolution of tariff. I am not expecting from that a major change. And I dare to repeat you that when we say that as part of the guidance, we were expecting a slight increase at turnover and EBIT level for the year 2017. The main reason for that objective was due to the fact that we were not expecting as you say, a significant push through inflation and so we're benefiting at tariffs level in the Water business in Europe. So, it has improved a little bit. It will improve a little bit, but it is still I would say not really dynamic.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Michel K. Debs from Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I have two questions. The first one is on the GE acquisition. The question is very simple. You have closed in September, so was there any price adjustment and have you had [ph] due to transaction on (00:22:17) currencies, and have you had [ph] it at (00:22:19) earnings on currency? That's my first question.

My second question has to do with your pricing power. You have told us that in waste you've seen a recovery and that recovery was driven partly by better commodity prices feeding into revenues. But you have also told us over the years that you're not really sensitive to those prices. And the second thing that you mentioned is that non-commodity prices were up 1.5%. Can you give us a sense of how that 1.5% compares to inflation in those markets? In other words, do you have any pricing power today in waste to grow at or above inflation? Thank you very much.

Good morning, Michel. I start with the second one. You are absolutely right, and I confirm that. Usually when there are changes in commodities prices, it has impact at top line level turnover, but neutral at let us say EBITDA and EBIT level. The only one thing that could occur is, when there is, I would say, brutal change in prices. Usually we said that it was not favorable but sometimes you can benefit from that.

And if you look at the evolution of the scrap metal price, there were some I would say moments of acceleration during mainly H1. So it means that we were able to benefit from that not because we did any kind of daring hedging and so on. You know that we are not a trading company when it comes to scrap metal. But at the end of the day, evaluation of that impact is at EBIT level €5 million. So it's a good confirmation that this time it was slightly positive but you see that the difference between turnover and EBIT is still massive because I confirm as you reminded us that we have a very low sensitivity at EBIT level when it comes to valuation of commodity prices because we are selling services, we're not selling for ourselves valuation in prices of commodities.

When it comes to the pricing power, I would say and that's [ph] even partly (00:24:38) yes, it means that between [ph] 1.2%, 1.5% (00:24:43) is over inflation and it shows there would be differences between geographies. But it shows that we have been able to benefit from the better, I take again your expression pricing power. I would name first probably the Netherlands where there was a very long period, probably which started in 2008 of very strong price competition because there was over capacity in that market when it comes to collection for instance. And it is clear that we are one of the two core leaders in that market that first the economy of the Netherlands improved a lot.

And second the market is not as crazy as it was. And for instance we have been able to keep probably I would say approximately 90% of the benefit of the price increase that we implemented some months ago, it was in July.

There are still differences, but globally there is a better pricing power. It's still very early to be definitive about that.

When it comes to your question about GE, the enterprise value which was announced in March of €3.4 billion was at enterprise value level, €3.4 billion on purchase at September. So, there was no change. It's clear, but I don't know if it is part of your definition of price adjustment, but when it comes to equity value, there are natural changes like in any transaction like that one due to the evolution of cash of debt and things like that.

We had hedged the acquisition of GE at the time of the signing of the operation. And when it comes to I would say the evolution of the business, we will do with GE, which is now with WTS, Water Technologies & Solutions as we do with any of our subsidiaries which is outside of Euro area, which is that the funding is in local currency, so that the income is in local currency.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Julie Arav from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning. I have several questions, if I may. Just to come back on the water price indexation in France. I had in mind, and tell me if I was wrong, that you were implicitly expecting in your full year numbers a negative price indexation in the range of minus 0.3% or 0.4% it's what I had in mind. You also mentioned us that you had two-thirds of your contracts that had the annual negotiations – renegotiations.

So what I don't understand is that in Q1 you had a price indexation in France which was minus 0.1%. In Q2, I can see you reported 0.5% indexation and in Q3, the implied number is 0.4%. So why haven't we seen an acceleration in Q3 in these indexations and can you remind us what's the sensitivity of your EBITDA to a 1% increase in these price indexations? This is my first question.

The second one is still on the pricing of water contract, can you tell us what was in Spain, the tariff evolution excluding the cuts from Barcelona contract?

The third question relates to the tax rate. Can you update us on what we should expect as a normative tax rate for the end of the year, especially after the surge in H1?

And my last question concern the international, do you still aim to grow the business organically by 6% to 8% over the mid-term, or do you think you will reassess this target due to the GE Water acquisition as I believe some of the international activities will be relocated to GE Water? Thank you.

Okay. So, I felt a bombing, Julie. I'll try to answer your various questions [ph] in being normal (00:29:03). Water indexation it is – two things to answer your point, your figures are perfectly right and I confirm everything you said and which was reflecting what we said previously. [ph] Third (00:29:19), usually inside the water contracting front, there are twice a year re-indexation but everything doesn't take place at the same time. It means that there is some kind of timeline and this is going to reflect the evolution of the various parameters, CPI, cost of construction, cost of services, cost of energy. And second, as I said, one factor, I wouldn't say volatility, but [ph] from a factor of change (00:29:45) is due to the evolution of energy prices. For contracts, which we have renewed using an escalation formulae updated, I would say, end of June, beginning of July, there was a positive benefit from the evolution of energy price. Would that take place, let us say in September, the effect would be less. So all-in-all, I agree, that we should have at the end of the year probably a global effect, which is slightly better than we expected at the beginning of this year, but not a major difference. And when it comes to variation from quarter-to-quarter, it is due to the fact that every quarter, there are some contracts, which are not renewed, but were recalculated in terms of escalation formulae. So you cannot see a full continuity in evolution.

With regards to Barcelona and the situation of the water prices in Spain, you are implicitly pointing out an evolution, which is interesting. Yes, there was a decrease in prices of the water in Barcelona and it fully reflects the renegotiation which take place last year. And so there is end of September, a negative impact at Barcelona. It is by the way even a little bit bigger than it will be end of this year because maybe you remember that as a counterpart to the decrease in tariffs in Barcelona, it was also agreed that there would be a decrease in the yearly canon, which is the upfront payment that we make. So as of today, we [ph] have not the (00:31:27) full year impact of the decrease in canon. But it means also that outside of Barcelona, Barcelona, and I remind you that approximately the business is 50/50 between Catalonia and non-Catalonia in Spain. The tariff evolution was [ph] not (00:31:42) positive and that's why all-in-all, we have open 3% evolution of prices within Spain. Barcelona, impact of the renegotiation last year, outside of Barcelona, an evolution which still feel positive.

When it comes to the tax rate, and I know that there was a significant increase end of June, I would split my answer into two parts. If you are looking at the model for the coming year, I would say that you should still stick to an effective tax rate, which would be 30% to 35% in average for the coming year, and there is no change.

When it comes to this year and irrespective of, I would say further uncertainties, due to what could be the evolution of tax rates in France or in other countries, I think that our best estimate for 2017 is that the total fiscal charge should be stable compared to last year.

I take now your question about the growth at International. I try to stick to my word, which is that I don't put prematurely what could be the impact of GE, because my first message is to tell you, also it has not been constantly demonstrated. We still stick to the views of the – what is today the perimeter before GE Water of the International division should enjoy in average, a total yearly growth between 6% and 8%. And we don't change that assessment irrespective of what will be the impact of the GE Water and we can discuss that. I expect you will be there on the 13th of December.

And when I look at what has been the evolution of the International division, you know that we have – I wouldn't say volatility, but there is not a regular cycle due to the importance of construction activity. And, I dare to think that, when I look at what we have been able to take onboard recently, and what is in the pipe, I wouldn't be surprised to notice that my expectation is correct.

If I take countries like – and as you know, [ph] Design and Build (00:34:05) which is construction activity, is today, I would say largely focusing on Africa and Middle East and India, that's part of the International division.

When I look at the underlying organic growth of Asia, and I know that it is difficult to look at it right now because there was that [indiscernible] (00:34:23) contract which took place last year, and which was a one-off, but when I look at the underlying organic growth in Asia – when I look at the underlying growth in Australia, excuse me, I'm still of the view that 6% to 8% is ambitious, but absolutely not unrealistic if you accept to consider that it is total growth for a period of several years in average.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Guy McKenzie from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. A couple of questions for me please. Firstly a basic one just on your EBIT margins, group EBIT margins were down about 10 basis points. Just wondering, if that's simply a consequence of mix with the revenue drop in the U.S. and not that much growth in Chile or if there's something else happening there. And specifically if you're able to tell us about the trajectory of margins in Recycling & Recovery Europe and perhaps in International, excluding United Water?

Secondly, just on French waste. I mean, you mentioned volumes were up about 40 basis points. I think, [ph] IT (00:35:46) growth over the period at least to August was just over 1%. You did mention a bit of a lag, but wondering if you can tell us more about the recent trend and the outlook, i.e. should we be expecting 2018 will be a – so the big inflection year in waste or are you just anticipating a slow and continued recovery like what we're seeing now?

And finally, just on the outlook, I mean we haven't gotten much on the 2018 outlook and I fully understand that we'll wait until December for the update on industrial water, which will contribute to 2018. But wondering if you can tell us anything about expectations for the coming year for SUEZ excluding GE Water, i.e. should we be expecting more significant year-on-year growth in 2018 than what we've seen in 2017? Thanks very much.

Okay. Good morning, Guy. Probably, I'm going to frustrate you a little bit. But when it comes to 2018, I would prefer to wait a little bit because I need to lick my wounds after your analysis and it's important to focus right now, [ph] I said that's my main (00:36:56) worry on 2017. When it comes to the French waste, you probably need to split the evolution into two different explanations. As I told you, in France, we benefited from the very significant, I would say, boost in commodity prices because activities in scrap metal were probably growing to be over 2 million tons this year of scrap metal processed. It's not only in the France but it is legally and from a managerial standpoint attached to France. So, that creates I would say a slight over increase, which is due to that representation. But even now if I put aside the commodities volumes evolution, I confirm that we felt better orientation. As I reminded you, end of June, what we call the composite index was slightly negative, it was due to variation in working days. But it was also showing that the evolution of the trend was moderate positive, but moderate.

When I look at the French volumes that we had until the end of September, I told you for instance that the landfill volumes were plus 1.2%. I should add that a significant part of that improvement is also due to remediation, construction and demolition waste, which is not equal to the other natures of waste we are used to treat in terms of margins, to be very clear. But it is a confirmation that things are moving in the right direction. Probably there is still a discrepancy between expectations of [ph] certain a reality of SUEZ (00:38:46) to be very clear, and what could be the evolution in the coming months.

But if I take a helicopter view, I would say since 2012, it was not frequent to notice positive figures even if they are still positive figures. And that's why we have the strong feeling that structurally, things are improving. Then the question is, what is the speed of that improvement? But structurally things are improving.

When it comes to your first question about EBIT margin, you are right no worry about the very profitable businesses of the company. There is effectively a little bit of a very, very rainy American weather minus 5.6% in terms of volume is quite significant. By the way, if I dare to touch upon that, it shows what is the benefit of a very balanced business model inside SUEZ even at that level because at the same time as I told you we had the positive figures end of September in water volumes in Europe, France, and Spain so I put aside Chile, which shows that there is some kind of natural offsetting effect inside the business model of the company.

The second reason for the evolution of the EBIT margin is also due to scope effects on top of the fact that as I told you we [ph] are (00:40:14) facing a specific very short-term situation end of September. As you remember, we have also due to some restructuring for instance in Asia, new growing minority shareholders, so by the way when there are topics which are now equity method and not fully consolidated, it has impact at the EBIT margin level without reflecting any change, negative or positive, in the generation of EBIT of the business which is due to that.

Okay. Thanks very much. Can I ask one follow-up just on waste, just on the commodity price benefit that we saw in the nine-month period? You mentioned a limited EBIT impact of only about €5 million. But just wondering given that over the last six weeks or so, I think [ph] recycle (00:41:09) prices have fallen quite sharply on the back of the Chinese restrictions. I'm wondering if you're expecting that to unwind and whether even if the direct impact on profitability is pretty marginal, will there be any kind of indirect impact just driven by this overcapacity of secondary commodity in Europe?

Yes. What you are focusing on this first as you said related to paper and cardboard because so far scrap metal prices are still, I would say, quite satisfactory. So there is a significant decrease in the price of paper and cardboard, and which is explained as you said by the National Sword Policy which is starting to be implemented in China and which leads basically to a decrease in the short-term import. I point out short-term import, I would like that no one forget that China is still structurally and will be structurally a large importer of plastics and cardboard.

So it means that as there is some kind of a local all of a sudden overcapacity because the volumes which are exported to China are more limited, I remind you also that in Europe the proportion of recycled paper and cardboard which is exported to China is quite marginal, it is below 10%. Europe is basically using its own recyclable paper and cardboard. But there is a short-term impact. We had anticipated it, so it means that prices are down. Probably there will be some kind of contraction of volumes because when prices are down there is no incentive to [ph] sort a lot of (00:42:50) your paper and cardboard, but the effect should be marginal, clearly marginal. Because once again the basis of our business model is that we are not I would say a trading company with regards to commodity. We are selling services associated to collecting, sorting, processing, [ph] billing (00:43:10) and selling.

Okay, thank you very much.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Philippe Ourpatian from Natixis. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Yes. Good morning to all of you. Just one additional follow-up concerning the volume of waste, you mentioned mainly soil remediation and construction for France, the [ph] 1% plus 2% (00:43:37) in terms of landfill. But it means that, as I'm understanding that there is no massive improvement currently of the other industries. If we do look a little bit beyond the last quarter you recorded, what could be your sensitivity or saying another way, what is the sensitivity of SUEZ regarding the industries, which could be – which industry could be the most sensitive for you in terms of volumes of waste at – on the French level and in the European level? Just to give us a better idea about, what could be the lag effect we are expecting from those different industries? Thank you.

Okay. So, effectively, I said that when I look at the nine first months in the France, when it comes to landfilling, which is not the only one way of processing waste but it is still, I would say, when you want to look at short-term evolutions, I must admit that even on a daily basis, you look at your landfill volumes and you get a good picture.

So, we got 1.2% which is probably one of the very best figures we got during the last year. I confirm that it was boosted by your demolition and construction waste, noticeably in Paris and Paris area, because there is a very large program, which has started to be implemented, but it doesn't explain 100% of that. So, it is – that's why I said that this is again encouraging, because it shows that the evolution is, okay.

If, I dig into your question, I would say very simply, the more you are close to manufacturing activities and the more there is waste generation. So if you take I would say iron and steel, if you take chemicals the more you are inside manufacturing and the better it is. And this is why we always said that, I would say the linkage is much more when it comes to that kind of activity between manufacturing activities rather than the GDP and even rather than I would say industry generally speaking. So I confirm that I'm looking like you at the evolution of those industries in France, and they have been releasing figures which are improving. So I expect that we should benefit from that everything else being constant.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Olivier van Doosselaere from Exane. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes, thank you very much for taking my question, and good morning everyone, good morning, Christophe. I had two topics actually to discuss, one was actually on the impact of volumes on your regulated water activity. So we seemed to have seen that actually the volumes were down quite materially in Q3 in Chile.

I was wondering, one, if you maybe – if you could give a bit more explanation on why that is. I know that it's a winter month, so it's probably less relevant for the overall activity of the group on a full-year basis. But still it'll be interesting to know what happened. And also given that those activities are regulated and it's the same idea then for your lower volumes in the U.S. water activity, for the regulated businesses, is there any way that you can recover the lost revenues because of weaker volumes? Or do you confirm that you actually have volume risk on those operations?

And then the second one, I wonder if you have any significant considerations on what is happening now in Catalonia. [indiscernible] (00:47:19) was based there, but you've moved your head offices. Are you having any discussions, are there any specific points that you think about now that you think are worth highlighting? Thank you.

Okay. With regards to regulated the water volumes, I need also to split my answer. In Chile, there is – first, I would like to remind you that the evolution is positive. And yes, the Q3 is winter in Chile. So it is [ph] by and large not (00:47:50) the most important quarter. Nevertheless, what we are looking at is the fact that there are two very different evolutions. One is very positive. The number of consumers is increasing significantly for various reasons. And the second one is that the level of individual consumer during Q3 the consumption was slightly down. So, all in all, you would have noticed that the global effect was positive and it is due to those two factors, and we will care for them because I'm not able to tell you if it is just a one shot situation in Q3. We are looking at that. I repeat, the global evolution was satisfactory.

In the U.S.A., it was effectively exceptional. I wouldn't take your expression volume risk because I wouldn't consider that it's going to rain like crazy like that for all the following year. It's totally irrespective of hurricanes and so on. You'll remember that the largest part of our business is in the northeastern part of the U.S.A. You will not notice a very significant impact at EBIT level because we improved productivity because we took all necessary action. So, what I said about volumes was related to the top line, it was related to the turnover. At EBIT level, I didn't say anything specific, because we are making our best effort in order to compensate for that.

When it comes to the situation in Catalonia, first, we were born in Catalonia, and we are proud, that we were born in Catalonia. There is no doubt about that.

I also told you that today, because we grew a lot in Spain, at the level of top line, Catalonia is approximately 50% of the business. We are present, we are number one in water in Spain. And when I say water, it's not only the traditional municipal water business, it's been also delivering water to industrial customers. We have that specific division, the name is Advanced Solutions, where we have new technologies, and so on.

When it comes to the – I would say legal situation, I dare to remind you that two years ago in 2015, we moved the legal address of the holding company, which is owning all the activities of SUEZ in Spain from Barcelona to Madrid. And it had nothing to do with politics, it had everything to do with two things. First, the change in brand name SUEZ, which was also an opportunity to settle a little bit more in Madrid, because once again 50% only of the business is in Catalonia.

What we did more recently is that, we have temporarily moved the registered office of Agbar, which is the holding company in Catalonia to Madrid. And we, did that in order to protect the legal certainty of investor because what do we see right now in Catalonia, I would say it is uncertainty. Uncertainty can be also an opportunity, but so far we see uncertainty.

When it comes to the evolution of the business you could have looked at the figures I gave, which were positive until end of September in Spain, generally speaking and in Catalonia the evolution of price reflecting as I said, only the renegotiation of the tariff, last year. And basically, and sorry if I'm [ph] so basical (00:51:29), but I would like to say that what is our business in Catalonia, our business is to deliver water to consumers, and I don't expect any change in the need in water from consumers in Spain. So uncertainty, yes, and that's why we took some, I would say, provisory action in order to avoid any risk associated to potential uncertainty. But so far the business is satisfactory and I dare to consider that after 150 years of cooperative and proactive presence in that part of Spain, the relationship between the local authorities and the company is based upon, I would say trust and cooperation, and it has been like that so far.

Okay, thank you. Thank you very much for that.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Anna Maria Scaglia from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Just have a few questions. The first one is, you confirmed your guidance for 2017. I was wondering, however, what you thought about consensus, and I do apologize, I recognize that consensus is very differentiated between the assumption that different analysts have around GE Water. But can you give us a sense of what your feeling are in terms of the ability to meet current consensus expectations?

The second question is regarding the energy production that you have from your plant. Can you tell us what the volumes usually you have in the second half of the year, where basically you can benefit from the current increase in power prices in Europe.

Third question is regarding the hurricanes affecting in the U.S. that took place in Q3. Can you just tell us if you had to take any provision or there was any impact below the EBIT line that we don't see or you didn't have any impact?

And finally, in water services, which you had in France and now I assume you are going to move out of the Water division, but this was supposed to be a growth driver business, you didn't really posted any growth in the first half. I'm wondering if you have seen any improvement there in Q3. Thank you.

Okay. First, good morning. I will apologize because I will need your help to repeat your third question. I missed it and I do apologize. I start with the consensus, my point was very basically to say that as of today and I have no doubt that at least after 30th of December everything will be settled.

The concept of consensus applies to [ph] said (00:54:17) sales is a little bit theoretical, because, yes and I have no worry with that. Some of the analyst have already taken GE, some have not yet taken, some have taken GE on both for one quarter, some for a different period.

So I would say the methodology basis of the consensus is too much heterogeneous right now. So this is why when it comes to consensus I'm not totally comfortable with methodology not with the consensus.

When it comes to the guidance related to EBIT, what I can say is that we said that we have a guidance with a slight organic increase in EBIT, then you will have noticed that we have just reiterated that guidance and we are sticking to that when you look at the figures end of September.

When it comes to the global evolution of EBIT, on top of the organic growth, you will need to take into account the scope effect. And as I told you, that please, no worry about situation end of September, and we will stick to the approximately minus €10 million at EBIT level of scope effect that I indicated at the beginning of this year.

And then you will need to take on both the contribution of [ph] the formula of (00:55:35) GE Water. And as I told you, it will be very reflective of the situation we indicated beginning of March at the time of the presentation of the operation. And so, that is – I'm not able to say – I am that far or not far from the consensus because of what I first said about right now there are different consensus, but what I am sure is that I stick to my guidance when it comes to top line and EBIT evolution like when it comes to each of my four items of my guidance for 2017.

When it comes to the electricity price, when we say energy we should say electricity. At the end of September we do consider at EBIT level that the positive impact of electricity was approximately €10 million. So it means that we expect that there should be no other valuation until the end of this year. So €10 million EBIT level end of September.

And then, I renew my apologies. Could you remind me of your next question, Anna Maria?

Yes. One was regarding the hurricanes in the U.S., if you had any impact in the Q3 numbers. And the last one was about services in water, if you had a pickup in growth versus the [indiscernible] (00:57:13)? Thank you.

Okay. Hurricanes, there was no impact in our existing businesses inside the traditional perimeter of SUEZ. There will be some consequences at GE level for two different reasons. The first one is that some plants were shut because it was compulsory at the time of the hurricanes. We have, I say now we have a large plant in Texas.

And second reason is the fact that our customers, for instance in Texas, they had also to close their activities during that period. So there will be a light impact. I'm not able to assess it, but I'm able to tell you that the business is fully insured [ph] again (00:58:02) that kind of risk. So at the end of the day, it will be neutral. We will discuss that in December. But once again it was marginal.

When it comes to the new businesses, which is an interesting but still quite marginal part of the water business, I would say that end of September, it is below expectation. And as you effectively noticed below 2016, but it is mainly, mainly due to some temporary project delays in what we call smart solutions and billing solutions. So I do not consider that it is significant.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from James Brand from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. I had two questions. The first was also on power prices but more of a forward-looking question on power prices. Obviously you've seen a pretty strong increase in wholesale prices, particularly in Continental Europe over the course of this year. I was wondering, whether you could just remind us, some kind of quantification around, how we should think about the impact of that. I know you have different contracts in place in different countries, largely contracts over this year, whether those contracts roll off and you start to receive a more material benefit from higher power prices at some point perhaps next year. It would be very helpful to understand that a bit better.

Second question, I'm not sure I'll get an answer to this, obviously ahead of your Investor Day in December. But I was just wondering whether the – if there was anything you can say about the trading performance of GE Water over the six months to nine months or so, since you announced the acquisition, now it's completed, if there's anything you can say about the performance this year from that business. Thanks.

Okay. When it comes to electricity, don't forget, I gave some in-depth details at the beginning of this year and we could renew that whenever you want, that following the impact that we had – the negative impact that we had in 2016, we have put in place a strongly coordinated hedging policy with regards to electricity prices. And in average we have permanently hedged, I would say, close to 100% for the coming months. And when it comes to the year 2018, as of today the hedging is approximately 70%. So would there be changes positive or negative, that will be largely neutralized at all level, and we prefer to do like that in order to avoid any volatility.

When it comes to the performance of GE, I would like to create an incentive for you to attend the meeting on 30th of December, I dare to say it to you – to say that smilingly. Let me say differently that would there have been any significant change compared to what we said at beginning of March, we would say it right now, so there will be up, there will be down. There we have some consequences from hurricane, there we have also [ph] better news (01:01:15) in some segments. So, all in all, there is nothing significant, and I expect the pleasure to dig into that [ph] and such (01:01:23) at December with you.

Okay. Brilliant. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Michel Debs from Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Thank you. I have [indiscernible] (01:01:40). Can we talk about cash generation over the first nine months of the year? I know that for 2017, you aim to do a €1 billion free cash generation. But how did it go excluding GE – excluding completely the impact of GE, how did it go from January to September this year? Are you ahead, are you below, are you on track?

And do you see a change from last year because you keep talking about improvements that you see in the business. So is it translating into cash? Thank you.

Okay. As you know when it comes to quarterly figures, we give only the net debt. Nevertheless I made a hint about cash generation. And effectively I follow you, I put aside the impact of GE, which is as you have noticed had the net debt level approximately €850 million. And I told you that when I look at the evolution of the net debt, the only other factor is, everything being constant, evolution of exchange rates. So in other words, it infer that when we confirmed that we stick to the guidance, we stick to each item of the guidance including the free cash flow generation, which is part of the guidance.

And effectively end of September situation was well under the control. I also noticed for instance that traditionally there is some tension during that part of the year with regards to the need in working capital, and that tension this year is less compared to previous year. So, generation of cash is well under control.

Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions in the phone queue at this time. I would like to hand the call back over to you, Mr. Cross for any additional or closing remarks.

No, I just would like to thank you for your attendance and remind you as I did very heavily, that you are kindly invited on 30th of December to discuss SUEZ Water Technologies & Solutions. Have a very nice day. Thank you very much.

This will conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for your participation. You may now disconnect.