Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Philip K. Yachmetz — Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer & Secretary, Teligent, Inc.
Timothy B. Sawyer — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Ernie De Paolantonio — Chief Financial Officer, Teligent, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Teligent Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2020 Results Conference Call. My name is Michelle, and I will be the operator for today's conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.

And now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Philip Yachmetz. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, operator, and welcome to all of you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end 2020 earnings call.

Before we begin, we want to draw your attention to our legal disclosure regarding forward-looking statements, risk factor summary, and risk factors contained in our recently filed form 10-K. During the course of this conference call, the company will make forward-looking statements regarding the impact and potential results arising from recent strategic actions taken by the company and future events, including statements about financial, business, and commercialization plans and strategies anticipated in fiscal year 2021 and beyond. We encourage you to review the company's past and future filings with the SEC, which identifies specific factors that may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. You can find the SEC filings in the [ph] EDGAR (00:02:33) database at www.sec.gov or in the Investor Relations section at the company's website at www.teligent.com. Please note that any comments made on today's call speak only as of today, May 4, 2021, and may not be accurate at the time of any replay or transcript rereading.

I would like to now hand this call over to Timothy B. Sawyer, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Tim?

Thank you, Philip.

Good afternoon and I'd like to thank all of you for joining us today on Teligent's fourth quarter and year-end 2020 earnings call. As you are aware, joining me on today's call is Philip Yachmetz, Teligent's Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, who's also responsible for Investor Relations. And I'm happy to introduce Teligent's new Chief Financial Officer, Ernie De Paolantonio, who has recently joined our executive team.

I'd like to begin by, first and foremost, acknowledging the hard work of our dedicated employees over the past several months. As we all know, 2020 was an exceedingly challenging year for so many of us. I can tell you that my fellow Teligent colleagues are some of the most resilient, thoughtful, and dedicated professionals that I've ever had the honor to work alongside. From my perspective, our company has emerged through this adversity and hardship with stronger relationships, a renewed focus on both personal and professional growth, and the recognition that tremendous opportunities lie ahead for us as we work together in transforming Teligent into a leading specialty pharmaceutical company.

I'd also like to personally thank our senior lenders and strategic investment partners, Ares Capital management, Silverback Asset Management, and Nantahala Capital Management for their shared vision and commitment to seeing Teligent reemerge as a leading generic pharmaceutical company is truly inspiring, and we're grateful for their continued support. Rest assured we're working diligently every day to make sure that confidence and trust will be rewarded.

Now, let us review the specific accomplishments in 2020. Back in February, I joined Teligent to help lead the company through its next phase of growth. And only a few weeks on the job, that became abundantly clear that while our company had a strong talent pool, we also needed to be opportunistic about adding new talent where it made sense. In July, Philip Yachmetz joined Teligent as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary. Philip brings a wealth of experience within the pharmaceutical industry and he has held senior leadership positions across legal, compliance, and business operations. His leadership and insights have already proven vital to our mission and will be greatly valued as we execute going forward.

Soon after Philip joined, we also announced that John Celentano was appointed Chairman of the Board. John has been a Director at Teligent since 2015 and brings to the Chairman's role extensive senior leadership as a former executive with Bristol Myers Squibb where he was President of the Bristol Myers' healthcare group.

More recently, we've taken additional steps to deepen our corporate governance and advisory talent on our board of directors. In February of this year, Teligent appointed industry veteran William S. Marth and financial expert, Carter Pate, to its Board of Directors. We believe that these additions at our board level will provide Teligent with the strategic vision to help guide the company through its next critical phase of growth.

As already mentioned, I'm also pleased to introduce Ernie De Paolantonio who has recently joined Teligent as our Chief Financial Officer. Ernie is a highly talented and experienced finance professional who has a long track record of success throughout his career. His extensive experience serving as a chief financial officer with both public and private pharmaceutical and healthcare companies will be an invaluable asset to our management team.

Next, let me turn to discussing Teligent's significantly improved financial condition. Beginning in the middle of 2020, we have completed a series of financial arrangements that have been nothing short of transformational towards improving the liquidity and balance sheet of our company. Following the completion of Teligent's Series C Convertible Financing and Exchange in July, and the Series D Convertible Note Exchange in September, we announced a series of strategic actions this January in partnership with our senior lenders and Series C noteholders to recapitalize and enhance the company's financial condition.

First, we completed a $77 million debt-for-equity exchange with our Series C noteholders and senior secured lenders. This transaction, along with the previously mentioned financings from earlier in 2020, has resulted in aggregate debt reduction of $118 million since June 30, 2020. We also amended our Second Lean Credit Agreement to provide an additional $4.6 million in financing to help support the company's ongoing liquidity. Finally, Teligent completed an At-The-Market equity offering during the first quarter of 2021 raising gross proceeds of approximately $38.5 million.

Backed by the support and confidence of our senior lenders and strategic investment partners, Teligent has significantly reduced debt and increased its cash position. And this dramatic improvement to our capital structure will enable us to more effectively execute on multiple business and operational initiatives as we move forward.

In parallel with securing new financial arrangements to decrease our debt and improve our liquidity, the company has taken significant steps to address quality control issues. As previously disclosed, the company received a Warning Letter from the FDA in November of 2019 following an inspection from April 2 to May 20 of 2019 of its Buena, New Jersey manufacturing facility.

Following the company's submission of a response to the FDA in April of 2020, on August 13, the company received an additional comment letter from the FDA in which the FDA indicated that it had reviewed the company's responses and deemed them to be inadequate as they failed to address and/or provide supporting documentation to several of the concerns raised in the FDA Warning Letter.

The company has since provided the FDA with supplemental submissions outlining certain additional changes in its quality practices, additional documentation to support previous and ongoing independent assessments, updates to the company's organizational structure, and further details regarding ongoing remediation projects to ensure all of our products are safe, effective, and compliant.

As part of a comprehensive effort to significantly boost out quality initiatives, we appointed a new vice president of quality in the fourth quarter of 2020 and also made a series of support staff additions to further improve our reporting and compliance functions. One of the most important aspects of quality control is making sure that the company has the talent level and supporting organizational structure in place, so that work product is constantly and efficiently cross-checked. These added resources will help us accomplish that objective going forward.

As part of the company's efforts to remediate the issues identified in the FDA Warning Letter and to strengthen its quality systems, the company undertook and completed a comprehensive review of all of our products during the fourth quarter of 2020. While the review did not identify material issues with many of the company's products, it did identify issues of nonconformance with respect to certain products, which has resulted in some recalls and halting the production of certain products, which the company is actively reviewing and remediating. The company is continuing to work diligently to remediate all issues cited by the FDA, and those resulting from its internal comprehensive quality review, and have and will continue to have active communications with the FDA regarding its progress.

Based on management's current assessment of these remediation efforts, the company believes it will be ready to inform the FDA of its reinspection readiness during the third quarter of 2021. However, since the company does not control the timing of the FDA reinspection of the facility, we cannot predict when the FDA will perform the site reinspection. However, this remains important to us because lifting the Warning Letter will allow the site to be eligible to receive FDA approvals for the pending applications as they are finally reviewed by the agency.

As a reminder, we currently have seven pending topical ANDAs and three NDAs with an estimated IQVIA market value of approximately $140 million. Let me reassure our investors, every day we are working diligently to fully address these issues. And we continue to make substantial progress on that front. I continue to see outstanding teamwork across all of our departments on a daily basis. And this teamwork is creating a culture of excellence, a laser-like focus on addressing the details, and a shared sense of responsibility for generating the highest quality work product to help move the company forward. For these reasons, I remain optimistic and confident that Teligent is now capable of delivering exceptional, high-quality results to its partners and customers.

Now, let me address the ongoing response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In alignment with the directives in the State of New Jersey, as a pharmaceutical manufacturing facility, we are still considered essential. We have and will continue to remain open as long as the conditions remain safe for our employees in order to continue to supply our products to the patients that need them. The company has taken several preventative measures to help ensure business continuity while maintaining safe and stable operations. We've directed all of our nonproduction personnel to continue to work from home in accordance with state and local guideline, and we're currently finalizing our return-to-office protocols.

We have implemented social distancing measures on the site to protect our employees and our products. Our employees are provided with daily personal protective equipment upon their arrival to the site, and we have implemented temperature monitoring services at our newly established single point of entrance. We've also implemented a more frequent sanitation process of the facility. And finally, we are encouraging all of our employees to seek vaccinations when they're eligible.

Now, let me turn the call over to Ernie De Paolantonio for a review of Teligent's fourth quarter and year-end financial results. Ernie?

Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. First, I want to say how enthusiastic I am to be joining the Teligent team during this opportune time. I look forward to contributing to the revitalization of the company as well as our prospects of growth in the coming months.

Now, onto the financials. Consolidated net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2020 was $9.9 million, bringing full-year 2020 revenues to $45.3 million versus $16 million for the fourth quarter of 2019 and $65.9 million for the full year of 2019. The decline was driven primarily by suppressed lower customer orders due to COVID-19 and our product remediation efforts in our portfolio products.

Gross margin for the fourth quarter was a negative 52.1% versus a positive 12.2% over the prior year. Increased costs for quality remediation and higher reserves for excess and obsolete inventories contributed to the negative margin in the fourth quarter of 2020.

Fourth quarter total operating expenses were unfavorable $2.3 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Total selling, general, and administrative costs were $3.7 million higher as higher salary and consulting expenses more than offset lower bad debt expenses in the fourth quarter. Research and development expenses were lower by $1.4 million as salary, insurance, and API expenses were lower in part due to a prior write-off of API costs in the third quarter.

Given the current forecast of short-term unprofitable US operations, the uncertainty regarding the timing of the FDA lifting of the Warning Letter, and other factors, accounting rules required that we perform a formal assessment of recoverability regarding our Buena plant as well as various intangible assets including trademarks, technology, and other intangible assets. As part of this assessment, the Buena plant could not be assumed to have the FDA Warning Letter lifted, which had a significant impact on its assumed value. As a result, we recorded a noncash total impairment charge of $93.2 million in the fourth quarter.

As Tim noted earlier, we remain optimistic about remediating the Warning Letter and are focused on that effort. I think it is important for our investors to understand that as we put these onetime charges behind us, going forward, we anticipate that our improved productivity and utilization of our existing asset base, including the Buena facility, along with a more rational cost structure, should help us generate favorable year-over-year operational and financial performance comparisons.

With respect to full-year financial performance, the company posted $45.3 million of revenue compared with $65.9 million in 2019. Again, COVID has affected end user product use and disrupted the business for the better part of 2020 along with lower sales attributable to our product quality remediation efforts.

2020 cost of revenues, as a percent of total revenues, increased to 108% versus 64% in 2019. Cost of revenues increased by $6.7 million despite lower revenues due to higher remediation costs and inventory reserves. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $6.2 million higher due to higher salary and consulting cost regarding restructuring of the company, as well as charges related to the impairment of intangibles and other assets.

Research and development expenses were $3.1 million lower due to lower salary and related expenses and lower research activities as part of an effort to conserve cash. With the equity raise in the first quarter and our continued focus on cash conservation, we estimate that our [ph] cash has a runway (00:19:03) carrying the company toward the end of 2021 or into the first quarter of 2022.

I will now turn the call back over to Tim. Tim?

Thanks very much, Ernie.

In summary, we believe that Teligent is undergoing a significant transformation both with respect to its improved financial condition and the quality initiatives being implemented throughout its operations and manufacturing capabilities. Despite our recent successes, we continue to work diligently with both our financial and strategic advisors to critically assess all of the strengths of the company that we can leverage moving forward. We look forward to reporting more on these activities in the coming months as we complete our work and our assessments.

As I stressed on today's call with our investors, Teligent's success is rooted in teamwork, accountability, and intense focus on making sure we get the details correct. And I'm seeing this level of commitment every day and at every level within our company. For those reasons, I remain very confident in our future, and I look forward to reporting on our additional progress throughout 2021.

Thank you for taking the time to join us today, and I'd now like to turn the call back over to the operator for the question-and-answer session. Michelle?

Thank you, sir. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And, sir, we are standing by for questions.

Okay. It doesn't appear that we have any questions at this time. So, with that, I guess I would like to say thank you to all of you for your participation, we appreciate it. And we look forward to keeping you updated on the progress that we're making with Teligent throughout 2021, and I wish you a great day. Thanks and have a good one. Bye.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This will conclude today's teleconference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.