Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Damian Finio — Chief Financial Officer, Teligent, Inc.
Matthew G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Teligent, Inc. First Quarter 2018 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

Except for historical facts, the statements in this presentation, as well as oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by Teligent, Inc. are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve certain risks and uncertainties. For example, without limitation, statements about the company's anticipated growth and future operations, the current or expected market size for its products, the success of current or future product offerings, and the research and development efforts, and the company's ability to file for and obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration, FDA approvals for future products are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are merely the company's current predictions of future events. The statements are inherently uncertain, and actual results could differ materially from the statements made herein. This is no assurance that the company will achieve the sales levels that will make its operations profitable or the FDA filings and approvals will be completed and obtained as anticipated.

For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its latest annual report on Form 10-K and its latest quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect new information and developments.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Jason Grenfell-Gardner, President and CEO of Teligent. Please begin.

Thank you, David. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Teligent business update covering the first quarter of 2018. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of Teligent. And I'm joined today by Damian Finio, our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us today.

I'll be providing you an update on the core elements of our business and the latest on our expansion plans. Damian will then provide a more detailed breakout of our financial performance for the first quarter.

Before we begin, I want to apologize for those of you who were inconvenienced by the late change in the conference call time yesterday. Following a series of discussions regarding the adoption of the new accounting standard for revenue recognition we refer to as ASC 606 with our auditors, we needed to make a last minute change to our first quarter results that reclassified wholesaler fees for service from cost of revenues to a reduction in revenue net.

This was a change from our historical treatment and we needed to understand the impact of this to comparable periods. The change is one more of geography, rather than substance, but we wanted to make sure we got it right. Thank you, again, for your understanding.

Today, we released results for the first quarter of the year and I'm proud to say that we've had another very solid quarter that was slightly ahead of our internal expectations. This is further evidence to us that our renewed focus on costs, coupled with our robust R&D engine, is driving the results we anticipated. Sales for the quarter were $14.5 million while gross margin was 36%, in line with our 2018 guidance.

As a result of the accounting change I just discussed, we reduced net sales by $635,000. Just for comparison, on a like-for-like basis using our prior method, our revenue was $15.2 million. Now, this is partially due to the strong underlying performance of the business and the pipeline. One of the things I was pleased to see in the first quarter was the continued diversity in the product sales mix. Between new product launches, most notably for Hydrocortisone Butyrate Lotion where we enjoy 180-day exclusivity period and good underlying dynamics in the base portfolio, our business performed well during the quarter.

This portfolio diversity strategy is paying dividends by mitigating the risk of price erosion long-term while maximizing our ability to support the market during any supply disruptions.

In the first quarter, we received two product approvals and have received four product approvals year-to-date. Our ability to achieve really amazing time to approval has been proven yet again with an average GDUFA Year 5 ANDA approval time of 15 months.

You may have noticed in the industry that many of our competitors saw slowdown in approvals during the first quarter of this year, and in many cases, we believe this was due to new elemental impurity requirements going into effect. I can probably say that as a result of our robust R&D efforts, we were prepared for this new testing requirement, and I believe we continue to punch above our weight class when assessing trailing 12-month data on FDA approvals. In fact, we're now in the top 15 for ANDA approvals by company globally. We expect similar results as we begin to enter the sterile injectable space.

Shifting to our operations up north. Canada continues to perform well ahead of our expectations. Our new general manager, Mark Mantel, joined us this quarter, and he has worked closely with our suppliers and supply chain team to improve our response to market and supply disruptions. Our efforts to bulk up our supply chain in both Canada and the U.S. has allowed us to ensure that we're able to go from approval to launch in less than 30 days, a capability we intend to continue as new approvals are accumulated.

Turning to the expansion, I think we're now approaching close to 95% of the way complete with this one-and-a-half year journey. It's amazing what we've accomplished in this short period of time. More recently, we've completed our first engineering batches for our sterile injectable drugs and I'm absolutely thrilled to see this line start operating.

With the entire facility nearly on line, we are in full swing of transitioning from expansion to operating as efficiently as possible. We have a renewed focus on margin and cost control which Damian is leading. And let me now turn this over to him for his thoughts on the quarter.

Thanks, Jason, and good morning, everyone. For today's call, I'd like to walk you through our 2018 first quarter financial results, but I also want to spend a little bit of time updating you on our near-term priorities.

So let's start with the first quarter results. After adopting ASC 606, the new revenue recognition standard, revenues for the quarter were $14.5 million, which is in line with our internal target. In comparison to the first quarter of 2017, revenues declined 26%. This decline was driven by lower revenues for Lidocaine 5% ointment, and 4% topical solution, Zantac and a $2.1 million decline in contract manufacturing and other partnered product revenues. These declines, however, were partially offset by an increase in all other U.S. Teligent label products and a $1.4 million or 46% increase in revenues generated by our Canadian business.

In the first quarter of 2018, one product, Hydrocortisone Butyrate 0.1% Lotion accounted for nearly 13% of our quarterly revenue. This product was approved in November 2017 and launched in February 2018. When the product was approved, IQVIA estimated the total addressable market to be $17 million. Revenues realized reflect additional quantities required to stock the channel.

Gross profit for the quarter of 2018 was $5.2 million or 36% of revenues, which is in line with our 2018 guidance, but down 19 basis points from the same period a year ago, due again primarily the declining Lidocaine ointment 5% and 4% topical solution, as well as Zantac pricing.

SG&A for the first quarter was $5.4 million. This represents a 25% increase over the first quarter of 2017 and that's due primarily to the growth in our employee base and the ramp-up of other activities across the business, as we approach the completion of the major expansion project in our Buena, New Jersey facility.

R&D investment for the quarter was $3.4 million, which represents an 8% decline over the same period a year ago. And lastly, we recorded an operating loss in the first quarter of $3.5 million.

As stated in our last earnings call, our EBITDA guidance for 2018 is $3.6 million and we also communicated plans to invest $13 million to $15 million in product development and research. This translates to an adjusted EBITDA before product development and research expenses of $16 million to $21 million. For comparison, adjusted EBITDA before product development and research expenses for the first quarter of 2018 was $1.9 million.

Shifting to the balance sheet, I wanted to highlight two items. First, cash. Despite relatively stable sales, our cash balances are down as of the end of the first quarter in comparison to the end of last year. This is due to less than normal cash collections from customers, which was expected after strong collections in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a catch-up in cash payments to the general contractor overseeing our manufacturing expansion.

I think it's really important to note that, from a cash perspective, launching products in rapid succession, although ultimately a good thing for the company, of course, has a drag on short-term cash collections. This is because as wholesalers begin shipping our products to customers at our contract price chargebacks come due and are netted against past invoices on other products well before we collect cash from the wholesaler for the sale of the product that was launched. This dynamic is not unique to Teligent. However, when interpreting our cash balance and statement of cash flows, it's a dynamic that we all need to be mindful of as Teligent launches more products into the U.S. market going forward.

Second, I wanted to talk about accounts receivable. So accounts receivable declined since the end of last year, which is not what one would expect with relatively stable sales and less than optimal cash collections from customers. The majority of the decline, again, relates to ASC 606, the new revenue recognition guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The new pronouncement required us to reclassify $3.2 million of accrued wholesaler fees from accrued expenses to accounts receivable net on the balance sheet.

Moving on from our financial results, I'd like to talk to you about our near-term priorities, namely, addressing our capital structure and introducing more cost discipline across our organization. First, our capital structure. Until very recently, Teligent's capital structure consisted solely of a $143.75 million unsecured convertible bond instrument maturing in December 2019 with a coupon rate of 3.75% and a strike price of $11.29.

In previous communications, Jason and I expressed our intent to address our capital structure beginning mid-2018, well before these bonds will be classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. On May 1, as we said, we took our first step at addressing our capital structure. In working directly with a few existing bondholders through a private exchange, we swapped $75.1 million of this bond issuance for new, also unsecured convertible bond facility.

The new $75.1 million bond facility bears a coupon rate of 4.75%, a strike price of $4.45 and matures in May 2023. We believe this was a very positive and necessary first step in executing the company's plan to address the capital structure and we are really pleased with the terms of the agreement.

Our next step is to leverage the company's assets to secure debt as a competitive cost of capital. Of course, the proceeds from any debt secured will be used to provide the cash needed to launch more products in the U.S. that I spoke about earlier, but also to address the remaining $68.7 million balance of the remaining convertible bonds maturing in December of 2019.

I wanted to highlight that this next step is already underway. Last week, in response to a request for proposal that we sent substantial lenders, several term sheets were returned. Jason and I are in the process of evaluating these term sheets. Very soon, we will make our selection and we will enter the final stages of the diligence. As these next steps are executed, we will continue to keep you informed.

Lastly, as Jason mentioned, 2018 is a year of transition. Teligent is transitioning from a company that was in build and grow mode for several years, to a company that's now more focused on driving profitability. We all know Teligent has a strong track record of developing and launching products, but to be profitable, we absolutely recognize both the need and the urgency to introduce a much greater cost discipline across the organization.

Jason and I, along with the management team and the rest of the organization, have started a process to review vendor by vendor, invoice by invoice and line by line exactly where we spend our money. As a result, certain outsourced services will be brought in-house, request for proposals will be initiated for major expense items and more rigor and tighter spending authorities have been added to the existing approval processes.

We are absolutely confident in our ability to address the remaining portion of our capital structure steadfast in our intent to control costs and really excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for this organization.

Thank you and back to Jason.

All right. Thanks, Damian. And I'm looking forward to working together to better control spending as we operationalize this next phase of our business. We're so laser-focused on our task at hand that we've been counting out the days until this facility is fully operational. And there's a whiteboard I see every day in this plant counting down the days with everyone's signature on it, committed to delivering this new injectable capability and installing a high degree of efficiency for both topicals and injectables. There are 54 days left.

What remains exciting beyond this, though, is our ability to continue to play the role of disruptor within this industry between our high ANDA approval rate and our growing portfolio. What this means is that, as we transition to sterile injectables, we get to deploy our teams that succeeded in disrupting this complex topical space into a whole new institutional market. We've brought 28 topical generics to the market in the past four years alone. Now, we're well poised to bring this disruption engine to bear on the injectables space and we're anticipating an even faster rate of momentum as we enter the next lifecycle of this company.

Now, before opening up for questions, I'd just like to extend my personal thanks to our Teligent teams in the U.S., Canada and Estonia who have been working to make Teligent successful. There have been some long days and a lot of hard work put into this facility and into our business model and I remain grateful and proud of their dedication and the generosity of spirit that they've poured into this company. Thank you to all of you and all of them for what they do every day.

With that, David, let's open this up for some questions.

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for the update and for taking our questions.

Good morning, Matt.

I've got a handful here. First, regarding the switch here to ASC 606, I'm just curious with the Clobetasol approval, and obviously, the other approvals you received this year, and your prior guidance range, if we were looking at this from an ASC 605 angle, would the Clobetasol approval puts you at the upper end of that range or have there been some other puts and takes that you are still in line and where does that guidance sit today under ASC 606?

No, that's a great question, Matt, and thank you for that. So I think, look, we're seeing the way the business is performing so far this year, just the underlying trends of the business. We're, as I said in my remarks, a little ahead of our expectations. The fact that Clobetasol got approved means that you start as you think about how we set the range to start risk-weighting it towards the midpoint or higher. We still have to execute through to back half of this year.

If you look at the wholesaler fees that we paid in the first quarter here, there's a $635,000 delta there that moves from COGS out of the gross to net [ph] travel (00:17:32) sales. That's probably a little light compared to how this accelerates over time throughout the year. But I think if you put those two things together, it means that right now, we feel pretty good about our numbers, and we feel so pretty good about the range given the way that business is performing. As we get into Q2 and we look at how the Clobetasol launch rolls out and some of these other launches that we have in the quarter, we'll be able to give you a tighter range as we get into July. But right now, we feel pretty good.

Okay, great. And then, last quarter, I think – I'm not sure if you plan on doing this every quarter, but could you tell us how many target action dates you have here in the second quarter and how are you feeling about, I mean, your chances with those approvals?

I think we've got six or seven target action dates left now through the remainder of the quarter. I think we feel good about two to three of those. It's usually kind of a 50% hit rate or so. Some of them are pre-GDUFA Year 3 applications. So they're a little bit [indiscernible] (00:18:41) than perhaps some of the newer applications, but communication looks good. We still think there's an opportunity to get some more approvals before the end of the quarter.

Okay. And then, maybe two more. Damian, your comments regarding this review that you're doing to improve your cost discipline. I'm trying to rationalize that with the need and, quite frankly, desire to launch more and more products. As you look at the pipeline, the acquired products that you need to re-launch and those that you're going to be submitting, how do you plan or how are you going to be looking at which products to launch and when and how will that impact maybe your growth over there, call it, the relatively near term?

Yeah. Thanks, Matt. So I think any company, whether they're doing poorly or doing great should always be disciplined as it relates to costs. So I think what we're planning to do in the second half of the year is just increase the focus that we already have. And the purpose is to pull out those low-hanging fruit from the cost base so that we can use that cash to put towards launching products, because what we don't want to do is have to delay a product launch, because we don't feel like we have the cash flow to do so. So our intent is to manage the cost base and the flow of cash and the collection of cash so that we can support the business going forward and the products that we have planned to launch.

Yeah. And let me just add to that. I mean, I think as we've been in this build, build, build mode, you make some trade-offs, right? So you're doing things like expediting testing of a raw material or expediting delivery of a component and putting that discipline that Damian talks about into place that says, no, let's plan better, let's be more efficient, let's be more mindful of how we're spending our dollars is just a little bit of a change in focus. And I think if we can do that, there's a significant value to be had on the margin side. Our initial review of this already highlighted some areas where we could certainly do better just by being more focused on cost, as we move into this next stage of the business.

Okay, great. And then, maybe one last one for you, Jason, a little bigger picture question. The President is supposed to speak at some point, I think, this week. And one of the things that is speculated he's going to talk about or – is the government kind of cracking down on some of the discounts and rebates and how that's flowing through to the customers. And I know it's kind of a gray area right now. We don't know exactly what he's going to say. But as you look at what's been discussed already in the media, how would that affect your business? And does that create any opportunities or headwinds? Any color there would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.

Yes. Such a great question, and I think, look, those of us who watched the 60 Minutes piece on Sunday around Acthar and some of the recent comments from the members of the administration, not the President, but members of the administration about PBMs and PBM pricing, clearly, what we have talked about over the past couple of years that there's something broken in the system of pricing and rebates and the complexity that's involved. I think it's good that we are getting into the details on this. I mean sunlight and sunshine is the best disinfectant, right? And shining light on some of these practices I think is helpful.

How does it affect us? I mean look, one of the things that we've struggled with is where we are launching, let's say, a generic against a brand competitor who is trying to use specialty pharmacy channels in discounting and rebating to payers into PBMs, to essentially sidetrack scripts so that people are getting branded scripts when generics are available. It's not good for the system. It's not good for patients. It's not good for payers. But it's a way that the system has been gamed in order to essentially maintain market share and maintain revenues. There are some folks that are really good at that. And we compete against some of them. So to the extent that you can stop some of these bad behaviors, I think it will eventually be good for everyone, not just Teligent.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Matt.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Scott Henry with ROTH Capital. Your line is now open.

Thank you and good morning. Just a couple of questions. First, when I look sequentially from fourth quarter 2017 to first quarter 2018, obviously, you've got a big boost from Hydrocortisone, but the numbers still went down even though strong fundamentally. My question is, clearly, some of the franchises went down in Q1, I'm just curious if you could give any more color on what's going down, just as we think about modeling it going forward.

Sure, Scott. That's a great question. So if we look at 4Q 2017 and compare it to 1Q 2018 and kind of try to look like-for-like using the ASC 606 adjustment that Damian has talked about in terms of the numbers, in 4Q 2017, total wholesaler fees were just a tad under $1.2 million. And so, your sort of net sales for 4Q would have come in at about $14.8 million compared to $14.5 million we reported this morning.

Now, you're right, Hydrocortisone Butyrate, obviously, made up a good chunk of that here in Q1. And we did continue to see Lidocaine 5% and Zantac lower in the first quarter, which was sort of in line with our expectations as we went into the period. There were a couple of other puts and takes there in terms of the product, but I would say those were the two major ones.

The other thing is the fourth quarter was actually pretty strong when you think about the buying patterns into the quarter, right? We get, usually, an extra maybe two, sometimes three weeks' worth of demand in that fourth quarter, whereas people stock up at the end of the year to take into account the disruption related to the holidays and the New Year. So you kind of get a little bit of a bump at the end of the year. As that inventory bleeds into the first quarter, that means your January is a little bit slow and that's going to impact the overall size of your first quarter revenue. So by and large, pretty much in line, slightly ahead of our expectations for the quarter.

Okay, great. That was very helpful. The only other question, just could you talk a little bit about the Clobetasol Cream approval and how we should think about it? That looks to be the anchor among the new product approvals. Just trying to get a sense of – I mean, it looks like the type of product that you'll give kind of granularity on, because it will reach that material [ph] in this (00:25:58). Could you just talk about that product?

Yeah, sure. So I mean that product is launching now as we speak. I mean, first of all, let's talk a little bit about just the approval cycle on that drug. I mean, that drug got two approvals in 15 months. Basically, one minor CRO responded quickly, turned it back around, and I think that's a great part of the story.

The other thing is our team was ready to launch that drug basically immediately. We finalized the release. That drug is going to market. So that was amazing execution by our team to get that there. In terms of now what that looks like from a launch and competitive dynamics, what I would tell you is this, we anticipate having a successful launch of the product, as we get in and see how that sort of stabilizes in the market. We'll probably be able to give you some better granularity around it in 2Q, but it's a little too early for me to be giving specifics on that today.

Thank you. I appreciate the color, and thank you for taking the questions.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [ph] Lucas Lee (00:27:11) with Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. This is [ph] Lucas Lee (00:27:17) on for Elliot. I have two questions. The first one is, I think, you alluded to some disruptions that benefited the Canadian business in early 2018. Is that still a positive factor going forward?

It is positive moving forward. When we talk about drug shortages, we often are obviously very U.S.-focused about it. But in reality, I would say, drug shortage has actually impacted Canada almost more than it's impacted the United States. And I think the reason for that is that as suppliers bring on capacity and try to resolve U.S. issues, Canada sometimes gets left by the wayside.

Our team has done an amazing job of securing supply for the Canadian market. There are a number of products right now where Teligent is the only source of supply and we've had to work really hard with our supply chain folks and our manufacturers to make that happen. And honestly, they've done a remarkable job there. That obviously has a positive impact on revenue. It has a positive impact on margin, but more importantly, we've been able to keep focus in supply.

Thank you. And our second question is, has dynamics changed around recent launches in terms of being able to secure shares? I think the general expectation of Teligent is that it could capture about 15% to 20% share a 20% price discount to existing entrants. Is that still a reasonable entry scenario that we could sort of think about? Thank you.

Well, look, I think every product launch is different. And when we talk about our [ph] 20 down 20 (00:29:12) sort of metric, it's a way of trying to get a sense of scaling what that IMS or IQVIA total addressable market opportunity looks like in terms of just shaping the business. Obviously, each market has a different number of competitors, shares distributed differently. The dynamics of supply chains are different in each of these markets. So we take each market as it is. What I will say is that the consolidation that we saw, the incremental consolidation that we saw in 2017, actually, we think ended up benefiting us, particularly the formation of ClarusONE, because our installed market share at Wal-Mart was not particularly high, being able to now access that part of the market through ClarusONE and the McKesson relationship has actually been probably net positive for us. But by and large, I would say the dynamics remain relatively stable.

Thank you.

All right. Thank you, [ph] Lucas (00:30:18).

That concludes today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back to Jason Grenfell-Gardner for closing remarks.

Thank you, David, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. We appreciate you dialing in. We appreciate your patience and understanding regarding the change in the call yesterday. Damian will be today in Boston. He's on his way now to the Deutsche Bank Conference. So those of you who might be there have the opportunity to meet him and talk with him more. But we look forward to continuing to update you on our progress with our business. And we thank you again for your support. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.