Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jenniffer Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, IGI Laboratories, Inc.
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, IGI Laboratories, Inc.
Dillon K. Hoover — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Steve Beagle — Director, MSN Laboratories
Jeremy Brian Hellman — Analyst, Avenue T Fund
Richard Siracusa — Financial Advisor, Merrill Lynch

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the IGI Laboratories Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instruction] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jenniffer Collins, CFO at IGI Laboratories. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Laura. I'd like to start with our Safe Harbor Statement. Except for the historical facts, the statements in this call or other written statements made or to be made by IGI Laboratories are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and involve risks and uncertainties. For example, statements about the company's anticipated growth and future operations, the current or expected market size of its products, the success of current or future product offerings, the R&D efforts and the company's ability to file for and obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals for future products are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are merely the company's current predictions of future events. The statements are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ materially from the statements made herein. There is no assurance that the company will achieve the sales levels that will make its operations profitable or that FDA filings and approvals will be completed and obtained as anticipated. For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and its latest Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect new information and developments.

I would like to now turn the call over to Jason Grenfell-Gardner, IGI's President and CEO.

Thank you, Jenniffer. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to this IGI Laboratories business update covering the second quarter of 2014. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of IGI, and I'm joined today by Jenniffer Collins, our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us today.

I want to discuss some highlights of our business performance with you and also give an update on the execution of our strategy. Then, Jenniffer will review our financial results for the second quarter and finally, I will discuss our progress towards our key goals for 2014.

I am pleased to report that IGI is on track to deliver on all of our 2014 goals across the business. It's been a busy time here at IGI and I think today's results speak to the dedication that we have on business execution as we go through this year of transformation at IGI.

At this point last year, we had 11 ANDAs pending with the FDA and had only filed two for the first half of 2013. We started making IGI label products, but only had three products and five presentations in the IGI label. Year-to-date in 2013 we had revenue of $7.5 million and $1.3 million of cash on the balance sheet and we were about 45 employees.

Fast-forward to today, you can begin to see the transformation that we've been talking about in our business. We've now filed 19 ANDAs with the FDA for IGI products and have had two approved, leaving 17 on file with the FDA. So we've nearly doubled our active pipeline. The total addressable market of our pipeline has grown from $250 million at this time last year to $465 million today. We now have six IGI products and 11 presentations in the market. And year-to-date, we saw revenue increase 78% over 2013 to $13.3 million. And as a result of the completion of our recent public offering, we now have over $26 million in cash on our balance sheet to enable us to continue to drive growth in our business. We have a team of 63 people now here at IGI, all of us dedicated to executing our business plan and driving value. This is the transformation that we've been undergoing here at IGI, and I believe that this is only the beginning as we work to become a leading player in the specialty generic pharmaceutical industry.

So, let me now spend some time giving you an update on the key parts of our business that are driving this change. First, let me talk a little bit about where we are in our R&D program. As we said before, R&D is the lifeblood of the generic pharmaceutical business, and we've committed ourselves to accelerating our R&D capabilities and productivity in 2014. The team is truly stepped-up and performed a great job in the first half of this year, which saw us file six ANDAs for the IGI label.

To put that in context, that's more ANDAs filed than we achieved in all of 2013, and the same as we achieved in all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 combined, and we're not done yet. We've also received our first ANDA approval this year, including tentative approval for our ANDA for diclofenac sodium 1.5% topical solution. We anticipate launching this product on March 28 of 2015, now that we've settled the patents litigation that we initiated for this product.

We continue to ask the R&D team to execute goals that are unprecedented at IGI. Over the course through remainder of this year, I anticipate that we'll file a further four to six ANDAs, primarily in the fourth quarter. However, to provide some context, we are currently working on 17 future ANDA filings, all in various stages of their product cycles, and we have set our roadmap for our R&D plan through the middle of 2016.

To facilitate our ambitious goals, we have just completed the build-out of new R&D laboratories at our facility in Buena, New Jersey, and we are continuing to expand our team and capabilities. As we move beyond 2014, we would anticipate that this will allow us to continue to increase the absolute number of filings year-over-year, so that we would have the capacity to file one to two ANDAs per month. Now in addition to the 17 ANDAs on file with the FDA for IGI, we have also filed another four ANDAs under joint development agreements with a number of pharmaceutical partners. Indeed, in June, we filed an ANDA under joint development agreement with Impax Laboratories. If you take these together with the 17 IGI ANDAs, we now have a total of 21 ANDAs pending approval at the FDA.

Consistent with our stated strategy, we've also begun work on some new projects in 2014 that seek to develop innovative products using the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. While these projects are at a very early stage, as they develop, we'll keep you up-to-date on our progress. We think that there are some very interesting opportunities in the 505(b)(2) space that fit well with IGI's mission in specialty generics.

Let me turn now to the commercial side of our business. In the second quarter of 2014, we launched two new IGI label products. We launched the lidocaine topical solution in June, which was the first IGI ANDA approval and this has truly validated our ability as an organization to take something from concept through R&D and into commercialization. We also launched the fourth product in our authorized generic portfolio, the low potency version of the fluocinolone acetonide cream. We're pleased with the market shares we maintained in each of our existing projects and we're on track to meet our expected share targets for our recent launches.

Year-to-date 2014, we generated $6.3 million in total revenues from the sale of IGI label generic pharmaceutical products, an increase of 127% over the same period last year. Our team has done a great job in our existing markets and we're actively working to expand our product portfolio.

As part of this effort, we've been actively working on a number of business development projects in 2014 and have identified some real opportunities that could make sense as future product acquisition targets for IGI. Historically, we've focused purely on topical generic pharmaceutical products, like the econazole nitrate cream product that we acquired in 2013 and that makes sense, because it utilizes all of IGI's value chain from beginning to the end.

While we continue to look for similar opportunities, we also recognized there maybe opportunities in adjacent markets in the specialty generic industry that can also make good use of the IGI value chain, whether that's our sales and marketing capability, our supply chain and logistics functions or even our regulatory and R&D strength. With such great capabilities throughout our organization, where we do find opportunities that can utilize the IGI value chain, it makes sense for us to take a good look whether these help us to drive shareholder value.

As you know, our balance sheet has a little more dry powder to be able to execute a transaction, the successful completion of our public offering earlier this month increased our cash position by just over $25 million, and we're grateful for our new and existing shareholders that participated in that offer. We plan to put this cash to use to accelerate revenue for IGI through transactions that will be accretive as quickly as possible to the organization. We hope to be able to update you more in the near future on this front.

Finally, let me talk about the contract services business before I turn the call back over to Jenniffer to talk about the financial results. Our contract services business increased 27% over the same quarter last year. This business continues to be a core part of our growth in 2014. Many of you remember that, what we're trying to do with this business is to shift the focus to more prescription-based pharmaceutical products. In this second quarter 2014, these prescription products represented 81% of our contract manufacturing revenue, compared to 71% in the first quarter of 2014 and compared to the 44% in the second quarter of 2013. For the year to date 2014, prescription products represented 75% of our contract services revenue, compared to 57% for the same period last year.

Taken together, our R&D productivity, revenue growth and margin improvement mean that we're on track to meet all the goals we set for 2014. As a reminder, our 2014 objectives included revenue growth of 40% to 45% over 2013 for the full year, the commitment to file at least 10 ANDAs with the FDA, for generic topical prescription drug products, and maintaining profitability for the full year in 2014, plus we doubled our 2013 R&D spend to drive regulatory filings. We're on track, and I'm excited about the opportunities ahead for IGI.

Let me now turn the call over to Jenniffer to continue the financial review of the quarter.

Thanks, Jason. Good afternoon, and again, thanks for joining us today. Our total revenue for the second quarter of 2014 was $6.5 million, an increase of 70% over the same quarter last year. Revenue for the second quarter of 2014 included $3.4 million of net revenue from the sale of our own IGI label products, compared to just $1.4 million in the same period last year. We increased revenue $2.7 million over the same quarter last year. This increase was attributable to a $2 million increase in IGI label revenue, and a $0.7 million increase in additional revenue from contract manufacturing and our formulation services business.

Our IGI product portfolio included revenue from four authorized generic topical prescription products, as well as our first organically developed and approved product, lidocaine 4% topical solution and our econazole nitrate cream 1%. We launched our fourth authorized generic product in the fluocinolone acetonide family in June and we launched lidocaine hydrochloride 4% topical solution in June as well. And as is customary in the generic pharmaceutical industry, our gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions, which include estimates for chargebacks, rebates, cash discounts and returns and other allowances. We've made adjustments to these estimates, none of which are individually significant and we will continue to monitor our estimates closely as actual charges are presented.

As I mentioned, we grew our contract services business by $700,000 as compared to second quarter of last year. Our increased contract manufacturing revenue in the second quarter of 2014 related to a $400,000 increase in contract manufacturing for two pharmaceutical customers, as well as some incremental orders from certain other existing customers. We also increased contract formulation services revenue in the second quarter by $300,000, primarily attributable to completion of certain milestones in the second quarter in accordance with formulation agreements with one of our pharmaceutical partners.

Our contract manufacturing and formulation services revenue from our pharmaceutical customers represented 81% of our second quarter revenue and this was compared to 44% in Q2 of last year. Sales of OTC products were 0% in Q2 of this year, compared to 8% last year, and our cosmetic product sales represented 19% of revenue in this quarter as compared to 48% in the same period last year.

As you may recall, our contract manufacturing business is a make-to-order business. There may be variability in the percentage of our contract services revenue resulting from the sale of pharmaceutical products quarter-to-quarter. However, year-over-year, we expect more of a contract business results from the sales to pharmaceutical customers. So, all of this means, we grew all of our business lines in the second quarter of 2014 compared to last year. Our significant revenue growth and favorable product mix and contract services enabled us to improve gross margins to 45% in the second quarter, which was significantly higher than the gross margin of 30% we recorded in the same quarter last year.

Year-to-date, our gross margin was 43% in 2014, compared to 30% in 2013. As a frame of reference, margins improved sequentially over the first quarter of 2014 as well from 42% to 45%. These improvements were attributable not only to our revenue growth and product mix shift, but to increased efficiencies in our operations and leverage of our operations as we continue to increase throughput at the facility. As we successfully continue to add higher margin products to our mix, as well as the addition of future IGI label products, we expect that our gross margins will continue to improve year-over-year.

SG&A as a percentage of sales for the second quarter of 2014 was 18%, which was consistent with the same quarter in 2013. SG&A in the second quarter of 2014 was also consistent in absolute dollars with the first quarter of this year, as both quarters included costs related to increased professional fees, non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation and the expenses related to performance based pay for 2014, which were all higher than 2013. We do plan to continue to manage our administrative costs while expanding our customer base and product portfolio and we expect to make some additional investments in SG&A over time to support our growth. Our strong performance on all fronts during the second quarter of 2014 allowed us to continue to invest in R&D.

We spent $2 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $800,000 in the same period last year. In order to continue to expand the pipeline and drive shareholder value, we expect to continue to double our R&D spend in 2014 as compared to last year. As we focused on expanding our portfolio of generic topical pharmaceutical products, adding to the 17 submissions we now have pending with the FDA. We plan to expand our R&D team, and as Jason mentioned, we plan to file at least another four in 2014.

Additionally, our R&D cost in the first quarter and second quarter of 2014 include increased cost for required outside testing. We will continue to increase R&D cost, but we do plan to manage the growth to be consistent with our strategic plan. In the second quarter of 2014, IGI recorded a loss of $345,000. Year-to-date, our net loss was $178,000. As Jason discussed earlier, fiscal responsibility is critical for our success, and we have indicated we plan to sustain profitability for the full year 2014, and still make our necessary significant investments in R&D.

Year-to-date, net cash used in operations was $470,000, and that included the $3.4 million of R&D expenses. In the same period last year, operations used a $1 million. This company has not been profitable since 1997, so maintaining profitability for the year 2014 is important for us. It was merely the timing of our R&D investment on a quarterly basis, which contributed to the small net loss year-to-date. Having our own operation start to generate cash, enables us to continue to reinvest in our future, and allows us the opportunity to explore additional opportunities to accelerate growth.

Year-to-date, we've used $312,000 in investing activities related to funds spent on some minor capital expenditures. And year-to-date in 2014, our cash from financing activities included $443,000, primarily related to funds received from the exercises of warrants and options. As Jason discussed on July 2 of 2014, we closed our underwritten public offering of shares of our common stock, which included 697,000 shares subject to the underwriters' overallotment option. After giving effect to the overallotment option, we sold an aggregate of $5.3 million shares of common stock in the offering at an offering price of $5 per share.

The net proceeds of the offering were $25.1 million, after deducting underwriter discounts and commissions and other estimated offering costs. As Jason discussed, these proceeds will allow IGI to continue its business development efforts in search of additional products and intellectual property that help facilitate and accelerate the growth of our business.

We met with many existing and new investors in our meetings during the offering process and we attended the Craig-Hallum Conference in May and had the opportunity to meet with many investors as well. We hope to add additional conference appearances to our list for 2014 and we're committed to continually improving our communication with our investors and potential investors, and we understand the importance of transparency with the investment community.

In closing, earlier today we announced that IGI has accepted Damian Finio's resignation from our board of directors. Damian has accepted a senior level finance position at a pharmaceutical company. And under the terms of his acceptance of this new position, Damian will be unable to continue in his role as Director for IGI. The effective date of his resignation will be August 11 of 2014. Damian is a great friend of IGI and we wish him well in his new role. IGI has begun its search to replace Damian on our board and we are hopeful to have a replacement for him in the coming months. In the interim, Bhaskar Chaudhuri will resume his role as the Audit Committee Chairman.

Thank you all, again, for joining us today. Jason and I are grateful for your participation and look forward to updating you soon.

I'll now turn the call back to Jason for his closing remarks.

Thanks, Jenniffer. We believe IGI is well positioned for the opportunities that lie ahead of us. There's no doubt we have a lot of work to do, but this team is committed to excellence, governed by quality and focused on execution. As ever I am grateful for your support and for this opportunity to serve IGI shareholders.

At this point Laura, we're happy to take questions. Thank you.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Matt Hewitt of Craig-Hallum.

Hey, good afternoon. This is actually Dillon on for Matt. Say, I'll ask I guess a stereotypical question to ask a generic company. But what you can guys say about the dialogue with the FDA regarding approval timelines? Would you say it's the same better or worse than a year ago?

Hey, Dillon, thanks for your questions, it's great to have you on the call. There're a lot of things in flux at the moment at the FDA as it works through the implementation rather of the Generic Drug User Fee Act. And I think there's a spectrum of opinions across the generic drug industry about how that's impacting each of our firms. What I would say is, I take, what's happening at the FDA in a very positive vein. As we correspond with the agency, as we interact with it, we find some very positive trends. For example, while some people may find the agency's new practice of responding to each review module in ANDA review in one complete response letter, we find that actually that one, encourages you to file a better application but two, it means that you are able to address all of those concerns simultaneously and get back with the FDA.

Second, I think that the recent guidance which came out over the course of the past month indicating target review timelines for major and minor deficiency resubmissions as well as for prior approval supplements helps to give the industry much greater clarity about what's going to happen for those applications which are filed from October 2014 and forward. That's positive for us. So we'll know that there will be obviously the initial review time before refuse to receive our acceptance for filing. We know that there will be initial review time for our first complete response letter and we know the response times that are targeted for major and minor submissions thereafter.

That's a degree of transparency that frankly industry hasn't had for a long time. Now there will be some turbulence as you move through that obviously with files that are – things that are pending with the agency and so on. But from what we see the agency continues to work and we are encouraged by the degree of rigor that seems to be applied in the way in which they are going about implementing PDUFA.

Okay. Great. I appreciate the color. Thank you. And then, kind of along the same lines, recent price increases is the topic we've been seeing within or throughout the generic space over the past year, and kind of more prevalent over the past couple of months. Have you guys been seeing anything within your label product portfolio, price increasing, over the past couple of months? Is that a possibility for you guys to execute some price increases to take your alliance off of the FDA approval's timeline?

Well, I mean, if you go back and look at where we are in terms of our products, we have markets in which we are one of two players, one of three players, one of the four players. And so, there is a dynamic that exist in that market depending on the FDA's regulatory actions with competitors, supply chain management amongst competitors, and a number of other factors. While I wouldn't want to comment on any specific individual products, what I can tell you is that we're very vigilant in the way in which we look at the market, and the way in which we prosecute our business. So, if there are opportunities where we believe that makes sense for us to take price, and we believe that that's the right thing to do in terms of the balance of risk in the business, then that's something that we will consider. At the same time, we also have to be cognizant that this is still a competitive industry, and prices go up and prices go down. What we as a management team have to do is to ensure that we remain alert, and we try to maximize the value that we can.

Okay. Great. And then, lastly for me, I am sorry, I may have missed it, or I'm not sure if you guys usually provide this. But you guys wouldn't be – I guess Jenniffer you wouldn't be willing to breakout the IGI label products from the AG econazole and lidocaine, would you?

Dillon, we don't give revenue data on a product-by-product basis.

Okay.

We did break out that's in the product sales just in total for the six products we have in the marketplace.

Right. Okay. Okay. Just thought I would ask. Thanks.

Thank you.

And our next question will come from Scott Henry of ROTH Capital.

Thank you, and good afternoon and congratulations. Certainly, a lot has been accomplished over the past six months. A couple of questions, just for clarity, Jenniffer, the $3.4 million number you gave, does that include Synalar and econazole nitrate and lidocaine 4%, is that's what's in that $3.4 million number?

That's correct. That's our six products that we have in the market now, the 4 AGs, the lidocaine and econazole.

Okay. Great, and then staying on the income statement, would you expect Q2 to be kind of a high watermark for R&D as well as SG&A? I mean it seems like there was a little one-time noise in the first half of SG&A. Will that number go down on a quarterly basis and I guess R&D obviously, you want to ramp up to get in front of the deadline?

We did ramp it up to get in front of the deadline, Scott. I think from an SG&A perspective, the run rate that we are at now will be pretty consistent for the end of the year, I believe. On an R&D perspective, it's really going to depend ultimately on the timing of some of the outside testing. Those are going to be in the filing. So it's really going to be dependent on if we were to do four, if we were able to do six by the end of the year, that could have a pretty big swing in the numbers for R&D for the fourth quarter, but we are going to really manage that with our revenue growth and make sure that we have the money to spend there. So that's what we plan to do, but we could see this run rate toward the end of the year.

Okay. Fair enough. And switching over to R&D, Jason, I know you talked about the process with the FDA. Asking the question a little bit different, how do you think the approval process is going on your specific applications?

Yeah. I mean I think we see progress. Certainly there's ongoing dialogue around some of the applications we filed. It's worth bearing in mind that the first IGI applications were filed in the fourth quarter of 2010, one of which has been approved, which was the diclofenac sodium topical solution. So there's another one of those, which is still in review with the FDA. And then, two further applications in 2011, and then so on and so forth. So, there's an element of this pipeline kind of maturing and moving through. If we think about a 32-month to 36-month approval timeline, it's going to be probably a bit quieter until we get into the fourth quarter and to the first quarter of 2015 to see much more activity from the agency, but there's still certainly some movement happening.

Okay. Fair enough. And then you mentioned that you now have four partnered ANDAs. First of all, I mean I've got two in my model, I've got the Impax one in June, and then I've got the one in December 2013 with a multinational generics player. When were the other two filed?

At the very end of 2012, Scott, they were with the same partner.

Okay. And staying on that topic of partner products, could you talk a little bit about your relationship with Impax, should we start to see more generics filed with them? I'm just trying to get an idea, I mean, certainly, there is a significant end-user market for that product, how material is that revenue stream?

We have a relationship with Impax that we've had for a few years now, and it's not confined to the one product that we have. I mean that it is still fairly limited in scope. Let's see, I mean I think we want to try to continue to develop that relationship. At the same time, there is always going to be a trade-off between the work that we do for the IGI label which is entirely within our own capabilities and the work that we do with partners and historically we had partnered products and partnered relationships as we seek to balance the cost of R&D against the revenue that we had and the resources that we had available. Because of the shifts that we have seen in terms of revenue and the margin profile of the IGI business or a little bit less reliant on that and so our calculus changes a little bit. But that being said, we have, I think a good relationship with Impax and we value it, so let's see how it evolves in the future.

Okay, certainly fair enough. And then still on the partnered products, I mean certainly the diclofenac sodium 1.5%, the PENNSAID. Are you doing anything about the next-generation product there or how should I think about that revenue stream? Because I am not sure how much is going to left come March 2015.

Yeah, I mean that's interesting question. We have certainly seen at least if we look at the most recent IMS data we see a shift happening from the 1.5% to the 2% in terms of script volume. That being said, there is also a range of patients some of whom may respond well to the 1.5% product and may actually judge that paying a generic co-pay for the 1.5% is preferable to paying a branded co-pay for the 2%. So there is going to be some patient choice issues there as well. We look at a lot of things, I mean, anything that's in the orange book is certainly game for something that we would look at in terms of our R&D portfolio. It's just a function of really how that works in terms of slotting and working out various timing of things, so that's something that we would look at.

Okay. Great. And I guess just the final question, Jason, I mean, you have your new supply of cash on the balance sheet. It's obviously tough to know when you will deploy that. So I mean the way I ask the question is would you be disappointed if you didn't put some of that money to work by the end of the year? I mean, obviously, there is no certainty to that question, but...

I mean, I would – look, I mean, what I have always said about this is that, I don't like the idea of raising capital just to put it on the balance sheet and not do anything with it. And part of the drive for us to do this is that we have been developing this pipeline of business development opportunities. So how those mature and when those mature specifically, I can't say, but you should know that from my side, ROE is pretty important to me. I want to make sure that we use the equity that we have wisely. And so, we will be working hard to make sure that we put it to use. And that being said, we still hold ourselves to some pretty strict standards when it comes to how we value things. We're not going to do a deal just to do a deal. The numbers have to make sense, the math has to work. So that's the constraint that we put on it, but I think we've got some good things in the pipeline, Mr. Henry.

Okay. Great. Well, thanks for taking the questions and great job. Thank you.

Thanks, Scott.

Thanks, Scott.

Next we have a question for Steve Segal (sic) [Beagle] (33:34) of MSN Labs.

Yes, hi, Jason and Jenniffer. Thanks for the presentation, and I echo the previous caller's sentiments, a really impressive growth you're taking on here. I have a unique question regarding the Paragraph 4 strategy. I don't see much around that I'm just kind of curious what direction you plan to go there this year.

Hey, Steve, and thanks for the question. It's really interesting one, because you look at the nature of the generic topical business, much of what we see is really P3 related. Many of the products that we see in the topical space are products that have been on patent for a relatively long time. What is making though, I think more interesting is that, there's fairly limited competition in there, then some supply constraint which has driven pricing that Dillon referred to earlier.

So that also kind of changed the way that you need to look at the market because where there are those opportunities to move forward on P3-related opportunities and the market opportunities make sense, the hurdle is a little bit lower for us to do that. It requires obviously less legal expense, and something that's pretty solidly in the core capability of what we do. That being said, there are some products out there that are in our R&D pipeline that may require P4 strategy, and we don't shy away from that. We filed P4 on the diclofenac sodium 1.5%, we felt pretty good about that. If there are opportunities like that in the future, it's something that we'll consider. The reality is, there are just aren't that many things in the topical space that fit into our profile that are P4 related at the moment.

Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that.

Pleasure.

And our next question comes from Jeremy Hellman of Avenue T Fund.

Hi. Good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Jeremy.

Hi. A question for you, going back to the outside testing in light of your recent raise and the cash on the balance sheet, just wanted to see if you could speak to whether bringing outside testing in-house is something that you would look at and then what the background financials on doing that might be?

Sure. So much of the stuff that really drives cost in the outside testing is the testing that's required to demonstrate bioequivalence for these topical products. And so, when you're thinking about bioequivalent testing, we do that usually in the topical space either to what are called vasoconstriction studies or through clinical endpoint studies. You're talking about managing something which is really a fairly niche and specialized part of this industry, which is carried out by contract research organizations. That's the biggest driver of those costs and it's not something that most people would bring in-house simply because it's lumpy in terms of the needs and obviously, it's a specialized skill which one has to manage.

The other parts of outside testing in terms of materials testing, particle size testing all those sorts of things, we've actually steadily brought in-house over the course of the past two years, as you kind of do the cost benefit analysis and think about the volume of what you're doing. So I think as that evolves over time, much more of that will be done in-house. But, for the bioequivalent side, I'd expect most of that would continue to be external.

Okay. Yeah. So essentially stuff that is lab bench based, it's stuff that has the potentiality to come inside and then the CRO stuff, which would obviously need to remain external, is that a fair way to understand it?

Yeah, I think it's exactly right.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question will come from Richard Siracusa of Merrill Lynch.

Jason, very productive quarter. Of the 17 ANDAs that are on file with the FDA and the four joint ones, within the turnaround timeframe from filing to approval, how many could you possibly expect to get for the remainder of this year, if any, and for the next 12 months?

Hi, Richard. That's a really great question. Going into 2014, we anticipated getting two approvals for the year and we have received two approvals already this year. Is there an outside chance, you could see another approval in 2014, perhaps. It's, again, with FDA it's kind of hard to judge that, but I would say over the course of the next 12 months, you'd probably see another two approvals, one or two approvals during that timeframe. The challenge is that you're really at the early end of IGI's filing history and as we picked up speed over the course of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014, obviously that volume has grown and so eventually you will hit a cadence of getting an approval every other month and eventually an approval every month. But you kind of got to [ph] build (39:12) to that. So it's going to take a little bit of time to get there, but certainly we're confident that it is trending in the right direction.

Well, that's a great pipeline. Thank you.

Thank you.

And next we have a question from [ph] Alan Troy (39:24).

Hi, Jason and Jenniffer, congratulations. My question, Jason, is this. You mentioned the potential of $400-someodd million for all the ANDAs that were filed. Do you have any idea what percentage IGI would get of that amount? [ph]

Alan (39:44), it's great to hear from you. And that's an interesting question, because it really kind of has to break down market-by-market, product-by-product, and what those competitors are and how they look. We haven't given any specific guidance on that. But I would tell you what I would normally say is, if you look at a market like this, first, you have to sort of make a discount to this to say, what is the price of inducing someone to switch from their installed supplier to IGI.

There's going to be some switching cost there, I don't know is that 10%, 15%. Everyone has their own model. And then you've got to imagine how many competitors are in these markets, are they two-player markets, three-player markets, four-player markets. I would say on average these are two-player to three-player markets. Some of them are one-player markets, some of them are four-player markets, but on an average two to three. And if you look at what we have achieved in terms of market shares, historically we've achieved a market share of around 40% to 45% in the two-player market and maybe 25% three-player market 25% to 30%, 10% to 15% four-player market. It kind of depends on the nature of those competitors. So you can kind of handicap it that way. But again it's a very product-specific, product-by-product analysis. And I don't think we've given much guidance.

I see. That's a great, lot of potential revenue there, which is great. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.

All right. Thanks, Laura. I guess it remains for me to say thank you again for all of you for joining us on the call and it's so great to hear from many of you who have been supporting IGI for so long. Jenniffer and I look forward to continue to execute the business here in 2014 and hopefully seeing some of you at the upcoming investor conferences this year. Thanks again for all of your support of IGI and we look forward to speaking to you soon. Have a great afternoon.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.