Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Jenniffer L. Collins — Chief Financial Officer, Teligent, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Gregory D. Fraser — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Matthew G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Scott Robert Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Frank P. Gerardi — President, Univest Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the Teligent, Inc. Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2016 Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.

Except for historical facts, the statements in this presentation, as well as oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by Teligent, Inc. are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties. For example, without limitations statements about the company's anticipated growth and future operations, the current or expected market size for its products, the success of current or future product offerings, and the research and development efforts, and the company's ability to file for and obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration, FDA approvals for future products are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are merely the company's current predictions of future events. The statements are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ materially from the statements made herein. There is no assurance that the company will achieve the sales levels that will make its operations profitable or that FDA filings and approvals will be completed and obtained as anticipated. For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and its latest Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect new information and developments.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jason Grenfell-Gardner, President and CEO. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Daniel and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Teligent business update covering the fourth quarter of 2016. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of Teligent, and I'm joined today by Jenniffer Collins our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us today.

As you've seen from our results announcement this afternoon, Teligent has reported another strong quarter of revenue capping off a year of significant growth. Early in 2016, we described this year as a launch year for Teligent. And with nine product approvals and five launches resulting in year-on-year growth in revenue of $22.6 million, I'm pleased to say that we've achieved liftoff.

On today's call, I want to share with you a few updates on our portfolio, our capital expenditure plan, and our goals for 2017. Jenniffer will then provide further details around the financial performance of the fourth quarter 2016 and the full year. Today, we announced fourth quarter revenue of $17.9 million, which represents growth of 37% over the same period in 2015 and 11% over the last quarter. This growth continue to be driven by Teligent's focus on execution through getting drugs approved, making them and launching them.

Our team has done a tremendous job in 2016 in shortening the period between product approval and product launch, which has helped us to achieve our market goals. Through these product launches, we have continued to diversify our business model with our total portfolio of topical products at year-end in the United States at 16 products in 30 forms, four injectable products in 20 forms, and a further 26 injectable products in Canada.

Those of you who have followed our story for some time will recognize that the portfolio has undergone a significant change and derisking, as we've continued to bring new products to market. This broader portfolio has facilitated our delivery of the excellent results this quarter. We reported today adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter at $2.1 million, up from $0.9 million in the same quarter of last year. These great results come even after our investment of $4.6 million in the quarter in our R&D program.

In R&D, we successfully filed six ANDAs with the FDA in the fourth quarter, finishing 2016 with 36 applications on file with the FDA and three applications on file with Health Canada. As of year-end 2016, our pipeline at FDA had a total addressable market for QuintilesIMS of $2 billion. This pipeline that Teligent has built we believe is a rather unique asset and I want to be certain that we all understand how this pipeline sets Teligent apart from much of the rest of our peer group in the generic industry. You may recall that I referred to Teligent as the disrupter in our industry early in 2016. What I meant by that was that Teligent's ability to navigate drugs through the approval process at FDA in a timely manner and launch them successfully makes us a little bit different. We're not so much playing defense trying to protect our installed markets, but rather playing offence as we launch new drugs into the market. That's why if you compare our results to those of our peers, a few key differentiators stand out. First, we invest significantly more in R&D and we get significantly more out of it. With GDUFA clearly working, Teligent's largely post-GDUFA Year 3 pipeline has progressed very well compared to the pipelines of our peers.

Second, we punch above our weight when it comes ANDAs on file with the FDA, particularly in the specialty generic space. And finally, because we are market entrants rather than incumbents, we don't face the same pricing erosion that our competitors do. In fact price erosion in the Teligent U.S. generic business for the fourth quarter was only 0.69% or roughly [ph] 0.7% (6:54). I think that's what it means when we say Teligent is a disruptor in this space.

So, what comes next? 2017 is going to be a really exciting year for Teligent. We've been making great strides in the build out of our facility expansion at the manufacturing site in Buena Vista Township, New Jersey. We are on track to have the facility finished and validated by the end of this year, which will enable us to hit our timelines for in-house injectable ANDA submissions by the first half of 2018. We've begun the process of transitioning our R&D focus from topicals to injectables, which will be largely complete by the fourth quarter of this year. We're able to do this as by the fourth quarter, we will have substantially achieved our goals around our topical development program with topical ANDAs becoming more focused on applications which require in-depth clinical endpoint studies.

Finally, we're committing to continuing our extreme focus on execution. We believe in developing drugs, getting them approved, and launching them in the market, all in a timely manner. We believe this is the foundation of a sound specialty generic pharmaceutical business and we are absolutely dedicated to executing this business plan whilst continuing to manage our cost structure and our supply chain. That's what we do best at Teligent.

Let me now turn this call over to Jenniffer to discuss the financial results of the fourth quarter.

Thanks, Jason. Good afternoon, everyone and again, thanks for joining us today. As Jason mentioned, total revenues for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $17.9 million, an increase of 37% as compared to last year and 11% as compared to the third quarter. Net revenue from the sale of our own products increased just over 80% from the same quarter last year and increased 6% sequentially over the third quarter to reach $14.7 million. The increase in revenue compared to last year resulted from the expansion of our generic injectable portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2015 through our two acquisitions and our five new topical product launches in 2016.

Revenues from our Lidocaine Ointment 5% represented 39% of fourth quarter revenue compared to just 0% last year. Year-to-date, Lidocaine 5% represented just under 23% of total revenue.

Product sales from our contract services business was $3.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $4.9 million in the same quarter last year and $1.8 million in the third quarter of 2016. As you may remember, we're fortunate enough to secure orders from two new customers in the fourth quarter of last year, which we did not expect or see continue in the back half of 2016.

Contract services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 17% in the fourth quarter compared to 11% of total revenue in the third quarter of this year. Contract services revenue from our pharmaceutical customers represented just over 90% for the fourth quarter compared to 78% last year, with the balance coming from OTC and consumer products.

Gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2016 was 51% compared to 45% in the same quarter last year and 50% in the third quarter of 2016. Gross margin in the fourth quarter was slightly less than expected due to the mix of products sold in the fourth quarter of 2016. As we've often talked about, our margins in our contract service business, particularly for non-pharmaceutical products, are not as strong as some of our Teligent products. We continue to grow our revenue from Teligent topical products and we will continue to grow our topical sales and reduce contract services in the future which will show a margin improvement.

Sales of injectable products represented just over 24% of total revenue in the fourth quarter, as compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2016 and 16% in the same quarter last year. Our partners currently manufacture all of our injectable products. The expansion of our facility to include sterile manufacturing capabilities and their transition of the manufacturing of some of these products to our own plants will also improve gross margins over time.

SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2016 was $4.2 million compared to $3.7 million in the third quarter and compared to $4.9 million in the same quarter last year. SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2016 included amortization of $700,000 compared to $400,000 in the same quarter last year. The increased amortization resulted from the acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2015.

SG&A as a percentage of total sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015 were 23% and 37% respectively. We made additional investments in the fourth quarter of 2016 in our corporate services group that will help us support the growth of our business in 2017 and beyond. Over time, we do expect SG&A as a percentage of total revenues to be flat to down depending on the range of revenues.

Consistent with our TICO strategy and our dedication to building a foundation to expand our portfolio, we continue to invest significantly in R&D. We invested $4.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $3.9 million in the same period last year. We filed 12 ANDAs in 2016 and 8 applications in Canada. We received 9 product approvals from our own organic pipeline in the U.S. in 2016 and additional 8 approvals from Health Canada in 2016.

For the year, total R&D as a percentage of total revenues was 26% for 2016 and 30% for 2015. For the year ended 12/31/2016, net cash provided by operations was total of $1.1 million, which was after we spent $17 million on R&D expenses.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, cash used in investing activities was $22 million, primarily related to $13.5 million in CapEx for the expansion of our facility in South Jersey. We expect the final budget for this facility including necessary equipment, utilities, and process controls for our increased topical production as well as our new sterile selling finished suite to approximate $55 million when it's finished. To-date, we've spent just over $15 million. We hope to have this expansion completed before the end of 2017.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, we recorded a net loss of $5.4 million compared to a net loss of $6.4 million in the same quarter last year. The net loss in the fourth quarter included a loss related to foreign exchange of $2.2 million. As you may recall, when we completed the Alveda acquisition, we established Teligent's subsidiaries in Canada and Estonia to complete the purchase.

Because of the fluctuation in foreign exchange rates during the fourth quarter of 2016, we recorded $0.2 million loss related to foreign currency translation on these intercompany loans. Depending on the changes in foreign currency, we will continue to record a non-cash gain or loss on the translation for the remainder of the term of these loans which are due in 2022. Due to the nature of this transaction, there's no economic benefit for the company to hedge this transaction.

We believe it's helpful for investors to review our adjusted EBITDA, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as well as adjusted net income. As you may have seen in our release, non-GAAP disclosure related to how we calculated EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted net income are included. We will continue to provide this information as long as we determine it's helpful for investors to monitor the operations of our business excluding certain items as outlined in the table.

Our adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter was $2.1 million, which was after our R&D spend of $4.6 million.

As always, Jason and I are grateful for your participation, and we look forward to updating you again soon. I'll now turn the call back to Jason for his closing remarks.

Okay, thanks, Jenniffer. So before we turn to questions, let me talk briefly about our guidance for 2017 that we released today. First, we expect revenue for the full year of 2017 in a range of $85 million to $100 million. This represents growth of between 27% and 51% over 2016.

Second, we expect the associated gross margin with these revenues of between 50% and 54% for 2017, largely in line with our results for 2016.

Finally, we will continue to invest in R&D, as we maintain our aggressive focus on the pipeline. We anticipate the total R&D expense for the year 2017 to approximate 24% to 27% of total revenue. Our investment in this pipeline is what drives and will continue to drive our growth and profitability in the years to come.

Teligent is building a unique, diversified specialty generics business focused on our areas of TICO, topical, injectable, complex and ophthalmic drugs. We've had a great 2016 and we look forward to the opportunities that we have in 2017.

And one last thing, yesterday, we announced the approval of our Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment USP, 0.5%, an ANDA that spent only 18 months at FDA. I'm pleased to announce that today we received notification this afternoon from FDA that our ANDA for Clobetasol Propionate Gel 0.05% has also been approved. This ANDA was filed in December 2015 and was at FDA for 14 months. The ANDA received approval in a first cycle review ahead of its GDUFA goal date.

I would like to congratulate our entire team on their remarkable work. They're what makes the Teligent model work and what we believe makes us unique.

Now, with that, Daniel, let me open up our call for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And now, our first question comes from Elliot Wilbur with Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon and congratulations on the first cycle approval, Jason. I guess that puts you in the 9%.

It puts us ahead of the 9%, but we're always happy to have it.

Thanks. So just real quickly in thinking about revenue expectations for 2017, in terms of kind of bridging the growth between 2016 and 2017, can you just maybe sort of walk us through kind of the key pushes and pulls, obviously, very dependent upon the new product cadence, but maybe just give us a little bit better sense of what you have in terms of approvals that are yet to be launched versus what you're expecting in terms of potential new product contribution?

And then, maybe just give us a little bit of color on base performance, appreciate your commentary around the price erosion experienced in 4Q, but it looks like at least in January, we've seen a little bit more incremental competition on Econazole and Lidocaine, so maybe just a little bit of color on kind of how those products or the basis is performing in 1Q 2017?

Sure, so let's talk a little bit about the revenue bridge first. So we have four products that were approved in the back half of 2016 that are being launched in the first quarter of 2017. And I think three out of those four have already launched with the fourth one launching this month. We have in addition to that now the two approvals which have come out this week, which we also anticipate will be launched in the first half of 2017. I don't know yet when today's approval will be launched, but I hope to find that out this week.

So you obviously have, as part of that revenue growth you have the bridge that comes from the new product approvals. As ever with our guidance, we try to give you a view to what we think we have in hand or what we feel confident about which takes into consideration of those products that have been approved pending a launch within this year and those things that we see in the potential pipeline for 2017 approvals.

Of course, again, going back to what we said about the pipeline, over 85% of the total value of our pipeline is related to submissions that are post-GDUFA Year 3. And so, with that there is, I think, a significant opportunity for us to continue to get products approved and get them launched as we move into the remainder of this year.

With your question about first quarter price erosion, I have to say first, we won't give commentary on specific individual products. But I think we've seen a market that continues to be very much in line with our experience in the fourth quarter.

Okay. And I wanted to ask a follow-up question on the pipeline as well. There's been a lot of movements, obviously, in terms of filing them and approvals. But the current constitution 35 ANDAs, $2 billion in sales, at least on a dollar basis, seems to be quite a bit higher than your last update. So the question is, basically, were there a couple of products that may have been filed late in 2016 that have relatively large markets associated with them or is that just more of update kind of across the portfolio?

I think that total market size is largely consistent with where we've been. I mean there are pushes and pulls, again, as things get approved, and then, you put more things in. And then, obviously, as the markets continue to evolve as well and there are a couple of Paragraph IVs in there that branded markets that have been pretty exuberant. So – but by and large, I think it's consistent with previous data.

Okay. And the last question for you is given the heightened state of competition in the topical space, previously, I guess sort of our long running assumption is that in terms of a new entrant into market, we could essentially use 15% to 20% price discounting in order to encourage switching, and then, ultimately, thinking about your positioning that you could capture roughly 15% to 20% of the market. Given the state of competition currently, do you still think that 15% to 20% switch price dynamic is an accurate gauge?

I mean I think that those trends seem to be fairly consistent. And if you look at what some of the installed competitors in the market have seen in terms of price erosion, that's probably again consistent with market entry. As market entrants, depending on how those markets are, we shape our market expectations accordingly, given the number of competitors and given how they're distributed across the customer base. But as ever, we're trying to make sure we do the best to maximize the value that we have out in the pipeline.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Greg Fraser with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi folks. This is Fraser on for Gregg Gilbert. On the guidance, can you give us a sense of how much contribution from new launches you have factored into the $85 million to $100 million? And should we think about sales for new products is spread out over the year or more weighted towards later in the year?

Hi Greg, it's Jenn. Thanks for your question. So what we tried to do with the range of guidance is take the information that we had in hand, both from existing products and the launches that we had pending to get us closer to the bottom end of the range and then have the other opportunities and the other approvals for the remainder of the year get up to the top end of the range. So that is kind of the most color that I can give you around how we came up with it, but it's really based on what we know today to get to the bottom end of the range.

Okay, that's helpful. What about Lidocaine, can you comment on what you're assuming for that product in 2017?

As Jason mentioned, we're not going to comment on individual products or revenue contribution in 2017. I think based on his comments as well, we have been consistent with kind of what we've seen in terms of price erosion and our market share for Lidocaine in the beginning of 2017. So we feel good about our position.

Okay. And then, last question is just can you give us an update on your orphan drug ANDA that you were working on? Thank you.

Sure. So that ANDA went to clinic in January. We're now in a wash-out period, the second dosing will happen here still in the first quarter. We will be reviewing those results at the beginning of the second quarter. And depending on how those results look, we'll seek to file, hopefully, within the first half of this year.

Our next question comes from Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. Congratulations on a strong finish to the year.

Thanks, Matt.

Thanks Matt.

Couple of questions. So first, regarding the filings, how should we be thinking about that from a cadence perspective? I think the six in Q4 was a little bit light, I'm guessing some have already been likely filed here in Q1, but from an R&D perspective, obviously, those submissions can carry some extra expense when those go through. How should we be thinking about that on a sequential basis this year?

So I think we intentionally didn't want to start thinking about numbers of filings in the year, but rather the quality of the filings and their likelihood of approval within our first cycle review. That's our focus as we think about the pipeline.

And you go back and look at the fourth quarter of 2016, I think you can see some of that. We actually responded to, I think the final total was something like 120 interactions with FDA related to the pipeline last year. So when you think about that workload, together with new ANDA submissions, obviously, getting stuff out of the FDA is probably more important than throwing stuff into the FDA, particularly if you don't have the time and the effort to quality check it.

We don't want to do that. So the other piece of this is to be mindful that in the first half of this year, you have the overlap of the review cycle periods for GDUFA Year 4 and GDUFA Year 5. You'll know, Matt, that in GDUFA Year 5, we're moving from a 15-month clock for first cycle review to a 10-month clock, which means that we're in this weird zone where the GDUFA Year 5 filings are going to essentially an accelerated review process compared to what we've been doing in GDUFA Years 3 and 4.

So that puts a lot of strain and stress on the organization and the regulatory team and all of the teams that support to make sure that we can continue to respond to FDA on time, in a complete manner and in a quality response to the information requests that they have. That's my number one priority for the first half of this year.

So we've staggered the ANDA filings. There will, of course, still be ANDA filings in the first half of this year. And we'll update you on a quarterly basis as we progress. But I don't want to focus on that ANDA submission cadence. What I want to focus on is the quality of our responses to get drugs approved.

Fair enough. I understand. And actually, I think you just touched on a little bit. I know that at the recent industry meetings here last month, if I'm not mistaken, the FDA committed to having the backlog of applications cleared up by the time GDUFA [ph] two (28:33) hits. Obviously, that would be a huge boon to a company such as yours where you've got this bolus of applications that have been submitted here over the past couple of years.

What is your confidence level that they can hit that given your experience, given the number of, I think you've had what two or three first cycle approvals now and how should we be thinking about that as it pertains to the year?

I think that's a great question. So first, you'll also know that from the industry events, the agency is very concerned about improving the overall percentage of first cycle reviews, but that requires the industry to do its part as well in terms of timely response to information requests, ensuring that the DMS that are submitted to support applications are complete and submitted ahead of the ANDA submissions, and ensuring that the quality of what's submitted is high.

We've done a really good job. Our team has done an amazing job of getting all of those responses back to FDA on time and complete. And I think that's what led to our above average performance in first cycle review.

I would say we've had – I think the number is four now first cycle approvals. And even for the ones that have gone through minor CRLs like the Triamcinolone Acetonide, that went through a minor CRL, but was approved still within 18 months, which is exactly according to the timelines that the FDA has set out. So there's work that we have to do and there's obviously the work that the FDA is doing. But we're very confident that provided that we submit good applications and we respond completely and in a timely manner, the FDA will continue to perform in a very predictable way.

All right. Maybe one last one from me, kind of relevant to this. So a year ago – I think it was a year ago, you stepped up an entire team, I think it was six or seven people [ph] whose sole (30:44) responsibility was to respond to these inquiries from the FDA. Obviously, that's been a very successful venture and team.

How does that team change or does it change as the FDA works through some of the backlog, as you get more efficient and are making your submissions in a way that you're not necessarily meeting that number of heads, you shift some of those resources to back to the R&D development or is this going to be a kind of a steady state team going forward? Thank you.

Sure. So right now, I think it's likely to be a steady state team, because we're moving from 15 months to 10 months in terms of the review cycle and that's going to require, again, just a turnaround time that is remarkable when you have 35 or 40 ANDAs on file with FDA. And so, it's always going to require some maintenance and some attending and some focus and remember that it's across disciplines, it's across areas of competence within the organization. But I have to again say they have done a truly remarkable job, their dedication is noticed, and they achieved results. And so, we're very proud of them.

Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Scott Henry with ROTH Capital. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon and congratulations, the guidance really very strong, very reflective of your accomplishments. Couple questions. First, Jenniffer, I think you told us what percent Lidocaine 5% was in Q4. I didn't quite get that. Could you pass that on?

Yeah, it was 39% for the quarter and just under 23% for the year, Scott.

Okay, great. And did you give any guidance on how we should think of SG&A into 2017, I imagine it increased a little bit, but probably not nearly as much as sales, just any color there?

Yeah, I think that we're still seeing, [ph] as I spoke (33:11) on the call, we made good investment in 2016 and towards the back half, which will get annualized into 2017. So there will be a dollar increase in SG&A in 2017, to support really the growth of the business that we started to invest in, between the ERP system and the building out of the corporate services infrastructure. So those two things will cause in terms of dollars to increase, but obviously, as we continue to grow revenue at one end of the range or the other, as a percentage of revenue, we expect it to decline over time.

Okay, great. And another question, it's kind of tricky, because I know you don't want to speak to specific products, but it seems like generic Ranitidine in some of your product offerings, it seems like a pretty good opportunity. I know you have kind of some of your anchor products in 2016, [indiscernible] (34:08) Econazole Nitrate, Lidocaine 5%, should we think about this generic Ranitidine as moving into one of those anchor product positions?

It's a good question, Scott. I think, obviously, whether it's Ranitidine or it's some of the other products in the portfolio, what's I think critical to remember is that one of the strategies of, I think, the generic pharmaceutical industry is to have enough cards to play as markets change and to ensure that you have a robust supply chain to be able to respond in a timely manner to significant changes in demand.

So in the past quarter or so, Ranitidine has been certainly above our expectations, but that will come and go. I mean I don't think that it's something that's going to be structurally permanent or structurally meaningful over the longer-term. So I don't think I would model that out. I would take that as a short-term gain and sort of take it for what it is. But part of the idea of having a broader portfolio is to be able to be well-positioned, if there are market shortages, to make sure that the market stays in supply and we'll continue to do that and ensure that we have a robust supply chain that allows us to do so.

Okay, thank you for that color. And that kind of leads into my final question is, with these products, you're inevitably going to have lumpiness from opportunities that come and go. But when we think about the trend, I mean we now have 2015, 2016, and you've given us kind of a 2017 guidance. When we think about 2018, I know that's a long way off, but should we continue to think about this accelerating trend line factoring in lumpiness from quarter-to-quarter? I'm just trying to get some sort of thoughts on how you think about the big picture going from 2017 to 2018?

Well, I can talk a little bit about the nature of the product portfolio and how we think it changes. And then, I'll let Jenniffer talk about some of the more specifics if any. But let's start with just thinking about the product portfolio. And I like your word acceleration. Think about the acceleration that's happened in terms of the product approvals that Teligent has seen over the course of the past few years. From one approval, I think, in 2014 to nine approvals in 2016, and as that approval cycle at FDA shrinks, as the team continues to perform at a high level of responding, as we get even stronger at the applications that we have on file, despite the increase in complexity that we've added in terms of the products that we're doing. I can imagine a world in which that continues to accelerate.

And as we think about the transition from topicals to injectables in 2017 from an R&D perspective, there's a really exciting opportunity I think that comes in 2018 and 2019 for even greater acceleration around ANDA submissions and around ANDA approvals. So there's a lot of gating items there. The physical plant, the transition of the development team, but they're all things that we know how to do. And all of those applications, eventual approvals, and product launches will mean revenue. And so the goal certainly when I sit in my chair is to ensure that we're allocating capital in a way that facilitates that acceleration. So let me turn over to Jenniffer.

Scott, in terms of the trajectory of the business I think that the things that we look at are what we have on file at the FDA already, which when we talk about the addressable market of those and the opportunities that will come into the model, whether they be at the end of 2017 or into 2018, the [ph] builder of the (38:30) opportunities that we already have in hand. So continuing to replenish that pipeline, continuing to add capabilities like sterile capabilities in 2017, those are the things that are going to continue on that trajectory. So is it imaginable that, that could happen into 2018, I think that based on those facts I think that supports that.

Great, thank you for taking the questions.

Our next question comes from Frank Gerardi with Univest Management. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. And congratulation Jason and Jenniffer for continued growth with Teligent. I have two questions, my first question; I believe that some of the pricing pressure on the stock recently can be attributed to the ongoing probe in the generic price fixing progress ongoing. I know that Perrigo, Teva, Mylan, and Heritage have been named, understanding that subpoena is an investigative tool and not necessarily indication of guilt, can you mention has Teligent been subpoenaed or involved in any way in the probe?

So first, hi Frank it is so great to have you on this call as a long time investor of Teligent and its management. It's always great to see you here. So first, thank you and welcome. Your question is a good one. There's been a lot going on in this sector and we follow it as everyone else does. So I'm grateful for the opportunity to say that no, Teligent has not been involved in any of the DOJ investigations nor has it been subpoenaed or in any other way involved relating to the work that the DOJ is doing.

Thank you. My second question relates to your new facility, the injectables. I understand it's a 75,000 square foot facility and I believe on a previous call you said the capacity would be up to 1 million doses of vaccines a year. Once you ramp up to that, what can we expect in revenues going out in the vaccine division, the new facility in 2018 and beyond?

So the facility that we're building, the 75,000 square feet accomplishes two things. The first is the expansion of the physical footprint for the topical manufacturing. Obviously with all of these ANDAs on file for the topicals we need to be able to manufacture them. And so that's kind of Phase 1. Even if we didn't want to get into injectables we would have to do that.

On the injectable side, and just to be clear, we're really making hospital critical care injectables not vaccine. So it's still sterile injectable dose product. Phase 1 will achieve somewhere between 4 million to 5 million units with the goal that in 2019 we would make a subsequent investment to increase that by a further 45 million units of capacity. We haven't given any specific revenue guidance related to that, but I can say to you that we've done the math and we get some really great ROI based on the investments that we're making.

Thank you so much for taking the call. And I wish you continued success and great pleasure doing business with Teligent.

Thanks again Frank.

Thanks Frank.

We now have a follow up question from Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.

Hi, thank you. I've got a couple of different follow-up questions. First, I didn't hear you mention it and if you could provide it would be great. The TAM for the Clobetasol 5% gel that you just received approval for?

The Clobetasol 5% gel currently have a total market of $10.9 million.

Okay, great, thank you. And then I thought I heard you say that you have a couple of P4 challenges that went – or submissions that were done in Q4, is that correct and are those your first ones?

They weren't done in Q4. There are two I think pending Paragraph IV submissions. One of them has been disclosed in our filings I believe related to Pennsaid 2%. The second, we haven't disclosed the target, but it is something that we've submitted in 2016. I don't believe it was Q4, I think it was actually in Q3. But it's something that we would still hope to seek approval for in 2017.

Okay, I guess as far as those are concerned should we be factoring or thinking about some incremental legal costs associated with those or are you part of a, maybe a consortium that's challenging the patents, just trying to think about the expense side of those?

So all of the legal expenses related to ongoing litigation for P IVs have been factored into Jenniffer's forecast for SG&A in our budget.

Okay. And then – what was this last one here. Oh, several companies here over the past couple of weeks as they've reported earnings, some of your larger peers have specifically called out wanting to or planning to invest significantly or more dollars into the injectable space. It's a market that's had challenges from a manufacturing capacity side, and obviously you're very well positioned for that opportunity with the new facility. But how do those comments either change or help shape your go to market strategy as you look to make the hospital injectables a bigger portion of your revenues?

Well, I think first of all it's a good thing generally for those of us who are healthcare consumers that more people do pay attention to the hospital injectable space. This is a market that since 2008 has suffered significant drug shortages every year that really don't seem to get much better. You look at some of the major facilities that supply the market and they continue to have ongoing regulatory challenges. We've seen warning letters even over the course of the past few weeks related to sterile injectable manufacturing sites run by some of the largest companies in the world.

So, look I think that you've got to be mindful of a couple of things. First, there is a physical plant question, where you're going to make these sterile injectable drugs. I will tell you that many of the facilities that exist for sterile injectable manufacturer probably need to make some pretty significant investments around the manufacturing technology that supports that and that's not an easy thing to do. So that takes time. The second is, the question of who is really driving injectable development these days, why don't those drug shortage lists get shorter. And why aren't these issues resolved. I think it's because perhaps people are happy to talk about doing these things, but translating talk into action is tough.

We've been working on this injectable plan since 2014 when we acquired our first injectable ANDAs and NDAs. We brought the first of those drugs back to market. We've built a team, a really amazing team for injectable drug development. And we've started building the physical plant that will now be in place at the end of this year. That's a lot of work and a lot of process in a company that's very focused on getting stuff done. I'm not sure how in a slightly bigger or perhaps slower organization how that might happen quite to the extent that we do. But again, as healthcare consumers, [ph] we wish them luck to the (46:50) extent that we end up with more diversified supply chains we all benefit. Specifically though for Teligent I think that we are happy with the decisions we have and where we are.

All right, maybe one last one from me. Are you still considering or looking at small business development opportunities product or product lines that might fit in nicely with the current portfolio? Thanks again for taking the questions.

Sure. Yeah, we do continue to scan the business development in the universe. And we look at products as they become available; we look at businesses as they become available. We still have a very strict filter. Our approach to valuation is mindful about what we're actually buying in terms of cash flows and what we're actually buying in terms of capabilities. If it's something that we can do and if it's something that we can do ourselves at less cost, we would rather make it than buy it. And we always hold ourselves to that standard. But there are certainly opportunities out there that we find interesting and intriguing, particularly when they add incremental capabilities and fit still within the universe of TICO; so still looking, but for right now we're happy with our execution strategy. But thank you, Matt.

At this moment, we have no further questions. And so, I would like to conclude the question-and-answer session and turn the conference back over to Jason Grenfell-Gardner for any closing remarks.

All right, thank you Daniel, and thank you everyone for your support and your continued interest in Teligent. We look forward to seeing a number of you in some of the upcoming conferences. Thank you again and have a great evening.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.