Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Jenniffer L. Collins — Chief Financial Officer, Teligent, Inc.
Matthew G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Teligent, Inc. First Quarter 2017 Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please also note today's event is being recorded.

This call will include certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include but are not limited to plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts and statements identified by words such as plan, believe, continue, should, or words of similar meaning.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations include, but are not limited to, our inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements in connection with existing or future ANDAs; our inability to achieve profitability; our failure to obtain FDA approvals as anticipated; our inability to execute and implement our business plan and strategy; the potential lack of market acceptance of our products; our inability to protect our intellectual property rights; changes in global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors; and our inability to complete successfully future product acquisitions.

These statements are based on our current beliefs and expectations and are inherently subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under the caption Risk Factors in Teligent, Incorporated's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Teligent, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as required by law.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Jason Grenfell-Gardner. Sir, please go ahead.

All right. Thank you, Jamie, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Teligent business update covering the first quarter of 2017. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of Teligent, and I'm joined today by Jenniffer Collins, our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us today.

I'll be providing you an update on the core elements of our business and our expansion plans. Jenniffer will then provide a more detailed breakout of our financial performance for the first quarter. Since our last call in April, we have continued our commitment to execution of the Teligent business model. And it's this model that is driving the success that we reported today. This afternoon, we announced the best results that we've seen from Teligent during this journey together as we execute this plan.

This is a plan built on a solid product development platform, excellent regulatory capabilities and timely and effective product launch. With every quarter that passes, our fundamental commitment to this business plan diversifies our revenue base, improves our capabilities and delivers financial results.

As you'll have seen from the results released today, we announced a massive quarter of revenue for Teligent. While it may start to feel like that's something that we say every quarter, we're very cognizant of the effort that goes behind delivering these results. Revenue for this quarter was $19.9 million, up 11% over the fourth quarter of 2016, and up 27% over the same period of 2016.

Now, even more interesting to us is the composition of revenue. In the first quarter, Teligent label revenue across the portfolio in the U.S. and Canada was $16.4 million, up 79% over the same period last year. This growth has been driven by a combination of new product launches and competitive supply chain dynamics to which Teligent has been able to respond effectively.

In particular, we launched four products in the first quarter in the U.S. and grew revenue in Canada over 30% compared to the first quarter of 2016. I would like specifically to commend the work of the Teligent team in shortening the timeline between approval and launch, which has had a notable impact on our ability to generate revenue from our product pipeline as products are approved.

Between new product launches and favorable market conditions, we delivered gross margin of 55% for the quarter. Fundamental pricing dynamics remained flat to slightly positive for the period across the Teligent portfolio. As a result, we delivered adjusted EBITDA for the quarter of $4.9 million, up from $2.8 million in the same period last year.

This was a great quarter. But let me talk a little bit about what comes next. Over the coming quarter, our team is focused on delivering products in the existing product pipeline, responding to FDA and Health Canada inquiries and preparing for the final submissions for 2017. This is the crunch period of GDUFA Year 5 and Year 4 overlap for FDA submissions. And we are committed to upholding our responsibilities with respect to the FDA to ensure the timely processing of our applications.

I would point out that the two approvals that we received in this past quarter were great examples of the benefit of this discipline. With one application approved at 18 months and the other at just over 14 months. To the extent that we can replicate these timely approvals with our current investments in R&D, we will continue to deliver value in the form of the return on these investments as we launch products to the market. We have 33 ANDAs on file with the FDA today that represent a total addressable market of approximately $2 billion, and of that, 88% of the value is from applications filed post GDUFA Year 3.

Now, of course, in order to be able to execute the launch of these products, we need to have the capacity to support our production. Those of you who follow me on Twitter, @GrenfellGardner, will have seen some photographs of the current state of the facility expansion. We've achieved watertight in line with schedule and are now working through our interior fit-out. Based on our current plans, we will be occupying this facility in 127 days from today for our laboratory and support services, and will be filling our first liquid in a vial by the end of this year.

I think if you check out the photographs, you will share my sense of pride at what we've been able to build in the South Jersey over the past few months. It's pretty remarkable.

Looking forward to the guidance for the rest of the year, we maintain our guidance including our revenue outlook at $85 million to $100 million with an associated gross margin of 50% to 54%, and R&D spend of 24% to 27% of total revenue.

With that, let me turn the call over to Jenniffer to provide more details on the results for the quarter.

Thanks, Jason. Good afternoon everyone, and again, thanks for joining us today. Our total revenue for the first quarter of 2017 was $19.9 million, an increase of 27% as compared to the same quarter last year. Net revenue from the sale of our own products increased 79% over the same quarter last year, and increased of approximately 12% sequentially over the fourth quarter of 2016 to $16.4 million. The increase in revenue compared to last year resulted from the expansion of our generic product portfolio to 22 products, up from 13 products just a year ago. Two products exceeded 10% of total revenue in the first quarter, revenue from lidocaine ointment represented 17% of total revenue and revenue from Zantac Injection represented 18% of total revenue in the first quarter.

Product sales from our contract services business were $3.4 million in the first quarter compared to $6.2 million in the same quarter last year. Contract services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 17% in the first quarter compared to 40% of total revenue in the same quarter last year. Our TICO strategy focuses on the continued diversification of our Teligent label products and as I mentioned, Teligent product sales grew 12% sequentially in the first quarter, 79% over the last year.

Contract services revenue from our pharmaceutical products customers represented 85% of first quarter contract services revenue as compared to 90% last quarter, the balance of that revenue coming from OTC and consumer products.

Now let me turn to gross margin. Gross margin in the first quarter was 55% compared to 51% in the same quarter last year, and 51% in the fourth quarter of 2016. The improvement of gross margin was the result of product mix. We continue to grow revenue from our Teligent products, sales of injectable products represented just over 38% of revenue in this first quarter and compared to 24% in the fourth quarter of last year.

Our partners currently manufacture all of our injectable products. With the expansion of our facility to include sterile manufacturing capabilities and the transition of our manufacturing of our Teligent injectable products to our own plants will improve margins over time.

SG&A in the first quarter was $4.3 million compared to $4.2 million in the fourth quarter, and $3.4 million in the same quarter last year. SG&A as a percentage of sales for the first quarter of 2017 was 22% compared to 22% in the same quarter last year. We do plan to continue to make some additional investments in corporate services to support our growth of our business in 2017 and beyond, but we do expect that, over time, SG&A as a percentage of revenue to be flat to down depending on the range of total revenue.

Consistent with our TICO strategy and our dedication to building a foundation to expand our product portfolio, we continued to significantly invest in R&D. We invested $3.7 million in the first quarter as compared to $3.7 million in the same period last year. The most significant portion of our R&D costs relates to clinical studies and development work to support our TICO strategy. Based on the timing of these milestones and studies, we'll start to see significant sequential quarterly growth in R&D to reach our total R&D expense as a percentage of revenue of between 24% and 27% for the full year.

For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, net cash provided by operations was $1.9 million, which included spend of $3.7 million in R&D. For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, cash used in investing activities was $8.6 million, primarily related to the capital expenditures for the expansion of our facility. We expect the final budget for the facility expansion, including all necessary equipment, utilities, process controls to approximate $55 million, and we hope it to be complete by the end of 2017.

In the first quarter of 2017, we recorded net income of $0.8 million compared to net loss of $1 million in the same quarter last year. The net income in the first quarter included a gain related to foreign exchange of $1.1 million. As you may recall, when we completed the Alveda acquisition, we established Teligent subsidiaries in Canada and Estonia to complete the purchase. Based on the fluctuation in foreign exchange rates during the quarter, we recorded this non-cash gain of $1.1 million related to the foreign currency translation of these intercompany loans. Depending on changes in the rates, we will continue to see a non-cash gain or loss on translation for the remainder of the term of these loans. Due to the nature of this transaction, there's no economic benefit to the company to hedge this transaction.

For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, net loss included amortization and depreciation of $1.1 million, consistent with the same quarter last year. Our net income in this quarter includes $2.3 million of non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of discount related to our convertible note. We believe it's helpful for investors to review our adjusted EBITDA, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as well as adjusted net income.

As you may have seen in our release, there's non-GAAP disclosure related to how we calculate EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted net income. We'll continue to provide this information as well as we determined to be helpful for investors to monitor the operations of our business, our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $4.9 million [ph] was after (12:54) our R&D spend of $3.7 million in the first quarter.

As always, Jason and I are grateful for your participation today, and we look forward to updating you again soon. I'll now turn the call back to Jason for his closing remarks.

Thanks, Jenniffer. As you can tell from our comments today, this has been a great quarter and a remarkably busy year. We still have a lot of work to do to execute on our pipeline and expansion plans, but I'm confident that from the results today, you get a better sense of what Teligent has done and what it can do with its internal capabilities. This is frankly an amazing team that knows how to deliver with a constant focus on execution.

With that, Jamie, let me open this up for questions.

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we'll begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Elliot Wilbur from Raymond James. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. This is [ph] David (14:11) on for Elliot. Thanks for taking the questions. So to begin, could you provide a quick update on the launches of the recent approvals that came near the back-end of last year and launched earlier this year? And have you been finding that the market share has been attainable with your typical 15% to 20% generic price concessions or have the incumbent players been holding on to share a little bit more staunchly than expected? Thanks.

Hey, [ph] David (14:35), this is Jason. Thanks for your question. So I believe at this point we've launched all three of those products that were approved at the very end of last year, as well as one further product that was approved a little bit before that. All four of those launches went pretty much according to the playbook. We didn't see anything particularly unique or different than what we had seen in the past. What I would say though is that the important thing for success of those product launches is really around the ability to get those products to market as quickly, post approval, as possible.

In order to do that, our team has put together a pretty robust process around product launch that involves pre-stocking of certain print materials, the ability to respond quickly in terms of the manufacturing schedule. I have to say they did just a fantastic job in the first quarter of shrinking that timeline between approval and launch, that's really critical. So, I would say on the whole, this has gone pretty much according to what we expect in the playbook. Of course, as you know, over time, those shares ramp and they sort of normalize, it doesn't all happen overnight, but so far, we're working our plan.

Great, thanks. And just secondly as a quick follow-up, based on the current timeline, are you still on track to be able to handle injectable submissions by the first half of 2018? And if so, could you just give us a quick reminder as to what the target opportunity set and range of capabilities would look like on the injectables front?

Well, the first part of that question is easier than the second part. The first part, the answer is yes. The goal, as I've said, in terms of facility expansion is to ensure that we have the facility. We're ready to produce injectable products by the end of this year and the team has already identified the lead products that will go into that facility and what order as we get through the end of 2017 and into 2018.

Of course, when you talk about the product set or the opportunity set, it's down to a couple of things. Obviously, there are the products from the AstraZeneca and Valeant acquisitions that we made back in 2014 and 2015 that have the opportunity to be made economically in our own facility in a way that we wouldn't have been able to do with CMOs because of the cost of site transfers and scale-ups and so on. So those are part of the strategy around developing injectable capability in the site.

But the second part is around the internally developed pipeline. And there, what I'm particularly excited about is the ability of our team to start to pivot away from topical development in the back half of this year towards injectable development, and to see those teams apply the same degree of productivity towards injectables, if not better, that we had around topicals in some of our bigger topical years for the internal development program. As we get into the end of back half of this year and more towards 2018, I think we'll start to tell you a little bit more about the shape of that injectable pipeline and that opportunity set, but it is going to be driven by a very similar philosophy around R&D productivity and getting drugs approved.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Matt Hewitt from Craig-Hallum. Please go ahead with your question.

Good afternoon. Thank you for having a little time for the Q&A. First off – and I think Jenniffer, I think you addressed this, I just want to make sure I heard it correctly. R&D, a little light versus our expectations coming into Q1 here, but did you say that you expect a sequential ramp over the course of the year to get you to your guidance?

That's correct. Thanks, Matt. We did have some of the milestones that will be accomplished in Q2 and Q3. So, Q1 is lighter than the rest of the year will be. I mean mathematically, to get to the 24% to 27% of top line, we're going to have to increase spend rather significantly in the back half of the year to get there.

Okay. And then... [indiscernible]

(19:13)

Oh, got it. Okay. Thank you. You mentioned Zantac, obviously a strong performance in the quarter. I believe that was a situation where the drug had been in shortage, there had been price increase. Maybe walk through some of the dynamics with that product and where it sits today.

So, we continue to supply Zantac to the market, as we have done during this period of supply volatility. How that will resolve over the course of the coming months and quarters, I think we all have to wait and see. I don't know that it's easy for us to predict that. What I can say is that we have taken a number of steps to ensure that we have the most robust supply chain in that drug in the industry. We are validating a second source of supply and have spent some pretty significant time on that. So we're in a strong inventory position to be able to keep the market fully stocked and supplied, and we continue to execute that plan as best we can.

All right. Maybe one last one from me, regarding the current shortages in the market in various drugs, some of which you are a participant, others where you're not, but maybe talk about some of the dynamics there, especially if the FDA does work towards expediting the approval process and trying to hit some of their internal targets.

How have you been able to, I guess, position either your existing portfolio or maybe as you look at opportunities to submit ANDAs, is there areas in particular where you see opportunities? And how does that change your, I guess, your go-to-market strategy, whether it's on a pricing level or supply level, anything along those lines will be really helpful. Thank you.

Well, the first thing I would say about that is that this is not necessarily a strategy where we say, oh, look, there's a drug shortage, let's run after that opportunity. That's not what drives our portfolio selection philosophy. If you look across TICO and start with topicals, in topicals, we set out a very broad strategy around classes of products. And what we have said is that we will be in every AT-rated product and every AB‐rated corticosteroid where markets make sense. And by the end of this year, we will have achieved our goal of submitting every product in those product categories.

And as we look forward into the AB-rated topical products that require clinical endpoint studies, we said we're going to be very circumspect about how we think about which products we go after. We're going to be mindful of clinical risk, we're going to be mindful of what the returns are on the investments that we're going have to make in some of those heavier programs and longer duration clinical trials. So, that's kind of topicals.

We're in that neighborhood where we're going to be and we are also very sensitive as a player of our scale in a market of fairly large players that the one thing that we can trade on is the reliability of our supply. And so, with Jenniffer's help and with the team that we have in sourcing and manufacturing, we've done a lot to be able to ensure that we have the most robust supply chain around the products that we supply to the market. And that's been very helpful to us.

As we think about moving forward into injectables, the injectable portfolio is kind of a story of two parts. The first is one of capabilities, so standing up internal capabilities to manage sterile injectable products, which is what we did in 2014 and 2015 with the acquisitions that we made from AstraZeneca and Valeant, then building in the capability to manage sterile contract manufacturers, which was largely the goal of 2015 into 2016, and now creating internal development programs and internal manufacturing as we exit 2017 into 2018.

And looking at those target areas of the portfolio, the goal here is not to chase the next Paragraph IV first file opportunity and be filer number 13 on the next drug to go generic. We don't think that that's an efficient use of our shareholders' capital. Rather, we prefer to look at opportunities, and we mentioned Zantac, but opportunities like that, where these are single-player or two-player markets where we think that the supply chains have the potential for weakness.

There's an element there of betting against some of the competition, but knowing what this team is capable of delivering from a supply chain perspective, I think we can position Teligent as one of the most reliable suppliers in multi-source generic injectables in the U.S., and that's the goal.

Okay. Great. Maybe one follow-up. AstraZeneca and Valeant, the portfolios that you acquired a couple years ago, any update on maybe when we'll see the next relaunch out of those portfolios?

I don't have the relaunch schedule in front of me, but I can say that we are actively working with, I think, five CMO partners now, primarily in Europe, to support some of those relaunches. The first ophthalmic will be submitted for its PAS this year. We obviously have to work on a couple of the injectable products that are going through either de novo submissions or post-approval change. So there's a lot of heavy lifting going on there.

But it's more been about, I guess, prioritization rather than ticking the box. And what I mean by that is that we looked across the assets that we acquired, we looked at the market opportunities and we balance that against the internal requirements for us to take some of those products back to market, because simply site transferring something to a CMO generally outside the United States takes a lot of time, it takes a lot of internal resource to make that happen. And frankly, it's expensive.

So there has to be a really strong economic and internal rationale that makes us do that compared to waiting the six months for our colleagues to finish the work on our facility, so that we can bring those in-house and achieve the better economics for doing the products ourselves. So that's the sort of balance. And what I can tell you is there's a lot of folks working very hard to make sure that all those pieces happen, both internally and externally. So you'll see more of those this year as we continue to roll them out.

Okay, great. Thank you for taking the questions.

All right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I'm showing no questions. I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Okay. Thanks, Jamie. So first, thank you all for joining us on today's call and for your continued support, interest in Teligent. Jenniffer and I look forward to seeing some of you at the Deutsche Bank Health Care Conference tomorrow in Boston, and later in the month at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Conference in Las Vegas. I would also look forward to seeing you at our Annual Meeting of stockholders in New York on May 18. Please check your proxy statement for details. Thank you again for your support and have a great evening.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.