Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Jenniffer L. Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Teligent, Inc.
Matt G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Frank P. Gerardi — President, Univest Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 IGI Laboratories Earnings Call. My name is Ryan, and I'll be the coordinator on today's event. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we'll be opening it for questions and answers. [Operator Instructions]

Except for historical facts, the statements made on this call or other written statements made or to be made by IGI Laboratories are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and involve risks and uncertainties. For example, statements about the company's anticipated growth and future operations, the current or expected market size for its products, the success of current or future product offerings, the research and development efforts, and the company's ability to file for and obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals for future products are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are merely the company's current predictions of future events. The statements are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ materially from the statements made herein. There is no assurance that the company will achieve the sales levels that will make its operations profitable or that FDA filings and approvals will be completed and obtained as anticipated.

For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and its latest Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect new information and developments.

Now, I'll turn the call over to your host, Mr. Jason Grenfell-Gardner, President and CEO of IGI Laboratories.

Thank you, Ryan. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this IGI Laboratories business update covering the first quarter of 2014. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of IGI; and I'm joined today by Jenniffer Collins, our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us.

Today, I want to discuss some highlights of our business performance with you and also give you an update on the execution of our strategy. Then, Jenniffer will review our financial results for the quarter. And finally, I'll discuss our progress towards our key goals for 2014.

2014 is a year of transformation in IGI as we accelerate our business and solidify the foundation for future growth. Remember that in 2013, we transitioned our business from relying solely on contract services by introducing four IGI label generic topical pharmaceutical products, while at the same time, maintaining and growing our contract services business.

As result of the diligent efforts of your team at IGI, we grew the overall business by 113% and broke even for the first time since 1997. Now, we're set on moving even faster to transform our business and we remain dedicated to our mission to become one of the top five leading companies in the generic topical pharmaceutical industry.

Now, as we sit on our plans for this transformational year, I've set forth three key goals for IGI. First, revenue growth of between 40% and 45%. Second, at least 10 ANDA filings with the FDA for generic topical pharmaceutical products. And third, maintaining profitability in 2014 while at least doubling our R&D spend to drive shareholder value.

But before we talk about the progress in the first quarter on these goals, I'd like to pause for a moment and draw your attention to a key milestone that IGI achieved in the first quarter.

In March, the FDA approved the first organic IGI-ANDA filing for a drug which is lidocaine hydrochloride 4% topical solution. This is a huge milestone for us as it represents the validation of the underlying IGI pipeline filed with the FDA. Indeed, it confirms IGI's ability to identify products and materials, conduct the necessary research and manage the regulatory process to get drugs approved. Moreover, the IGI team was able to get this product approved in a 22-month timeframe compared to a market average of 32 months at FDA. While each filing review is different, for me, this speaks to the quality of the work that we can do at IGI.

While the market of lidocaine hydrochloride is the smallest product in our pipeline, with an addressable market of only $1.8 million, it's another product in our portfolio, another contributor to overhead absorption, another element of the growth story of IGI. We anticipate that we'll launch this product next week.

Following the approval of the lidocaine IGI-ANDA, we now have 13 active ANDAs on file with the FDA, with a total addressable market of around $330 million based on data from IMS Health as of February 2014. Product launches, like the lidocaine launch, help us drive both the revenue and margins at IGI.

So, let's look at those three goals again. In terms of revenue growth, first quarter revenues were up 86% compared to the same quarter in 2013, and that includes an increase in IGI label products of 108%, but also an increase in our contract services business of 72% over the same period.

Let me talk about each of these businesses in turn. You know, we ended 2013 with four IGI label products in eight presentations. With the pending launch of the lidocaine topical solution, that number will grow to five IGI label products.

In addition, as part of our ongoing partnership with Medimetriks, we anticipate launching our fourth authorized generic product in the fluocinolone acetonide family, the fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% cream in May. This should mean that IGI will finish the second quarter with at least six products in 11 presentations before any further FDA approvals or product acquisitions.

Now, let me turn to our contract services business. Now, this business has grown 72% over the same quarter last year and even grew 36% sequentially over the fourth quarter 2013. But I think the really impressive fact here is that we've grown this business whilst sticking to our goal of growing the share of pharmaceutical products in the product mix.

These prescription pharmaceutical products represented 71% of our contract manufacturing revenue in the first quarter of 2014 compared to only 64% in the same quarter last year. This is important because these shifts help us to improve our underlying gross margins and, indeed, this helped to contribute to our improvement in gross margin to 42% this quarter compared to just 30% for the same period last year. And, of course, it's this growth in revenue with gross margin improvement that allows us to execute our R&D efforts to drive shareholder value.

Turning our attention to the R&D program, I think it makes sense to remember the markets that we're trying to address through this program. Based on the IMS Health data as of February 2014, the total generic topical market is now $4.5 billion which is up from $2.4 billion in 2012. That is growing at a compound annual growth rate of 36%. This growth is largely driven by a positive pricing environment in the topical market, encouraged by the degree of market concentration. These two factors inform the sense of importance we have around IGI's R&D program.

Another major impact to our R&D program is the implementation of the Generic Drug User Fee Act passed in 2012 or GDUFA. Two major impacts to the industry as a result of GDUFA implementation have been, first, an increase in the cost of filing drug applications both from filing fees and establishing fees; and second, a higher hurdle for the quality of submissions through the FDA's enforcement of new refuse-to-receive standards.

For IGI, the market forces, together with the impact of GDUFA, help drive our timing and investment in R&D. With changes to the FDA regulations coming at the end of June 2014, we're working diligently to file a number of our 2014 target filings during the first half of this year. As a result, first quarter 2014 R&D expense was $1.4 million, nearly double the expense in the first quarter 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2013.

We anticipate that the expense from R&D will be higher in the second quarter of 2014 as we finish the clinical testing and pay the necessary filing fees associated with our generic drug R&D program. Despite this higher level of R&D spend, which we firmly believe drives shareholder value, IGI remained profitable for the first quarter of 2014, proving again our commitment to profitability and to the goals that we have set out to you.

As a management team, we continue to manage expenses closely while investing on those parts of our business that will drive shareholder value in the years to come.

We feel great about the progress we've made in the first quarter. Revenues grew, margins improved, we maintained profitability and accelerated our R&D efforts. And maybe, even most importantly, we received our first approval from the FDA for our own ANDA. Our future is bright and 2014 has started us off on the right note.

At this point, let me turn the call over to Jenniffer Collins to continue the financial review of the quarter, and then I'll wrap up with our formal remarks for the first quarter.

Thanks, Jason. Good afternoon, everyone, and again, thanks for joining us today. Our total revenue for the first quarter of 2014 was $6.9 million, an increase of 86% over the same quarter last year. Revenue for the first quarter of 2014 included $2.9 million of net revenue from the sale of our own IGI label products compared to just $1.4 million in the same period last year. We increased revenue $3.2 million over the same quarter last year. This increase was attributed to $1.5 million of additional revenue generated from our first four IGI label products including our econazole nitrate cream 1%, which we launched in late September of 2013, and $1.6 million of additional revenue generated from our contract manufacturing services business.

Our IGI product portfolio included revenue from three authorized generic topical prescription products as well as econazole nitrate cream. In the second quarter, we expect to launch our fourth authorized generic product in the fluocinolone acetonide family in addition to the launch of our first IGI label products. As customary in the pharmaceutical industry, our growth product sales are subject to a variety of projections, which include estimates for chargebacks, rebates, cash discounts, returns, and other allowances. We've made adjustments to these estimates to-date, none of which were individually significant, and we'll continue to monitor estimates closely as the actual charges are presented.

As I mentioned, we grew our contract services business by $1.6 million as compared to the first quarter of 2013. Our increased contract manufacturing revenue in the first quarter was primarily attributable to one new pharmaceutical customer, as well as incremental orders from several existing customers.

Contract manufacturing and formulation services revenue from our pharmaceutical customers represented 71% of our first quarter revenue as compared to 64% in Q1 last year. Sales of OTC products were 3% in Q1 of this year compared to 2% last year. And our cosmetic product sales represented 26% of revenue in this quarter compared to 34% in the same period last year.

As you may recall, our contract manufacturing business is a made-to-order business, and there may be variability in the percentage of our contract services revenue resulting from the sale of pharmaceutical products quarter-to-quarter. However, year-over-year, we expect that more of our contract business will result from sales to pharmaceutical customers.

All of these means we grew all of our business lines in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period last year. Our significant revenue growth in the IGI label in contract manufacturing business and our more favorable product mix in the contract manufacturing services business enabled us to improve gross margin to 42% in the first quarter of 2014. This was significantly higher than the gross margin of 30% recorded into the same quarter last year.

As a frame of reference, margins improved sequentially as well over the fourth quarter of 2013. In that quarter, we recorded a gross margin of 38%, and that margin included $816,000 of very high margin formulation services revenue. These improvements are attributable not only to our revenue growth but to our increased efficiencies in our operation and the leverage of our operations as we continue to increase throughput at our facility. And we successfully continued to add higher margin products to our mix as well as the addition of future IGI label products. We expect gross margins to continue to improve year-over-year.

SG&A as a percentage of sales for the first quarter of 2014 and 2013 was 19% of revenue. SG&A in the first quarter of 2014 increased approximately $500,000 as compared to the same period last year primarily due to increased non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation and expenses related to the performance-based pay in 2014 as well as the additional professional fees. SG&A expenses in 2014 also include additional legal fees.

We do plan to continue to manage our administrative costs while expanding our customer base. But as we expand our topical prescription drug portfolio and most importantly, approach profitability, we expect to make some additional investments in SG&A in order to successfully place those products with national, regional and local retail customers and properly support our growth.

Our strong performance on all fronts during the first quarter allowed us to continue to invest in R&D. We spent $1.4 million in the first quarter compared to just $658,000 in the same period last year. In order to continue to expand the pipeline and drive shareholder value, we expect to continue to double our R&D spending in 2014 as compared to 2013 as we focus on expanding our portfolio of generic topical pharmaceutical products.

We plan to expand our R&D team and as Jason mentioned, we plan to file an additional nine filings at least this year. Additionally, our R&D costs in the first and second quarter of 2014 include cost for outside testing, all of which will continue to increase R&D costs in the first half of 2014. We plan to manage that growth to be consistent with our strategic plan.

In the first quarter of 2014, we recorded net income of $167,000. That's our second consecutive profitable quarter. We recorded a loss of $257,000 in the same quarter last year. As Jason discussed earlier, we understand fiscal responsibility is critical to our success, and we have indicated we plan to sustain profitability in 2014 and still make that significant investment in R&D that we both talked about.

In the first quarter of 2014, net cash provided by operations was $68,000. And this included $1.4 million of R&D expenses. In the same quarter last year, our operations used $1.6 million. This company has not been profitable since 1997. So, our maintaining profitability in 2014 is critical for this success. Having our own operation to generate cash enables us to continue to reinvest in our future and allows us to explore the opportunity for additional ways to accelerate growth.

In the first quarter of 2014, we used $68,000 in investing activities, primarily related to some minor capital expenditures. Our cash from financing activities totaled $318,000 in the first quarter of 2014, primarily related to funds received for the exercises of warrants and options. Now, we have access to an additional $2 million on our existing working capital line.

Things have been progressing well on our investor communication front. We attended the ROTH Conference in March, the Needham Conference in April, and the Healthcare Analyst at Craig-Hallum, Matthew Hewitt-initiated coverage of IGI in April. We plan to attend their conference in May. We are speaking to different institutions almost daily, many of whom are hearing the IGI story for the first time. So, it's certainly exciting to be attracting new potential investors. We hope to add additional conference [indiscernible] (18:02) for the rest of the year.

Jason and I are committed to continuously improving our communication with our investors and potential investors, and we understand the importance of transparency with the investment community. We are grateful for your participation today, and look forward to updating you soon and hopefully seeing some of you at the Annual Meeting on May 29th.

I'll now turn the call back to Jason for his closing remarks.

Thanks, Jenniffer. I think we can all agree IGI has continued to execute on its plan, keep its promises, and build shareholder value. With the second quarter changes in the guidelines for new ANDA submissions, our team is going to be extremely focused this quarter as we seek to continue to grow the top line of our business, improving the product mix to help improve margins in order to support the additional R&D spending required to build out our R&D pipeline. Our team has proven that they're up for this challenge. We all remain dedicated to our mission to become one of the top five leading companies in the generic topical pharmaceutical industry over the next few years.

As Jenniffer said, we look forward to seeing some of you at our upcoming annual meeting. As ever, I'm grateful for your support, and for the opportunity to serve IGI shareholders.

At this point, Ryan, we're happy to take any questions. Thank you.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.

Good afternoon, and congratulations on the progress.

Thanks, Matt.

I'll ask a few questions and maybe hop back in the queue. As far as Q1 is concerned, the mix is a little bit different than I guess I had anticipated. Specifically, your label products were down sequentially. I'm wondering if there was something non-traditional or something that occurred in Q4 that didn't get reflected in Q1. And should we expect – obviously, with the NDA approval, should we expect that to bounce back up here in Q2?

Hi, Matt. Thanks so much for joining us today. I think that what we've talked about on our fourth quarter call a couple of months ago was that this fourth quarter was really the launch of the econazole nitrate cream products, so there were definitely some stocking orders and some initial orders that were in the fourth quarter that's definitely added to revenue. And I think that there were some shortages in the marketplace that were added to some additional orders from some of our customers. I think that now we've gotten to probably – through the existing product portfolio, this quarter probably represents the natural run rate for 2014.

Okay. That's helpful and I'm sorry I missed that on your Q4 call. As far as with the lidocaine 4%, if you launch it next week, how quickly do you think that you can get to your normalized market share in the upcoming quarters?

Hi, Matt. It's Jason. I think, normally, we count somewhere between three and six months depending on the classic trade and, I mean, how competition responds. But I think that three to six months is a fairly good benchmark.

Okay. And are you anticipating any or have you, maybe even at this point, seen, since your approval, anything from a pricing standpoint that would help us know whether or not that $8-point million is going to stick or is – what are you anticipating, I guess, from a market perspective?

Well, we don't really give forecast on a product-specific basis. But what I can say is I know that our sales group is going to work diligently to try to make sure that we get the right balance of pricing and market share as we try to launch the product.

Okay. All right. Fair enough. And then as far as the econazole nitrate contribution in Q1, it sounds like there were stocking orders, you're going to have a normalized run rate. How should we be thinking about that? This might be tricky, I don't know if you even will answer this. But I'm trying to understand that contribution as a part of the IGI label products. Is that a significant component of that? Is it half of it? How should I be thinking about it?

Is – which is significant [indiscernible] (22:40) products?

The econazole, yes.

I mean, I think, again, kind of [indiscernible] (22:47) but we don't kind of give data on a per product basis in that portfolio just because the portfolio is too small right now. I think that – I think, overall from a revenue perspective for the four existing products, I think Q1 was pretty representative of the 2014 run rate on a quarterly basis.

Okay.

Anytime when we're going to introduce a new product, keeping in mind the market sizes of the products that we're introducing in this quarter.

All right. Yeah. I understood. Maybe one last one for me, then I'll hop back in the queue. Have you had any recent dialogue with the FDA? You had provided a nice update here on your Q4 call. But was there any update even since then as far as letting you know how things are progressing from your pipeline.

Really the agency seems to have gone back to, I guess, active review phase, which is a way of saying that they have been relatively quiet lately. And I think that that's been reflective in data throughout the industry. We've seen approval and response letters sort of dwindle over the course of the past couple of months. So, we can't really project what that should indicate but we continue to response to questions from the FDA when they provide it to us, we continue to inquire on a regular basis about the progress of certain materials already with them, and we trust that they're diligently working to work their way through that pipeline.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much for the update. I'll hop back in the queue.

Next question comes from [ph] Alan Troy (24:42), private investor.

Hi, Jenniffer and Jason. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you.

You guys have a great story to tell. Do you plan on attending any health conferences in the upcoming quarter, the second quarter, because every time you seems to go on these conferences, it gives the stock price quite a boost?

Hi, [ph] Alan (25:06). Thanks for joining us today. We are going to try to make it up to Minneapolis for Craig-Hallum's conference, which is toward the end of May. And then, I'm working diligently to get some more on the calendar for the rest of the year. So hopefully, we'll be able to update you on that. And we do have our annual meeting at the end of May as well.

Right. Was that strong recommendation you just got from that company? Was that based on them meeting you at the conference and talking about it?

We've been talking to Craig-Hallum for probably six to nine months, trying to get them up to speed on the IGI story and then they did respond to coverage a couple of weeks ago.

That was a great recommendation.

Our next question comes from Frank Gerardi from Univest Management.

Hi. Good afternoon and, again, congratulations on a great start to 2014. And Jason, you continue to hit every goal you promised investors and we're delighted. And Jenniffer continues to do a great job of getting the numbers out way ahead of norm for a company that's crawling. I congratulate you both.

My question has to do with the growth of the company. I know one analyst has you growing to $45 million in revenues in 2015. As you continue to grow and since you're doing contract manufacturing in the mix, what is IGI's capacity? I mean, you're running on one shift, two shifts? What type of revenues can you do in your present location? I know you own additional acreage joining IGI's property but what can we expect as far as growing pains with the continued growth of the company?

That's a great question, Frank. Thank you so much. That's something that we've spent a lot of time over the past few months, really trying to size because it's a bit of a challenging question just because capacity in what we do is a function of compounding, so kilos or liters of products that we compound, and packaging, which, of course, takes the form of metal tubes, laminate tubes, plastic tubes, bottles, jars and so on. So, it's a bit of a multi-variant problem.

That being said, IGI today works primarily one shift, five days a week. Has three compounding suites, of which we generally compound one product a day. We're generally still one product a day across our three filling lines.

In the model that we have as we look at the growth rate of the business, we're able to accommodate the existing demand at least through the beginning of 2017, perhaps the middle of 2017, through a combination of personnel changes, so thinking about how we work our shifts, whether one shift, a split shift, two shifts or so on. And looking at the physical organization of our filling technology to ensure that we can use all of [indiscernible] (28:15) technologies simultaneously with appropriate physical separation and maintaining CGMP. So, with those simple steps in place, we're probably able to move out into the beginning of 2017.

Beyond that, there are some smaller investments that our operation team has identified that should be able to add incremental capacity even to that number. So, it's certainly something that we're cognizant of, but it's not something that today is an imminent concern.

Thank you so much for continued great success. Thank you again.

Thank you.

Next question comes from [ph] Michael Hunt with Hunt Securities (29:02).

Yeah. I just want to congratulate you guys on excellent progress and keep up the good work. That's all I have to say.

Thanks, [ph] Mike (29:04). It's great hearing from you.

Okay. And I have [indiscernible] (29:18) in queue. So, Matt Hewitt, if you wanted to queue for a question, you could. All right. Now, we have Matt in line again.

Just a couple more from me. As far as the SG&A is concerned, you had mentioned that there may be a point later this year where you start to make some incremental spend in that area. Q1, roughly you recall $1.3 million, should we expect a step back then in Q2? And with those are essentially going into R&D or how should we be thinking about that from a progression this year?

Matt, I don't think we'll see a significant step-back in SG&A in the second quarter just due to the way that some of the expenses in that line are going to fall. But I think that as a percentage of revenue in the second quarter, it should decrease slightly.

Okay. And then as far as R&D, you did talk about this in your prepared remarks. There was $1.4 million in Q1, there will be some incremental cost there in Q2 as you scramble to get some of these ANDA filings completed in before the deadline. When we get into the Q3 and Q4, will you kind of take your foot off the gas a little bit or is this kind of the new run rate given your aggressive plans to rule out 10 ANDAs this year, and even more than that going forward?

I think if you look at the rest of the year, I think, certainly, Q2 is going to be the highest in terms of R&D expense for the year. So, definitely a little bit higher than Q1. It will definitely be this kind of a standout quarter as we hope to get not only additional filings in there, in which we have filing fees associated with those, as well as closing out some of the outside testing of the clinical studies required by some of those filings to get them in by the June 20 deadline that Jason talked about. I think that when we look at the business model overall, 20% of revenue is really the number we're looking to target.

Okay. All right. I think that's it for me. Congratulations again on the progress.

Thanks so much.

Okay. We have no other questions. So, I'll hand it back to you then, for any closing remarks.

All right. Thanks, Ryan. Well, if there are no further questions, we remain really to say thank you again for joining us on this call. We look forward to continuing to execute here in 2014 and seeing some of you at the upcoming investor conferences this year. Thank you and good afternoon.

Thanks.

Wonderful. Thanks, everyone, for your time and your participation. That will conclude the call for today. So, you may all disconnect and enjoy the rest of your week.