Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jason Grenfell-Gardner — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Teligent, Inc.
Damian Finio — Chief Financial Officer, Teligent, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Matthew G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Gregg Gilbert — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Dewey Steadman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Teligent, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2017 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

Except for historical facts, the statements in this presentation as well as oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by Teligent, Inc. are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve certain risks and uncertainties. For example, without limitation, statements about the company's anticipated growth and future operations, the current or expected market size for its products, the success of current or future product offerings and the research and development efforts, and the company's ability to file for and obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals for future products are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are merely the company's current predictions of future events. The statements are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ materially from the statements made herein. There is no assurance that the company will achieve the sales levels that will make its operations profitable or the FDA filings and approvals will be completed and obtained as anticipated. For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and its latest Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect new information and developments.

I would not like to introduce your host for today's conference, Jason Grenfell-Gardner, President and CEO. You may begin.

Thank you, Glenda, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Teligent business update covering the fourth quarter of 2017. I'm Jason Grenfell-Gardner, the President and CEO of Teligent, and I'm joined today by Damian Finio, our Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for joining us today.

I will be providing you an update on the core elements of our business and our expansion plans. Damian will then provide a more detailed breakout of our financial performance for the fourth quarter.

Today, we released results for the fourth quarter that exceeded expectations and demonstrated a strong rebound in our business. Sales for the quarter were $16.1 million, taking our full-year 2017 revenue to $67.3 million. Gross margin also improved by nearly 2,200 basis points as we work through the issues that had impacted the prior quarter.

This turnabout in business performance was driven by a broad-based improvement in revenue across the portfolio. It was also aided by new product launches gaining traction from the third quarter and further new launches in the fourth quarter. We finished 2017 with 28 products in the U.S. market and 30 products in Canada.

After a bumpy ride in the middle of 2017, we finally saw the pipeline approval engine reengaged with three approvals in the fourth quarter. That's important, because as you know we have been working through review issues related to FDA inspections of some of our raw material suppliers. These have now been cleared and approvals are flowing again.

The significant work that we have done over the past year to be prepared for product launches has enabled us to introduce products to the market in an expedited fashion. This also helped in achieving the strong fourth quarter.

On our last call, we mentioned that our Canadian business had been performing strongly. This continued in the fourth quarter with Canada recognizing its strongest quarter of the year. Our contract manufacturers have partnered closely with us over the past few quarters to ensure that our Canadian team were able to respond to significant fluctuations in demand derived from competitor supply issues. We believe these trends are likely to continue through the first half of 2018.

Putting this all together, the product launches, a broader revenue recovery and the strong Canadian business have helped us to achieve an excellent result for this fourth quarter.

Turning to the pipeline, we've submitted a further two products to the FDA in the fourth quarter, closing the year with 31 ANDAs on file in the United States, representing a total addressable market of $2 billion based on recent IQVIA data. We also ended the year with five submissions on file with Health Canada.

R&D expenses were higher than average in the fourth quarter as a result of milestone payments related to the submission of our first complex generic drug. I will speak further to the shape of the pipeline following Damian's financial review.

Turning to our expansion; we moved in to the first half of our expansion in December 2017. This was a milestone moment as we occupied our new laboratory and support spaces in the building. But in addition to that, we've made incredible progress on our sterile filling suite for injectables and the broader project.

Today, we believe that we are on track to fill our first injectable product during the second quarter of 2018 and the space looks great. This really is America's newest state-of-the-art injectable manufacturing site, and we're keen to move from constructing, installing to manufacturing and selling.

With this project on track, we're moving closer to having the greater financial flexibility I described in our last call to be able to utilize the site and the broader business to address the outstanding convertible debt liability. We have initiated a number of conversations on this front. And as a result, I can tell you that we have a high degree of confidence that we will be able to manage this liability according to our plan.

Finally, I'm excited to welcome our new Chief Financial Officer, Damian Finio, to the Teligent team. Damian's breadth of experience in the generic and branded pharmaceutical markets as well as our mutual experience of working together through complicated financial situations makes me excited for the broader team.

As part of his early work here, he has managed our 2017 full-year audit, which included the review that resulted in the revision to our third quarter 2017 financials today. I think this is evidence of our mutual commitment to transparency and completeness.

Let me turn the call over to Damian now to provide more details on the results for the quarter. Damian?

Thanks, Jason, and I'm excited to be here. Good afternoon, everyone.

I joined Teligent about six weeks ago on February 5. But today, I wanted to start by saying thank you to my predecessor, Jenniffer Collins. Jen and I have worked closely together in the last few weeks to ensure a smooth transition. Her insights and history with the organization has been extremely helpful and very much appreciated.

I'd like to review our financial results in two parts. First, I'll make a few brief comments about our third quarter of 2017, Form 10-Q/A filed earlier today, then walk through the financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2017. From there, I will provide you with guidance on our projected financial performance for calendar year 2018.

So first, after discussions with the company's audit committee, we made the decision to file Form 10-Q/A today in order to revise and restate our third quarter 2017 results. In Form 10-Q/A filed for the third quarter of 2017, we outlined three transactions that required adjustment.

Number one, the company agreed to $0.8 million price concession for the purchase of one of our Canadian products in August 2017. However, that price concession had not been properly recorded as of September 30, 2017.

Number two, the company has an outstanding receivable from one of its contract service customers in the amount of $1.7 million. The receivable met the company's criteria as of September 30, 2017 to be fully reserved; however, as a result of a misinterpretation of a legal position, the reserve was not recorded.

And lastly, number three, the company entered into an agreement for professional services prior to September 30, 2017 but $0.1 million of those fees earned at September 30, 2017 were not properly accrued at quarter-end. The net impact of these three transactions was an approximate $2.6 million increase to the company's operating loss.

Moving on to our results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2017. As Jason mentioned, revenues for the quarter were $16.1 million, bringing our full-year 2017 revenue to $67.3 million, which is in line with the high end of our last 2017 full-year revenue guidance and represents a 1% increase in year-on-year performance.

Breaking down the $67.3 million of full-year 2017 revenue, $58 million of revenue was generated by Teligent-labeled products, which represent $9.1 million or 19% increase over 2016. And it's worth highlighting that $3 million of this increase was generated by incremental revenues in our Canadian business.

The remaining $9.3 million of the full-year 2017 revenue of $67.3 million was generated by contract manufacturing, partnered products and product development fees, which represents an $8.7 million or 48% decline in 2016.

In 2017, two products accounted for more than 10% of full-year revenues: Lidocaine ointment, 5%, which realized the $3.6 million decline in revenues year on year; and Zantac which realized the $5 million increase in year-on-year revenues.

Working our way down the P&L, gross profit for the quarter of 2017 was $5.9 million, bringing our full-year 2017 gross profit to $27.4 million, which represents the 21% decline in year-on-year performance. Gross profit of $5.9 million for the quarter and $27.4 million for the full-year equates to a gross margin of 36% and 41%, respectively.

The full-year figure of 41% is down 12 basis points from the prior year, due primarily to price declines, particularly with lidocaine ointment 5%, operational challenges and increased distribution fees on Teligent-labeled sales, all of which was discussed during our Q3 2017 earnings call.

SG&A for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $4.9 million, bringing our full-year SG&A expenses to $19.9 million. This includes the $1.7 million of bad debt expense mentioned in my earlier remarks regarding the amended Form 10-Q/A filed earlier today.

Excluding that bad debt provision from both 2016 and 2017 for the sake of comparison, the increase in adjusted 2017 SG&A represents a 24% increase in comparison to the prior year. The increase relates primarily to compensation-related expenses associated with the growth of our employee base, as well as consultant fees relating to various projects across the business geared at strengthening our internal control framework.

In terms of our continued investment in R&D, we recorded $5.9 million of expense in the fourth quarter of 2017, bringing our 2017 full-year investment in R&D to $19.3 million, which is just below 29% of our full year revenue. This brings us to a loss before interest and tax to the $4.9 million for the quarter and $11.8 million for the full year 2017.

Lastly, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded $2.5 million of interest, $2.3 million of which was with non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of the discount related to our convertible notes. It's important to highlight that the majority of the interest on our convertible debt is still being capitalized as the proceeds are being used to fund expansion in our Buena, New Jersey manufacturing facility.

We also recorded a $1.1 million foreign exchange gain and a $0.2 million in taxes for the quarter of 2017. As a result, our net loss for the quarter was $6.1 million and $15.2 million for the full year. The $15.2 million net loss for the year, includes $8.6 million of non-cash interest expense, offset partially by a $7.7 million non-cash gain related to the foreign currency translation of our intercompany loans to our wholly-owned subsidiaries, as well transaction-level adjustments.

As stated in previous communications, there is no economic benefit for the company to hedge this transaction.

Full year 2017 adjusted EBITDA before product development and research expenses was $19 million compared to $22.3 million for the prior year, representing a 13% decrease. From a cash perspective, net cash provided by operations for the quarter of 2017 was $10.3 million, which included $5.9 million of disbursements relating to our continued investment and a reduction of accounts receivable driven by strong cash collections from customers, and net cash provided for the full year was positive.

Net cash used in investing activities for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $14.4 million, primarily relating to capital expenditures for the expansion of our facility. The expansion project is expected to be completed next quarter with total cost to complete of about $60 million.

Lastly, in terms of guidance for calendar year 2018, the company expects total revenue in the range of $70 million to $78 million, EBITDA of $3 million to $6 million, gross margin in the range of 35% to 40%, and we plan to invest $13 million to $15 million in our R&D pipeline.

Thank you. And at this point, I'd like to turn it back over to Jason.

Thanks, Damian.

So, let me talk a little bit more about 2018. As I've said in our recent communications, we view 2018 as a year of shifting gears from investment to profitability. First, Damian set out our revenue expectations for the year at $70 million to $78 million. We would expect that number generally to be more heavily weighted to the back half of the year, with revenue accelerating quarter-to-quarter.

First quarter 2018 may come in slightly before fourth quarter 2017 due to timing of year-end inventory orders that can impact revenue in the first weeks of the New Year. Second, we anticipate that gross margin will continue to improve and that this, together with a focused spend on R&D, will drive positive EBITDA in 2018.

With our move to injectable product development and using the approved drug applications that we already own through the acquisitions we previously made, we were able to achieve a high degree of R&D productivity at a lower cost in 2018. This implies a reduction in absolute dollar spend in R&D of approximately $4 million to $6 million in 2018 as we target that total R&D investment of between $13 million and $15 million that Damian mentioned.

Our first injectable drug that we manufacture at the site are ready to go from an R&D perspective, and we're looking forward to getting in there and getting them made.

Finally, we are laser-focused on profitability this year. Over the past two years, we've been able to achieve positive cash flow from operations while we invested heavily in our physical infrastructure. We're now approaching an inflection point, and I'm excited about what we're going to achieve in 2018.

Before opening up for questions, I would like to extend my personal thanks to our Teligent teams in the U.S., Canada and Estonia, who have been working to make Teligent successful. These folks have endured a lot over the past many months as we've been building facilities and capabilities around them. And I am enormously grateful for their dedication and their generosity of spirit, and I'm incredibly proud of the work that they do. So, thank you to all of them.

With that, Glenda, let's open this up to questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from the line of Elliot Wilbur from Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good afternoon. First question for yourself, Jason, I guess, with respect to 2018 revenue guidance. Can you just give us maybe a little bit more granularity in terms of what may be embedded in there with respect to new approval activities, either potential number of approvals and/or sort of what you're expecting in terms of incremental revenue?

Yeah, sure, Elliot. Thank you for the question. So when I think about the 2018 pipeline and the growth that comes from there, first, one of the larger growth opportunities is from the products that we have already launched this quarter, and that was from Hydrocortisone Butyrate Lotion. That is the paragraph IV first to file drug in which we have 180 days of exclusivity in that drug launched during this quarter. So that's one of the good guys, I think, in terms of the pipeline.

There are a couple of other sort of larger opportunities in there, and I think we'll see some FDA activity around that in the first half of this year. To give you a little bit of shape around goal dates and what that looks like, I mean, if I looked right now just to June 30, between now and June 30, I believe we have eight potential action dates, and we feel pretty good about most of those.

There's a couple there where I think the FDA is still working through some of the questions around elemental impurities that could cause some delays, but for the most part I think we've addressed what the FDA needs. So we feel pretty good about that in the pipeline.

Okay. And then with respect to actual performance in the quarter in terms of the sequential rebounding in the U.S. topical business, anything in particular there drive the sequential rebounding? Any particular products that are worth calling out?

No, it's a good question. It was actually a pretty broad rotation around the portfolio. So you had a couple of the injectable drugs that were in the U.S. that were back, dealing with some shortage issues, so that we picked up a little bit of volume there, drugs like Cefotan and [indiscernible] (19:17).

Again, those can be transitory, but I think what I liked about the shape of this quarter was that there was nothing there in terms of a big mover that was outsized. There are pluses and minuses across the portfolio, more to the plus side, but it was a pretty broad-based movement across the entire product portfolio.

Thanks. And then last question for me, just with respect to the injectable facility. Can you just walk us through the remaining steps, milestones, timeline before we could actually begin to see revenue realization from that facility?

Sure. So where we are right now is in sort of start-up phase. So when we last spoke in November, we were just installing the line and we had – our vendors there who were installing the isolator and the filling line, were finishing out the space, and so on. Today, the sterile injectable suite is largely finished. What we have going on there is qualification of the filling lines by both the – of the vendors from the isolator and the filling line manufacturers.

In concurrence with that, we are doing water validation, right, for the purified water and water for injection systems that really support this system. Now, that is usually a 30-day test to run through all of those tests and processes, and we have to do that in – not only with our sterile systems, but also that support our larger topical business. So that's something that we'll be working through now into April, beginning of May.

Our goal and our hope is that we will then be able to fill the first batches before the end of the second quarter, that will allow us to put drug up on stability. Because we're using post-approval change, our goal is to be able to submit a Prior Approval Supplement to FDA to trigger an inspection probably at the beginning of the fourth quarter, and then it really depends on the FDA. I think the best estimate to have here is that we expect that the facility will be generating revenue from the new filling line in early 2019, which is consistent with our plan.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Matt Hewitt from Craig-Hallum Capital. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you for taking the questions.

Hey, Matt.

Hello. A couple. First off, regarding the guidance, how much of that is the base business or what you've recently launched versus what you anticipate getting approved for maybe here in the first half of the year and getting launched so that you could generate some revenues by year-end?

When we think about the guidance, on the low-end of the guidance, as you know, we try to look at all those things that we already have in hand. And the upper-end of the guidance, obviously, try to take into consideration optionality around things yet to be approved and other potential sources of upside. So that's generally how we've constructed the guidance this year, Matt.

Okay. That's helpful, thank you. And then regarding the R&D investment this year, how should we be thinking about that from a split perspective, meaning how much of that is going to be focused – or those dollars focused on new ANDAs versus how much of it is going to be spent on relaunching some of the acquired products over the last few years?

That's a really good question. I don't know that I've done the math to split it out that way between old and new. What I will say is that there's a combination of both new and I guess re-activation products on the injectable side because we've been doing new formulation as well. There are still topical submissions that are expected to happen in 2018 as well. But in terms of old versus new split, I haven't done that math. So, I can do that and revert back to you.

That's fine. It'd be helpful, thank you. And then, maybe one last one. The two applications that were submitted here in the fourth quarter, were those still on the topical side or are you starting to submit some applications on the injectable side that you would eventually flip over to your own manufacturing when that's ready?

So I think if I remember what was submitted in the fourth quarter correctly, one of them was for the first complex drug and one of them would have been for one of our topical drugs.

Okay, great. Thank you for the update.

Thanks, Matt.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good afternoon. I have a few. The first one is, Jason, you talked about some options to deal with the convert situation. Can you go into a little more detail about the kinds of things that you're considering?

Sure. Thanks for the question, Gregg. Look, I think that this – it's interesting dealing with this perception around the convert, because if I look at what our balance sheet looks like, we're very mindful of the obligation that we have out in December 2019, but I look at the balance sheet that we have and the facilities that we have, the only debt in our corporate structure at the moment is essentially this convert.

And so, how do you start unbundling that? I think the first is we have some opportunities around taking some leverage against the business and securing that with our facilities, right? So whether we do that as a term loan or something, as a mortgage, I think you could go all the way down the road, you could theoretically do this as a sale leaseback transaction, which perhaps is not my favorite way to do that, but there are a lot of different levers that we can pull to unlock capital from the facility.

I think the second part here is that at the moment we don't have in place anything around our receivables or any of our working capitals. So, there are abilities there to put in place a revolver, an ABL that will allow us to use some of that value. And I think that there are opportunities that are there depending on what the convert looks like. There are some opportunities to work with some of our convert holders directly as well.

I think one of the things that, perhaps because of just the opacity of the market, equity holders don't really get to see what the valuation is of the debt out there and you can kind of conceptually think that this debt would be trading pretty, pretty low. But in fact, our debt today trades at $0.90 on $1. So, I think the folks who hold this debt have a pretty good sense that we are going to be able to work through this with the assets and the levers that we have.

Okay. Thanks for that. Here we are pretty late in Q1, are you willing to share any sort of color on how the quarter's going, especially after you just reported what you've characterized as a pretty strong quarter in 4Q? Any sort of tone or specifics you can share about the almost completed first quarter?

Sure. I mean, I think I tried to do that a little bit while giving you a sense of the shape of the quarters across the year.

Yeah.

The year has actually gotten off a pretty good start. I think, again, as we said, we expect Canada to continue to perform strongly at least through the first half of this year based on the commitments that we see around the existing product portfolio. In addition to that, we did launch Hydrocortisone Butyrate Lotion in the first quarter as well. So, that is pretty good for us. So, the quarter is going well.

Great. And then lastly, bigger picture question about your injectables' capabilities. Can you give us a sense for what kinds of products you can get out into the market in the next couple of years versus those that you can get out longer term based on technologies and capabilities you already have? Thanks.

Yeah, sure. So the filling line that we have is – they're actually really neat. It has the ability to produce vials from 2 mL up to 50 mL. In fact, if we wanted to, we could probably produce them up to 100 mL. We can do them both aseptically filled as well terminally sterilized. That gives us a lot of scope to work across the portfolio of potential product forms.

The second thing that this line can do is that it has the ability to manufacture ampoules as well. Now, we all recognize ampoules are an older technology, but there are still cases and uses where they are medically necessary and they're the appropriate delivery technology for the drugs in question.

So with that, we can do a pretty broad range of products, again, primarily focused on liquid fill. The idea of the first filling line is that this gives us the ability to drive pipeline, drive our R&D capabilities, and drive smaller volume products through the facility. But it also gives us the opportunity then to bridge in a couple of years to a larger capacity filling line in terms of the number of units we'd like to put through. So we start with between 4 million and 8 million units of capacity depending on size and shifts in Line 1 with the idea of eventually moving to around 40 million in capacity when we get to Line 2, but that's a little bit further down the road. Right now, we want to build the initial capacity and the systems and get this rolling.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Dewey Steadman from Canaccord. Your line is now pen.

Hi, guys. Good afternoon and thanks for taking the questions. I guess, first of all, in how it relates to the convert, how core is the international business to the company and then how much of a growth driver is that business going forward?

Yeah, thanks, Dewey. It's a good question. So the Canadian business, you remember, we bought the Canadian business back in 2015. And 2016 was a sort of a flat year. 2017, though the business grew really quite well, and the driver for that was continued market supply disruptions in Canada and our team, together with our contract manufacturing partners, were amazing. I mean, the ability to respond to some of these things has been incredibly impressive.

The idea though about the Canadian asset was not to just continue it in its current state, but it was to achieve greater operating leverage by plugging it into the manufacturing site that we have in New Jersey. That's the 2019 endeavor, obviously, but we believe that future growth in Canada will likely be driven by that. So I wouldn't say it's the core growth driver of our business, but it's certainly something that helps us achieve greater operating leverage and improve margins over time.

Okay. And then with tax reform, when Teligent becomes a full U.S. taxpayer, what's the current assumption on a long-term tax rate?

Yeah. So Dewey, this is Damian. Well, so right now as you know, we're down at about a 5% effective tax rate. We have the Estonia operations which we use to supply Canada, as you're aware. Going forward, we need to take a closer look at the Tax Reform Act and think about whether that structure still makes sense going forward. But I'm comfortable that we're sitting at a pretty good effective tax rate right now. You can't go below zero, so we're at about 5% now and we'll see if changing that structure would yield better results with the changes in the tax law.

Okay. And then, I guess my final question just for Damian, again, congratulations on joining the Teligent team. And with the 3Q restatement, will we see a material weakness in the 10-K? And if so, what remediation steps will you need to take to resolve that?

Yeah, Dewey, so we haven't filed the 10-K yet and we will shortly obviously, but there was a material weakness in the 10-Q from the third quarter, so I would suspect we will have another material weakness.

And just to focus on these three transactions that I mentioned, what's good about them in a way is that they're not systemic and they're not SAP-related. And really, all three of them have almost the same flavor, and that was a miscommunication. It was a distinct and separate transaction; someone in the business knew but needed to communicate, the facts they knew them to the finance functions to approve for them properly.

So although that is a weakness, it's a weakness that I think we can address quickly and pretty easily without cost. So, it's a matter of cross-functional and cross-regional communications and making those tighter, particularly at the end of the quarter.

Great. I'd like to have one more and just wanted to end on a positive note. In terms of the lumpy complex product that, Jason, you talked about previously, is there any additional color that you can give us or even just give us color on when you're going to give us a color on that product because we're – there's a lot of folks very interested in it?

Sure. We're pretty excited about it, too. FDA is now going through the review process. As I mentioned I think on the November call, we filed under FDARA for a particular status, which will allow us some opportunity to achieve a more iterative review with FDA. That is ongoing. FDA is conducting audit of manufacturing and bioequivalence sites. So, it's one of those things, Dewey, I think as we get closer perhaps to the Q1 call here in a few weeks, we'll have a bit more information and we can share that with you.

All right, great. Looking forward to that.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn your call back over to Jason Grenfell-Gardner for closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you, Glenda.

Thank you all for joining us today and for your continued support and interest in Teligent. We will be at the Oppenheimer Conference next week in New York, so looking forward to seeing some of you there. And thank you for your continued support. Have a great evening.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the program and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.