corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings. And welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Second Quarter 2010 Financial


Results Earning Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop. Thank you, Ms. Bergman. You may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Investor Relations


Thank you Doug. Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust conference


call to discuss our second quarter 2010 financial results. With us today from senior management


are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Carolyn Tiffany, President, Tom


Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


This morning, August 5, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental


financial information, both of which will be furnished on our Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press


release and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at


www.winthropreit.com. The press release is in the News and Events section and the supplemental


financial information in the Investor Relations section.


Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call, which you can also access in the


website’s News and Events section. At this time management would like me to inform you that


certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may constitute


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based


on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in press release and from time-to-time in our filings with


SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. Please note that in the


press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly


comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be found in the FFO


table of the press release. Please note that all per share amounts are on a diluted basis.


I’d like now to turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. As we described in our prior calls,


since November 2009, management has focused it efforts on building an infrastructure with which


to source the kind of investment opportunities to provide meaningful risk-adjusted returns taking in


consideration our concerned view of national real estate fundamentals and the prospects for near


term economic growth.


To that end, we believe our second quarter investment activity strongly indicates we’ve successfully


developed an ongoing transaction pipeline for sourcing all kind of opportunities. In this regard,


we’ve acquired both performing and non-performing as well as distress, first mortgage debt,


mezzanine loans and rate bonds, together with originating new B notes.


When the investment is non-performing or deeply financially stressed, we look to achieve an equity-


like return, either through restructuring in the debt or foreclosures. When performing, we seek both
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


the benefit of equity subordination, we have potential of favorable high yield returns. With respect to


all investments, we’re always looking for special factors in the investment. Cheap relative cost,


strong local markets, long-term growth potential, superior asset quality as well as other attributes.


Where we believe we can benefit materially due to some specific third party expertise, we will


partner with experienced investors to enhance the Company’s returns.


As we have in the past, where we conclude that investment returns on existing investments will no


longer provide the opportunistic returns we see, we exit the investment. Accordingly in the second


quarter, we began as this continued to divest ourselves of our REIT common stock holdings and


our REIT bond holdings. We expect similar changes in the future as we see opportunities evolve.


The bottom of this [inaudible] market is one of which we’ve historically outperformed. Our asset


management team continues to closely monitor the performance of all of our existing assets,


always looking for ways to enhance and capture value as our first quarter leasing demonstrated.


We continue to work to improve our transaction pipeline and look forward to growing our Company


as we execute on our strategy but for us it is favorable investment environment.


Now I will turn the call over to Tom Staples. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Good afternoon, everyone. I will be providing an overview of Winthrop’s


financial results as well as a review of our business segments. We have furnished a quarterly


supplementary report which you can access on our website’s Investor Relations section.


For the quarter ended June 30, 2010, we reported net income from continuing operations of $5.4


million or $0.25 per common share compared with net loss from continuing operations of $71.1


million or $4.50 per common share for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The increase in income


from continuing operations for quarter ended June 30, 2010 was the result of an $81.6 million


reduction in losses recognized from our equity investment in Lex-Win Concord, which we had


written down to zero as of June 30, 2009.


A $3.3 million increase in income from our preferred equity investments and $900,000 increase in


revenues and a $2.6 million decrease in expenses. The favorable results are partially offset by a


$9.7 million decrease in unrealized gains on securities and loan securities carried at fair value as


well as $2.6 million decline in realized gains on sale of our securities.


For the six months ended June 30, 2010, net income from continuing operations was $9.4 million or


$0.44 per common share compared with the a net loss of $93.6 million or $5.92 per common share


for six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase from a comparable six month period was


primarily due to the same factors that positively impacted net income and continuing operations for


the three month period.


Funds from operations applicable to common shares referred to as FFO for the second quarter of


2010 was $8.4 million, or $0.39 per common share compared with negative FFO of $68.3 million, or


a loss of $4.32 per common share for the second quarter of 2009. The increase in FFO is due to


the same factors, which impacted earnings noted earlier. FFO applicable to common share for the


six months ended June 30, 2010 was $16.3 million or $0.76 per common share as compared with


negative FFO of $87.6 million or a loss of $5.54 per common share for the six months ended June


30, 2009.


Adjusting FFO for certain items that affect comparability, FFO applicable to common shares for the


second quarter 2010 would have been $9.4 million or $0.44 per common share, as compared with


FFO applicable to common shares of $21.3 million or $1.22 per common share for the second