corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Second Quarter 2009 Earnings


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Thank you. You may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Investor Relations


Thank you, Joe. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust conference


call to discuss our second quarter 2009 financial results. With us today from senior management


are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany President; Tom


Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


A press release was issued this morning August 6, and will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the


SEC. These documents are available on Winthrop’s website at www.winthropreit.com in the


Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call, which you can


access in the site’s News and Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Winthrop believes the


expectations reflected any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions,


Winthrop can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in Winthrop’s


filings with the SEC. Winthrop does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release Winthrop has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to


the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Michael Ashner for his opening remarks. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our conference call.


Today Winthrop announced financial results for the second quarter. By now you should have all


received a copy of our earnings press release.


During the first two quarters of 2009, we focused our efforts primarily on addressing balance sheet


issues relating to our legacy investments, investing our capital in to distressed and uncertain


market opportunistically. Toward that end, we made a substantial investment and have capitalized


on the market and it’s pricing of senior equity – REIT equity and debt securities during the first half


of 2009 and purchased two whole loans, which we restructured to improve the returns.


These investments incorporate our view that due to the ongoing uncertainties effecting real estate


performance it is incumbent that all of our investments to be structured with a current coupon


wherever possible. We believe that the prior dislocation of the REIT equity markets was largely
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


decided as a result of the $16 billion re-equitization incurring during the second quarter, which to a


significant extent alleviated the market’s concern regarding leverage issues affecting publicly traded


REITs. We’re of the mind however, that the real estate markets will continue to struggle as all


owners to deal with tenant rent roll downs, increasing operating expenses, lower leverage and


substantially more expensive capital. We will monitor the pricing of REIT securities throughout the


capital stack and we’ll pursue investments as we identify opportunities.


We continue to mange our legacy assets mindful of the aforementioned deterioration of the credit


and capital markets as well as the real estate markets themselves. As Carolyn will detail further, as


part of this effort we recently restructured our investment in Marc Realty pursuant to which we


effectively transferred our interest in several suburban Chicago properties. And in exchange, we


seek an increased overall interest in five downtown Chicago properties, which we considered to be


opportunities of a lower risk profile, a better return potential and more aligned with our present


investment strategy.


In light of the unabated deterioration in the credit markets in general, the non-controlling nature of


our investment in Concord and the relatively short-term obligations of Concord to its repurchase


lenders, we believe that there has been a further significant decline in the fair value of our


investment in the platform and such decline is not temporary. Consequently, we have written our


investment in Concord to zero. I want to emphasize however, that we intend to continue to actively


manage the platform so as to maximize any recovery for Winthrop and its partners.


With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Staples to review


Winthrop’s financial results. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Afternoon everyone. I will be providing an overview of Winthrop’s financial


results as well as a review of our business segments. Please note, that all per share amounts are


on a fully diluted basis unless otherwise stated and reflect the November 2008 one for five reverse


stock split.


For the quarter ended June 30, 2009 the company incurred a net loss of $71.2 million or $4.50 per


common share, compared with a loss of $24.1 million or $1.65 per common share for the quarter


ended June 30, 2008.


The increase in the loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 was primarily the result of increased


losses from our equity investments of $16 million and losses from our preferred equity investment


in Marc Realty of $3.2 million, which were partially offset by $12.6 million unrealized gain on our


REIT securities carried at fair value.


The increased losses from our equity investments consisted of a loss related to Lex-Win Concord


of $81.6 million. The restructuring of our Marc Reality portfolio resulted in losses from our preferred


equity investment of $4.3 million, as well as a $1.5 million loan loss for the three months ended


June 30, 2009. These results compared to a loss of $20.9 million for Lex-Win Concord and a loss of


900,000 on the Marc Reality portfolio for the three months ended June 30, 2008.


For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the net loss was 93.6 million or $5.92 per common share,


compared with a net loss of $17.7 million or $1.26 per common share for the six months ended


June 30 of 2008. The decrease from the comparable six-month period was primarily due to the


same factors that negatively impacted net income for the three-month period.