corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Call.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question and answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms. Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Thank you. Ms. Bergman, you may now begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Jackie . Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust


conference call to discuss our third quarter 2009 financial results. With us today from senior


management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


A press release was issued this morning November 5 and will be furnished on the Form 8-K with


the SEC. These documents are available on Winthrop’s website at www.winthropreit.com in the


Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call, which you can


access in the site’s News and Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Winthrop believes the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions,


Winthrop can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in Winthrop’s


filings with the SEC. Winthrop does not undertake the duty to update any forward-looking


statements.


Please note that in the press release Winthrop has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to


the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Michael Ashner for his opening remarks.


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our conference call.


Today, we announced our financial results for the third quarter. By now, you should have all had an


opportunity to review our earnings press release.


First, I would like to reiterate our view of the current state of the real estate investment environment


by again emphasizing that we expect it’ll be characterized by continuing deteriorating operating


fundamentals, the general absence of debt and equity liquidity on a relative basis, and higher


capitalization rates all of which should contribute to an ongoing decline in value through the mid-


term. We believe these conditions will prevail across all real estate asset classes and all


geographic regions without exception and should not abate for some time even after stabilization


and improvement occurs in the macroeconomic – macroeconomy as a whole. Consistent with this
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


view is our belief that in this market a diversified and opportunistic approach to investing will yield


the best risk-adjusted returns for the real estate investor.


The ability to invest across a spectrum of asset classes, geographic regions and formats allows the


diversified investor to avoid the downside inherent in any specific asset class to take selective


advantage of the different opportunities this environment will provide. Our only limitations on


investment would be those which are self-imposed restrictions that we’ve described in the past.


This leads to my next point, a way to think about our company’s earnings particularly those


traditionally regarded as non-recurring, for example, our unrealized and realized gains and


securities. While we agree that these earnings are neither as steady nor as predictable as the cash


flow generated from building ownership, we would suggest that in the context of our stated style of


investing, which actively seeks these gains combines with a track record of their realization and


appropriate valuation of the company should not treat these returns as aberration of profits as one


might in the context of a REIT dedicated to investing in one asset class.


To the dividend. As you read in our press release, the board of trustees has elected to reduce the


company’s dividend to $0.1625 per common share per quarter, or $0.65 per common share


annually. This reduction is a direct result of the anticipated 30% increase in the company’s share


count expected from the rights offering, which will increase uninvested cash on hand from $35


million to $80 million. The reconsideration of the quarterly dividend will be made by our board as


the company invests this cash. We intend to maintain our policy of dividending only our predictable


cash flow on a quarterly basis, supplemented with a year-end special dividend when warranted. We


will not maintain a dividend not generated from profits simply for the sake of appearance.


As mentioned, the company presently has $35 million of uninvested cash together with


approximately $62 million of real estate securities, which when added to the $45 million of proceeds


from the rights offering and the company’s $35 million line of credit should provide it with


approximately $175 million of investable cash in the near term.


We are hopeful of structuring one or more programmatic ventures with institutional partners in the


near term, which would further expand the utility of our capital without burdening the company with


leverage. We are all well aware, however, of the responsibility to protect our capital particularly in


stressed market conditions such as these and intend to invest with great caution and deliberation.


With opportunity obviously comes great risk. We believe the company has addressed those


challenges that can be reasonably anticipated with respect to its existing portfolio in the near-term,


both from the perspective of financial reporting and asset management.


Further, we continue to maintain the company’s one of the strongest REIT balance sheet and that


as demonstrated in part by our earnings this quarter, we are moving forward decisively.


With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Staples to review


Winthrop’s financial results. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Good afternoon everyone. I will be providing an overview of Winthrop’s


financial results as well as a review of our business segments operating results. Please note that


our per share amounts are on a fully diluted basis unless otherwise stated and reflect the


November 2008 one-for-five reverse stock split.


For the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the company reported net income of $15.2 million or


$0.90 per common share compared with net income of $2.2 million or $0.14 per common share for


the quarter ended September 30, 2008. The increase in income for the quarter ended September