Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn B. Tiffany — President & Trustee, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
John Andrew Garilli — Chief Financial Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Michael L. Ashner — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Michael Kim — Analyst, CRT Capital Group LLC
Jeremy Kahan — Analyst, Bow Street LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, [ph] Amy Grucan (00:22), from Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust conference call to discuss our second quarter 2014 financial results.

With us today from senior management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany, President; John Garilli, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the management team.

This morning, August 7, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental financial information, both of which will be furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press release and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at www.winthropreit.com. The press release is in the News and Events section, and the supplemental financial information is in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today's call, which you can also access in the website's News and Events section.

At this time, management would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, might constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements, including NAV analysis, are based on reasonable assumptions. We can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.

Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.

Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Regulation G requirement. Please note that all per-share amounts are on a diluted basis.

I now would like to turn the call over to Carolyn Tiffany. Carolyn?

Thank you, [ph] Amy (02:23). Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you all for joining us today. During the second quarter, we focused largely on positioning our assets for sale in anticipation of shareholder approval of the board's proposed plan of liquidation, which, as we reported, was received on August 5 at the special shareholder meeting.

We closed on a number of previously identified sales, including our Amherst, New York property and our Crossroads I and II properties located in Englewood, Colorado, which together provided aggregate net proceeds to the company of $53.3 million.

We terminated our contract for sale on our Jacksonville, Florida property after an unacceptable retrade was proposed by the buyer upon the announcement of our liquidation. We have not yet gone back to market with this asset.

Yesterday, we sold our interest in the Wateridge property to our partner for $2.38 million. In addition to our property sales this week, we have received full repayment on our Stamford loan and our Wailea loan, together which increased our cash reserves by $17 million. As previously stated in our proxy statement in our last earning call, we are seeking to execute the liquidation of the company as effectively and efficiently as possible.

Given the approval of the plan of liquidation, you will note that we adjusted our net asset values in the supplement this quarter to reflect our estimate of transaction costs that will be incurred in connection with asset sales as well as corporate transaction costs such as the advisors base termination fee and incentive fee. These transaction costs are only estimates and will vary depending on price and timing of asset sales. John will discuss the impairments taken on certain assets for GAAP purposes as the result of shortened hold periods had no impact on NAV.

Our net asset value per common share is estimated to be $13.63 to $15.99 at June 30, 2014 compared to $13.79 to $15.79 at March 31, 2014. The March range does not include transaction costs. The NAV this quarter also continues to value our investment on 701 Times Square at our cost basis accreted by our preferred 12% return.

While we have not been actively seeking to make new investments, we continue to remain open to opportunities to enhance the value to our common shareholders. Towards that end, we purchased for $14 million the remaining 50% interest in the $24.9 million mezzanine loan that's secured by a 100% pledge of the equity interest in the entity that owns a 260,000 square-foot two-building class A office campus constructed in 2002 and located approximately three miles from the LAX Airport.

The mezzanine loan bears interest at 16.5% and has an equity participation of 25%. With this purchase, we now own 100% of the mezzanine loan. We also purchased a market transaction of $11.2 million of our Senior Notes which are not eligible to be called until August 2015.

With the exception of our 550/650 Corporetum property located in Lisle, Illinois which, as we discussed last quarter, is having a significant lease turn over in 2015 with United Health. Our operating properties are stabilized and performing well. Overall, our operating property occupancy is 88.7% for our office, retail and warehouse and 93.1% for our multi-family, excluding Vintage which is 96.7% occupied.

Our loan portfolio continues to perform under the terms of the loans with the exception of the Rockwell loan which we continue to carry on our books at zero. In light of the relatively short-term scheduled maturities, it's not likely we will sell this portfolio, as we expect to let it wind down through the repayments at maturity.

Finally, as the result of the approval of the plan of liquidation and in accordance with the company's declaration of trust in the Series D certificate of designation, the company has suspended dividends for the common shareholders until such time, as the liquidating preference is paid to the Series D holders.

With that, I will turn the call over to John Garilli. John?

Thank you, Carolyn. Good afternoon, everyone. I will provide an overview of Winthrop's financial results, as well as a review of our business segments. Before getting to that, there are a couple of items that I wanted to point out. First, in light of the approval of the plan of liquidation, we will no longer be reporting funds from operations.

Second, starting in the third quarter, we will discontinue going concern basis accounting and we will instead report financial results on the liquidation basis of accounting.

Turning now to our current results. For the quarter ended June 30, 2014, we've reported net income of $6.1 million or $0.17 per common share, compared with net income of $5.5 million or $0.17 per common share for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.

We've recognized impairment charges during the second quarter of $1.7 million on our Northwest Atlanta equity investment and $762,000 on our 223 West Jackson equity investment. These impairments are included in income from continuing operations. They did not result in a reduction to our published NAV from the prior quarter.

During the second quarter of 2014, we disposed off our Crossroads I and II properties located in Englewood, Colorado and our Amherst, New York office property, which resulted in a $6.6 million gain on sale of real estate. These gains are included in the income from discounted operations.

Operating results by business segment for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 were as follows. With respect to our operating properties business segment, operating income was approximately $16.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014 compared with approximately $11 million for the three months ended June 30, 2013. Operating income increased by $3.3 million from our consolidated operating properties and $2 million from our equity investment operating properties during this period.

With respect to our consolidated operating properties, operating income from our same-store properties was $7.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014 compared to $7.3 million from the comparable period last year.

Our new store properties, which consist of our office property in Norridge, Illinois and our residential properties in Stanford, Connecticut; San Pedro, California; Houston, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma generated net operating income of $3.4 million for the quarter.

Net operating income from operating property equity investments was $5.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014 compared to net income of $3.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2013. This increase was due to a $1.7 million increase in the income from our 701 Seventh Avenue Times Square investment as a result of our increased equity investment throughout 2013 and the first quarter of 2014. Additionally, quarterly operating income from our Sullivan Center investments increased by $1.1 million, from $167,000 to $1.3 million.

Our loan assets and loan securities business segment reported net operating income of $4.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014 compared to net operating income of $5.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2013. This decrease in quarter-over-quarter earnings is primarily the result of the sale of five loan assets and one loan repayment, all of which occurred in the first quarter of this year.

Interest and accretion income was partially offset by $951,000 of interest income on our secured financing receivable and $544,000 of interest income on our Eden and Norridge loan which we originated in March of this year.

Turning to corporate activity. During the quarter, we repurchased an open-market transactions $11.2 million of our 7.75% Senior Notes or $11.7 million. These repurchases will result in quarterly interest savings of approximately $217,000 on a going-forward basis.

And lastly, at June 30, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $133.6 million compared to a balance of $112.5 million at December 31, 2013.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?

Thanks, John. By the way, great haircut.

Thanks.

The most frequently asked questions that we get these days concern the timing and pace of the plan of liquidation. Imagine some of my dinner parties where I ask my wife how much longer before the guests will be gone. Today, we are cautiously optimistic that the pace of liquidation will move faster than that – than we initially contemplated prior to our announcement of proposal. We believe then the pace will correlate more closely for the timing of certain loan conditions and related issues including the elimination of the old maintenance of prepayment penalties as well as completion of construction in certain instances and leasing.

Since we've experienced favorable indicative pricing with respect to the assets we have been marketing, we have elected to accelerate the marketing for assets which otherwise you might have held longer. By way of example, we now believe that we may be better off incurring some prepayment costs at the net cash realized exceeds risk of its reduction in the event the sales environment becomes less favorable to the company. This approach is obviously dictated in large part by the continued low interest rate environment which benefits pricing offsetting the increase in prepayment costs.

Throughout the process, we will, however, endeavor to transact as accretively as possible where we can repurchase expensive debt or acquire a joint venture's interest in an accretive price. We will do so as we did in Playa Vista.

Also, if at some future date, our common share price becomes what we consider cheap, the company will factuate any share repurchases so as to benefit all shareholders rather than management purchasing shares on our own behalf.

Our decision to eliminate the NAV disclosure in future filings results from some experiences in which real estate brokers and buyers have suggested that the upward pricing was based on a review – their upward pricing was based on a review of our valuation of the asset in our NAV disclosure.

Simply put, we want as much as we can get from the sale of our assets, not pricing based on our own conservative valuations. Obviously, we would rather be wrong and get more money than be right and get less.

Parenthetically, for me, the relationship between the company's conversion to liquidation accounting and our current use of NAV is that, for both, there is a fundamental similarity with respect to asset valuation. With a [indiscernible] (14:01), however, is that liquidation accounting seeks to include in its analysis the positive or negative differences between asset-generated cash flow during each assets projecting holding period on the one hand and corporate level expenses and capital expenditures on the other hand which NAV does not do.

On a personal note, it's somewhat bittersweet for me to liquidity of the company that we have managed for 10 years, especially to learn somewhat abruptly the market believes that we are worth more significantly more dead than alive. Nevertheless, we understand we are essentially money managers representing the interest of our shareholders and continue to believe strongly, as the market supports, this is the best course for the company.

With that, I will open the call to questions.

Thank you. At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of [ph] Charles Fischer with LF Partners (15:15). Please proceed with your question.

Yes, hello. Good afternoon. First of all, I'd like to say Michael and Tiffany and the rest of the team, I don't think you're worth more dead than alive. So, I like you guys alive, so let's keep it that way. Can you talk, Michael, a little bit about the small steps paying off the preferred? It looks like you have almost enough cash to do it now. Can you just kind of go through that how that mechanism works?

Well, I'm not an attorney, but we would probably structure it, so we would take out all of the preferred in one fell swoop.

You'll do a redemption notice or something, I imagine?

Yes. I mean, I think consistent with the indenture provisions, but I think we're going to take it all out in one fell swoop.

Under the terms of the Certificate of Designations, we are required to give 30-day to 60-day notice but it is, as Michael mentioned, our intention to pay that as soon as possible.

And is this your thought that once you've paid that back, you would then go to a quarterly kind of stated dividend or is it more, you're thinking after that it will just be the lumpy distribution that you generate from liquidation process?

At the risk of being wrong and changing our minds, it will – it should be at least semi-annual once we can resume distributions, but it may well be lumpy. I mean, if you sell something, you get a $50 million payment, I don't think it's any good reason for it to sit there for six months.

Sure, makes perfect sense to me. On the manager incentive fee payments that you have in the NAV, my recollection was that you needed to get over $16 in change to hit some of those incentive fees. Did those incentive fees assume that there might be more than $16 of liquidation that's kind of counter to the NAV? But I was wondering if that math includes some sort of assumption like that?

The hurdle rate actually, it moves depending on distribution incentives they've made. So, I think it was originally $16. It's actually come down a little bit. It's $15.75 at June 30.

It was also in the K. There's a description about the termination fee and the other termination fee. So there were two fees, the incentive and the termination, they're both in the K.

Okay. That sounds great, John. I'll go take a look at those. Can you guys give us any update on how the luxury apartment is doing, last month the NOI has had nice jump and so always on the 701?

Well, as we mentioned at our shareholder meeting, San Pedro is currently under contract for sale at a price that we cannot disclose until due diligence is finished. We never disclose pricing or generally contracts even unless all conditions are concluded, but we did mention it at our annual meeting. That one's for sale.

We are considering the marketing of one or more of the other properties right now. But bear in mind that with respect to ST Residential, the business thesis was that we had bought relatively new condominium constructed properties, high rises, at a repricing cost, which was significantly under market, which provided optionality on our exit. So, we're looking at what is the best – we're still looking what is the best execution for these individual assets. And no final determination has been made.

As to 701, I was in there three weeks ago. It was sweltering hot. There is no ventilation. The guys were working – the working construction is going on. So if you think about it, there is a series of milestones there. Permitting, financing, commencing of construction and acquiring a hotel, they're all done. The next milestone is, I guess, getting the retail tenant and that will take some time because it is a three-year construction process in tenants, for these kinds of assets, generally look, don't rush to do something three years in advance, they will think about it 18 months, 24 months in advance. But that's, I would say, the next milestone. Completion of construction, which should be done in roughly three years. That would be the milestone following that. And stabilization of the hotel and the retail tenant is – follows that.

At each milestone, we would and will consider marketing our interest for sale. And, of course, we'll consider any unsolicited offers that we receive. But I'm not a construction maven, but things are moving and I think the Winthrop group is doing an excellent job. They're really [indiscernible] (20:34) an excellent job.

That's really helpful, Michael. What is the process? During post-liquidation voting, you're allowed to make new investments or is there any limitation to that. How does that process work?

No. We're not allowed to make any new investments. We're still very restricted in the investments we can make. We can obviously make capital improvements to existing investments. We can repurchase our shares, and to the extent we have a right under an existing joint venture agreement, we can exercise those rights. So that's what we can do.

Obviously, we can hold cash in short-term strategies whatever. But, no, we cannot make new investments on behalf of the new investors, which were not already in our portfolio at this point in time.

Terrific. If I could ask one more, Michael, this has been really helpful. This is kind of a softball. What have been the biggest challenges as you've gone through the last couple of months of liquidation as you think about, what the challenge that lie ahead.

Well, it's not a soft ball. Carolyn, why don't you first start with that?

So, I guess the challenges would just be in terms of just making sure that we time these asset sales to maximize the return to our shareholders. As Michael mentioned, initially, we had thought about holding off on some assets because of prepayment penalties, but we're in such a tailwind market right now, it is really – you certainly don't want to try to time the market, but we want to be able to take advantage of the conditions that we're in right now. So I would say the biggest challenge is really choosing which assets to market and when.

I would supplement that. I guess there's two issues that I think. One is to Carolyn's point, overall, even though you take [indiscernible] (22:31). The river has lots of tributaries and you have to maintain flexibility in your thinking. Things change. And you have to be able to change your view as to what is you're going to do if you're going to try to do it as accretively as possible.

On the other hand, I think the biggest long-term challenges in any liquidation not in purpose alone, but any liquidation which [indiscernible] (22:53) is that last dollar. You have enough spending as much time almost to smaller assets as you do with larger assets. And that last dollar is the valuable dollar. And so here, it comes to $37 million, and how do we get that last dollar regardless of where we are? Whether we're at $15 to $17, how do you get that last dollar? How do you harvest it most effectively?

That, I think, is always the biggest challenge in liquidation.

Terrific. Thanks, Michael. On behalf of my family and I appreciate all of your whole team's hard work. Thanks a lot.

We are very kind.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. Just a question on the NAV range estimate. It seems like most of that $12 million net increase in NAV and I know it's not comparable, but just that change in the prior quarter came from – via the luxury residential portfolio where the cap rate range was changed from 4.63% to a range of 4.1% to 4.2%. Just kind of curious of the thought process...

That's not exactly so. We are – it has nothing to do with cap rate changes. What really happened is we backward modeled and we backward modeled because we only change ST Residential as a result of something that is known, and the marketing of San Pedro and some of the other market information that was more than just market information that we got on one or more specific assets in ST Residential was such that we needed to incorporate that information into our pricing. It has nothing to do with pure – it was not pure cap rate driven in that sense. It's something happened. One thing obviously happened was the contract on San Pedro.

But if you look closer, if I'm correct, you'll see that some other assets benefited, I think Fenway benefited, which was paid off yesterday. I think Northwest Atlanta may have benefited in its pricing, but it is – the increase had to do with other things as well.

Yeah, I'd also point out, Michael, that you may recall that through last quarter, we were basically including the [indiscernible] (25:31)ST portfolio on the NAV at our cost...

Right. Right.

We closed in the fourth quarter of 2013. Last quarter, we were still sort of going through getting our strategy. And then as Michael indicated, this quarter, we basically had some additional third-party information that warranted the increase.

I see. Okay. Yeah, I appreciate that. And then, my second question, just regarding the Vintage Housing portfolio. I was just kind of curious, what is your expectation for the stabilized NOI once the Washington assets are completed? And I guess how long do you think it will take to get to stabilization, one of those two, two remaining properties?

We haven't put out any forecast, as it relates to those, but I can tell you that the [indiscernible] (26:22) the Tacoma property we've moved into the overall portfolio that was converted, and the [indiscernible] (26:29) is expected to be done next, probably by the end of this year and Urban Center will be done – converted next year fully stabilized.

And do you think the profile of kind of rents per unit will be similar to the other properties or is that?

I can't answer that question off the top of my head.

Okay.

All right. I think what Carolyn said is that's a question – we never answer those kinds of questions. And that's really what she's saying in the nicest way. Michael, we've never given projections about what things will be. But I think it is fair to say, there's no – nothing that distinguishes those three properties from the other 28 or so in the portfolio or whatever it is. So...

Okay. Understood. I appreciate that. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Jeremy Kahan with Bow Street. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Can you just comment on the change in value for the Concord Debt piece? Thank you.

We know more. Simply we know more about it. The debt markets have moved more dramatically than even the equity markets in the sense because [indiscernible] (27:55). When we value the debt positions, there's always – there was historically a significant thing. They move tighter. We get real-time information with the bond portion of the CDO is where that's easy to do.

We have a much stronger sense of how the loan portion of the CDO will do. We can pretty much value the range in that and the upside is somewhat capped. The only place that there is some movement, theoretically, further upward, but we don't have any information that would allow us to go higher at this point with respect to it. That much is I can say.

Yeah. We had some loan payoffs in the CDO this quarter as well. So to Michael's point, there's been an improvement in terms of the loans and their performance.

It's not unique. So, I would suspect that everyone who has managed the CDO has gotten some benefit over the last – particularly in the last year, as the value what it is they have. The assets just have greater value and more likely to be repaid. That's it and we just price that in.

Understood. And despite decline in adjusted NOI at luxury residential, was that isolated to a particular property or is that across the core properties?

That was related somewhat to Mosaic where we have higher than we budgeted real estate taxes. We do have an abatement that we're currently in the process of pursuing. But that, I would say, is probably one of the more significant. In addition, that's the high-growth property. We just recently transitioned the parking. We had a contract that was a little bit more expensive. So we expect that that will turn around a little bit as well. But those are the big drivers.

And maybe there's one other minor driver that we realign the rents in the penthouses and Mosaic.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of [ph] John Power with Redwood Fund (30:33). Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. How are you today?

Good.

Quick question for you, can you clarify the redemption price on the preferred. Is that at par or is there a premium.

Its par plus any accrued dividend at the time of redemption.

Okay. Understood. Thank you. And then if we had any interest in a particular asset, what's the best course or who should we contact?

I guess either J. Cramer in Boston or John Alba in New York, although John's on vacation this week.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. It appears we have no further questions at this time. I would like to give the floor back over to Mr. Ashner for any additional concluding comments.

Well, we have a little problem here. My script doesn't include the usual concluding remarks. So, I'm going to wing it based on historical memory. We thank you, all, for attending our call today. As you know, management is more than welcome to any questions you may have and want to direct to us personally, Carolyn, Jay Cramer and John Garilli are always welcome and take your calls as well as I am. You know the phone numbers. You know the website, what is it, www.winthropreit.com. There you are. And we thank you for your indulgence and your patience.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. We thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect your lines at this time.