Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael L. Ashner — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Carolyn B. Tiffany — President & Trustee, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Mitch B. Germain — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Wilkes Graham — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to Winthrop Realty Trust Q4 Year-End 2014 Management Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host [ph] Amy Grucan (00:27). You may begin.

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust fourth quarter and year-end 2014 management conference call. With us today from senior management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany, President; John Garilli, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the management team.

This morning, March 5, we issued a press release disclosing certain financial information about Winthrop and providing update on the liquidation process. The press release is available on our website at www.winthropreit.com in the News and Events section, and which will be furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today's call, which you can also access in the website's News and Events section.

At this time, management would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, might constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.

Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and, from time to time, in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.

I will now turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?

Thank you, [ph] Amy (02:06). Welcome to our discussion of our fourth quarter financial results and our ongoing efforts in connection with our plan of liquidation. In the past, our format has been for Carolyn to lead our quarterly call followed by John with his scintillating line-by-line description of the elements of our earnings.

Since adoption of the plan, however, much of that discussion is eliminated. So today, you get me, although, Carolyn and John are here for your questions. As today's release indicates, liquidation accounting is primarily a discussion of changes in our net asset valuation. These changes reflect our best estimates as to the liquidation proceeds we presently expect to realize, taking into consideration numerous factors, including timing of sale of each asset, operating income generated prior to disposition of each asset, cost of liquidation and corporate G&A expense, et cetera.

On an apples-to-apples basis, the estimated liquidation proceeds has increased by approximately $0.23 a share as compared to third quarter 2014 estimated liquidation proceeds. This increase primarily results from growth in value in Concord Debt Holdings asset base as well as proceeds realized in excess of our prior valuations on assets which have been sold or repaid.

Offsetting the increase in sales proceeds has been a reduction in projected cash flows, which results from the accelerated sale of a number of assets which either have occurred or are now believed will occur.

In essence, management has elected in a number of situations to sell assets at prices equal to or better than originally estimated on an earlier date which cuts off the cash flow that would have been realized if we'd held those assets for a longer period of time. This consideration factored most significantly with respect to the anticipated accelerated sale date of the Vintage portfolio and partial repayment of the Edens-Norridge loan. The year-over-year sale of assets enabled us to make the $2.25 per share distribution in January.

With respect to transactions under hard deposits, we are pleased with the pricing achieved for our Vintage portfolio. The investments performed significantly better and anticipate in large measure due to the super performance of our partners, [ph] Michael Gunkar and Ryan Patterson (04:28). In addition, the proposed sale of 44 Monroe, the second asset from the ST Residential portfolio to be sold, will achieve the full proceeds projected in our liquidation analysis.

As I stated in the press release, our assets are moving quicker and at better pricing than we anticipated when we announced our plan of liquidation. As provided in our supplement, we've realized proceeds to the company of approximately $268 million in sales and repayments, which exceeded our highest prior estimates for those assets by approximately 9%, again, as compared to our December 2013 NAV analysis. I foresee no reason for the momentum of favorable pricing to change in the near-term.

With respect to certain of our larger assets that we have not yet sold, I would like to make a few comments. At the Sullivan Center, we put our toe in the sales water in the fourth quarter of 2014. While pricing was very favorable, we determined not to sell until certain pending items were resolved.

The property has recently signed leases for an additional 76,000 square feet of space, increasing its occupancy from 88% to 96%, which should improve the property's cash flow by approximately $1.5 million in time. In our judgment, the current annual cash flow of $7.2 million to the company, resolving the outstanding items and the additional leasing income should lead to better future pricing.

Our multi-use development investment in Times Square is moving forward as planned. Two comments. First, we have not increased our reported liquidation value on account of this investment. Second, for what it's worth, in my view, this investment has the greatest potential for value increase of any individual asset I have owned in my 35-year career as a real estate investor. I may well be proved wrong, but that is my belief.

Worth mentioning is that The Witkoff Group, our development partner, have done an exceptional job of managing and navigating the various aspects of a very complicated multi-use real estate development with retail, hotel, and LED signage components in one of the most construction-regulated locations in one of the most construction-regulated cities in the world. Not an easy task.

I am frequently asked my take on the overall commercial real estate market conditions, by my family mostly. My personal take is best evidenced by the company's behavior. That is to say, we are proceeding with our plan of liquidation in a more expedited manner than expected.

Moreover, since proposing the plan, I have not seen any investment opportunity, which we have missed. Ergo, I believe, overall, real estate market conditions to be very favorable for execution of our plan, exhibiting a level of perceived stability with abundance of debt and equity capital. I believe these conditions remain unchanged during the near-term. Consequently, we intend to continue to bring new assets to market during the next several months.

I need to give credit where credit is due. My hat is off to all of my colleagues and associates throughout the company, all of whom have done a remarkable job in executing this plan of liquidation at an accelerated pace. Needless to say, two hats go off to the people in Boston who have had to do so with 100 inches of snow outside their doorsteps.

I don't think I've spoken this long on any of our calls during the past 10 years, so I think it best I open the floor to questions. Feel free to ask about the process, about the assets, or any other questions you might have. Carolyn, John and I are happy to respond.

At this time, we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Thanks.

Hi, Mitch.

Just curious on the leasing prospects in Times Square. How's activity going? How do you feel about the potential for where rents are going to be relative to your underwriting? Maybe just some commentary there please?

Well, leasing activity is proceeding. We have strong interest, but we have made a decided decision, at least I think for the near-term, we have a special site. Anyone who walks by it sees that our site anchors the Times Square corridor. It's the only site that you can move into now on a build-to-suit basis. It's got the best space, in my view, in the whole Times Square corridor.

With only about 1.6 million square feet, 120 million pedestrian traffic per year, I think what The Witkoff Group and Winthrop have determined is we want the right tenant, not any tenant. We don't just want to fill it. We want a tenant who is going to be the long-term kind of anchor tenant, which will really drive up value. And we are speaking to those kinds of people right now. It's too early to tell how that will play out with respect to our underwriting, when we did the deal way back, but I suspect it will be – if we bag what it is, I would like to see us bag, I believe it will be favorable.

And the likelihood is, are you going to combine the signage with the retail? Or likely keep it separate?

We would like to. We would like to. Because that, obviously, means that the signage income will trade at a more favorable capitalization rate then if we were to have it independently.

Great. Two more for me. Sullivan Center, looks like you marketed it, pulled it off the market. I mean, I'm just curious, I'm assuming some of those leases were probably at least under negotiation, maybe known a couple weeks ago. So was it a function of price, or was it really just signing everything on the dotted line?

No. Actually, those leases weren't really fully – weren't really out there to the extent that they – some of them were under letters of intent or under discussion, but some of them were not. So that is part of the issue.

So the thought is to put it right back on the market at this point now that the leases have been signed?

Well, we have some other issues that we want to be resolved.

Okay.

We are advised that our partner, Larry Freed, is scheduled to go to trial on his federal indictment – I said we are advised, I haven't spoken to him directly about it – in May. And I'd like to see how that resolves itself before we go out to market.

Great. And then just some commentary on the Vintage trade. Obviously, it came in ahead of expectations; though I think that the NAV was probably conservative. In terms of timing, was it right to do it now? I mean is there a view that you've got a multi-family valuations that made you believe that now was a better time to do it then wait a little? Maybe trade it as the cycle continues to proceed?

Well, you know what I'm lacking, Mitch? I'm lacking that bell that goes off when you're at the top of the market or the bottom of the market. What I have is a sense that when you think you have a deal, a proposal offered to you in which you can be indifferent on the outcome that the price is the right price, a fair price, I think it's a good deal for Kennedy Wilson to tell you the truth. I think a really good deal for them also. But for us, it was a good price, a fair price, and we take it. We don't second guess ourselves, done.

Great. Let me know when you find that bell. Thanks, again. [ph]

If found, I will. (12:53) [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from Wilkes Graham with Compass Point. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good afternoon. Just two questions for me. And I may have missed this on the senior notes. I think there's about $74 million outstanding, and as you've mentioned in the past, you can't really pay those off until August. Can you just help me understand how you were able to pay off special dividends before you pay that debt? I know you can. I know you already have, but I just want to understand the process.

Right. There are restrictions. There's leverage restrictions that the bonds have, and as long as we're in compliance with the leverage restrictions, we can make special dividends.

Okay. Is the assumption, or is your assumption, when you're paying out special that, obviously, because you're out marketing a lot of assets that you assume you would have the cash in August to pay it?

Well, it's a combination of three things; the amount of cash we have on hand, the amount of cash we project that we're going to get from deals that have gone hard, and also what we think that we will be able to sell at a certain point in time. I mean...

Right.

...you just put the three together and you figure it out.

Okay. And I don't know if you'll be able to answer this one. Curious if you can give any color or detail on how you – I don't need numbers – but just how you sort of conceptually think about the value of 20 Times Square and the net assets and liquidation calculation. And what I'm really getting at is, do you plan to adjust that valuation as time goes on?

Carolyn, why don't you answer that?

Sure. I mean, with all of our assets, and coming up with our net assets and liquidation, we forecast the value. Each quarter we look at it and what the timing of the sale is and what we expect to receive on the sale. So in terms of will that get adjusted? Absolutely. We look at it every quarter and take into consideration events, market-driven or property-driven. And with all the assets, we make our best estimate at the value. This one is, of course, the biggest challenge because it's so early in its stages of development. But, essentially, we forecast what we believe the operations of this property will be and what kind of value that will create.

I think that, to my way of thinking, there are probably four events that might change our view. I mean, it will change our view. [indiscernible] (15:43) retail tenant, initiation of the sign and opening of the hotel. That will give you better – those three things you know. Also, if we were either to go to market or were to receive an unsolicited offer, that would impact on how we look at it. But absent an event, what this company has is the best site in America under development, in my view.

Thanks to both of you. I appreciate that.

There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr. Michael Ashner for closing remarks.

Again, we appreciate your being with us for today's call. We look forward to seeing you again at our annual shareholders' meeting in May. If any additional questions you would like to discuss anything further with us directly, please feel free to contact Carolyn or myself. Our contact information is available in the website. I thank you all and have a good afternoon.

This concludes today's teleconference. We thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time.