corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings. And welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust First Quarter 2010 Financial


Results Earning Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question and


answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Thank you, Ms. Bergman. You may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Melissa . Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust


conference call to discuss our first quarter 2010 financial results. With us today from senior


management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer, and other members of the management team.


This morning, May 6, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental financial


information, both of which will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press release


and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at www.winthropreit.com.


The press release can be found in the News and Events section, and the supplemental information


in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call, which


you can also access in the site’s News and Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although, we believe the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we


can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained. Factors and risks that could cause


actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are


detailed in the press release and from time to time in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake


a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the


most recent -- most recent, most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with the Reg G


requirements. This can be found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Carolyn Tiffany. Carolyn?


Carolyn Tiffany, President


Thank you, Beverly. Good afternoon, everyone. Again, thank you for joining us on our conference


call today. As you know, this morning we announced our financial results for the first quarter. I will


initially discuss the results of the company’s operations before turning the call over to Tom Staples,


our Chief Financial Officer, to discuss the company’s financial results. After Tom concludes,


Michael Ashner, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman will discuss our acquisition efforts to


date.


As Tom will discuss later in detail, we are pleased to report earnings of 4.1 million for the first


quarter 2010. Over this last quarter, we have addressed our debt maturities. We obtained a two-


year extension of the $9.3 million loan on our River City property, which now matures in April 2012.


The terms of the extension require monthly payments of interest only at a fixed rate of 6% through


March 2011, increasing to 6.25% through maturity. The extension was subject to a $200,000
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


principal payment, which was made in March 2010 and requires an additional $200,000 principal


payment in March 2011.


We have obtained extensions for all of the debt maturing in 2010 on our equity investments. Three


mortgage loans secured by four Marc Realty properties with an aggregate outstanding balance of


approximately 29 million were refinanced. One of the mortgage loans in the amount of 5.5 million


was extended through February 2011 on its existing terms. The remaining two mortgage loans


amounting to 23.6 million were extended through February 2013 at LIBOR plus 2.75 with a


minimum rate of 4.25%. The refinancing of the mortgage loans also required a $1.3 million principal


payment of which the company’s share was 650,000 and which was made in April 2010.


During the remainder of 2010, we have no debt maturing other than the KeyBanc loan with an


outstanding balance of 23.4 million, collateralized by 14 properties and for which we have the right


to extend for one year through June 2011. We’ve notified KeyBanc of our intent to do so.


During the first quarter, as discussed on our prior call, there was significant positive leasing activity


at our Jacksonville, Florida and over Massachusetts and Burlington, Vermont properties, which are


now fully released. With these new leases, our consolidated assets are 96.1% occupied. Since the


additional leasing was completed during the quarter, the full economic impact of the leases is not


reflected in this quarter’s earnings.


As you know, the lease on our 1 million square foot property in Churchill, Pennsylvania expires in


December 2010, and we have been in discussions with the tenant about our ongoing issues


concerning the property’s condition. We have been unable to reach resolution with CBS and


Viacom, the obligors under the lease, as to their collective contractual restoration obligations


relating to the severe disrepair of the property. Accordingly, we have advised CBS and Viacom that


we will be seeking damages in excess of 29 million in view of the year-end lease termination.


We continue to aggressively market for lease or sale five buildings containing 229,000 square feet


currently leased to Kroger, which previously notified us of its intention not to exercise its renewal


options. We are awaiting the results of an independent third-party valuation to determine the


purchase price of the Athens, Georgia property for which Kroger did exercise its purchase option


and expect that a sale will be consummated during the fourth quarter of 2010.


The Marc Realty portfolio had a blended average occupancy rate of 83.5% at March 31, 2010.


There is no debt maturing on the Marc properties in 2010, approximately 30 million maturing in


2011, and 64 million maturing between 2012 and 2017. Winthrop’s three Sealy venture properties


with 2.1 million rentable square feet comprised two properties located in Atlanta, Georgia and one


in Nashville, Tennessee. The two Georgia properties have experienced declines in occupancy due


to a soft market and these properties are being marketed for lease. Average occupancy at the three


properties as of March 31, 2010 was 79.5%.


During the quarter, we sold at par a $3 million senior 8% sub-participation interest in the Siete


Square loan and retained a $4.2 million junior, 10.4% sub-participation interest.


With respect to the retained interest, if the loan is satisfied at its discounted pay-off amount of 5.5


million, it will result in us receiving an effective yield of 19.4% on the investment. We continue to


see strong returns from the sale of our REIT securities, which generated over 11.4 million of net


proceeds during the period ended March 31, 2010.


Our loan receivable and loan securities consist of approximately 26 million invested in various types


of loans that are secured by quality assets in major cities with principal outstanding net of any


borrower discount and pay-off option of approximately 50 million. The portfolio generated interest


earnings of 2.6 million for the first quarter of 2010.