Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn B. Tiffany — President & Trustee, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
John Andrew Garilli — Chief Financial Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Michael L. Ashner — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
David J. Heymann — Member, Post Heymann & Koffler LLP
Craig Mailman — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Wilkes Graham — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
Andrew F. Boord — Investment Research Analyst, Fenimore Asset Management, Inc.
Brett Reiss — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host [ph] Amy Grucan (0:00:17) of Winthrop's Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2014 financial results.

With us today from senior management are, Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany, President; John Garilli, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the management team.

This morning, May 1, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental financial information, both of which will be furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press release and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at www.winthropreit.com. The press release is in the News and Events section and the supplemental financial information is in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today's call, which you can also access in the website's News and Events section.

At this time, management would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, might constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements, including NAV analysis, are based on reasonable assumptions. We can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.

Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.

Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Regulation G requirement. This can be found in the FFO table of the press release. Please note that all per share amounts are on a diluted basis.

I now would like to turn over the call to Carolyn Tiffany. Carolyn?

Thank you, [ph] Amy (0:02:21) and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you all for joining us today. I am sure you are all interested to hear more about Tuesday's announcement by the company of our board's proposed adoption of a plan of liquation, and then questions related to it. Before getting to that though, I will spend just a few minutes to discuss our first quarter operation. John will review our financial information, and then hand the call over to Michael.

As we discussed on our last call in March, we have observed very favorable market conditions, which have driven up the value for stabilized real estate. As value investors, we view this market as an opportune time to realize gains on our investments, the REIT limitations on which, in part, has driven our decision to liquidate. Towards that end, during the first quarter, we completed a number of sales of operating properties, which are detailed in today's press release.

In addition, we began marketing certain assets for sale, including our Amherst, New York property, which is under a letter of intent, and our Jacksonville, Florida property, which is under contract. The sale of our Denver, Crossroads I and Crossroads II properties is scheduled to close today, which [ph] net the (0:03:29) company approximately $30 million in proceeds.

Similarly, we completed a sale of a portion of our loan portfolio. We have reduced our loan asset portfolio from 14 loans with an outstanding carrying value of $110.2 million at December 31, 2013 to 10 loans with a carrying value of [ph] $57.9 (0:03:50) million at March 31, 2014. Our new investment activity this quarter was the origination of $15.5 million mezzanine loan secured by Freed Management's interest in entities, owning two retail shopping centers, Eden Plaza located in Wilmette, Illinois, and Norridge Commons located in Norridge, Illinois. In addition, Freed has pledged its interest in Sullivan Center as additional collateral for the loan.

Our loan portfolio, with the exception of the defaulted Rockwell loan, which has been carried at zero for both financial statement purposes and net asset value purposes, are all performing in accordance with their term. Our Concord CDO continues to cash flow and we've received cash distributions of $1.4 million during the first quarter from the CDO and Concord Debt Holdings.

Turning to our operating properties; John will discuss, in connection with the proposed adoption by the Board of Trustees of the plan of liquidation. GAAP requires the company to review carrying value of all our long-term assets and revise our evaluation to shorten a holding period for each asset to assess whether an impairment is warranted. The shortened holding period resulted in changes of the projected recovery of two assets; our Corporetum property located in Lisle, Illinois, and to a much lesser extent, our Kroger property located in Greensboro, North Carolina.

As discussed on past calls, the Lisle property's occupancy suffered during the recession and has only recently begun to rebound at 78% at March 31, 2014. United Healthcare, which occupies 41,000 square feet or 24% of the building, has a lease maturity of December 2015. We are currently in discussions with their representatives as to a lease extension and expansion. The fair value analysis reflects the uncertainty surrounding this space. The March 31, 2014 carrying value of $10.2 million is within the range of our net asset value.

We have experienced significant lease-up in our operating property portfolio, particularly the high growth property located in Stamford, Connecticut, which was 92% leased at the time of our acquisition in October 2013 and is now 100% leased. Our 1515 Market Street property, which was 77% leased at the time of our acquisition in February 2013, is now 87% leased.

Our Vintage platform continues to perform well at 97% occupancy, and from which we received distributions of $1.4 million during the first quarter. In April 2014, the [indiscernible] (0:06:25) which is one of the development deals in the platform, with stabilization six months ahead of schedule, and was converted to permanent financing. The Urban Center and Quilceda construction are on schedule and expected to be completed in 2015.

Finally, our 701 Seventh Ave property has commenced demolition and transit authority construction work. We anticipate a formal groundbreaking in July. The remaining operating properties are stabilized and performing well. Overall, our operating property occupancy is 90% for our office, retail and warehouse and 92% for our multi-family excluding Vintage.

Our March 31, 2014 reported net asset value remained relative unchanged from last quarter at $13.79 to $15.79. And our pooled weighted average realized returns on investments made since 2009 is 29.12%.

Now, I will turn the call over to John Garilli. John?

Thank you, Carolyn. Good afternoon, everyone. I will provide an overview of Winthrop's financial results as well as a review of our business segments for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. For the quarter ended March 31, 2014, we reported a net loss of $2.2 million or $0.06 per common share, compared with net income of $11 million or $0.33 per common share for the quarter ended March 31, 2013. The net loss is due to the $9.2 million of impairments taken with respect to certain of our wholly-owned properties, which I will discuss shortly.

Funds from operations or FFO for the first quarter of 2014 was $10.7 million or $0.30 per common share compared with FFO of $15.3 million or $0.46 per common share for the first quarter of 2013. In connection with our board's proposed adoption of a plan of liquidation, we are required by GAAP to revise our holding period for our each of our operating properties. As a result of the shortened holding periods, we recognized impairment charges during the first quarter of $8.5 million on our Corporetum property in Lisle, Illinois and $500,000 on our Kroger property in Greensboro, North Carolina.

In addition, we recognized a $200,000 impairment charge on our Jacksonville, Florida property. The Jacksonville property is under contract to be sold with an anticipated closing to occur in the second quarter. These impairments are included in income from continuing operations, and while the impact of this is reflected in our overall net income, they did not impact our FFO.

During the first quarter of 2014, we disposed off our Newbury Apartments residential property, located in Meriden, Connecticut, and our interest in the River City office property located in Chicago, Illinois, resulting in a $4.4 million gain on sale of real estate. These gains are included in the income from discontinued operations, but are excluded from the FFO calculation.

Operating results by business segment for the quarter-ended March 2014 were as follows. With respect to our operating properties business segment, operating income was approximately $14.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, compared with approximately $10.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Operating income increased by $2.3 million from our consolidated operating properties and $1.2 million from our equity investment operating properties.

With respect to our consolidated operating properties, operating income from our same-store properties was $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, down approximately $1 million from the comparable period last year. The decrease in NOI was due to a decrease in revenue at our Amherst, New York property, which resulted from the lease modification signed in 2013, that lowered the current rental payments, but extended the term of the lease by 10 years, as well as the $354,000 straight line rent reserve on our Jacksonville property as a result of the pending sale of the property.

Our new store properties, which consist of our office properties in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and our residential properties in Stamford, Connecticut; San Pedro, California; Houston, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, generated net operating income of $4.2 million for the quarter.

Net operating income from operating property equity investments was $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to net income of $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. This increase was due an $861,000 increase in income from our 701 Seventh Avenue Times Square investment, as a result of our increased equity investment throughout 2013. Quarterly operating income from our Sullivan Center investments increased by $793,000; from $443,000 to $1.2 million.

Turning to our loan assets; in February of this year, we sold five of our loan assets for net cash proceeds of $42.9 million. Our loan assets and loan securities business segment reported net operating income of $7.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, compared to net operating income of $10.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. This decrease in quarter-over-quarter earnings is primarily the result of lower earnings from our equity investment loan assets; specifically, our investment in RE CDO management, which had a one-time earnings component last year related to the sale of investments [indiscernible] (0:12:30). The decrease in RE CDO income was partially offset by a $943,000 increase in earnings from our Concord investments.

And lastly, at March 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $102.5 million, compared to a balance of $112.5 million at December 31, 2013.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?

Thank you, John for that exciting description of operations. Before we address the subject that I suspect is at the forefront of most people's minds, I want to reiterate an important point in Carolyn's and John's presentations.

The write-down of 550/650 Corporetum and then [indiscernible] (0:13:17) but rather was necessitated by GAAP accounting, which requires that the company adjust the value of these assets more closely to their current net asset value, if the company is considering adoption of the plan of liquidation. That said, I'm cautiously optimistic that we may realize a higher price in these assets as leasing improves.

I think it's best to right now open up to the – the call to questions rather than [indiscernible] (0:13:47) macro and micro real estate economic market conditions, because I am sure some of your question is based on today's – Tuesday's announcement.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc. Please proceed with your questions.

Hey, guys. As it relates to liquidation, could you maybe just give an overview of kind of the process from here, if the shareholders do approve the vote, kind of what the next steps are? And as that relates to some investments that you guys still need to fund like 701 Seventh and how you view kind of how the distributions are going to come out to shareholders?

Lot of questions. Let's see if I can [indiscernible] (0:15:00). All right. So the process, in a 10,000 foot overview is approximately this; we will be filing with the SEC, a proxy statement for their review, probably, prior to the shareholder's meeting. The SEC reviews the proxy statement, and once it has approved it, we have 30 days to have a shareholder meeting. We anticipate that the review process and the establishment of a shareholder meeting will be in early August. Once the shareholders have approved it, the plan of liquidation has been adopted. We then have two years from that in which we are a – in formal liquidation, but we are a listed company. We are in the New York Stock Exchange, hopefully continues – we – it's our intention to be – to stay on the stock exchange. We trade. We make all of our filings. We do all the things that companies do. To the extent, we have not sold all of our assets at the end of two years, we then put the remaining assets into what's called a liquidating trust. And the liquidating trust can survive for up to three years and its sole function is to make distributions.

With respect to what it is we can do proactively with respect to our cash, we can continue with our commitments and the principal commitment we have is to 701 and there maybe some other smaller commitments on our joint venture. So we have to continue with that and we will. We are permitted to do TI/CapEx [indiscernible] (0:16:40) those things, we need to enhance the value of the share of the assets prior to their sale. And we can buy and repurchase securities of the company from time to time. Other than that, oh, we can also hold our cash in U.S. Treasuries or short-term insured super-qualified obligations. Other than that, we will be making no new investments.

Okay. But in terms of distributions and special dividends, it'll just be – you guys are going to do it once a year or quarterly? Kind of how do you view that? And I guess it depends on what the taxable gains are as well, right? [indiscernible]

(0:17:19) it's actually sort of interesting. There is no taxable gain to shareholders unless and until they get their basis back. So if someone paid $14 for share of stock and the total amount of cash distributed prior to going into a liquidating trust is $14, they have no taxable gain. It'd just be return of basis. Their basis would be reduced to zero.

Yes, Craig, we will still be subject to the distribution of our [indiscernible] (0:17:46). We'll still be subject to all the REIT requirements including a distribution of taxable income. So you're right that the distributions will have to correlate to some degree to the level of asset sales in a particular year.

Okay. And until you guys get the vote done, are you guys subject to Safe Harbor rules at this point or can you sell more?

Actually we're bumping up against it. We sold six assets this year; I think [indiscernible] (0:18:10) seven. So anything that we do, we can initiate a process to sell assets, but anything we do at this point is going to be subject to the adoption of the plan of liquidation by the shareholders.

Okay. And then one last quick one. I know you guys want to stay listed, but what would prevent that? Is it company size? Kind of what are the parameters there to stay on the NYSE during this process?

Craig, this is David Heymann. So it'll be subject to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards, which will be size, float, all the usual type things. And it'll be subject to them looking at it. And that's it.

So nothing special during this process that would change [indiscernible] (0:18:58). Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.

Thanks, Craig.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Wilkes Graham with Compass Point. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. I'm a little new to this story, but I've been looking at, obviously, the past few days. Do you mind just sharing your thoughts on what drove you to make this decision now as opposed to a couple of quarters ago or even later this year?

Well, I think, I don't know. I can't tell you specificities to this quarter as to last year's or next year.

All right.

But, we're an opportunity [indiscernible] (0:20:04) really operating as a REIT. In order to be effectual for our shareholders, we have to be able to either invest on an accretive basis and liquidate assets on an accretive basis. I think we came to the conclusion that there was very little opportunity out there and I don't believe that the management believes that there is a significant likelihood of a re-emergence of opportunity in the near future. Having said that, we were – on the other hand, we are sort of barred from selling the assets into this frothy market. So, we were between [indiscernible] (0:20:45), you can't sell and you can't invest.

All right.

We're not inclined and we're actually disinclined very much to just float stock and just to invest at current market yields. [indiscernible] (0:20:59) may give some sort of short-term lift to the company stock, but long-term, it may erode value. So, since we were disinclined to do dilutive share offerings since the opportunities were not like we were seeing through – early part of 2013, since we were unable to sell assets based on the REIT rules, and since, candidly I – we don't know when the market will come back or what it is we want to do. There is the cost of running a public company. We thought this is the best thing we can do for our shareholders. We're not going to take it private. We'll just liquidate the assets. We've done this four times before, four different public companies, and the shareholders who have been with us and who are joining us and whenever, will benefit from that. That's it. It's pretty – it's clear decision. We ran a process. We did not get a price for the company that we liked. We are still open if someone wants to offer us a new price tomorrow, and if it's a price we like, then we will consider it. But the process we initiated in the fourth quarter of last year did engender a price to the board and management felt it was commensurate with their underlying net asset value, and so this is the alternative left to us.

Great. Thank you for all that color and good luck.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Boord with Fenimore. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah, first of all, I want to say thank you very much. It's been five bumpy years, but you guys have done a good job [indiscernible] (0:22:44), so I appreciate that. And you're doing it again here today. So, first of all, thank you. The question I have is, you have some kind of unique unusual assets like the CDOs and Concord and all that, and I'm sure there is some other ones too if I [indiscernible] (0:22:59) the list. Those might be little trickier to sell and to explain to other people. And in this hyper-sensitive world, you buy them yourself, I guess, is a little tricky, but that may actually be the best option. So I wonder if you can kind of explain your thinking on some of those pieces?

Well, I think you're really going to – the core question is how do you value things? And how you do think you'll dispose off those. And pretty much everything we've done, almost everything we've done, we control our [indiscernible] (0:23:31). So there is – we can sell. Whether we own the asset, we can sell the asset if we own a JV interest. We have buy-sell rates. We have some sort of exit from that to monetize ourselves. But you did hit on some assets, you just on that – and when we do an NAV analysis, we just simply discounted cash flow. The CDO goes away in two years by its terms. So you sort of discount the cash flow and what you'll get from it on liquidation is you don't really ponder it as a potential sold asset itself. So there are few of those assets there, we just think will – like ice cubes that will melt over time.

All right. Thanks so much, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Brett Reiss with Janney Montgomery Scott. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah, hi. The cost basis of the liquidating trust in a taxable account and the character of – the tax character of the distributions after one takes the delivery of that, could you speak to me on that?

Well, I'll start and then Carolyn – and I'll let Carolyn correct everything I say. Prior to the liquidating trust, while we're [indiscernible] (0:25:15) next two years filing the adoption of the plan, all of the distribution of the company are [indiscernible] (0:25:22) individual's basis in the stock. [indiscernible] (0:25:25) we distribute out again $14 and their basis was $13, then they have $1 of capital gain. Conversely, if their basis was $15 and we distribute out $14 in taxes – tax – in non-taxable cash, they have $1 remaining basis.

When you flip into the liquidating trust, the company makes an estimation what your remaining net asset value is. If the remaining net asset value at that point in time is a gain to the shareholders. So at that point in time, the value of the stub that was left was $3 a share. So the individual who had taken – who had gotten back had a basis of $15 and gotten back $14 will have a $2 capital gain at that point in time. The individual who had got – who had a $13 basis and gotten $14 would now have another capital gain of $3. When the liquidation – liquidating trust winds down and it has made its distributions, and at that very end, you have a [ph] new (0:26:36) – you'd have a final accounting of whether or not that – as that $3 – that $3 estimation was right or wrong. If it's lower, it turns out – it wasn't $3, it was $2, then you have another dollar of long-term capital loss. If, in fact, it was higher or it actually [indiscernible] (0:26:54) more, then at that point in time, you realize the capital gain at a higher capital rate – at a higher capital gain of – with the disparity between what it was and we thought you had, we're getting and what you got.

Okay, I appreciate that. What do you think that fate of 701 Seventh Avenue is going to be? Do you think it's sold within the two years or does that wind-up in the liquidating trust?

I don't know [indiscernible] (0:27:24) I don't know. [indiscernible] (0:27:28). We have the ability, with some limitations, to sell our interest. And there's always interest in buying our interest at any given moment. That having been said, it's a judgment call as to whether or not we want, how long we want to be in there [indiscernible] (0:27:48) and what point we want to exit? Do we want to exit right now before formal groundbreaking? Do we want to exit after the building is completed? Do we want to exit after the – while the building is being completed, but there's a tenant that's been signed? It's really a judgment call.

Right. Right.

I want – I'm sorry?

Yeah, I'm – when I look at the supplemental information, in terms of the assets listed there, can you share with us which ones have evinced the most amount of interest or is it too soon in the process for that?

The answer I'll give you, they are all our children. And I don't want to tell the market what – which one of our children people think is better looking than others, okay.

Okay.

We're here to maximize our value. We've done, as I said four liquidations before and I don't think it's a good idea for us to open our cards to everyone. We think all of our – we think we have fairly valued our assets [indiscernible] (0:29:08) supplement by not only two things, that ST, we have not given any appreciation to. And we haven't given any appreciation to our investment in 701 other than the dividend which accrues on our account. But I think we have a lot of very attractive assets and I believe we will draw attention to it.

Right, right. Well, thanks as always for taking the questions and answering them. And good luck.

Carolyn, do you want to add to that?

I've nothing further.

Okay.

Thanks, Brett.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (0:29:55). Please proceed with your question.

Good afternoon, everyone. And first of all, I want to thank you all for your continued hard work, to Michael and Carolyn and the whole team. And I think this was an interesting decision that you guys made. It's mixed emotions for me. Obviously it's going to work out very well financially, but I won't be [indiscernible] (0:30:15) in a couple of years and that's a little sad. Anyway, that's my comment. A couple of questions Michael, one is, can you talk about the actual sales process that you went through? Was it a formal process, was it informal? And then, my other question is, during the period if we go to a liquidating trust, will we have the benefit of your efforts and Carolyn and John and the rest of the team during that liquidation period, post two years from now?

Well, [indiscernible] (0:30:42) we did go through a formal process, but I think it's best that you read it in the proxy statements which will be filed in a couple of weeks. Anything I'd say about it will be, even if it's [indiscernible] (0:30:54) inaccurate, it will be put in my face. So it will be detailed [indiscernible] (0:30:58) formal process. Absolutely, you have our team. My exclusivity contract has not been changed at all. We will be here to the bitter end, all right? We are aligned with our shareholders. We are probably the largest shareholder in this company and it's in our interest as much as this is in your interest for us to stay onboard [indiscernible] (0:31:26).

And Michael, let's say hypothetically there's $200 million of assets at the end when we go into liquidated trust, would the existing management agreement with FUR Advisors kind of kick-in and it'll just be the continuation of the asset based on lower asset accounts? [indiscernible]

(0:31:45) advisory agreement will remain unchanged, just being picked up by the trust [indiscernible] (0:31:51) [indiscernible]

(0:31:56). [indiscernible]

(0:31:59) which is in their right.

Sure, but not to get too far ahead of ourselves. But so in theory, if you – if things end up in liquidating trust, it's going to be because you and your team have decided that's the appropriate thing to do. We're going to get the same love and care that we were getting while we're public, except we won't be public anymore. So really, as a shareholder, if you make a decision, it really is likely going to be in our best interest to go beyond the two-year window.

Well, David wants to answer. The lawyer wants to answer.

Hey, [ph] Charles (0:32:32). How you're doing?

Hi, David.

On the – the one point I just want to make is, in a liquidating trust, it is likely that annual filings will be required; 10-Ks will still continue. So there will be an 8-K as well. So there will be that disclosure that the beneficial owners of the trust will continue to receive.

So it's essentially we'll have a private equity. It – the liquidating trust, the way I've been involved with a few of these, but essentially it becomes a private equity deal.

With public shareholders?

Yeah.

Yes.

Okay. Well listen, keep up the great work and I appreciate it. It'll be interesting to see how you guys navigate us. I know you [indiscernible] (0:33:11).

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (0:33:17). Please proceed with your question.

Hi. I just had a question on your Series D preferred shares outstanding. When is the earliest that you're allowed to repay these?

I'm going to give that question to David.

So, the Series D shares, they're governed by both the trust – Declaration of Trust and that's been modified by Certificate of Designations for the Series D. The Declaration of Trust, it clearly reserves the rights of Winthrop to voluntarily liquidate, dissolve, and wind up, which is the case if the planned liquidation is adopted. [indiscernible]

(0:33:56). So we can do it, as our right is unreserved to voluntary liquidating.

Yeah, it is correct, Michael.

No reservation [indiscernible] (0:34:02).

No reservation. It expressly and unequivocally provides that on disposal of assets in connection with plan of liquidation, the trust distributes the proceeds to the shareholders in accordance with the terms of the preference.

No if and/or buts.

No if and/or but, preference of the share. And as we've discussed, Michael, in the Certificate of Designations and specifically section 5A of the Certificate of Designation, it provides that the preferences, the Series D over the common shares. Again, no if and/or but. And Section 5A provides that – or – excuse me, Section 5A prohibits Winthrop from paying a dividend on the common shares until the Series D has gotten their liquidation preference, which is, as you guys know, $25 plus [indiscernible] (0:34:44) accrued dividends.

And accrued dividends [indiscernible] (0:34:46)? [indiscernible]

(0:34:49).

No premiums, no penalties and [indiscernible] (0:34:51) [indiscernible]

(0:34:49) maintenance, no penalties, and whatever [indiscernible] (0:34:51)

Yeah, that's a correct statement. [indiscernible]

(0:34:56)

So the only one restriction that there is [indiscernible] (0:35:00) trust has to give advance notice of the date that it's going to pay off. And then the Certificate of Designation and further that after the payment of the liquidation preference plus, Michael clearly stated the dividends to that date, the Series D has no right [indiscernible] (0:35:20) remaining assets of Winthrop. [indiscernible]

(0:35:21). [indiscernible]

(0:35:22) So, if you think about it, it actually makes a lot of logical sense, because if the plan of liquidation was not deemed to dissolution or liquidation or winding up, effectively what Winthrop could do is, pay the 9.25% quarterly dividend and then take every piece of cash – every amount of cash it has after that, pay it down to the common, which would put the liquidation preference at risk.

Well, that would mean that the preferred wouldn't get any of your $126 million [indiscernible] (0:35:50)...

$120 million... [indiscernible]

(0:35:53).

... [indiscernible] (0:35:53) $6 million, correct. [indiscernible]

(0:35:53) get their current dividend...

This could be a risk.

They could get their current dividend, but there would be no cash to pay the [indiscernible] (0:36:00)?

Correct.

Wow, that will be an awful lot [indiscernible] (0:36:00).

And then...

I think – I hope that answered the question?

Yeah. No, those were every clear, but I guess to confirm, there's no provision for like a make-whole payment for dividends up until the November of [indiscernible] (0:36:15)?

That is correct.

Okay. And then you said that, I guess you guys have to give notice to the preferred holders. Do you know how...

It's 30 days, no more than – no less than 30 days and no more than I believe it's 60 days.

Okay. So basically, does that 30 days, does that start from the liquidation [indiscernible] (0:36:37)? Like, in August, if shareholders do liquidate, does that 30 days start ticking [indiscernible] (0:36:42)?

Well, I mean, the notice would be from the company. Let's say the company had the cash to satisfy the liquidation preference, whenever – let's say, [indiscernible] (0:36:51) September or January 1 to Michael's point. On January 1, the earliest date that they could pay it off would be February 1, I guess, technically January 31. And the latest, it would be whatever 60 days after January 1 is [indiscernible] (0:37:06)

Okay great. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Wilkes Graham with Compass Point. Please proceed with your question. Mr. Graham, your line is live. Please proceed with your question.

Sorry. I'm sorry, I was on mute. I have, well, just one follow up. You mentioned that you ran a process. You didn't get the price you wanted. You clearly think that you're going to get much closer to the real NAV of the company, probably plus some appreciation at 701 and STS via liquidation. But as you clear down the portfolio or wind down the portfolio, can you still take a bid for the whole company once you started the process?

Absolutely.

That's the clarification I needed. Thank you.

Thank you. We have no further questions in queue at this time. I'd like to – let's turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.

Well, thank you all for joining us today for this – for our call. If you have any questions regarding any of the items that we discussed today, please feel free to contact Carolyn or myself or David Heymann, for any clarification you like. As always, you can – [indiscernible] (0:38:30) www.winthropreit.com. And you all have a good day.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.