corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust First Quarter 2011 Conference


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President for Winthrop Realty


Trust. Thank you, Ms. Bergman, you may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust conference call


to discuss our first quarter 2011 financial results. With us today from senior management are


Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany, President; Tom Staples,


Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


This morning, May 5th, we issued a press release and posted on our Web site supplemental


financial information, both of which will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press


release and the supplemental financial information are available on our Web site at


www.winthropreit.com. The press release in the News & Events section and the supplemental


financial information in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live Web cast


of today’s call, which you can also access in the Web site’s News & Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we


can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained. Factors and risks that could cause


actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are


detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake


a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the


most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Thank you for joining us this afternoon. As I’ve discussed on our last call in


March, management and Board intends to significantly grown our company and our portfolio in


2011. The opportunities particularly on the distressed and semi-distressed debt side continue to be


plentiful. We’re pursuing these opportunities with determination and zest. Given our experience in


structuring, financing, and investing in complicated transactions, we expect to secure a pool of


opportunities that will add long-term value for our shareholders.


In light of the meaningful acquisition opportunities we have identified and after careful


consideration, we determined that it was appropriate time to raise additional equity. In April, we sold


5.75 million common shares with net proceeds of approximately $62 million. Additionally, we further


broadened our investment capacity by increasing our line of credit to $50 million with an expansion


option of up to $150 million.
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


If one considers the proceeds from our equity raise, the expanded $50 million line and our cash and


cash equivalents of $52 million, the full deployment of this capital should be a powerful earnings


driver for Winthrop over the coming years. By way of example, during the first quarter 2011, we


identified and closed on three loan assets aggregating approximately $52 million. Two of these


assets are collateralized by new shopping centers located in California.


We brought in Retail Opportunity Investment Corp. to invest alongside us, in view of their significant


expertise with respect to retail assets in these markets. The third loan investment made this quarter


was a first mortgage loan collateralized by the recently completed Gotham Hotel in Manhattan. In


this investment, we invited Jonathan Eilian’s Group, Atrium Holdings, to participate because of their


specific expertise with respect to hotel assets.


Our share of the aggregate investment in these three loans was $26 million. In addition to the


individual loan asset investment, we also continued to receive portfolio transactions. To that end, as


Carolyn discussed on our last call, we repurchased the $25 million in effect a 75% interest in a joint


venture. We chose general partnership interest and developer fee income from 26 partnerships


owning 4,400 units, a multifamily and senior housing in the Pacific Northwest. We closed in the first


phase of this during the first quarter and expect to close the balance by the end of the second


quarter.


The borrower for our investments in the Metropolitan Tower repaid its debt early. As a result, we


received $23.75 million of proceeds on our investment in the B Notes and rake bonds for which we


paid $11.75 million. We also created a senior participation on our loan asset collateralized by San


Marbeya Apartment and issued a senior participation at par of $15.2 million, which will enhance our


yield to maturity on the retaining junior participation to 14.7% and provides an additional capital to


invest.


Finally, the Delaware Supreme Court’s March decision to uphold the lower court’s ruling in our


favor, which led Concord to submit its CDO bonds owned by it for cancellation has begun to bear


fruit. In April, the trustees released cash of $3.3 million, of which we received $2.3 million and which


was used to partially repay Winthrop for its compliance loans. As I stated on our last call, we


believe that going forward, this decision will have a favorable impact on our earnings. We are


pleased about our investment opportunities in the year ahead.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Tom Staples. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Good afternoon, everyone. I will be providing an overview of Winthrop’s


financial results as well as a review of the financial results of our business segments. We have


furnished a supplemental report, which you can access on our website’s Investor Relations section.


For the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we reported net income of $7.1 million or $0.26 per


common share, compared with net income of $4.1 million or $0.20 per common share for the


quarter ended March 31, 2010.


Funds from operations, referred to as FFO, for the first quarter of 2011 was $12 million or $0.44 per


common share compared with FFO of $7.9 million or $0.37 per common share for the first quarter


of 2010.


Operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to the quarter ended March 31,


2010, by business segment were as follows. With respect to our operating properties business


segment, operating income was $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared