corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust First Quarter 2009 Earnings Call.


At this time all participants are in a listen-only-mode. A brief question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being


recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President and


Director of Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Thank you, Ms. Bergman. You may now


begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you LaTanya and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust


Conference Call to discuss our First Quarter 2009 Financial Results. With us today from senior


management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team. A


press release was issued this morning, May 7 and will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the SEC.


These documents are available on Winthrop’s website at www.winthropreit.com in the Investor


Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call, which you can access


in the site’s News and Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Winthrop believes the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions,


Winthrop can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and, from time to time, in


Winthrop’s filings with the SEC. Winthrop does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking


statements. Please note that in the press release, Winthrop has reconciled all non-GAAP financial


measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Regulation G


requirements. This can be found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Michael Ashner for his opening remarks. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today in today’s


conference call. Today, Winthrop announced financial results for the first quarter. By now you


should have all received a copy of our earning press release.


We continue our previously stated view that real estate property values are more likely to


deteriorate in the near term. We continue to believe that the REIT public equity and debt securities


prices in the markets reflect the most accurate pricing of real estate assets available and


consequently can currently provide the most favorable risk adjusted returns for real estate


investing. In addition, these securities are a rather relatively liquid investment, the proceeds of


which can be redeployed once the prices for properties are more in line with our expected


performance.


Accordingly, we have continued our acquisition of publicly traded REIT securities, primarily bonds


and selected preferreds. While the dip in value at March 31, 2009 and our election to account for


these securities using the FAS 159 Fair Value reporting option resulted in a recognition of $11.1


million unrealized loss by the Company in the first quarter. This temporary loss is more than offset
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


by the subsequent gains in the values of these securities throughout April. Overall, we are pleased


with the performance, remaining intent on extending our investment lease securities, as well as to


include senior CMBS, and performing and non-performing mortgage loans in the future. Likewise,


we’re generally pleased with the stability and the performance of our operating properties.


As Carolyn will discuss later in the call, our operating properties have maintained consistent


occupancy and revenues despite the economic difficulties confronting the market. While the Marc


Realty downtown properties performed well however, you had some significant stress noted in


suburban markets as evidenced by the impairment taken in the fourth quarter last year.


Although the non-cash impairments incurred in the Concord joint venture have caused our earnings


to decline significantly, it’s important to reiterate that our investment in Concord is entirely non-


recourse to Winthrop. Winthrop’s balance sheet is not jeopardized by the Concord investment and


the maximum loss we can incur is the equity which has already been invested and for which would


reduce the carrying value considerably.


In this regard, we have not invested any additional capital since the first quarter of 2008. Our


balance sheet remains exceedingly, relatively strong and is among the strongest in the publicly


traded REITs with $41.1 million of cash and cash equivalents along with 44.2 million in securities.


We have 85.3 million in investable cash plus the undrawn line of $35 million. Our only recourse


debt, due in 2012, are Series B preferred shares of $37.4 million. We have no debt maturing in


2009 without extensions. We continue to be patient with our capital as we evaluate various


opportunities presented.


With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Staples to review


Winthrop’s financial results. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Good afternoon, everyone. In addition to an overview of Winthrop’s financial


results, I’ll briefly review highlights from each of our business segments. Please note that all per


share amounts are on a fully diluted basis unless otherwise stated and reflect the November 2008,


one for five reverse stock split.


For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the Company incurred a net loss of 22.4 million or $1.42 per


share compared with a net income of 6.3 million or $0.44 per share for the quarter ended March 31,


2008. The decrease in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2009 compared to the


three months ended March 31, 2008 was primarily due to a $17.7 million loss attributable to our


investment in Concord and the $11.1 million unrealized loss on securities carried at fair value as


Michael previously mentioned.


The unrealized loss on our securities carried at fair value consisted of 9.8 million attributable to our


ownership of Lexington Realty Trust common shares and 1.3 million attributed to our investment in


other publicly traded REIT bonds and preferred equity shares. During the month of April, our


investment in these financial assets appreciated by 12.2 million, of which 5.1 million related to the


Lexington shares and the balance related to our investment in other REIT bonds and preferred


shares.


Consequently, as Michael touched upon earlier, this temporary unrealized loss was subsequently


reversed as the value of these assets increased. Total FFO for the first quarter of 2009 was a


negative 19.3 million or a loss of $1.22 per common share compared with FFO of $11 million or


$0.62 per common share for the first quarter of 2008. The decrease in FFO is due to the same


factors which negatively impacted net earnings noted earlier.