corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust’s Fourth Quarter and 2009 Year-


End Financial Results Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief


question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Realty Trust. Thank you. Ms. Bergman, you may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Latanya . Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust


conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2009 financial results. With us today from


senior management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


This morning, March 4, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental


financial information, both of which will be furnished on our Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press


release and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at


www.winthropreit.com.


The press release can be found in the site’s News & Events section and the supplemental financial


information can be found in the site’s Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live


webcast of today’s call, which you can also access from the website’s News & Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we


can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in our filings


with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the


most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Michael Ashner for his opening remarks. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Good afternoon. Again, thank you for joining us on our conference call today.


As you know, this morning we announced our financial results for the fourth quarter.


During 2009, we identified investment opportunities in two principal areas, secured real estate debt


and equity and debt REIT securities, executing both of these by investing a total of $90 million into


these asset classes. We’re tapered off our investing in REIT equity and debt securities having


invested over $69 million, in the last two years have began divesting, as we believe the prices for


most REIT securities are at levels that will not yield significant future returns. Accordingly, we’ve


sold a portion of these REIT securities for net proceeds of approximately $47 million for a total
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


realized internal rate of return exceeding 46%. We do, however, continue to see strong


opportunities through secured real estate loans and preferred equity investing.


As recently reported by Realpoint, there are more than 4,000 CMBS loans with an aggregate


balance of $72 billion now in special servicing. Further, there is an expectation that the number will


continue to grow at a historical pace. We expect that the proverbial dam to break is barred or


unable to refinance at loan maturity and its monetary defaults increased due to reduced rental


income, as well as the special servicers becoming unwilling to extend loans indefinitely.


The opportunities may come to us in a number of forms including borrower recapitalizations,


discounted loan payoffs and/or the acquisition of existing defaulted loans. To this end, we spend


considerable time and capital during the last six months establishing an infrastructure from which


we hope we’ll generate significant investment opportunities apart from the normal real estate broker


auction process. While the process has been time consuming and somewhat tedious, we believe


we are beginning to see investment opportunities resulting from these efforts.


In any event, I believe that one of more forcing mechanisms will emerge within the market and


we’re poised with $115 million of liquidity and line availability with which to participate. Despite this


liquidity, we continue to be patient. As I said on our last call, we are all well aware of the


responsibility to protect our capital particularly in stressed market conditions such as these and


intend to invest with great caution, deliberation. With opportunity, always comes risk. As Carolyn


will discuss in greater detail, we continue to aggressively manage our existing assets that had


significant positive leasing activity during our last several months. We look forward to 2010, and for


that matter 2011.


With that, I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Staples, to review our


financial results. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon, everyone. We’re pleased to have furnished to you for the first time a quarterly


supplemental report which you can access on our website, www.winthropreit.com in the Investor


Relations section. We continue to seek ways in which we can improve our financial reporting and


welcome any comments. In addition to an overview with the financial results, I’ll briefly review


highlights from each of our business segments.


For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss of $6 million or $0.34 per


common share, compared with a net loss of $52.7 million or $3.34 per common share for the


quarter ended December 31, 2008. Loss for the current period was primarily the result of a $10


million impairment taken on our Churchill, Pennsylvania property and a $2.5 million other-than-


temporary impairment loss on one of our Marc Realty equity investments located in suburban


Chicago. During the quarter, we reported $6 million in gains recognized on REIT securities carried


at fair value. The gains on the REIT securities consisted of $2.1 million of realized gains and 3.9


million of unrealized gains.


Total FFO for the fourth quarter of 2009 was a negative $2 million or a negative $0.11 per common


share, compared with negative FFO, $51.2 million or negative $3.25 per common share for the


fourth quarter of 2008. FFO was negatively impacted by the same factors, which negatively


impacted net earnings noted earlier. Adjusting FFO for certain items that affect comparability, FFO


for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 was 9.8 million or $0.50 per common share, compared


with FFO of $7 million or $0.37 per common share for the quarter ended December 31, 2008.


For the year-ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss of $84.5 million or $5.19 per


common share, compared with a net loss of $68.2 million or $4.59 per common share for 2008. The