corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Fourth Quarter and Full Year End


2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-


and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Thank you.


Ms. Bergman, you may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Doug. Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust conference


call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2010 financial results. With us today from senior


management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the management team.


This morning, March 3, we issued a press release and posted on our website supplemental


financial information, both of which will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press


release and the supplemental financial information are available on our website at


www.winthropreit.com, the press release in the News & Events section and the supplemental


financial information in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of


today’s call, which you can also access in the website’s News & Events section.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.


We can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained. Factors and risks that could


cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking


statements are detailed in the press release and from time-to-time in our filings with the SEC. We


do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the


most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release. Please note that all per share amounts are on a diluted


basis.


I’d like now to turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?


Michael L. Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Beverly. Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. First, let me reiterate we are


pleased with the continued flow of opportunities that we are reviewing in a view of the slow


recovery underlying real estate fundamentals. Expect that flow of opportunities to continue at least


through the near-term.


While we are satisfied with the $160 million plus of new investments made in 2010, hindsight


suggests we over-weighted rather than underweighted risk resulting in some missed opportunities.


At this juncture, our predilection for investing in the debt component of the capital stack, particularly
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


distressed debt, likely will continue as operating fundamentals still indicate to us that this is the best


place to invest on a risk adjusted basis until fundamentals demonstrate material improvement.


Having survived 2008 and 2009 without the need to raise deleveraging capital and then having


invested significant capital throughout 2010 in new opportunities, Carolyn, myself and our Board


have identified a new challenge the company will focus on throughout 2011.


Steve Roth, a friend of mine, Chairman of Vornado, has often pointed out that it is not enough for


REIT to invest wisely into a real estate company, it must run its business widely as a public


company. To that end, we have taken a number of steps to enhance our transparency to the


market. First and foremost, Carolyn has worked tirelessly with Tom Staples on improving and


expanding the supplemental filings initiated in 2009.


In addition, we recently added a new schedule to that report this quarter, which classifies our


investments in a manner which is intended to assist investors in gaining a better understanding of


how we evaluate and view our holdings collectively and individually as well as their intended future


performance. Further, we are presently considering additional proposals to improve the company’s


financial transparency in order to assist you in better evaluating our assets, their performance and


our collective underlying value.


As we’ve often stated, this is an investment environment much more to our liking. We will not


hesitate to pursue aggressively the large and complex transactions with their potential for outsized


returns, as to which we believe we are uniquely qualified to invest. While we still seek the singles


and doubles we closed on in 2010, we have a special place in our hearts for the home runs


emerging in today’s market.


The Board’s and management’s intention in 2011 is to significantly but judiciously grow the


company and its investment portfolio in this manner in order to maximize our potential and increase


our value long-term. As our value proposition becomes better appreciated through our efforts to


become more visible and transparent to the investment community, we anticipate that the market


will respond in kind and allow Winthrop to improve its valuation.


Finally, we’re extremely pleased to announce today that our hard fought position in the Concord


litigation has been upheld by the Delaware Supreme Court, which confirmed the lower Chancery


Court’s prior determination that Concord is entitled to submit for cancellation to its CDO the bonds


own by it. We believe this decision will have a favorable impact on the company’s future earnings.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Tom Staples. Tom?


Thomas Staples, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Michael. Good afternoon, everyone. I will be providing an overview of Winthrop’s


financial results, as well as a review of our business segments. We have furnished a supplemental


report, which you can access on our website’s Investor Relations section.


For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, net income per common share was $3.8 million, or


$0.14 per common share, compared with a net loss for common share of $6 million, or a loss of


$0.34 per common share for the quarter ended December 31, 2009.


Funds from operations per common share, referred to as FFO, for the fourth quarter of 2010 was


$8.3 million or $0.31 per common share compared with a negative FFO of $2 million or negative


$0.11 per common share for the fourth quarter 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, net


income per common share was $16.2 million or $0.72 per common share compared with a net loss


of $84.5 million or $5.19 loss per common share for the year ended December 31, 2009.