Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carolyn B. Tiffany — President & Trustee, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Michael L. Ashner — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
Mitch B. Germain — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Michael Kim — Analyst, CRT Capital Group LLC
Robert Page Howard — Analyst, Prospector Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Third Quarter 2014 Management Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host [ph] Amy Grucan (00:22), Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty Trust. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust third quarter 2014 management conference call. With us today from senior management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany, President; John Garilli, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the management team.

This morning, November 6, we issued a press release disclosing certain financial information about Winthrop and providing update on the liquidation process. The press release is available on our website at www.winthropreit.com in the News and Events section, and which will be furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of today's call, which you can also access in the website's News and Events section.

At this time, management would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, might constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions. We can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.

Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release and from time to time in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.

I will now turn the call over to Carolyn Tiffany. Carolyn?

Thank you, [ph] Amy (01:59). Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you all for joining us today. Today's press release marks the first time we are reporting quarterly results, since the approval by shareholders of the company's plan of liquidation. There is considerable interest in our assets and we are pleased with the sales prices of the assets sold and under contract, thus far. The market continues to be favorable and we do not see any indication that will change in the near term. Nevertheless, we recognize that market conditions can turn on a dime and our management team is working to execute our plan as efficiently and expeditiously as possible.

Toward that end, you will know in the today's release that we have sold or have under contract to sell, a significant number of the assets.

From an operational perspective, there have been no material changes to the performance or occupancy of the assets remaining in our portfolio since our last call. You'll also note in our press release that we have adopted liquidation basis accounting as required under GAAP. John Garilli, our CFO, is present here with us today, but he's battling a cold, so I will provide on his behalf a summary of liquidation accounting and the impact it has in our financial statements.

In the simplest terms, liquidation accounting is essentially a forward-looking statement. An estimate of the things to come as compared to the going concerned basis of accounting, which records the historical information and reports that which has already occurred.

Under liquidation accounting, the traditional balance sheet and statement of operations are replaced by a statement of net assets and a statement of net changes in assets. Liquidation accounting, for those of you who are not familiar, requires that management estimate when each asset will be sold, what the net proceeds of the sale will be, and what the cash flows both investment and corporate will be during the holding period. The resulting reported net assets in liquidation on the consolidated statement of net assets included in today's release is the sum of all such proceeds, cash flows and disbursements, and the per share estimated liquidating distribution reported of $18.16 is undiscounted. This per share estimate of the liquidating distribution consequently differs from what we had previously included in our supplemental report as net asset value. The previously reported range of net asset value in our supplement was based on management's estimate of the investments value at that time without regard to corporate cost, future holding period cash flows or expected future changes to value.

Our asset management team work tirelessly with our accounting group to prepare our consolidated statement of net assets, and in some instances, engaged an appraiser to assist in determining value. The assumptions and judgments used by management during this process will be reviewed each quarter to take into account any changed circumstances, and our statement of net assets will be adjusted accordingly. The assumptions may change based on changes in market conditions, both locally and macroeconomically, as well as specific factors affecting the individual assets.

Accordingly, the ultimate amount distributed on account of our common shares may differ significantly from the reported estimated liquidating distribution. Obviously, the timing of sales will have a major impact on the estimate and the actual liquidating distributions made. For instance, if we have estimated a 2017 sale of a particular asset and have included in our statement of net asset the cash flows during the three-year holding period, but instead sell the asset for the same price in 2015, the distribution source from that asset will be lower, but shareholders will receive a distribution of proceeds earlier.

During the remainder of 2014, we will continually evaluate which assets are best positioned for sale and seek to sell those promptly. We may choose to hold off marketing and investment, depending on the terms of the assets managed debt, its potential for additional lease up or other proceeds improvement to value. We will of course keep investors informed as we sell assets, and will continue to hold our quarterly call. In the interim, you are always welcome to contact any member of our management team with any questions you have.

Returning the call over to Michael, I want to point out that we will have a slight delay in the filing of the 10-Q as we finalize the initial disclosure requirements and management's discussion and analysis under the liquidation basis of accounting. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Michael Ashner. Michael?

Thank you, Carolyn. And just a reminder that was Carolyn, not John Garilli using a false set up. As our press release indicates, the company is moving into a fairly brisk pace in this divestiture of assets is contemplated by the adoption of our plan of liquidation.

Of note, the company had approximately 55 discrete assets and groupings of assets on January 1, 2014. And in light of the favorable pricing for real estate assets, we began marketing a number of our assets in late 2013 and 2014 prior to the adoption of the plan.

As a result of the subsequent adoption of the plan, we have been able to market and sell additional assets. Since the beginning of the year, we've disposed of or under binding contracts to dispose of or have retired through repayment approximately 26 assets of the 55 assets. Much more than I thought would have been gone at this point of time, when the board considered the mechanics of liquidation.

The cash raised has allowed us to repay the company's outstanding preferred in full, and subject to the closing of $15.50 market, we expect to have cash reserves of approximately $75 million. Consistent with the requirements of the plan of liquidation, we have had no acquisition activity since its adoption other than the purchase of our senior notes in open market transactions as permitted by the plan and the no indenture. We're pleased with this pace of events. Price has been exceptionally favorable, particularly when taking into consideration the small losses to NAV suffered from our sale of the two Kroger supermarkets; my bad.

On the horizon, absent any unforeseen circumstances, we believe we will continue to see significant well priced sales activity for our assets through 2015. In that regard, reported $18.16 liquidation per share reflects this view.

To use my [ph] often repeated refrain (08:23), I'm cautiously optimistic that the liquidation will exceed our initial expectations from both the timing and proceeds standpoint. While I did not expect that the company would be in a position to make distributions to the common shareholders prior to repayment of its outstanding bonds in August of 2015, I feel comfortable now projecting our first liquidating distribution in January of 2015.

The amount of the distribution will of course be determined by additional, if any, close transactional volume between now and year end as well as unforeseen expenses or circumstances, if any.

While I manage that at some distant point in the future I might miss these quarterly earnings calls, I believe as much now as I did in the beginning of the year that presently, there's very little opportunities to invest for real estate investors such as ourselves. Consequently, I can say with a certainty that least up to now, I have no regrets concerning the company's adoption of the plan of liquidation.

With that, I'll turn the floor over to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.

Hey, Michael. Hey, Carolyn.

Hey, Mitch.

Just, what happens to the senior notes? Do you redeem them as well, or do they just stay outstanding for some time?

There's a call of provision in the senior notes that allows us to call those notes in 2015, in August of 2015.

Okay. So they're going to – okay. Great. And then, I'm sorry, I just can't – liquidations are not my expertise. What were the biggest changes without – I guess you guys don't share NAV anymore, but can I get some perspective what were the biggest changes that we saw quarter-over-quarter?

Well, quarter – it's a different methodology. The NAV as of a certain point in time, our estimate of the range of value at that time, there was no consideration given to future period cash flows or to the extent there was a projected improvements to value. As we had said in the NAV, we had at our 701 Seventh Ave [701 Seventh Avenue Times Square] previously recorded at cost plus the preferred return to date. What the liquidation basis of accounting requires is that we estimate when we will sell the assets and project the price at which those will be sold.

I think also...

A totally different basis of...

I think also that with some experience and actually going out and marketing your assets, the environment is just very favorable and we feel more bullish on the pricing than we did months ago. I think that impacted a little bit on how we looked at it. [ph]

We're going (11:58) to believe there's a couple assets you're probably holding back a bit, maybe like the construction project or is that on the table as well right now?

I think that we'd still conservatively value the residual value of all the assets, and we've been conservative.

I think your question, Mitch, is whether or not we're marketing that for sale right now? Is that...?

No. I thought the question was how we value, whether it is more upside?

No. From the valuation side, it's pretty clear that, that's very conservative. I'm just curious, while there are specific assets that you're just thinking that, hey, you'll hold off toward the end of the process, or is everything up for selling?

Pretty much in my view, everything's on the table. They all have. They all have certain issues that will affect when we want to initiate a sale process. But I think everything's more on the table now than when we first booked the adoption of the plan of liquidation.

But for the purpose of estimating the liquidation, we did assume that some assets we hold off and sell at a later date.

Great. Thanks so much, guys. Have a good one.

Thanks, Mitch.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Michael Kim from CRT Capital Group.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just in terms of being able to pay distributions to shareholders, I was just wondering, in addition to the senior notes plus interest, I guess what other amounts or reserves are required to put into escrow before you'd be able to start paying dividends? Just kind of curious what that total amount may be.

We will repay the bonds and it's our intention to repay the bonds in August. So, that's roughly $70 million. So we have to plan for that. There may be some opportunity, very limited to buyout one or more partners before and then bring an asset to sale with the whole as opposed to a part. They're limited, but other than that, there's no meaningful reserves that the company needs to maintain other than what you would reserve to the extent that you may be making capital improvements on properties than normal course.

Right.

And those that would go along with leasing vacant space. There's no other...

There is a certain – just to supplement that, some of our debt does have a liquidity requirement, but it's not...

Right. Yeah. That's what I was referring to just, I guess, like liquid assets of not less than $8.5 million and just curious like reserves for TI, leasing commission, CapEx, other cash needs? Just kind of curious just...

All right. Well, to Michael's point, they're not meaningful. They're not large. We do have some requirement, a $10 million liquidity requirement, for instance, on one of our loans. But beyond that, there's no requirement.

Okay. Understood. And I know you've put a schedule of just assets under contract for sale, just curious if you'd be able to provide the number of assets or notional amount that might be in advanced discussions or under letters of intent?

I'd tell you, but then I have to kill you.

I'll take that as a no.

You know.

Okay. And the $18.16 per share, I know that's net of cost and expenses incurred as part of liquidation. Is that also net of the management incentive fee?

Yes, yes. It includes every cost that we estimate will be incurred by the trust during the remainder of the liquidation process.

Okay. And...

Incentive management fee.

And will the 10-Q provide a breakdown of kind of those fees and expenses?

Yes, it will.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Robert Howard from Prospector Partners.

Hi. Just wondering on, I guess for that distribution per share, is that assuming the current share count or are there any assumptions that you guys have on potential stock buybacks that might alter that at all?

It's based on that current share count.

Okay. And you guys are allowed to buy back shares if you think that's best use of cash, so in theory, that share count could go down.

That's right. We can buy back shares. In fact to that point, we've committed that no executive officer or board member will buy share. If the shares will be bought, it will be really bought by the company on behalf of all shareholders.

Okay. Great. That's it. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Appear to have no further questions. I will turn the call back over to our speakers for closing comments.

Thank you all for joining us today. As I mentioned, we welcome calls from shareholders. So, if you have any questions, feel free to contact any member of management and we look forward to hearing from you.

I think I want to echo one comment. I do want to underscore the fact how hard everyone in the organization has worked over the last several months, not simply to market assets, to move them to get them closed, to move this liquidation forward, but also with respect to the herculean task of assembling the liquidation accounting, both asset management and accounting. Not a simple job to get this done. So, I want to thank everyone in the organization for their efforts.

If you want to call us, you got questions, [indiscernible] (18:10) at it. Have a good day.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.