corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust Third Quarter 2010 Financial


Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-


and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director of


Investor Relations for Winthrop Realty. Thank you, Ms. Bergman. You may begin.


Beverly Bergman, Vice President and Director – Investor Relations


Thank you, Manny. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Winthrop Realty Trust


Conference Call to discuss our third quarter 2010 financial results. With us today from senior


management are Michael Ashner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carolyn Tiffany,


President; Tom Staples, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the management team.


This morning, November 4th, we issued a press release and posted on our Web site supplemental


financial information, both of which will be furnished on a Form 8-K with the SEC. Both the press


release and the supplemental financial information are available on our Web site at


www.winthropreit.com. The press release in the News & Events section, and the supplemental


financial information in the Investor Relations section. Additionally, we are hosting a live webcast of


today’s call, which you can also access in the Website’s News & Events section.


At this time, the management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the


expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we


can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.


Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied


by forward-looking statements are detailed in the press release, and from time to time in our filings


with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.


Please note that in the press release, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the


most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. This can be


found in the FFO table of the press release. Please note that all per share amounts are on a fully


diluted basis.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Carolyn Tiffany. Carolyn?


Carolyn B. Tiffany, President


Thank you, Beverley. We invested approximately $67 million during the third quarter of 2010 in new


loan assets, and have invested another 34 million since September 30th for a total of approximately


101 million. We continue to see opportunity, predominantly in the form of the acquisition of existing


loans, through which we may ultimately acquire an equity interest in the real estate and the


origination of new junior loans and preferred equity.


In light of the magnitude of the opportunities we’ve seen over the last six to 12 months, we


determined that it was an appropriate time to raise equity, and in September, we sold 5.75 million


common shares for net proceeds of approximately 67 million, which we anticipate deploying before


the end of the fourth quarter.
corrected transcript


Winthrop Realty Trust, Inc.
 
FUR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


As a result of our recent acquisitions, on which Michael will provide more color later in the call, our


overall loan asset in CMBS portfolio has a book basis at September 30th, 2010, of over 105 million,


and generated interest earnings of over 9.4 million for the nine months ended September 30th,


2010, as compared to interest earnings of just under 2.25 million for the same period in 2009.


Loan assets have been, and we expect will continue to be our fastest growing investment segment


in this market environment. Our operating properties portfolio consists of 37 properties containing


8.2 million square feet. Our consolidated properties were 94% leased at September 30th, 2010,


which is consistent with leasing at June 30th, 2010.


We expect that rental income from our operating properties will decline in 2011 as a result of the


non-renewal by Kroger of six properties, and the non-renewable by Viacom at our Churchill


property, which together generated rental revenues of 3.3 million for the nine months ended


September 30th, 2010. Concerning the Kroger portfolio, there were 11 remaining properties.


As we discussed, Kroger exercised its renewal rights on five properties, which now have lease


terms through 2015 and 2017, and it exercised its purchase option on the Athens, Georgia


property, which was sold to Kroger on November 2nd, 2010. In addition to the Athens, Georgia


property, three other Kroger properties have been characterized as discontinued operations.


With respect to two of these, the Lafayette, Louisiana and Sherman, Texas properties, we


concluded after marketing the properties that there was not sufficient interest in the market at a rate


or price that made sense to exercise our ground rent renewal or purchase options. As such, the


properties reverted back to the landowner on November 1st, 2010.


Concerning the fourth property in discontinued operations located in Knoxville, Tennessee, we


believe the best maximization of value will be through the sale of the property to a local or regional


developer. With respect to the remaining two properties for which Kroger did not renew and are


located in St. Louis, Missouri and Denton, Texas, we continue to market them for lease or sale.


On November 1st, 2010, we acquired, pursuant to our option, the land underlying six of the Kroger


properties for an aggregate purchase price of $4.2 million. Our litigation against our tenant at the


Churchill property is proceeding, and we are in the discovery process.


The balance of our net leased properties continues to perform under the terms of their leases, and


there are no credit issues. The three properties in our Sealy joint venture comprise 2.1 million


rentable square feet consisting of 18 office flex buildings and 13 light distribution and service center


properties which are located in Northwest Atlanta and Atlanta-Georgia and Nashville, Tennessee.


These properties had occupancies of 75%, 67% and 88%, respectively, at September 30th, 2010.


This compares to occupancies of 71%, 69% and 89% at June 30th, 2010.


Our Georgia properties continue to have historically low occupancy, but are performing in line with


the market, and we’ve not lost any tenants to competing property. Our Nashville, Tennessee


property continues to outperform its market, as several competitors continue to suffer from the flood


damage. All of the properties are being aggressively marketed for lease.


The Marc Realty portfolio, in which we hold an equity investment, was 82% occupied at September


30th, 2010, as compared to 84% at June 30th, 2010. As we’ve said previously, the downtown


assets continue to perform well, while the suburban assets are experiencing leasing challenges.


Similarly, our multi-tenanted Lisle, Illinois properties suffered this year as a result of significant


vacancy. The market continues to be weak, but we do not expect that it will worsen significantly,