Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Thomas Higginson — Chairman, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Bruno Monteyne — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
Daniel Ekstein — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
David McCarthy — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Dusan Milosavljevic — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Sreedhar Mahamkali — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Nick Coulter — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Andrew Porteous — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Charles Allen — Analyst, Bloomberg Intelligence

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome. And we're delighted to be talking today about another strong set of numbers. It's actually our best like-for-like for nearly a decade. And we're growing profits, returns and cash, and we've announced another special dividend for shareholders. So, David and Trevor will talk you through the detail in a moment.

As we said in the release, the team are doing, I think, a terrific job at building a better and better business, broader and stronger as every month goes by. I think the evidence is that the customers, they like the new Morrisons really, especially the Fresh Look refits, the new shops. More and more customers are trying – oh, I forgot of saying that, more and more customers are trying Morrisons for the first time, and you should go and try it. And I commend it to you really. You get great choice, great quality and you'll love the prices.

Anyway, enough said on that. David, over to you.

Thank you, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the Chairman, Trevor, and myself here today. And as usual, as far as competitive pressures allow, I'm going to describe our first half progress.

It was a busy half, important seasonal events and weather extremes in both quarters and lots going on in UK retail and the economy more broadly. We stayed focused on the job-in-hand to fix, rebuild and grow Morrisons and continued the turnaround journey. Regardless of the dynamic backdrop, we're not distracted. We are, of course, adaptive in making choices, but sustainable success remains firmly in our own hands.

Our six priorities are now supported by five ways of working: customers first, teamwork, freedom in our framework, listening and responding, and fifth, improving our operations, and that means selling, not just stocking, controlling costs and growing profits whilst removing wasted effort. They combine to provide stretching ambitions for each stakeholder, customers, colleagues, suppliers and shareholders. That's the way we run the company, and that's the way we're getting things done on that 6, 5, 4 plan. It's making Morrisons a better and better business.

During the first half, we again invested, becoming more competitive for customers. We improved capability, both with colleagues and technology. Made the Morrisons brand more accessible to more people, and broadened the markets in which we operate. And we remain driven by our convictions, that Morrisons has a strong catch-up opportunity that we must keep improving the shopping trip for customers and that execution is key.

So, our first half numbers were strong. Sales profit, cash flow and return on capital all improved driven by more customers and more volume. And we're proposing the payments of another special dividend to shareholders of £0.02 per share, which Trevor will detail shortly.

As the chart show, like-for-like sales in the half were 4.9% positive and 6.3% positive in quarter two, our best performance since 2009/2010 helped by favorable weather, the football and the royal wedding. Like-for-like has now been positive for 11 consecutive quarters, customer transactions were up and on a strong three-year trend, while customer satisfaction again improved.

Now a word on progress in those six priorities. In the half, we made good progress improving our relative competitiveness and we're getting used to competing successfully against bigger scale. By investing in the Morrisons price list, which again improved our price position, inflation at Morrisons was broadly flat and volume continue to build in the supermarkets, in the growing wholesale business and online.

We've integrated the commercial structure of manufacturing with market street operations creating end-to-end accountability for margin, cost and yield, which I believe will further increase our competitiveness. We now direct source more items such as nuts, bananas and fish, so removing middlemen from our supply chain. We started to make our own pita bread and crumpets at our Rathbones bakery. We launched our Wonky brand of low-priced, good quality fruit and veg which minimizes waste and fully utilizes the whole crop, and launched our new look lowest-priced Savers brand. We extended the reach of Nutmeg Womenswear, and the new Home & Leisure range launch last year is now in strong growth.

Once again, our improved quality and competitiveness is being recognized. We were delighted to be named Innovative Own Label Retailer of the Year at the Grocer Food & Drink Own Label Award, and several of our own-brand products won individual awards too. Other first half awards included three of the World Steak Challenge and a gold medal for our Best shorthorn rib-eye steak. And our £10 Sauvignon Blanc was voted best supermarket wine at the 2018 Decanter World Wine Awards, and we won Supreme Retailer of the Year at the International Cheese Awards.

An integrated Morrisons create many, many category opportunities to serve customers better. For example, we recently introduced loose eggs in 200 stores, so customers can buy as many as they want as well as a dozen or half. We removed plastic film packaging, making several of our vegetables naked including cucumbers, turnips and swedes; and introduced recyclable paper bags in our fruit, veg and flower departments thereby reducing plastic waste, and that's important to us and our customers.

In online too, we are serving customers better, extending the reach of Morrisons.com during the first half now to over 75% of British households. We also are still picking more stores and are transitioning customers over to Ocado's new shed in Erith. The dot com delivery catchments area has expanded to South London, Surrey, Kent, the south coast, Devon and soon areas of Shropshire in both North and South Wales.

We've also taken Morrisons.com to Scotland for the first time, now serving customers online in both Glasgow and Edinburgh. And after the end of half one, we launched Eat Fresh, our new online nationwide recipe box service. Customers can order a wide variety of meals on subscription to be delivered direct to their door. Each Eat Fresh box provides the fresh ingredients for up to four great value, nutritious, easy-to-cook recipes.

We're also becoming more local. Morrisons, the local food maker and shopkeeper serving up the freshest best quality local products, and local sales were up 30% during the first half. We hosted a further six local food maker events, again, discovering some of the nation's best local growers, farmers, fishermen and other expert food makers.

And many new local items are now in our stores. For example, Yorkshire Squeaky Cheese was first seen at our local food maker event in June and was in 40 of our Yorkshire stores by July. And those loose eggs I referred to earlier in 200 stores, although it's a national move, the eggs in each store are in fact local.

In addition, around 350 stores now sell local Fruit & Veg in our stores in the southwest of England and now supply direct with almost 30 varieties of locally caught fish from ports in Newquay, Plymouth and Brixham, whilst all block cheese in our Welsh stores is now produced by dairies in Wales. Local marketing for customers continues too. Our More Card and Fresh Look program are tailored to the local communities we serve whilst aggressively defending competitor impacts.

Now, a word on services. As well as the success of Amazon lockers, Doddle is proving popular with customers too. 80 more pickup locations were added during the half and Doddle is now in 240 Morrisons stores. Timpson is now in over 200 as well. There are further opportunities ahead with both Doddle and Timpson. We're also developing plans with various partners for new foodservice units on our sites.

The first of these, a McDonald's opened in Beverley, East Yorkshire in the summer and we have plans for more sites with more partners. And we continue to develop various other popular and useful services in car care, tire change, travel exchange and recycling.

As I said at the prelims, we're unlocking the many end-to-end opportunities to simplify and speed up Morrisons whilst also saving cost. We expect to achieve significant further cost savings and productivity improvements for many years to come. For example, better forecasting and managing stocks throughout our supply chain, including in our 18 manufacturing sites. And together with our suppliers, better management of inbound fresh commodities, improving both yields and efficiency, and establishing different checkout configurations, making the shopping trip easier for customers and more efficient for Morrisons.

In the first half, we completed the simplification of in-store structures, removing 1,500 managerial roles, and we're now creating around 1,700 frontline customer service roles in our stores. New and improved systems and capability mean we can improve the shopping trip for customers while simultaneously saving cost.

Fresh Look is at the heart of making our supermarkets strong again. A further 30 Fresh Look refits were completed in the half with a similar number to be ready in time for Christmas. By listening to customers and colleagues, we continue to apply Fresh Look learnings across the entire company.

During the first half, we introduced another 120 Nutmeg womenswear departments taking the total to almost 250, while Nutmeg Kids & Baby goes from strength to strength. An extra 95 small Garden Centers were opened for the summer season, utilizing space outside our stores, new home and leisure fixtures were introduced into a further 45 stores, and the final 80 Fruit & Veg departments were updated in half one.

Most exciting, we opened two new stores in the first half. The first one is from the new team and the third opened this morning at Acocks Green, Birmingham. Abergavenny and St Ives in Cambridgeshire both got off to a strong start. On their own, they're a small scale, but they're crystallizing new work and innovation. And it's their flagship refits where new Morrisons is emerging, a new look and feel to shape our next generation of stores.

However, much, much more importantly than that, customers love them. For example, the new café at Abergavenny, a Morrisons daily convenience store located at St Ives fuel station, a modernized market street at Guiseley and an extended offer of local loose produce at Skipton. And we're learning from these moves how to make our core supermarkets strong again.

Well, it's exactly three years since my first set of results. I started the job here just over 3.5 years ago. Of course, we're always looking forward to improve the shopping trip for customers, but today, I'll also reflect on the journey so far.

Sales profit and return on capital have shown strong growth throughout. We've made good progress for all stakeholders, shareholders, colleagues, suppliers and customers. We recognize and respect that more and more people accounting on us to succeed. Total shareholder return is up 57% over the last three years. Debt is down from its peak of £2.8 billion to £929 million. And cumulative free cash flow is at £2.9 billion since the start of our improvement programs.

And guided by the principles of our capital allocation framework, we've announced two new, two special dividends for shareholders all based on the foundations of a strong balance sheet. Whilst colleagues are at the heart of this turnaround with so much talent coming through the business, we move forward by having an improving team at every level. The frontline is an effective team of hard-working food makers and shopkeepers who we fully invested in. Over the last three years, our frontline colleagues' hourly pay has increased 27% from £6.83 an hour to £8.70 an hour and the average colleague bonus has doubled.

We mean it when we say we're listening and responding to colleagues. Our engagement measure has increased and remains high. Our focus on early careers has also been an important success. At the 2018 School Leavers Awards, Morrisons was voted top employer in retail, third best employer overall and topped a list of companies in the UK to win the best training program award.

For suppliers, we changed the way we buy stock and sell, building, stronger, more mutually beneficial relationships. We're improving choice, growing and investing together whilst developing the Morrisons price list. And most importantly of all for customers, Fresh Look has modernized and improved half the estate and many Fresh Look features have been introduced into more stores. We've made significant improvements in range, price, customer service and our More Card, whilst also developing our offer online in wholesale, in local and in popular and useful in-store and edge-of-store services.

Customers have responded well, as I said earlier. Like-for-like sales have now been positive for 11 consecutive quarters. First half like-for-like transactions are up 10% over the last three years and customer satisfaction has improved 16 percentage points since the start of 2015/2016.

But you'll not be surprised to hear me say the first three years are the start of our journey. I showed you this chart of the prelims. It's the building blocks of our profitable growth plan, step by step, capital-light and disciplined. I described how we grew like-for-like again in half one. We've plenty more plans for the second half and beyond to serve customers better. We aim for modest and sustainable two to three year like-for-like sales growth, driven by improving volume. Our new stores have got off to a strong start, and we've more plans for a handful of new stores each year in areas of geographic opportunity for new and profitable sales.

Online capacity is taking a big step up with store-pick and the opening of Erith. This emerging store and central fulfillment center hybrid model means a more profitable future for online growth. And wholesale is now becoming a second engine of growth for Morrisons. During the first half, we accelerated our programs to supply McColl's. We now supply the new Safeway brand and national brands to around 1,300 of their convenience stores and newsagents.

We've also started to supply Sandpiper CI stores in the Channel Islands. During the remainder of 2018 and 2019, many of the 40 Sandpipers stores will convert to Morrisons Daily selling both Morrisons own-brand and national brands. And we're now more than 40 Rontec-owned and operated Morrisons Daily stores on the Rontec forecourts with five added in the first half and other since including Kingswinford which opened yesterday, and there are plans for more during the rest of the year.

And our partnership with Amazon continues to grow, with continuing to increase the number of branded and Morrisons own-brand items available to the Amazon customers across its various channels in Britain. And for Morrisons at Amazon, that's the same-day store-pick ultra-fast delivery service, there are now over 10,000 items available to be ordered and delivered to customers within the hour.

Since the end of the first half, we've agreed two new deals with two new partners, Big C in Thailand and MPK Garages in the UK. For Big C, we'll be exporting a range of Morrisons own-brand and national brands to Thailand to form part of its international offer. To MPK, we'll supply its forecourt stores with own-brand and branded goods, many of which will be converted to Morrisons Daily over the coming months. So, as you can see, we've still lots of plans to fix, rebuild and grow Morrisons.

I'm convinced that Morrisons smart, adaptive and hardworking team will continue to build a turnaround that is meaningful and sustainable for all its stakeholders. Thank you very much, and now I will hand over to Trevor.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone. Before I go through the detail, I'll start with an overview of the key financial measures.

Total turnover, excluding fuel, was up 5.3%. With 11 quarters of consecutive like-for-like, inflation broadly flat, strong volumes during the first half, we're demonstrating that this growth is meaningful and sustainable. Underlying profit was up by £16 million, 9% year-on-year. We remain committed to generating significant and sustainable levels of free cash and for being capital disciplined.

We have a strong balance sheet. Net debt is once again fallen to £929 million. Lease-adjusted net debt to EBITDAR was 2 times and lease-adjusted return on capital employed increased to 8%. The pension is strong and freehold ownership remains at 85%. The principles of our capital allocation framework remain unchanged, and this discipline continues to benefit all of our existing stakeholders.

And today, the board is again proposing a further special dividend of £0.02 per share in addition to the ordinary interim dividend. This takes the total interim dividend to £0.0385 per share, an increase of 132% on last year.

So, moving to sales, group like-for-like turnover excluding fuel was up 4.9% contributing £329 million as you can see from the turnover bridge. Total turnover, including fuel, was up 4.5% for the half to £8.8 billion. Excluding fuel, total turnover was up 5.3% with a 0.3% benefit from the two new stores we opened in the first half.

We are continuing to expand the markets we operate in. As David said, wholesale is now becoming a second engine for growth for Morrisons. With Amazon, Rontec, Sandpiper CI in the Channel Islands and the accelerated supply into the McColl's convenience chain, wholesale contributed 2.8% in the half, 3.8% in quarter two. We expect to achieve our year-end guidance of £700 million of annualized sales ahead of plan. Our guidance of achieving £1 billion in due course is unchanged.

Online, through the Dordon CFC, contributed 0.2% to like-for-like for the half. And as we start to take space in Erith, we expect this to grow from the second half onwards.

So, moving to profit, profit before tax was £142 million, down £58 million. Underlying profit before tax was £193 million, up £16 million. Underlying operating profit was £223 million with operating margin flat, and EBITDA margin up 13 basis points after a £21 million increase in depreciation year-on-year.

Operational leverage from the strong sales growth is flowing through. We again made choices in the first half. We chose to invest some of this leverage into being more competitive for customers to extend the reach of Morrisons.com and to accelerate the rollout of wholesale supply to McColl's. We expect these startup costs to reduce from half two and beyond, and when we will also annualize last year's re-launch of our Home & Leisure offer in the second half and expect performance in this area to be stronger this year.

Items excluded from underlying profits are broken out on the slide. Last year, the adjustments increased profit by £23 million. This year, they net to £51 million in the half. This includes the previously announced £33 million charge which related to the early repayment of £233 million of bonds in quarter two. Net pension income was £8 million. And within the £26 million above that, £28 million related to increased stock provisions.

During the period, we continue to automate our ordering systems. This has led to operational changes, enabled new processes and provided additional information regarding stock levels. Therefore, we've changed the methodology for estimating stock provisions going forwards. And there were £2 million of legal costs relating to historic events. Finally, there was an offsetting credit of £4 million relating to the release of the remaining restructuring provision, which was originally provided for last year.

In the half, the net incremental profit contribution from wholesale, services, interest and online was £4 million, brings the cumulative total so far to £46 million. Our medium-term guidance of £75 million to £125 million across these four areas remains unchanged.

Turning to cash, net debt was £929 million down by a further £44 million from year end. And overall, free cash flow pre-dividend was £242 million, another strong performance. It's down year-on-year as we expected and the drivers of this are: first, property disposal proceeds are down £89 million half-on-half, which is simply a function of the timing of when transaction is complete; and secondly, we paid £30 million cash as previously guided relating to the bond tender.

In terms of the detail on the cash flow, cash CapEx was £185 million, underlying net finance costs were down year-on-year as we completed the bond tender I just referred to. We've now retired over the £1.3 billion of debt in just over two years.

During the period, we also refinanced and extended the term of our revolving credit facility. The new facility was secured on attractive terms and now runs until 2023 with options to extend. Disposal proceeds were £4 million in the half. Operating working capital achieved in the first half was a £40 million improvement taking the total since the start of the program to £989 million. Within working capital, as I previously said, there was an extra payroll payment in the half due to the way the 53rd week fell last year and this was partially offset by benefits from fuel.

Looking ahead, we expect some further opportunities for working capital improvements beyond our £1 billion target. Our focus and discipline around the strength of the balance sheet remains unchanged. Both gross and net debts have continued to fall. The maturity profile of remaining debt facilities are strong and the net surplus on the pension has once again increased now to £834 million from £594 million last year-end.

I shared a version of this slide at the prelims and I've got a couple of changes to flag to that guidance. We opened two new stores in the first half and a third this morning. The stores have got off to a strong start and stronger than we planned. So, we now expect the net new space contribution to be around 0.3% for the full year.

As I mentioned earlier, we brought back £233 million of debt early. This will generate further interest savings, and we now expect interest will be in the range of £60 million to £65 million for this year. Guidance on the £1 billion wholesale sales, depreciation, CapEx, tax and onerous capital payments remains unchanged and is summarized on the slide. Given net debt is again below our previous target of £1 billion, we will no longer be formally guiding. We expect net debt to remain low for the foreseeable future.

As you know, the new lease standard comes into effect for the next financial year, which will be a significant change. We expect to adopt the fully retrospective approach on transition and during the process of quantifying their financial impact. And we'll update you more on this in March.

And finally, starting from the full-year 2018/2019 results, profit before exceptional items will replace underlying profit as our key measure of adjusted profit. This will align us with the emerging practice in the sector. And in making this change, we will also move to a three-column presentation approach with exceptional items in a separate column on the face of the income statement. We will provide you with any relevant data in due course.

We are committed to our capital allocation framework to being capital disciplined and to generating significant and sustainable levels of free cash flow. We will invest in the estate and review and develop opportunities through investing capital-light profitable growth, while maintaining debt ratios to sustain an investment grade rating. We have a sustainable ordinary dividend policy. And each year, we will review our opportunities to return further surplus capital to shareholders.

This plan is improving the economics of the group. The plan and its components remain unchanged. Meaningful volume growth, sustainable profit growth, increasing asset intensity, rebuilding returns, delivering significant levels of free cash flow with a strong balance sheet, all of which will enable us to continue to improve the total return for our shareholders.

Thank you. And now let's move to Q&A.

Okay. So, we've [ph] battled (00:28:15) though that in half an hour. We've got maybe a half an hour for Q&A. Should we start here? [ph] I'll come to you, in the room (28:24).

Good morning, everybody. It's Andrew Gwynn from Exane. Let's go for two quick questions, if that's okay. So the first question, just on the contribution from sort of wholesaling type activities, so only £4 million during the first half. Obviously, it seems the progress had slowed slightly. And am I right in thinking that maybe that's been weighed slightly by the ramp up of the McColl's business and we should expect a stronger contribution as we head into the second half?

And then maybe connected to that and obviously connected to your guidance, I think consensus is around about £409 million, maybe you can correct me on that. You've obviously given us some hints that the second half profit will improve. Is that consistent with the guidance or would you expect a small movement?

Well, I'll take both of those. The £75 million to £125 million, we don't sort of have a phased guidance on when we expect to achieve what when. But within that, the thrust of your sentiment is right, we've obviously invested within there in both wholesale. And really, the consequence of going a bit faster is obviously we've effectively sold a bit more tobacco than we may have expected, which would be diluting the margin rate. But in terms of cash, we will have run with a slightly higher cost per case and logistics infrastructure cost than maybe we were expecting back in November, December.

And in online, we've obviously had some preopening costs relating to Erith in the period before it opens. And obviously, we've rolled out some more store-pick sites over the last couple of quarters. Both of which are a drag within that net £4 million and both of which will start to fall away, I think, in the second half.

It's worth reflecting sort of a feature of some previous results discussions have been that the underlying profit growth has been dominated, I think, by an assertion that is driven predominately by the £75 million to £125 million. And obviously, it's got a different shape with some of that operational gearing flowing through.

And I think really in the end, consensus – on your second point, consensus is up £30 million since the start of the year. Your £409 million underlying PBT is right as published on the website. And what I'm really trying to do there is just set out some of the moving parts that are going on. In the P&L, we've got some of those startup costs falling away. Home & Leisure was impacting our offer and, therefore, sales and margin in that category through the back end of quarter three last year. And half two is naturally bigger. And we've got some choices around productivity and investment. And what people do with their forecast is sort of up to analysts really.

Bruno?

Hi. Good morning. Bruno from Bernstein. The special dividend being bigger than your regular dividend. Is that a kind of statement of intent to look forward to the year that will be at least as big as the regular, as a first question please.

What's your second one?

The second one is around the changes in the wholesale market. You are more stepping up your activity, so does Tesco-Booker. Is there anything you see that actually people are trying to shift from their existing supply as you get an increase in the amount of people calling you up to change or is it too early to see people really switching supply contracts in the market yet?

Maybe if I pick up the special and then David maybe on wholesale. I think we have a very clear ordinary dividend policy, which has sustained since this team set it back in 2015, which is the ordinary dividend will be covered around 2 times by underlying earnings. I wouldn't necessarily jump to the assertion about the shape you made around the final dividend. And big picture, I think that capital allocation framework is very clear. To the extent really when debt was nearly £3 billion when we first put it up, the common view was why have you shed that.

And I think as I look forward into the second half, the balance sheet is strong. We don't expect any changes on the freehold position. The pension is well hedged. We've got clear plans on net debt and I think the ordinary dividend policy remains unchanged as we sit here today.

In terms of special, all I can tell you is that we paid a final – special dividend at finals of £0.04. We've declared £0.02 today and the board will be reviewing that capital allocation framework again as we get to March as we would each year.

Yeah. Thank you. I think on wholesale, I mean, our position is we're open for business for wholesale. And on the one hand, if I look at it this way, the things that are gone well, I think retail customers have responded to that. You can see the steady list of retail customers. We have to, a little bit like competing with scale, we gradually have to get used to being a wholesaler to other retailers.

What I quite like about it is a bit like store-pick online, although it's for the online customer. The precision that has to go into that operation has a halo effect on the core supermarket for every customer. And I personally see in the midterm wholesale a bit like that for Morrisons where when you serve a retail customer, you really have to do the best job you possibly can. And that kind of process and that kind of work, I think, can rebound to be a better Morrisons in its core business.

I mean, for us, I guess, 18 manufacturing sites able to fill out some volume there as well is another positive. So, I'd say that wholesale industry has gone through a fairly seismic couple of change in the last few years for sure, probably carry on. And they do move around over the years. If you look back, they do move around their business, but, yeah, I think it's right up our street actually as both food maker and retailer to be wholesaler.

Working with somebody like Amazon, through Amazon Web Services, they're always sort of looking ahead and looking for very precise relationships with consumers through Prime and other things. So, as we've developed own brand, as own-brand has presentationally and quality and breadth become stronger in Morrisons, it aligns quite nicely with new customer sets both in our traditional customer base reconnecting and then looking for more customer types, younger families, these type of things. So, yeah, we're investing for our future. We're investing under the heading of growth, and I think it will make Morrisons' core business better.

Thank you. It's Dan Ekstein from UBS. You've referenced in your presentation that there'll be material cost savings for years to come. The run rate you disclosed for last year was £195 million of cost savings, which is very significant optionality that you start the year with. When you think about how you allocate that and sign off your budget, what's the thought process in terms of how much goes into improving competitiveness, and how much you allow to drop through to margin? And given the sort of consistent like-for-like growth you're sharing now, might that equation shift going forward? Thanks.

I think it's an important question. And I think in the end, it does come down to judgment to some extent. And I think we've laid out fairly consistently in the last 3.5 years, the future of this company really lies in being more competitive. And in the very long-term, I personally think it lies in much higher levels of customer service.

And in order to make that work, you have to remove ruthlessly frankly, wasted effort, which is sometimes called in other companies' productivity. And we do that in this company on an end-to-end basis. And so, whilst we have manufacturing as an important way differentiating this company as food maker, it's a very important cog in the wheel of productivity on an end-to-end look at the movements of merchandise and how it kind of works in stock cover, double-handling and all these other things.

So, yeah, I mean, Trevor and I regularly assess what progress we're making in our competitiveness. I think you can see from half one that if inflation at Morrisons is broadly flat and volume is, ticks up quite nicely, then we're exercising that judgment to the best of our ability. Looking ahead, I think those six priorities stand, which is about being more competitive, serve customers better, make those core supermarkets strong again. And so, I think it's something we don't guide on, but it's something we spend a lot of time on.

And if I might just chip in on that. It's something the board spend a lot of time on as well. That's one of those things that a few of us have been around the block on food retail over the years. And the industry has gone through the same sort of seismic change and other parts of the retail industry have gone through it. And I think trying to strike a balance between reinvesting back in the business, reinvesting and making yourself more competitive year-in year-out, improving at a rate quicker than your competitors so that you pick up trade and customers come to you is the core of any successful food retail business. The margins are thin. That's always been the case even in the heyday of supermarkets whenever it was 10 or more years ago. Margins were around 5%, 6% and we're not sort of [ph] astronomical (00:39:32).

So, I think you're always looking to balance, I feel, like a good story for shareholders that's reflecting and especially when businesses pass through that of course that reflects the progress the company is making and reward shareholders for the progress the business is making. But at the same time, keeps a sensible level on that, so that you give yourself a headroom to invest back in the customer offer, because, ultimately, the long-term success of the business depends on that customer offer and whether more customers are choosing to come to you as opposed to go to one of your competitors.

So, it actually is a very good question because it goes right to the heart of the strategy of the business. And stage one is to give yourself some options. If your business is not trading, if you've not got volume going through the business, these are academic conversations because you've got no conversations of hand. So the great thing the team have done is to get the business back to having that, I think we described it as blub pumping around the system, volume through a food retail business is so important.

And then you've got those options. And I think one of my jobs in like in talking to shareholders is to constantly explain that that this is not about going eyeballs out to get the absolute maximum we can for shareholders in any one year. It's about a long-term game of reinvesting back in the business and making the business more competitive so that long-term shareholders will get that reward, which is not so they gain nothing in between there is, but it's a careful balance, and as David says one of judgment.

Okay, Rob, sorry, Dave, next to you. Up, there you go.

Hi. So, Dave McCarthy, HSBC. Your new stores are going very well. So, getting good sales density there. You got more volume going through the business. So, your gross margin is going to be improving. Presumably you're getting a good return on capital on these, your stores. Any temptation to ramp up the store opening program?

Well, I think we said we're looking to be back in the saddle-on store openings and that we'd look to open a handful of new stores a year. I suppose the subjectivity on that is how big are your hands. But, yeah, I think we're so encouraged. We're just so encouraged by the two stores that opened. I can't speak to Acocks Green because they opened this morning, but somebody texted me said it looks fantastic. And I saw it a couple of weeks ago, and it property does look strong.

But, I mean, obviously, we've had a look around see where we can achieve geographies with profitable sales ahead. When you get back in the saddle, you got to get the machine organized, and that's what we've done. So, I'm happy actually with what we've said so far. And, yeah, I'm repeating myself a bit, but we could not be more encouraged by the customer reaction to our new stores. And that isn't really [ph] beginning (00:42:45) them up. That's actually just saying how it is, 26 in that. Good combination of everything we do in there. Still got circulation getting around them. And people seem to really enjoy going there, which is what you want.

Just to build on that, David is. I think in the context of David's final slide actually, you can see how growth opportunities quite broad based and that's not the thrust of your question. But I think new stores as a component of that meaningful and sustainable growth opportunity is obviously important. And then I think big picture in the context, the cash flow, that point around the words on that capital allocation framework are quite well thought through or we try to think it through anyway. And where there's opportunities for us to invest in profitable growth and achieve good returns, we'll do it. But we'll remain that will have their core of capital discipline running right through it.

Rob Joyce from Goldman Sachs. First a couple just follow-up to Dan's question. You mentioned the number of £195 million in terms of productivity savings, £195 million. Is that a number which is a kind of recurring number from your view?

And then just in light of the sort of some of the change in the market at the moment, I guess we're seeing maybe easing input cost pressures versus last year, slightly slower growth from the discounters. Is that decision now when you're thinking about how much to reinvest, is it potentially looking like you maybe can hold on to more of those productivity savings?

And then the final one is just, some of the recent data are area suggesting that since a very strong summer period for the supermarkets since mid-August, we've seen quite a slowdown into negative territory in the last four weeks. I'm not sure if that's something you guys are seeing in the broader market. It's not you guys but the sort of people in the market seeing that. Thanks.

Well, I think we don't guide on productivity. We get our heads down and find it, and that's important policy of the company. They're kind of handy numbers to look back on. The main portal of productivity is to drive up customer service in this company. That's actually to make retail jobs and shop work much more enjoyable. So, I tend to measure productivity, frankly, just through a different way of look at it. There's nothing in our plans to recover this company that relies on any slowdown by Aldi and Lidl and another folk knocking around. And so, we've got plenty of catch-up opportunity. It's something we talk about quite a lot.

And part of that jargon, this jargon, actually, of fix, rebuild and grow Morrisons than in that fixed bucket we would have the idea of being more competitive, our pricing and our availability and our shopping trip and these are the things right in there. And so, it's very, very important that we exercise our judgments and invest where in the end shareholders will get their biggest bang for their buck. And I think so far so good on that. And yeah, I think that's where we are.

And in simple terms, is the market dynamic now making it easier for shareholder to get a bang for their buck on that investment?

Well, we put a full shift in every day. So, I can't comment on the market.

That's on like four weeks.

Well, this is the half year. We're out again on November 6 with the third quarter.

All right. Thanks.

Hi, everybody. It's Dusan from Berenberg. I just had two quick questions. The first one on Big C. The ranges you have agreed to supply to them, can you provide a bit more clarity on that? And, well, yeah, maybe if you tackle the first one and...

Well, yes, Big C, and we will be sending over some own brand, 100 items, I think it is. And it will be own brand, I think they're quite attracted to the work we've done on notching up quality and improving presentation of Morrisons' own brand and also the tearing of best and mid-tier own-brand. So, we're looking forward to seeing how that goes. Obviously, it's a small beer, and we'll see how it goes. I think in the end, it will be the Thai consumers who determine how successful it is and whether it grows, but it's good to have that relationship. I think they're number three in the Thai market. I think they may be number three in the Southeast Asia market, around 7-Eleven, et cetera. So, yeah, we'll see how it goes, but we'll report back.

And second question is just on the 2% to 3% sustainable like-for-like growth. Is that including wholesale or excluding wholesale?

I think what we've said is, we expect to see in our core supermarkets a like-for-like sort of moderate and sustainable two to three-year range. And that's the way I'd encourage you to think about it. When we use that phraseology specifically, we're not referring to wholesale.

I think maybe I misunderstood that a bit.

That's okay.

Good morning. Sreedhar Mahamkali from Macquarie. Three quick questions then, please. In terms of wholesale, at around £1 billion, just over £1 billion where you'll get to in a couple of years or so, you'll be one of the big wholesalers, top wholesalers in the country, probably top five or top six. Is that the right scale to see profitability not being dilutive to the retail business or do you need to be much bigger than that?

Secondly, in terms of where it's coming online and your option to move some of the capacity from Dordon down to Erith, can you talk a little bit about run rate for online sales probably by the end of the year or into next year, if you could give a little bit more clarity on how you see online ramp up? Clearly, that's come off in terms of like-for-likes because you're capacity constrained. And third one is, in terms of the cost headwinds you've had in the first half on wholesale and online, is it right to think about them in being mid-single digits falling away to zero by sort of next year effectively?

I'll pick up on those. I think on the cost headwinds, you're right, they would be falling down to zero as we exit through this year and into next. In terms of online...

That was about mid-single-digit sort of number – millions?

Oh, I'm broken out, Sreedhar. It's going to be tuck in down as we roll through quarter three, and when we exit in Q4, I think it'll be probably behind this. And in terms of online, obviously, that contribution to like-for-like from essentially fulfilled CFC as we split out separately over and above that through the first half. Obviously, we've had store-pick sales and through the half, the dotcom like-for-like has been I think about 12% across the half. It was a business unit.

And as Erith comes on stream, you can expect to see that 0.2% edge up, but I think that's going to be quite slight as we're running really frankly into Christmas and we just ramp up in that in an orderly way as you'd expect. And then in terms of wholesale and the £1 billion obviously, we've got 300 McColl's stores to convert at some point in the future, which will bridge the gap from the £700 million to £1 billion. And I think, on the trading size and the potential for the business, in the end, we'll have to sort of refer back to that so we're open for business and we'll see who we end up working with and what growth opportunities we earn in the quarters and years ahead.

On the economics, I spend very little time thinking about the margin percent because, in the end, what our wholesale customers sell is determined by their customers, it's definitely not determined by us. We just have to deliver what they order. And actually, what's really important from the economics is it's driving volume and increasing asset intensity for start. And then over and above that, the cash margin that we do earn is very accretive to the lease-adjusted return on capital employed because the capital is de minimis. And I think right that common thread is being focused on the quantum profit, the free cash flow and rebuilding the lease-adjusted returns applies in wholesale as it does right across the whole business really.

But, internally, are you actually able to split the P&Ls or is that just really wrapped up into vertical integration sourcing? You get the benefits in terms of operating leverage as you talked about, but do you actually have two different P&Ls internally, how do you look at it? Just curious.

Well, I'm looking at the sales and the gross margin. I'm not spending as much time or any time, frankly, thinking about how a portion individual costs inside the manufacturing and production lines for whatever item. I think what's most important is you recognize that you've got a fully loaded cost base and then you price that thoughtfully from an economic perspective, which, obviously, we're striving to do.

Thanks.

Thanks. Good morning. Nick Coulter from Citi. Could you say what penetration is for local products in the basket? I appreciate it won't be much of sales, but I'm guessing it's creeping into the basket.

And then secondly, on your like-for-like basket items, that's also progressively coming in. Could you talk about your initiatives there? I think you mentioned families and what you're doing with basket building. Thank you.

Yeah. We don't quite look at it like that. Family, young families, of course, are really very important too, we can learn a lot from them. A guy did some shopping or a team of it did shopping with young families and then went to their homes, unloaded their goods and learnt a bit about their life and what was important. And that exercise will give us cause to improve Morrisons going forward for that group. I think how it turns out in the basket size, I just literally see the outcome to all of the activity we do. And all of that activity is driven by listening and responding to customers and trying to learn more about how we can be more and more relevant.

I think we've made a fair fist of reconnecting with our core customer base. You can see in the numbers, slightly less than 5% like-for-like, mostly volume. But looking ahead, we do have to be more and more relevant to more and more people.

Local is one of the things that differentiates Morrisons. We know customers really like it. It does add a layer of complexity, and it does fight for shelf space and all of these traditional retailing things. But as we look ahead and differentiate this company as food maker and shop keeper and the seller of so much British merchandise, two-thirds of what we sell is British, then it just seems bang on the right plan. So, I think it's low single-digit in its participation, but I would envisage over time it growing. I think we grew quite nicely in the year ended, and we've grown quite nicely again in the half year. Yeah. So, long way continue.

Just a follow-up on medium-term cost saves, if I may. Just trying to get a sense of magnitude around that. Is the kind of the expectation that you at least offset SG&A inflation and then invest over and above? I'm just trying to get a corridor of expectation for your long-term aspirations for cost saves. Thank you.

Yeah. We don't really think about it that way, partly because of the scale or the opportunity and partly just because of how we run the business. But in terms of the spirit of your question, I think this is a sensible assumption for you to make that.

Thank you.

Okay. Well, I think – oh, Charles. One of the them [indiscernible] (00:56:20). You go first.

Andrew Porteous from HSBC. Just wanted to ask a quick one on sort of capital allocations really. Obviously, you're opening up a few new stores now. You're talking about store refreshes in terms of sales-based ordering some of the systems. How do you see the capital allocation framework on opportunities there developing going forward? Have you done all of the heavy lifting, or as you open up things like sales-based ordering, are there other incremental opportunities to look at?

I think, the framework, I can't envisage change there much. And we will continue to invest I think most importantly in the estate. You cannot let that drift and we've still got a lot work still to do with the rest of that Fresh Look program, which is actually just very exciting for the improvements it can deliver for colleagues and customers.

I think big picture around growth, we've got that broad-based growth opportunities as we sort of talked about in the presentation. And then, I think, where we think about how we deploy that, we'll be looking to invest it in where we need to invest it to have the right assets and the right productivity savings where they make sense. The hurdle rates are high. We increased them when we started out in 2015.

And then in the broader cash flow, we still have opportunities in disposals. We still have opportunities in working capital particularly around stock as we continue on the simplification journey in commercial income you've seen in the back end, the commercial income is more than halved since we first set that out two or three years ago. And that means there's still roughly half to go at. And obviously, as we continue to improve our visibility on stock in absolute stock levels and improving availability, remains right there for us to do so. I think we'll continue to sort of work our way through guided by the same principles.

Thanks.

Charles on the right.

Thanks. Charles Allen from Bloomberg Intelligence. Can you say what the capacity utilization is in your food-making plants both on the existing shift patterns and if you were to add shifts?

We don't break it out and actually partly because it's quite a sort of a moving fees question because what is capacity. And because we could – well, we've got numerous examples, I think, over the last couple of years where we've rejigged the space and inserted an extra line where we've added more people to the line, where we've automated flow on line. So, I think when we look at it into the spirit of the question, I think we look at it and think there's very significant opportunity across that business as a whole. Obviously, in certain part it's a bit higher, in certain parts, it's a bit lower than the average. But apart from that, I think that's roughly how we look at it.

Can I just add to that? I think we've bought Chippendale's eggs this year which has been a properly good thing to have done. It's brought forward changes from barn et cetera by a couple years and its connecting those to egg white which is why quite a lot of ingredients originate from. So, looking ahead, that's probably a good move for us, and we're more competitive on eggs right now in the stores. But the digitizing of everything, if you like, in the world certainly spreads the manufacturing. And when we put some CapEx into manufacturing, we start to look at robotics and automation. It's astonishing how it can repurpose and transfer like a shed packing apples into some amazing looking thing that massively increases the capacity and makes a lot more productive. So, it's looking quite positive I think on that side to broaden our food maker credentials anyway and to recycle space, so that we drive more volume more cost effectively over this next decade.

Okay. Well, thank you very much. It's always good to learn new things, and we'll ask about the corridor of expectation. So, as we run down the corridor of expectation towards the conference room of hope, we wish David and Trevor and his team all the best. And like all retailers at the moment are hoping that the light at the end of the tunnel is a new dawn and not an onrushing head rush of an express train. Thank you.