corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9, 2010


Company▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
©
 
2001
-
20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Sir Ian Gibson, Chairman


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Can I welcome you to the Morrisons’ Interim Results


Presentation for the 26 weeks to 1st August this year? Welcome. Welcome in particular to Dalton


Philips, our new CEO on my right, and of course to Richard Pennycook, our existing CFO on my


left.


I’m pleased that we’re announcing another set of very solid results even in a difficult year, building


on the successful foundation of the last f
our years. Our turnover, as you’ll see, is up by 9.1%,


underlying profits up by 14%, dividend similarly in line with our policy has followed the profit


movement.


Today’s presentation will follow our usual format. Firstly, Richard will run through the fina
ncials and


give you some thoughts on our view of the market in general. And then Dalton will set out his views


on the business after his first almost six months and then tell you about our plans for the future. At


the end, again also usual, we’ll take Q&A.


And at that point, I’ll hand over to Richard. Thank you.


Richard Pennycook, Group Finance Director


Thanks, Ian. Good morning, everybody. In looking at 2010, I think we do have to start by thinking


back to the conditions that we came out of in 2009. Groc ery sector have been cushioned somewhat


by weak sterling that prevented the deflation that have been seen in other parts of the world. And of


course in Morrisons, we’ve been delivering the last components of our optimisation plan, which


continued to drive market-beating earnings growth. So 2010 was always going to be a tough year


for the sector and a tougher challenge for Morrisons.


So the year is playing out very much as we anticipated. We’ve seen the virtual elimination of


inflation and a very tight market. Promotional activity has reached record levels and space


expansion across the sector has ticked up a little bit. At a same time, Morrisons is cycling two years


of industry leading like-for-like sales. So against this backdrop, our interim performance is pleasing.


We’ve continued our market
-beating sales growth and delivered expectations of a profitable growth.


I’ll talk you through the financial results in the normal format, and then at the end of my section, I’d


like to just give you a view on the market for the coming years to frame the comments that Dalton is


going to be making. So staring with the financials, turnover at 8.1 billion was up 9% year-on-year.


I’ll break that down for you as usual in a moment.


Statutory profit before tax, 412 million; worth remembering this result for the six months was higher


than our full-year profit performance only four years ago. The headline figure appears to be down


year-on-
year. But to remind you, that’s due to an exceptional pensions credit last year, and as yo
u


can see on the slide, when you back that out, statutory profit before tax was up 15%.


Net debt was down with strong cash generation coming through again and the dividend up 14%


consistent with our published policy of growing in line with underlying earnings. Next chart gives


you the mathematical breakdown of the underlying performance. There’s very little to note this time,


but it does just allow you to follow through into the dividend policy and the formula that we’ve


applied consistently this time with that 14% dividend uplift.
corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9,
 
2010


Company▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
© 2001-20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
2


If we now look into little more detail at turnover,
 
this chart shows the key components and its shape


in terms of store sales is very much as anticipated. Growth from new stores was 4.9%, excluding


fuel, reflecting the uplift from the 43 new stores that we opened in 2009, including 34 acquired from


the Co-Operative Group.


More than half of these stores had annualized by the interim stage and the rest will have done so


by the end of Q3, so you should expect this component of our growth to start ease as we go into


the second half, and you’ll see that come through in the Kantar figures, which I know all of you pick


up.


So just to give you a little bit more direction on that, when we announced our Q3 and Q4 figures,


bear in mind the way we account for like-for-like, which is shown on the chart. New stores only go


into like-for-like at the beginning of the financial year following the year when they annualize. So for


example Kingsbridge or Shefford, the first two Co-Op stores that we
 
opened in June ‘09; they’ve


already annualized, but they don’t go into our like
-for-like numbers until the 1st of January
 
–
 
sorry,


1st of February, 2011.


I know the lack of an industry standard on like-for-like is a frustration to many of you. What I can


say is that we think the Morrisons’ definition that you can see on the chart is the most prudent


practical way of measuring like-for-
like. But it does mean that you shouldn’t expect to see a bump in


our like-for-like in H2 as a result of those new stores a
nnualizing. I’ll pick up the like
-for-like


performance in a little more detail in a moment, but just back on the overall sales picture and a


couple of moments on fuel.


You can see the effect here of the upward movement in pump prices in the period. We grew


volume by 14%. I beg your pardon; we grew volume by 4%. But this was secondary to the price


effect unleaded pump prices on average were £1.15 in the period, that was a rise of 14% on the


prior year. And as I said before, another way to look at this is that overall fuel price inflation took


£240 million out of our customer’s pockets, and if that have been spent in store, it would have


added another circa 4% to our like-for-
like. So whilst that’s simplistic, it does help to emphasize the


pressure that the consumer is under.


Now, let me give you a little bit more detail on that like-for-like performance.
 
Sales were up 0.9%,


quarter two very slightly stronger than quarter one. On a two year basis, building on the 7.8%


growth last year, the like-for-like was 8.7%. And based on published total market growth, we


believe that our like-for-like this time was approximately 50 basis points ahead of the market.


We continue to grow customers. They were up 1.1%, whilst the elimination of inflationary effects


this year
 
led to a decline in spend of a very fractional 0.2%. We’ve always said our priority is to


continue to grow loyal customers, and we’re pleased to be doing so. If we include the new


customers that we acquired through the store openings last time, we served an average 800,000


more customers each week this year.


We’re not surprised to be seeing spending levels under pressure, with the consumers seeing very


tight disposable incomes, and we remain cautious about that spending outlook for the second half.


One are
a where we’re seeing stronger recovery in spending is Greater London, and of course as


you know, that’s an area where we remain somewhat under
-represented.


Turning now to operating profit, grew by 45 million in the half, representing a further improvement
 
in


margin up 10 basis points year-on-year to 5.2%. The performance improvement
 
of 10 basis points


was a true underlying performance containing a number of small effects. So we saw the benefits


coming through of a new RDC at Sittingbourne. But that was offset by a headwind with higher fuel


prices in our distribution business.