Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Thomas Higginson — Chairman, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Bruno Monteyne — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Daniel Ekstein — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
David McCarthy — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Niamh McSherry — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Sreedhar Mahamkali — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
James Alan Tracey — Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd.
Andrew Porteous — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...and as I've said to Trevor, I made a career out of being boring, the boring is good.

It's been a good first half and, proof again that although UK food retailing remains a highly competitive market, of course, a good team can really make a difference. I'd like to thank everyone in the business, but especially the senior team for their hard work and for making the first half a success. At a board level, we've recently added to the team with the appointment of Tony Van Kralingen as a Non-Executive Director. He's going to chair the Remuneration Committee, and he'll sit on the Audit Nomination and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees.

We're also pleased to be announcing an interim dividend of £0.0166, an increase of over 5% on last year's first half.

And, really, that's it from me. I'd hand over now to David and Trevor to talk through the details of the half. Thanks.

Thank you, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the Chairman, Trevor and myself here today. To the extent that competitive pressures allow, I'm going to describe our progress during the first half and illustrate how Morrisons has become in a broader and stronger business.

You will be familiar with our intentions to Fix, Rebuild and Grow the company, and we're well under way with fixing some parts of Morrisons. Our first objective in Fix was to stabilize the supermarkets into positive like-for-like. So far so good. Quarter two group like-for-like was positive 2.6%, and Retail like-for-like was positive 2.1%. Both building on the strong growth achieved last year.

Second was to improve capability. We're making good progress here too, the trickle-down effect of top talents has gained momentum. With the leadership team in place, we're developing a diverse and deep talent pool of external experience, Morrisons' life is on our own young up-and-comers. This team understand the right questions to ask and how to get all parts of the company contributing to our new trading [ph] office (02:12).

Capability in process and technology is also improving. For example, removing wasted effort; developing digital tender to improve customer service; deploying both customer and product analytics, with improved customer apps; and better personalization to send relevant offers to our customers. And third, we continue to reduce and recycle costs, growing revenues within our lower cost base.

We remain driven by our strong convictions, that we have a relative catch-up opportunity in the market, that an improving shopping trip means more customers buy more from Morrisons and that consistent and sustainable execution from the office and stores is key, and that this turnaround will be powered by listening to each stakeholder.

Listening and responding quickly are driving all aspects of our recovery, including the successful Fresh Look refit program, range improvements, the Your Say colleague forums, and the paying conditions of our 104,510 colleagues.

We are building on the strong Morrisons [indiscernible] (03:22) family background of the business to create a culture of restlessness, of pace, a high work ethic, a belief that wherever possible, our decisions will fall on the side of customers and our colleagues. Much has been achieved and there's still more to fix, but we've delivered growth on growth, which demonstrates we are progressing with Rebuild and Grow.

Looking ahead in Rebuild, we achieved the six priorities by consistently delivering sales volume and increasing customer visits, driving profit higher and growth higher, whilst lowering our debt. In Grow, we're distinctive, delivering higher and sustainable earnings, driving stakeholder improvements, accessing an expanded market through digital and wholesale, thus creating new Morrisons largely led by home-grown talent.

In this first half, we've made further progress with 3% positive like-for-like sales and double-digit profit growth. Cash flow was again strong, debt again lower. Our two-year like-for-like increased from 2.6% in quarter four last year to 4.4% in the first half of this year. More customers visited our stores. Like-for-like transactions were up 3.9%. Customer satisfaction again improved with a survey score of 5% year-on-year. Overall, the score has improved 12% since the start of 2015-2016.

Our measures of colleague engagement and supplier partnerships all improved. All lead indicators going the right way. We responded well to a challenging consumer environment, competitors continue to open new stores and there was pressure and turbulence caused by the knock-on effect of weaker sterling.

Many of our customers are on a tight budget. In these more uncertain times, Price Crunch is helping customers by holding more prices lower for longer and the Morrisons' price list provides good quality great value in areas our customers rely on. Our wholesale supply is leveraging existing assets to access convenience, digitally and physically, and will generate profitable capital-light growth.

We recently announced new wholesale expansion with McColl's where we become their sole supplier for around 1,650 McColl's shops across Britain. It's an important step that also revised the Safeway brand. We will supply both national brands and Safeway products, many of which will be made by food maker colleagues in our 17 manufacturing sites across Britain.

Amazon continues to grow its British food offer. We now supply more locations in each of its five channels and we're expanding into more postcodes through Morrisons [ph] at (06:20) Amazon. In Rontec, where we're now supplying over 30 Morrisons Daily convenience stores and plan to have at least 50 open by the year-end. These partnerships demonstrate our wholesale business is in a cycle of meaningful growth.

And we've made further progress on the six priorities driving the recovery of the company. First of all, we're certainly becoming more competitive and the shopping trip is more consistent for customers. We're a British food maker and shopkeeper with a British supply chain. We're working with growers, farmers and suppliers to help save customers every penny we can, especially in areas where our customers depend on great value and where our manufacturing skills drive value for money higher.

Price Crunch, price cuts in the Morrisons' price list are effective techniques to deliver great value for money. So, we become more competitive, so we emerged from a post-Brexit period of consumer uncertainty, better positioned for customers than before. We've now improved the quality and presentation of our core own label range, where, for example, sales of our improved granola and muesli are up 20% year-on-year, and sales of frozen veg are up 12% year-on-year. Our Morrisons Makes It range continues to grow and demonstrate our food maker skills, for example, beef, loin and pork grilled steaks, freshly prepped in-store, or our raspberry trifles are also handmade in-store.

And broader, stronger is not just about wholesale, it's not just about digital, and it's not just about services. Indeed, we further expanded our best range too and we'll have 1,000 best products before the year-end, and that's double the number of the start of 2017, making Morrisons more relevant to more and more people. We also launched a healthy Eat Smart range, introduced the new Nutmeg Womens range into 50 stores and the Nutmeg brand itself has been expanded into baby and toddler accessories, including wipes and nappies.

We're also seeing good multi-year growth performance. For example, Free From and Food To Go sales are both up 30% year-on-year. We've launched a range of gluten-free sandwiches [ph] and own brands revamped the petrol station range (08:46) to provide customers more choice and have increased our market share and sell baguettes made fresh from scratch in-store every day.

And our improved offer has again won recognition. Our Best range was named Own-label Range of the Year at the Grocer Gold Awards. We also won gold in the Ready Meals and Frozen Dessert categories at the Grocer Own Label Awards. We were named Sandwich Multiple Retailer of the Year and won over 120 awards at this year's International Wine Challenge. We also won over 50 awards at the International Cheese Awards, including 18 golds, and were named Cheddar Cheese Retailer of the Year for the second year running.

I said earlier that our customer satisfaction has improved year-on-year by 5%. This was a real step up and builds on a strong trend. Again, due to the dedication and hard work of our frontline colleagues, this independent survey scores Morrisons especially high on service availability and the quality of our fresh food. Our new automated stock ordering system is also improving availability and freeing up time for our colleagues to serve customers better.

We're continuing to refine and improve the ordering system which will now be in all stores and most categories in time for Christmas. And we've invested in camera technology in the majority of stores to predict and monitor queue length and wait times at the checkouts. We've installed more belted self-scan checkout to provide more customer choice. Morrisons is now considered joint number one for checkout wait times up from sixth just two years ago.

Morrisons.com and our online services expanded during the first half, too. We started a store-pick online home delivery service in the North East of England, taking Morrisons.com to additional customers who are outside the area of service by Dordon. Morrisons.com has also started to offer thousands of branded general merchandise products for next-day delivery brought to customers with their Morrison's online grocery order, including for example [ph] Prestige and Pyrex (11:02).

We also launched a flowers website, offering fresh bouquets for next day delivery for customers anywhere in Britain, and we introduced a new online and in-store Food to Order program, meaning our customers can now pre-order for parties and other special events all year round. Work is also going on to make our food makers more visible in stores, especially on Market Street where we're investing in training equipment, making sure our butchers, fishmongers and bakers can serve more customers better in the years ahead.

Customer sellers, they love the idea of being able to buy local, fresh local fruit and veggies seasonally available in our 150 stores with plans for many more stores by the year-end. For example, Yorkshire asparagus, Cornish and Lincolnshire kale and local cauliflower and tomatoes from Hampshire, customers supporting their local food makers at the nation's biggest supermarket food maker.

Across the country, 14 recent food maker events presented more of the best local growers, farmers and fishermen the opportunity on their own turf to meet our buying teams. Already, some of the first products have arrived in stores such as local free range milk in three Sheffield stores and three other Edinburgh gins in Scotland.

Our local marketing against competitor new store openings is now more effective, guided both by More card data and listening to local customers. And during the first half, expected sales impacts were reduced.

And now services. Fuel volumes are strong, and despite less inflation as oil price has moved around, like-for-like sales were up almost 14%. We're improving and extending the convenience food offer on our own petrol forecourts too, as well as continuing to develop the Morrisons Daily format with Rontec. Café sales were also strong, up over 4% like-for-like. We've almost completed a program to modernize 385 cafés, providing a much improved experience for customers, a brighter contemporary environment, modern equipment and seating and free WiFi. We also have standalone [ph] Barista Bars (13:23), now in 28 stores, to complement our traditional supermarket cafés.

During the first half, we opened our first partner-managed car wash, and the first of our tire changing concessions are expected to open in the second half. And following a successful partnership with Amazon Lockers, they're now in over 400 stores, and we're well advanced with other parcel pick-up services.

Simplify speed up is becoming embedded in the Morrison's culture. Our new ordering system is reducing stock levels and cutting costs. We're removing or digitizing in-store admin with more cloud services providing flexibility, digitize co-checking and markdown apps, simplifying our processes and removing wasted effort. We're working closely with suppliers, building better, long-term relationships and simpler contracts. Within our own manufacturing business, we're improving yield and labor efficiency by adding digital line and geomeasures, whilst repurposing some facilities. And we've identified opportunities for simplifying our procurement process for goods not for resale.

We'll deliver around 80 Fresh Look projects during the year, meaning we'll have completed refits at almost half of the estate by the year-end. Our Fresh Look learnings continue to provide us with insights and ideas that can be quickly applied in modular form across the whole estate, so creating a national benefit. Recent examples include café modernization and Nutmeg womenswear. And most of our fruit, veg, and florist departments are now being updated to an authentic look and feel in time for Christmas.

There are also smaller ways of strengthening our supermarkets in their local catchment. For example, we just opened community rooms in our town center stores in Blackburn and Failsworth, which will become a hub for various local groups to use.

So, we're leveraging our manufacturing capabilities, our distribution network and our retail businesses. This company's recovery plan benefits all stakeholders. Our supermarkets are becoming more popular as the shopping trip improves. More customers finding Morrisons a place they like to go and go more often. A motivated and valued team of colleagues leading from the front and sharing in the company's success, and building long-term partnerships with suppliers to serve customers better together, and of course creating value and sustained growth in total shareholder returns.

At the prelims, I described how Morrisons will grow. And looking to the second half of the year and beyond, our plans are on track. As team and capabilities improve, I'm confident we'll bring home the bacon for all our stakeholders. For example, we have more on the way to improve the shopping trip at our core supermarkets, whilst continuing to listen and learn from customers.

New ranges, our brand, our price expanding and developing into growth categories. Fresh Look continuing at pace in the second half, improved layouts, more efficient customer service desks, more self-service checkout, and the improvements in the way we merchandise products making it easier for customers to see and buy our goods and services. And we'll continue with a sharper focus on price and value for customers at this important time.

You'll forgive me if I don't share precise details yet. We must let our customers know before the [indiscernible] (17:11) but we're confident that these activities, some of which are small, combine to make shopping trip improvements that customers notice and like. So, we continue to grow and improve.

And in services, we'll see progress on more fronts. Café refurbs, Morrisons Daily both with at least Rontec and our own [indiscernible] (17:33), car wash and tire change, pick-up lockers, and parcel dispatch. And as we said at the prelims, we plan to open a handful of new supermarkets in 2018-2019 and these will meet our stringent investment returns criteria. Nothing of course is as important as the recovery of the supermarkets, but a broader stronger Morrisons is beginning to take shape. For example, store-pick is taking our Morrisons.com online offer to new customers in the North East of England. And we'll do more in important geographic areas.

By the end of 2018-2019, the new Erith, Ocado [ph] shop (18:14) will give us capacity in the South East of England and London. Finally, we look forward to making our first wholesale supply deliveries to McColl's in the second half.

And I believe Amazon, Rontec and now McColl's demonstrate that Morrisons is open for business for new customers as a startup wholesale supplier. Together, all of these capital-light opportunities mean the group will attract more and more customers, driving volumes higher as new Morrisons becomes increasingly popular and accessible.

Thank you and now over to Trevor.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone. I will start with a walk-through of the numbers and then I will go through some of the detail of the improvements we're making to become a broader and stronger business.

We are pleased that, once again, total turnover was up 4.8% for the half to £8.4 billion from last year's £8 billion. Operating profit was £233 million, up 4% on last year. Profit before tax was £200 million. Underlying profit before tax was £177 million, up 12.7% compared to last year's £157 million equivalent.

After paying back over £700 million of surplus facilities last year, finance costs are down for the half and we remain on track for between £75 million and £80 million for the full-year, as previously guided. Net debt for the half-year fell to £932 million, already below our £1 billion year-end target. And, as Andy said, we're proposing to pay an interim dividend of £0.0166 per share, up 5.1% versus last year's half.

Our policy for annual dividends to be sustainable and covered around 2 times by underlying earnings per share remains unchanged. For the seventh consecutive quarter, group like-for-like turnover, excluding fuel, was positive, up 2.6% for quarter two and up 3% for the half, contributing £191 million, as you can see from the turnover bridge.

Online contributed 0.4% to like-for-like for the half. The impact of sterling weakness on imported food prices continued through the period. And so, we again saw some inflation and volumes were, again, positive.

Supermarket transaction numbers were also strong, up 3.9% on last year and up 3.2% in quarter two. We've annualized all but one store from the closure program and the net new space impact on total sales was negative 0.4% over the half, and this will trend towards zero by the end of the second half. Fuel continues to trade well, with positive volumes and a falling inflation impact through the half.

Operating profit was £233 million, 2.8%, down 2 basis points from last year's £224 million equivalent. For the half, items excluded from underlying operating profit were [ph] £90 million (21:32), which are broken out on the slide. Property profits were [ph] £13 million (21:37) in the half.

On pensions, we've now concluded the consultation process around the new defined contribution scheme. And as a result, we have reassessed the provision we've made for £35 million in 2015-2016. This has resulted in a release of £10 million, which in line with the original provision that has been reported outside of underlying profit. Since the end of the period, around 30,000 colleagues have been auto-enrolled into the new scheme.

In terms of pension cost within underlying, our guidance for the full-year remains unchanged at around the £20 million increase year-on-year, which is after the impact of derisking activity within the schemes. And finally, there was a charge of £4 million relating to legal fees on claims that are historic in nature and some restructuring. Before these exceptionals, underlying operating profit was £214 million, up 3.4% on last year's £207 million at 2.5%, down 4 basis points.

18 months ago, we set a target to deliver £50 million to £100 million of incremental profit from interest, online services and wholesale. We are pleased with the continued progress and delivered a further £14 million in the half, taking the total over the last 18 months to £32 million. We are today increasing our guidance and now plan to deliver £75 million to £125 million in the medium-term.

To remind you of the component parts of this target, first, after paying down surplus facilities, interest will reduce over time. As previously guided, we're on track to reduce underlying interest to between £75 million and £80 million this year. Second, online losses were reduced as we break even through this channel in time.

David talked about the third component popular and useful services, and the fourth component is wholesale, and we are particular pleased with our progress in this area which is driving volume and increasing asset intensity by utilizing existing facilities to gain access to the growing and important convenience channel with minimal capital investment.

Our most recent announcement, a long-term wholesale supply initiative with McColl's, will start with a phased program from January and will deliver an initial positive profit contribution next year. Combined with our existing supply arrangements, we expect annualized wholesale sales will be over £700 million by the end of 2018 and over £1 billion in due course.

As I said earlier, net debt fell to £932 million, down £337 million year-on-year and £262 million lower than year-end. We expect higher CapEx and higher onerous payments in the second half, in line with the guidance we gave in March. As usual, there is some seasonality around working capital, which we expect to unwind in half two. And also, property disposals during the second half will be lower than half one. As a result, net debt at year-end is likely to remain broadly unchanged.

By the end of 2016-2017, we have generated £2.3 billion of free cash flow, exceeding our £2 billion target. As the chart show, we generated free cash before capital returns, before property proceeds and before working capital improvement. And we're pleased to have generated further free cash flow in the half.

On working capital specifically, as long as the sales remain robust, we maintain our focus on looking through timing impacts. We can sustain the underlying improvements we have achieved and we have the potential to improve further in future years, particularly as we simplify processes in-store and our relationships with suppliers. Operating working capital achieved in the half was £102 million, taking the total since the start of the program to just over £1 billion.

Within the detail of the cash flow, cash CapEx was £191 million. Like last year, the phasing for CapEx is second half-weighted. We still expect to spend between £450 million and £500 million for the year. Cash outflow [ph] on (25:49) onerous payments were £33 million for the half, and we still expect the full-year to be around £100 million. Proceeds from disposals were £93 million. That takes the total proceeds since the start of the program to £986 million, and our medium-term target remains at £1.1 billion.

In the half, we made significant cost savings across four areas. Automated ordering, which is eliminating wasted effort, saving labor hours, improving availability and reducing stockholding. We expect the full-year benefit from mid-2018. Longer-term, we have the opportunity to utilize some of the benefits from more automation in our manufacturing businesses and in our warehouses, more effective distribution hand-offs between manufacturing and retail, less in-store administration and paperwork, and our supplier partnerships saying that reducing costs, improving efficiency and sharing synergies all representing a major medium-term cost saving opportunity.

The balance sheet is strong and getting stronger. Working capital benefits have been sustained. Debt is lower. Net debt to EBITDA is 1.1 times. Lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR is 2.1 times. The maturity profile of debt facilities is strong. Pensions remain well funded and in surplus of £392 million. And ROCE increased to 7.8%, up 1.3% year-on-year on an equivalent basis. We will continue to be capital disciplined and cash generative and will be guided by our capital allocation framework, which you can see for reference in your packs.

And this slide summarizes the plan in a financial context. And I make no apologies for using it consistently every six months. The components of the economics underpinning this turnaround are unchanged; grow volumes meaningfully, rebuild profits sustainably and increase asset intensity, all on the back of an increasingly robust balance sheet. And we've made progress on each of these areas consistently. We have confidence that there are meaningful and sustainable growth opportunities, so that we can continue to deliver improvements in the future.

We will continue to remain focused on the fundamentals, delivering an improving shopping trip and a proposition that resonates with millions of customers; a growing business, making the brand more accessible through new space, by increasing the coverage of our online business and by expanding the market in which we operate through wholesale supply in a capital-light way; a strong balance sheet getting stronger and the consistent delivery of significant levels of sustainable free cash flow; all of which will enable us to continue to improve the total return for our shareholders.

Thank you. And now, let's move into Q&A.

Okay. So, we've got a bit of time for Q&A now. Bruno?

Good morning. Bruno Monteyne from Bernstein. Three questions from me, please. These low capital growth opportunities can still be great returns with their lower margins, appropriately so, but that will change the margin mix possibly going forward. Can you give us some guidance if we should expect some dilution despite the high returning low capital growth because [ph] of the (29:28) lower margin mix? First question.

The second one is, you seem a bit cagey about cash returns. You're clearly generating a lot of cash, leverage going down. When can we announce a clear announcement of how you're going to use this surplus cash next year?

And the third one, you're talking about the volumes being up, but it wasn't really clear whether it was the group, and so explicitly are supermarket volumes up or down, please? Thank you.

All right. I'll take this, Bruno. So, in terms of the margin dilution on wholesale, to be honest, we'll have to see. We haven't made any deliveries to McColl's yet. I think what we're trying to do there is drive the asset intensity and the volumes through the group. We're effectively in a partnership where both parties can benefit and improve. I think McColl's are very positive about working with us. There is obviously a bit of a higher participation of tobacco. And we'll have to see how we get on. I sit here and look forward thinking and that's meaningful growth. It is the cash profit that's important anyway. And we'll see. [ph]

But that wouldn't exclude that happening (30:36).

I'm not saying it's negative. I'm not saying it will or it won't. All I'm saying, we'll have to see what their customers buy and what they buy from us and how it pans out and how that will work through in Safeway participation. So, that's sort of an overall maybe, maybe not kind of answer, really.

In terms of surplus cash, I think the most important thing is to look at the balance sheet and around. Really, cash is an output of our debt stack and the free cash flow we generate. And what's really important to us is that we continue to be cash generative. The balance sheet is the absolute cornerstone of the company, really, and that we maintain that capital allocation and capital discipline, and we'll continue to be guided by that capital allocation framework. The sheer fact you're asking the question the way you do makes me feel good. It makes me feel good about the first time you asked it when I put it up, sort of four years ago, and that was £3 billion.

You didn't answer the question. My question was on timing. When will you announce and what you will do with the extra cash?

Well, I think the answer to that is we'll announce something on cash when w have something to announce. The board...

You'll be the first to know.

...yeah, as long as you're pressing refresh. The point is, Bruno, we're looking at the balance sheet and around in the context of our capital allocation framework. And I'll look at the surplus cash, if you want to call it surplus cash, £596 million on the balance sheet in the context of the overall position of the group. Net debt to EBITDA is 1.1; lease adjusted net debt to EBITDA 2.1, all good. But actually the business is still in Fix. And we're still in the early days of this turnaround with lots of work still ahead of us.

The volumes? [ph]

Say it for (32:26) market volumes, volumes are up. I mean, we had some inflation. I'm not going to get caught into breaking out supermarkets and online. When we talk about – like we've discussed in May, when someone else asked the question, our Retail like-for-like is the equivalent of everyone else's like-for-like and volumes are up.

Yes? In the middle.

Hello, ladies [ph] first here (32:57). So, it's... [indiscernible]

(32:59)

Yeah. Sorry. It's Andrew Gwynn from Exane. Look, I have two questions. You mentioned a couple of times during the early stages of the Fix program, I'm just wondering if you can think about a timeframe, when does the business move through those phases that you've highlighted or indeed are they all sort of fairly concurrent? The second one is sort of the phasing we have in the first half. So, I forget the exact words you used but I think you said there was pressure from turbulence caused by weaker sterling. So, were you right to think that that pressure is now largely behind the industry in your sales or are there other pressures out there?

Thank you. I think you're right that they are concurrent. So, when we talk about Fix, Rebuild and Grow then they sort of feel very concurrent in the business. But this is a turnaround and there's still plenty of us to get our teeth into in what we might call Fix.

I think on the specifics, underlying competitiveness is crucial to this company. There's more to go for, more to do there. And we talked about the [ph] refurb (34:09) program being half done by the end of this financial year and therefore there's kind of another half to do. And it's really important that we make sure that our supermarkets are really quite nice shopping environment. And really it's that Fresh Look program, that Fresh Look refit program, which in my experience is the most successful refit program I've ever been involved with.

It's crucial to, in essentially building a new stage for a lot of the product work and a lot of the service and a lot of our own people to land and deliver from. It's very symbiotic relationship between improving the shopping strip physically, the program, and then really layering on all of the improvements to shopping strips.

I think in the end, Retail quite often is a work-in-progress. That's kind of the way Retail works a bit. Yeah, I think it was a challenging first half because we learnt how to work with the supplier base, work with supply chain, work with ourselves with regard to inflation and how to drive the business productively and competitively. I think for choice we did a better job on that in the second quarter than the first, but we are making good progress, volumes are up.

Yeah, I think by the end of the calendar year, we should start to see some of the inbound inflation start to unwind. So, I'm looking forward to some lower inflation in 2018. I mean, we ourself are working hard to drive Price Crunch, which I see as an important part of this dynamic, in that Price Crunch really delivers special offers but it holds them for longer, and there's more items. It's been popular with customers so it's something that may have been on a deal for two to four weeks, can now kind of be on there for 6 to 12 weeks. There's a number of items we've held, we've held down and weighed down towards staying down forward, and that's becoming something that customers have recognized in our own research.

Just on – a couple of extra points, Andrew, on the inflation environment. They obviously didn't all arrive on one day. And then, I think, if you look through the six months, there's a couple of specific distortions. You obviously got a duty bump. You've got some big distortions are in some seafood, and you also got the impact of this produce loss that's standing back and looking at through time. We have probably got a bit more vertical integration and a bit less non-food.

Just [indiscernible] (37:02), incremental at medium-term, sorry. What is medium-term?

Well, in the long-term we're all dead. And as [indiscernible] (37:14) once said. I think in the context of that guidance, I would share that in the context of this year. Nothing has changed in our expectations for this year in those four areas that vis-à-vis what we had in March. Looking into next year, a couple of specific points we've referenced are: One, you can look at the interest now from the Annual Report and do the math. You can go back to the point we made on McColl's where we said due to roll-out starts next year at an initial positive profit contribution from next year. And then on top of that and on online next year, we'll be investing with a start-up of areas and a bit more store-pick. So, that kind of puts the medium-term into a bit more context for you hopefully.

Get the mic off him. Next? [indiscernible] (38:24).

Thanks very much. Just couple from me. Just following on, on the inflation question. Is inflation being fully passed through to the consumer at the moment on the input side? And do you see any sign of that changing in the second half or into next year? And then second one just on the wholesale operations, would you be able to give us, firstly, just an idea of how much sort of spare capacity you think you have in your supply chain? And also whether you think it's going to add significant complexity to the back end of the business during the McColl's transaction?

Maybe, if I pick up the first one, [ph] Francis, we'll see you over the lifetime (39:09) really. I think the answer to that is, no. It's not being passed through. And I think in the context of where we are as a value retailer in Fix, reconnecting with our core customers. That's exactly where we want to be. We want to be more competitive, and we said, over the last 12 months, we aim to exit this period becoming relatively more competitive. But we have a significant amount of self-help in the middle of the P&L that we can recycle to help us improve the shopping trip in that way.

And I think more broadly than that, the KPIs, the latter, as David mentioned, transaction satisfaction, like-for-like, all gong the right way. And I think in that context, I think I'd reiterate the point I've made many times before around margin being an output. And... sorry?

Yeah. [indiscernible] (40:11) I guess while you mentioned the self-help, is that getting easier, tougher, when we look at last year, you sort of disclosed the number, you're still managing the same sort of numbers and how do we think about that?

There's a lot to go at. And just by the sheer fact that we're talking about eliminating paperwork, and we'll give you a feel for that and there's a lot for us to go at. There's a huge amount of opportunity, and I see it both as a productivity opportunity, [ph] rather than (40:37) customer service opportunity, as we're eliminating wasted effort really. And we can recycle some of that self-help into rather competitiveness and/or service.

Thank you, Trevor. I think on the wholesale capacity, there's plenty of capacity there. It serves a really important part, I think, of the company as we explore new markets. I think on the specific with regard McColl's, then it has triggered the renaissance of that Safeway brand, and we can kick off with, say, 100 Safeway products through manufacturing going to, say, 400.

And remember, in that deal, we provide all our brands as well. So, obviously, a very large amount of those we don't make ourselves. We've got some very highly skilled people involved in our manufacturing, what they call, vertical integration or it sounds like, [indiscernible] (41:42).

And, I think, when we repurpose a site and we bring it bang up-to-date with [ph] slow (41:54) underlying technology and productivity, it's astonishing how much more yield and how much more volume you can drive through these sheds. And all the CapEx is within guidance and it's all properly good work that Trevor and I and [indiscernible] (42:10), we keep quite a close eye on.

So, I'm very confident that not only were we not a one-club golfer, but that whole effort broadens the scope of the business looking ahead. From time to time, there may be an area that we want to get into in vertical integration that we're not currently in, but our main effort really is to drive volume through these existing facilities.

We've had a very good – a good project this year, just in [indiscernible] (42:47) with potatoes where we've basically taken out any middleman within potatoes. And we are now dealing direct with 300 growers, which are consolidated into a small shed, if you like, a small facility in Scotland, in Carnoustie, we own now.

And then, we're sort of bringing them down to one of our sites and sorting and grading the potatoes. And we sort of improved our returns, improved our volumes and we are the price leader in potatoes in Britain now.

Thanks very much.

Yes. On the right.

Thank you. It's Dan Ekstein from UBS. I've got three questions, please. Just firstly on volumes. It used to be something that was disclosed for the past couple of years. Now, you said it was something that was helpful to understand the business. Now, it's more transactions. What's changed there in terms of how you want us to be thinking about it?

Secondly, Dave, you mentioned range enhancement and various, I guess, sort of holes that existed when you took over, so Free From, Food To Go, the Best, et cetera, what can we expect going forward in terms of the range and kind of continue to be the sort of tailwind to the top-line that it has been?

And then, thirdly, just on the integrated manufacturing facilities that you have. On the whole, would you say this was margin positive or is it a margin headwind or neither during the first half? Thank you.

Yeah. Let me take the middle one. I think, there's so much to go for in breadth of choice as you sort of weed out duplication. And we take tremendous confidence from the promise of breadth, which I think is 38% volume year-on-year half one. Slower start on Eat Smart, but I think we can continue to build Eat Smart particularly in January-February when people are a little bit more engaged on those things around health. And we talked about Food To Go and Free From, which have now been added to with a healthy range, which I think is in about 20 stores.

It's kind of something you might see as sort of edited range of Holland & Barrett, which has landed quite nicely as well.

And then, the big picture standing back on own brand is to sort of get a notch up on quality, notch down on price, and improve its whole presentation, which I think when customers can see the item rather than the picture of the packaging, they really are engaged by that. And so, it goes hand-in-hand with a sort of authentic traditional [ph] market street advice fish meat (45:50), with a better look in a more relevant own brand.

Looking forward, then in half two, we'll be doubling the number of items that carry Best. And we will be bringing in quite a large number of local items, which we've picked up through the local food maker events, excuse me, as part of local solutions. So, I mean, every bay, every foot in every store, there is opportunity to improve the choice, the breadth of the business, and this is what we're working on. It's really important stuff.

Yeah. Just on volume, I think, we share transactions since around 2013. I think, in terms of the inflation point, I just think it's commercially sensitive, really. And there's also like a number of distorting factors. So, whether that be [ph] salmon, Spanish, for harvest (46:56), et cetera. And I just don't want to get into talking about [indiscernible] (47:01). And so, that's kind of where we are on that. I think, manufacturing just stand in right back. When I think about it, I think about it as being part of what Morrisons is as a food maker, really.

And one other pieces of work we've done over the last 18 months to help simplify and speed up the business, get it more focused on the customer, is that manufacturing business is very much focused as a cost center, input costs, conversion costs, yield, variable labor cost. And so, a well-invested business has got long lines, it doesn't need a sales force, it sort of knows the orders come in.

So, in that sense, it can be run on a very low cost. But actually, it's part of the broader perspective about how we improve our competitiveness and recycle some of those opportunities effectively to be back to be a more competitive as per David's potatoes example from a few moments ago. So, [indiscernible] (48:03).

Dave?

It's Dave McCarthy, HSBC. Two questions. One is on the wholesale, your move into wholesale. You've got three key customers, three big customers, and you're doing it without any cash and carry. Will you – if you want to carry on developing that business, will you need to start investing in infrastructure, developing websites for new customers, independents, et cetera, et cetera, or are you just looking to service a few big corporates in the way you're doing currently.

And then, secondly, regarding your store pick model. Would you consider trialing store pick in areas that are serviced by your agreement with Ocado and Dordon and Erith, and so on, so that you can get a comparison on which really is the better model for you to use.

Thanks, Dave. Let me take the second question. I think the sum which for us to go up that I see that sort of the sum which for us to go up that I see that as a sort of longer-term question, if I may. And my example, I think, still holds that, I think, it's something like 19% of our customers in Scotland, our customers in Scotland they shop online with one or the other retailers. And it's unlikely that Ocado are going to put a large Dordon or a large robotic version of Dordon into Scotland any time soon.

Yeah. So, I think even having gone from sort of, I think, it was something like 4.8%, 4.9% share online to 5.65% this year. So, we're in sort of 20% growth. There's still so much more for us to go for around Britain with our supermarkets. And part of the attraction is sort of refilling those fixed cost, largely supermarkets, with some volume which, I think, we've started to see in this pilot store that we've opened. So, yeah, I think that's [ph] some of this turn away (50:42).

On the wholesale bit, Dave, I think it depends how we access the market, really. And, I think, it's going to fall into the we'll update you as we go. I think, when we talked about bringing Safeway back, and it's definitely a better way to get to 1,650 convenience stores via McColl's [indiscernible] (51:07) single store independents. And but we're open for businesses, as David said in his closing remarks.

I think in your broad – putting in a broader point around source of capital, really. I don't see our growth ambitions in wholesale conflicting with our intent to be very cash generative. And really, when we come right away back to capital allocation, there's profitable growth and where it makes sense for us to do so, we will be investing in it.

But would you consider a cash-and-carry operation as opposed to [indiscernible] (51:48)?

We'd let you know when we've considered it. I think, because I just think it served the business well by delivering on our intentions to grow, to help – our intent really is to make the brand more popular, more accessible and drive the asset intensity up. I wouldn't want to mislead you and say we will or won't, we might or we might not. After [ph] falling to (52:19), we'll let you know if we are.

Thanks. Niamh McSherry, Deutsche Bank. One question, given the growth of your – sorry. A few questions. The first one, given the growth of your wholesale business, might there be an argument at some point to spin out your manufacturing to be an independent business from the Retail business? That's the first one.

Second one is about online. Can you maybe update on when you expect to achieve breakeven for your online business, specifically with Ocado? And then quickly related to that, with the new store-pick model, will you also offer click-and-collect option for the stores from which you are [ph] processing (53:11) orders from stores? And I'll actually ask a quick last one, Dordon net P&L impact please?

Well then, [indiscernible] (53:23). Manufacturing, building off the comments I made earlier, I'd probably make two points. The first one is part of what the group is as a food maker and a supplier of 25% of what we sell. So, the questions, I'd encourage you to reflect on when you are thinking about that, I'd be saying, well, it'd be quite interesting to find a partner really who don't want to be locked up into a single contract with us. And why would we want to give away any of the upside? So, no.

And secondly, I think food manufacturing is on a lower multiple than grocery. So, I've broadly told you everything I've thought about it and [indiscernible] (54:11). And online breakeven, we said – the guidance we gave originally was for Dordon. And we said we removed that guidance when we said we were going to be investing in Erith and store-pick. So, I think big picture, standing back, we're quite pleased with the progress in Dordon, as David was talking about earlier but that whole business is going to have some investment cost through store-pick and Erith. And click-and-collect pickup really is a possibility in the future, we'll see.

Click-and-collect [indiscernible] (54:49).

There, next to you.

Sreedhar Mahamkali from Macquarie. A couple of questions please. Firstly, fuel was a very strong growth in the half. Almost 60% of increase in cash intake is fuel. Can you give us any sense of how dilutive it was to margins? If not, at least directionally, was it much more dilutive than typically given such a large increase in fuel sales?

Secondly, onerous contracts, do you see much cash out on it beyond this year? Is there a sense you can give us in terms of magnitude, if there is something that you kind of got to in thinking?

Okay. Fuel, not dilutive. Interestingly, on fuel, just through the start of the period, half, and the end of the half, I think back at the end of January, fuel inflation in the market was probably running about 20%. And then at the end of July, it was still running [ph] near to 2% (56:00). So, there's quite a big change in the fuel dynamic. Volumes really improving as we went through the half. And so I'm – we're very positive about the performance and competitiveness of our fuel business.

In terms of onerous contracts, I think back in March, I said that we've got about 100 this year. And then beyond that, there may be up to another 50 but that kind of depends on whether we get out of any particular contracts we can get off. It takes two sides to agree to exit. So, we'll see. But I'm not expecting it to be particularly material beyond this year subject to spending the 100.

Good morning, guys. James Tracey from Redburn. Three questions from me. The first question is, you said the business is still in the Fix mode. What is it that you're looking for that will give you confidence to say that it is no longer in the Fix mode.

The second question is on online and what is the benefit to your profitability going on from shifting the mix towards a store-pick model, if any, ignoring investment costs if we can get the sort of ongoing profit?

And then the third one is on the margin. So, like-for-like its 3% in the half. Surely, that's enough to get operating leverage. I bet the EBIT margin was down a little bit. So, could you give us a breakdown of the drivers of the margin evolution there? Thank you.

Why don't I do online and margin, and then Dave you pick up on Fix. So, I think in terms of online, we've got one store-on-store pick, so we'll see. We'll be able to – there's no preclusions on doing store-pick across the country. And obviously, in Hartlepool where we're trailing it, it's a bit cheaper to pick and deliver from Hartlepool store than from Dordon. And I think the bigger driver on the profitability of the business is going to come from the fact that we'll be serving customers online by Morrisons.com. We may not have been able to do that with us in around.

And secondly, obviously, in a group level as those cash losses are eliminated over time that's going to be help improving rebuild the group profitability of the subset at £75 million to £125 million. So, a fair challenge on margin. But putting in context, I think building off the points I said to [ph] Rob (58:33) earlier, really being in Fix as a value retailer in the economic environment we're operating is absolutely right for this business to be aiming to be more competitive.

And we've said that we want to exit this period is becoming relatively more competitive. We've got a significant amount of self-help over and above the operating leverage and which we can recycle into the shopping trip, all the KPIs are going in the right way as I said. Margin, now, James, has to be [indiscernible] (59:00). And volumes are up, asset intensities are up, costs are down, we've delivered growth on growth. We can rebuild the profitability of the group through the £75 million to £125 million. And that operational gearing opportunity is there for us to manage. And at the moment, we're recycling it to be improving our competitiveness in the shopping trip. And in time, as we deliver that, we'll be able to drop through. Over and above that, we'll be continuing to deliver significant levels of sustainable free cash flow, I think. [indiscernible]

(59:35).

Yeah. A similar question. I mean, I think, we're doing quite nicely in Fix. So, it's turning out now to be a [ph] bad (59:46) place to be. And, clearly, we've described, I think, a concurrent approach now. We're gaining in confidence with regard Rebuild and Grow. But part of Fix, I think, in the end, is some of those plans have to crystallize as well, because we're building a broader and stronger and broadest and stronger business.

And there are specifics, I think, we've talked a little bit about refurbs. But bench strength in terms of talent is an important subject. And in my experience food retail is all about momentum and confidence. And so, we're building those each quarter.

And underlying competitiveness, underlying cost ratios, and keeping that shopping trip moving forward, I see very much all as a part of Fix, supply chain processes. We talk a little bit about relative catch-up in the market. It's something Trevor, I think, said day one when I started at least. And so, relative catch-up, that again captures a little bit of Fix, I think. Yeah.

Anymore? One more here.

Yeah. Sorry, it's Andrew Porteous, HSBC. Just a couple from me. In terms of the wholesale offering, how your Morrisons convenience [ph] offer is resonating to the (01:01:24) customers. Could you perhaps give us an idea of how your offers performed in the Rontec stores versus whatever format was in there previously?

And then, just coming back on the refit, I think, David, you described it as the best program you've ever seen. Could you perhaps give us some idea on what sort of cash paybacks you're seeing on – as you're refitting stores?

Yeah. Thank you. The Rontec conversion to Morrisons Daily have gone well. Customers quite like them. I think we opened the 33rd yesterday morning. And, I think, we said, we'll get to at least 50 by the year-end, [indiscernible] (01:02:01). And we've got a nice relationship with Rontec. And yeah, I think, it's an interesting conversion. We haven't really either side hasn't sort of made a huge change between sort of ambient and fresh in terms of either CapEx or footage. And that often illustrates the sort of convenience offer getting broader if you can get more fresh. So, I think over the years ahead, can still come. And so, yeah, on their side, they're very, very happy with the sales of this. So, I think that's going fine.

On the refits, well, our measures really have beaten our expectations with regard to disruption and. And so, if you got an 8-, 12- or in some cases 20-week program,, the idea that in a particular store, the like-for-like may suffer is self-evident, because everything is moving around. And I genuinely feel the team have listened quite hard to customers and colleagues and orientated that very well. That's a really important point. It's an important headline point, but it's also an important point that if you take too big a [indiscernible] (01:03:26). on a refurb, it's quite hard to pull up the other side. So, when I look back, to look forward to the rest of our program, I think that smoothing is really important for the eventual lift in like-for-like, which in itself is also ahead of our expectation.

So, I think, the estate, it's had those five or six, seven years of volume being hollowed out of it. And so, rebuilding the business outside to in is part of the renaissance at Morrisons. This refit program I see as really important. The flipside of it though is that if we see something that customers quite like, our approach has been to getting behind that and make it a national opportunity.

And so, I think, I mentioned in my words that florists, it's important to us. Fruit and veg will all be much, much better environment for the staff to work in and customers to buy from this side of Christmas in all but 90 stores, so 421 stores will have that treatment. [ph]

We're loving it. We love them (01:04:40) Fresh Look.

Yeah. We're loving it.

I think it's important to say, is maintenance CapEx, because I think the business and all our stakeholders really will be well served in the long-term [indiscernible] (01:04:55).

Good. Anymore questions? [indiscernible]

(01:05:02).

Okay. No? Good. Well, thank you very much for coming. And I'm sure you'll pick up with Trevor and the team over the next few days. And we look forward to seeing you at the year-end. Merry Christmas.