corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 12, 2009


Company▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
©
 
2001
-
20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Sir Ian Gibson, Chairman


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Morrisons Annual Results Presentation.


We follow the usual format that you are all very familiar with. Richard will tak e us through the


results and then Marc will explain the business highlights and story of the year and our


expectations for the future and then there will be a Q&A.


The overview,
 
I’m pleased to say is for us another good year of progress. We’re in challeng
ing


times you all know that, we’ve continued to deliver good growth in both sales and profits and in our


view a clear reinforcement that Morrisons offer is in tune with the customer and the economic


backdrop.


Underlying profit is up 13% to 636 million as
 
a result of which we’re pleased to be increasing our


dividend by 21% to £5.8. That’s in line with the progressive dividend policy that we laid out last


year, and is further confirmation of the Board’s confidence that our strategy is delivering sustainable


results.


We have two Board changes during the course of the year. The first is that Roger Owen retired in


January after 34 years in the business, and our Property Director. And we’re very pleased to


announce that [ph] Philip Cox (01:22), who is presently CEO and will remain CEO I assume of


International Power, is joining us as a non-executive director from the first of next month.


Now in 2007, we set out the building blocks of the Optimization Plan for Morrisons. I’m pleased to


say that two thirds of the
 
way through, we’re very much on track, and this is further proof that our


strategy and our offer is resonating with consumers, and that we’re well positioned for our future.


And now let me hand you over to Richard.


Richard Pennycook, Group Finance Director


Thanks very much, Ian. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As you will have seen from the


release, there are no surprises in our numbers. In 2008, we delivered what we set out to achieve,


despite a backdrop which worsened considerably as the year progressed.


We continued to grow sales and profits whilst also investing for the long term, both in our


infrastructure and in customer acquisition. Turnover
 
was up 12% with a large fuel related impact,


which I’ll break out in a moment. We were delighted with ou
r operating profit growth of 15% to £669


million, which included an energy cost headwind or circa £60 million.


Net debt increased as expected following a big year of investment, but our working capital


management remained tight. In setting our dividend policy last year we introduced a measure of


underlying earnings against which to apply it. Underlying profits were up more strongly than the


statutory profit before tax figure because we adjust out the effects of property transactions.


It will not surprise you that property gains were low this year at only £2 million. This was mainly


because we don’t have many surplus properties which we wish to sell, but also of course reflects


the fact that this isn’t a market to be selling them in.


The tax charge this year was 30% in line with guidance, and we would expect a similar level in the


coming year. So underlying basic earnings per share were up 16% and the dividend up 21%,
corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 12, 2009


C
ompany▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
© 2001-20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
2


resulting in dividend cover reducing slightly to 2.9 times as we took a first step towards bringing our


dividend cover in line with the rest of our sector.


Turning now to the components of operating profit, our gross profit percentage was flat year-on-


year at 6.3%, although as I illustrated at the half-year stage, there was a dilutive effect of high fuel


sales in the year, which accounted for 20 basis points.


Another factor was the release of a provision first taken in 2005-
’06 relating to the rationalization of


our distribution infrastructure. The original provision was £75 million, and after taking all final costs


associated with this restructuring, we were left with a balance to release of £8 million, which is


included in this line. The details of this can be found in note 21 of the accounts pack.


Allowing for these two effects, our clean gross profit increased slightly by approximately 10 basis


points despite the headwind effects of energy costs. We were able to mitigate these through


continued delivery of the Optimization Plan. The split between first half and second half was pretty


consistent with the prior year. If anything, the second half-year was slightly stronger than a year


ago, reflecting a very clean period of Christmas trading.


Other operating income includes rents that we receive from third parties for the units where we act


as
 
a landlord. And not surprisingly, we’ve seen some impact from empty units, including two sites


that were occupied by Woolworths. But overall income grew due to a number of good new schemes


being completed with high occupancy levels. We don’t expect income
 
on this line to grow further in


the coming year.


Our administrative expenses increased by 5%, which is well below our rate of sales growth, and


reflects our tight management of the cost base. Overall then, our operating profits grew by 15% to


669 million, and by 10 basis points to 4.6% of sales.


As usual, we break out here the component parts of the turnover growth in the year. Clearly, the


key element was the like-for-like store sales growth of 7.9% contributing £726 million of sales to the


business. New space contributed £214 million, a relatively low number considering that we opened


2.7% new space. This reflects the weighting of the openings towards the back -end of the year, and


the fact that new store sales densities are lower than those for mature st ores.


Fuel had a very significant impact. Average pump prices were 14% higher than the previous year,


and consumers looked for best value, particularly when prices peaked in August at £1.31 per liter.


We were quick to lead the market back down, and when oil prices again began to fall, we could see


that volume gains were coming through. So across the year, we generated volume gains of 11% as


a result of our reputation for strong value.


Turning now to cash flow, 2008 saw a step-up in our investment activities. Our operating cash


generation was strong with good working capital control and growth of 24%. The second and final


£100 million installment of our pension scheme funding contribution was made in the year, and


we’re comfortable that our pension schemes
 
are broadly in balance.


Despite the market turmoil and the impact this has had on investment values, we took the right long


term steps with our pensions a year ago, basing all our discussions with the trustees on very


prudent assumptions. And as a result, we do not perceive any need for further funding measures at


this time.


Our capital investment increased to £678 million, reflecting the space growth, the acquisition of the


freehold of our new distribution center at Sittingbourne, the purchase of freehold interests in a


further four stores, and the opening of our new abattoir at Spalding. These figures do not include