Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Thomas Higginson — Non-Executive Chairman, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David McCarthy — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
François G. Halconruy — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
James Alan Tracey — Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd.
Niamh McSherry — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Thierry Anid — Analyst, Barclays
Nick Coulter — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and thank you very much for coming today. Before we get started, I just wanted to say a few words about Sir Ken Morrison. I know many of you knew him. Everyone connected with Morrisons; past and present, of course, has been very sad to hear the recent news of his passing. He was a driving force in the business for more than 50 years and built it famously from the small family business he inherited to a top 100 Company. He did – as those who knew him, he did it in his own inimitable style, and of course, he was held in great affection by many. On a personal note, he was enormously encouraging to David and I as we set Morrisons on this new course, and he was an inspiration to us all and will be sadly missed.

So, moving on to the matters of the day. It's been a good year for Morrisons. Sales, profits and dividends are all up, and we look forward to the various challenges ahead knowing that we can grow the business now. I'll let David and Trevor take you through the detail, but I'm confident we have the right team in place and the right plan to Fix, Rebuild and grow Morrisons. We're also pleased to have completed the first year of the new dividend policy, and we're recommending a dividend of £0.0543 a share, in line with the plan for the dividend to be sustainable and covered at around 2 times by underlying EPS.

So, I wanted to just say thank you to the team for all their hard work over the last year and long may continue. David?

Thank you, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining, myself, the Chairman and Trevor. And to the extent that competitive pressures allow, I'll describe progress in the Morrisons' turnaround, the trading momentum achieved and the six priorities and as promised at the interim say a word on growth.

More and more colleagues are now listening hard to customers and responding quickly wherever possible. This improves the shopping trip and triggers the journey to making Morrisons a popular and accessible brand. As you know, the first phase of our recovery is Fix and we continue to drive and deliver three Fix objectives: to stabilize like-for-like sales, to improve capability and to reduce costs. In other words, to prove we can live within our means, ultimately recycling cost to fund future and profitable growth.

For the year just ended, we're pleased that like-for-like sales were positive. That makes five consecutive quarters on the bounce. And quarter four was 2.5% positive, our strongest quarter for seven years, and that's against tougher comparatives as we lapped last year's improvements. Strong leadership skills in the senior team are improving capability throughout the organization. We have more and more talented colleagues coming through and our succession plan is building. We're improving our processes and teamwork, removing wasted efforts, and introducing new technology around customers and products. I'll describe later good momentum in the six priorities formed after listening to stakeholders.

It's the delivery of those priorities that rebuilds Morrisons underpinned by three strong and widely held beliefs. First, that we must take a catch-up opportunity in many areas of the company. Second, that improving service and the shopping trip means more customers returned to Morrisons. And third, that execution is key across the whole business. This comprehensive turnaround means building new Morrisons where sales, profits, margins, cash and return on capital sustainably improve.

In the past year, we delivered a better shopping trip for more of the time. Customers noticed and responded. The improvements highlighted at the interims continued throughout the year. Customers tell us our prices are more competitive. Several waves of Price Crunch have succeeded in cutting and holding prices lower. We're on a journey towards a Morrisons price list that provides a great value shopping basket, full of items that matter most to our customers.

We continue to make progress on the most important retail measures. That's more customers, more volume and the morale of our people. As the chart show, the trends remain positive with sales volume and customer transaction growth strong. In fact, customer transactions have moved from negative 3.2% in quarter one last year to plus 4.6% in quarter four this year. And our two-year like-for-like has moved from negative 2.2% in quarter one to plus 2.6% in quarter four.

Customer satisfaction scores remained high and colleague engagements improved. And in the listening program entitled Your Say, our senior team hear first hand, from thousands of colleagues, how they and customers are feeling and what we can do to constantly improve. These charts show the improvements in detail. Checkout queues are shorter, consumer perception is improving, and the new ordering system reduced gaps on shelves in many stores by up to 30%.

A better, more consistent shopping trip is evident in our financial performance too, and this despite the scale of the change the business is going through. Trevor will speak in a moment, but we're pleased with £337 million of underlying profit. That's up almost 12% on last year and underpins our story. This includes the first £18 million of the £50 million to £100 million of incremental profits opportunity introduced at the prelims last year. And good progress too in working capital, cash flow and net debt now down to around £1.2 billion as guided and on track to be less than £1 billion by the end of this financial year.

Now, let me describe progress in the six priorities. First of all, we've crunched thousands of prices, a break from the traditional promotional cycle and held hundreds at below their original price. Across Market Street, we've expanded the Morrisons Makes It range of freshly prepared favorites such as hot cross buns, salmon swirls and freshly made sandwiches handmade in our stores by our food markers each day. In the autumn, we launched Best, the new premium own brand that proved popular with customers. It was especially popular at Christmas, in fact, fundamental to making Morrisons relevant and special to core customers.

We continue to reset major categories, introducing new and improved choice in areas such as Free From, Nutmeg, Food To Go, World Foods and Baby. And following the success of Best, there was a further brand launch in January 2017 with our new healthy living brand, Eat Smart.

We're delighted that our improved quality and competitiveness has been widely recognized. This year, the company of Meat & Fish Retailer of the Year, Bakery Retailer of the Year, Cheddar Cheese Retailer of the Year, Multiple Drinks Retailer of the Year, and International Wine Challenge Supermarket of the Year for the second year running. That's quite a list and spans the whole of Market Street, food makers and shopkeepers, turning Morrisons into a winning team.

And, of course, our productivity improvements are reinvested, so we become competitive across the whole store. In own brand, as we notch down price, we notch up quality and also modernize its presentation. And in Fruit and Veg, we've improved choice, product specification, home life and retail prices. At the heart of these improvements is our new More card, gathering valuable data so we get to know our customers better and Precima so we get to know our products better too.

I said that availability had improved, the queues are shorter and customer satisfaction higher. This is a colleague-led turnaround and every colleague's serving customers better, both in the office and in stores, is why more customers are shopping with Morrisons more often. For example, we now open a further checkout if a customer finds someone in front of them. And we've installed 300 new customer service desks. Greeters meet customers at our bigger stores at busy times. And we continued to introduce new and improved self-service and belted self-scan checkouts. We've invested more colleague hours at the front of our stores and in Fruit and Veg whilst making important contractual changes to reschedule hours where customers need them most.

But our biggest new initiative has been our ordering system. During the second half, we introduced automated ordering to all our stores and issuing grocery in Fresh categories in time for Christmas. It's capital-light using cloud technology and store-specific historic sales data to forecast stock requirements. This is the first for Morrisons. Results so far have been encouraging. It's simple to use, saves colleagues' time, stock levels are down, and availability is improving all the time. It'll be introduced across all product groups this year except clothing and it's great news all round.

Our new team responsible for local solutions, marketing and events are making good progress. A local choice is always popular with customers. For some stores, we've sold locally-grown seasonal produce including strawberries, apples, kale, sprouts, swede and leeks. We've also introduced local range across whole counties such as Lincolnshire veg and Yorkshire meats. Whilst in Scotland, we now have Scottish ales, sausages and butter, and we've improved performance from important events such as Hogmanay and Burns Night in Scotland and Saint David's Day in Wales. Already, we've grown local sales by 20% year-on-year, and we expect sales to increase this year and next.

Another new initiative is our search for local food makers. From Tuesday next week, we're on the road identifying the nation's best local products from growers, farmers, fishermen, and other food makers with the aim of finding 200 new local and regional suppliers. And we're doing a better job of limiting the sales impact of new local competitor openings against us. Our targeted marketing team employing data from our More card to keep more of our own customers.

Turning to services. Our existing services continue to increase in popularity as new opportunities take shape. In fuel, we remain very competitive for customers, sales and market share have grown consistently with like-for-like up 7.5%. The half year, I described the plan to update the cafés, a new environment, new menus, improved service and standards. Customers have responded well, café transactions and the like-for-like are up, and we're delighted to have been crowned National Café Chain of the Year.

Timpson are now in 150 Morrison stores and our new partnership is going well. In those stores where we now have a full Timpson offering including key cutting, shoe, tablet, watch and phone repairs, Timpson sales are up by an average of 40%.

Morrisons supermarkets are convenient places to pick up items too. Amazon Lockers are now in 400 stores. And after early success, we are planning a similar program for Doddle. And so far, we've identified more than 30 development opportunities in our car parks where we can locate small complementary retail developments and we expect the first to open this year, as well as concession in hand car wash and tire changing that are potential for many stores across the group.

Speed, teamwork, consistency and always putting customers first is our way of working. We continue to simplify and improve. The company has delivered over £1 billion of cost savings in the past three years and has more to go for. For example, ordering itself will make the company more productive, as well as more competitive, and we're reducing our in-store administration with the aim of removing, halving digitizing much of what we do. We'll improve the efficiency in our business between manufacturing and retail. And our relatively new procurement team are identifying potential goods not for resale cost savings, too.

We'll also continue to simplify the business for key stakeholders. For customers, we're improving range and choice, more local favorites, less national duplication. For colleagues, a simplified and bigger store bonus to reflect improved customer service. Our turnaround is colleague-led. Our ambition is a motivated and valued team of food makers and shopkeepers, sharing in their own and the company's success.

We've recently proposed to colleagues that entry pay points be raised to £8.50 per hour and as we await the final ballot, our proposal is supported by our union. And the retail team itself has improved with clearer lines of responsibility. We've recruited or promoted 150 store and area managers in the past year alone. We are building stronger win-win relationships with suppliers.

We've listened hard and are responding to how we can simplify just how we buy and sell. For example, we've introduced a standard supply agreement, removing several charges such as those for customer complaints and some legal checks, and are working together to reduce administration and cost. We're further developing Price Crunch which means lower prices for customers and simpler, more effective ways of working between ourselves and our suppliers.

The final priority rather is important too. A very large proportion of invested capital in this business is in its core supermarkets. And our Fresh Look refit programming that renewing that core is well underway. We completed 100 refits last year including a handful of extensions and we'll continue each year until the whole estate is in good shape, gradually improving our competitiveness. Fresh Look also makes our food makers' skills visible in areas such as meat, bakery, fish and café. And each colleague has a new uniform and new badge. Those at Market Street have freshly laundered whites every day. And we further improved the cleanliness of each of our supermarkets. These may seems small, less important details, but they're big and important to customers and colleagues, so I believe they're big and important for Morrisons too.

So, our summary list of progress in each priority continues as presented on this slide.

As a food maker and shopkeeper, we're differentiated in this market, and that's started to come through more and more in our stores. Our staff showing more of their skills. A butcher cutting a thicker steak for a customer. A baker making fresh blueberry pancakes for everyone. A fishmonger preparing salmon skewers and explaining their preparation. A florist providing a personal bouquet. Morrisons makes it and we make Morrisons. Together, we're aiming for this company to be a place where every effort is worthwhile, where we are proud to provide food that more and more customers can afford to enjoy.

Well, we've made a confident start towards the £50 million to £150 million incremental profit that I mentioned earlier. For example, we're working with Ocado to deliver profitability from our existing dot-com business service from Dordon, as average item price drop densities and better mix combined to improve profitability. We're looking forward to a bigger online business with the opening of Erith depot and the development of store pick, both with Ocado.

In wholesale, we're developing opportunities with Amazon for their customers, and even at this early stage, we're pleased with week on week on week of increasing demands. Wholesale is a growing opportunity for Morrisons in convenience too. The British convenience market is broad and diverse with three quarters of sales at this stage in the hands of independent retailers. In this channel, we've recently opened 10 Morrisons Daily stores that are owned and operated by Rontec. And whilst both parties have drawn the line under the Motor Fuel Group trial, today we're announcing a further tranche of 40 new stores with Rontec, all of which will be open by the interims. And we recently announced the revival of the Safeway brand where we're introducing a range of Safeway products to be sold wholesale to those independent retailers. Together with progress in popular and useful services and good work on lower interest payments, we've made a good start with the plan to build a broader and stronger Morrisons.

And this is how stakeholders can chart progress. The shopping trip is improving for customers. More customers finding Morrisons a place they like to go, buying more, more often. Colleagues leading from the front are motivated and value team sharing in the company's return to form. Suppliers building long-term partnerships, growing and serving customers better together. And the creation of value for shareholders, leading to sustained growth in total shareholder returns.

However, we remain in the Fix of this three-phase recovery with more to do and plenty to go for. I said earlier, capability is improving. However, the leadership team have only been together for just over a year. In fact, 2016 was the first Christmas they could really make their collective mark. They're now building a talented team across the length and breadth of the business. That team will drive new Morrisons further and further forward. And I believe there'll be more to come as that new talent has its impact.

The turnaround phases are concurrent, so whilst we're still very much in Fix, we're thinking through Rebuild and Grow. I've mentioned the component parts today, but I'll summarize the building blocks of Grow. We start from a very strong base. The balance sheet and cash flow are firm foundations upon which to build meaningful, sustainable and profitable future growth. That growth will continue to be capital-light and disciplined.

Every four weeks, we are reminded that we're just 10% of traditional market share in Britain, and only half that number online. So, there's room for meaningful growth as we move through the gears of recovery. By being more competitive and serving customers better, we believe we can achieve moderate and sustainable like-for-like volume growth.

For example, [indiscernible] (20:10) strength in own brands, Free From, Healthy Foods, Party, World Foods, Food To Go, Nutmeg and Horticulture, combined with better service, choice and selling volume through price underpinned by the Morrisons More card. In time, we'll open a trickle of new supermarkets each year, mainly renewal and replacements and a few in areas of geographic opportunity for new and profitable sales providing learnings for the rest of the estate via that vital Fresh Look refit program.

Investment returns criteria remain stringent and we expect to add a handful of supermarkets in 2018/2019. Online will grow beyond the area serviced by Dordon. As an addition, we deliver out of at least Erith and deliver on-store pick. This will introduce Morrisons.com into new geographies, whilst improvements to clothing and horticulture will accelerate their online presence, too.

Wholesale's serving more partners, such as Amazon and Rontec, whilst providing the Safeway brand to hundreds of convenience stores will employ capacity within our manufacturing business and remain capital-light. The opportunity to win more customers to drive higher volumes, while making Morrisons a popular and accessible brand are self-evident. And new services will also provide a profit stream by utilizing our freehold space and customer traffic. We'll continue to update the markets as we go, and we're encouraged by progress so far. In this important moment for the company, we're earning the opportunity to achieve profitable growth as we become a better food retailer throughout the recovery years.

Thank you very much for your attention and now over to Trevor. Thank you.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everybody. I will stick with the usual order this morning, a walk-through of the numbers, and then go through the detail on the financial elements of the plan.

Total turnover of £16.3 billion was up 1.2% for the full year. Operating profit was £468 million, up 49% on last year's £314 million equivalent. Profit before tax was £325 million. And underlying profit before tax was £337 million, up 39% compared to last year's £242 million equivalent, and up 12% compared to the £302 million equivalent which excluded prior year restructuring costs.

Finance costs are up for the year. The net charge is £145 million. This includes £56 million of costs relating to repayment of borrowings. Excluding these exceptional charges, underlying net finance costs are broadly flat at £97 million for the year. As guided, net debt fell again and ended the year at just under £1.2 billion over £550 million lower than a year ago, and £1.6 billion lower than peak.

As Andy said, we're proposing to pay a final dividend of £0.0385 per share which takes the full year dividend to £0.0543 per share, up 8.6%. Like-for-like turnover excluding fuel was up 1.7% for the full year, contributing £260 million as you can see from the turnover bridge. We were pleased that we again saw an improvement in like-for-like quarter-on-quarter. Like-for-like in quarter four was 2.5%. Online contributed 0.9% to like-for-like for the year, and then deflation eased towards the end of the year from its peak of 2.6% in quarter one and was flat for the final quarter.

As David described, customers are noticing and responding to the improvements we're making to the shopping trip. Transactions were up 4% for the full year and up 4.6% in the final quarter. As guided, the contribution from net new space was minus 2.2% due to the impact of the closure of underperforming stores. We will annualize the closure program in April, so the impact going forward is minimal, around 0.5% in Q1 and 0.2% for the full year.

Turning to fuel, deflation peaked at over 10% in the first half, but with the impact of weaker sterling and increasing oil prices in the second half, prices rose year-on-year. Total sales including fuel were up £195 million or 1.2% despite the 2.2% impact from the store closure program in the year. Excluding fuel, total sales were down 0.5%.

Operating profit was £468 million, 2.9%, up 92 basis points from last year's £314 million equivalent. For the year, items excluded from underlying operating profit were £36 million which is shown on the slide. Before these exceptionals, underlying operating profit was £432 million, up 8% on last year's £399 million, or 17 basis points to 2.6%. Three years ago, we announced £1 billion cost-saving program, and we have delivered savings of £393 million in the year, taking the total over the three years to over £1 billion.

As David set out, we are pleased with the progress against our target to deliver £50 million to £100 million of incremental profit from becoming a broader stronger business, and we have delivered £18 million this year. This is delivering real underlying organic growth with minimal incremental CapEx requirements, and we expect that this benefit will flow through to free cash flow.

On wholesale, we are pleased with the initial results, driving volume and increasing asset intensity by utilizing existing facilities and capacity to enter adjacent markets. For online, losses are continuing to reduce and we remain on track to break even through this channel. And underlying interest continues to fall as we pay back surplus facilities.

You can see the detail of the £12 million full year adjustments to underlying profit before tax on the slide. In September, I set out a net adjustment in the first half of £14 million. This is related to property disposal profits, charges relating to the early redemption of the USPP, financing charges and redemption of the bonds and pension interest income.

Looking at the main components of the full year charge, there is a charge of £56 million relating to the redemption of debt facilities and a profit of £32 million on the sale of properties and investments. This includes a £13 million profit relating to the completion of the disposal of our investment in Fresh Direct. On impairments on onerous contracts, there is a net credit of £6 million. Since the impairments made in 2014 and 2015, the performance has varied to an individual store level. So, we have booked a net write beck which is made up of three components. Freehold stores written back, freehold stores impaired and charges for onerous contracts.

Cash flow continued to be strong in the second half, delivering £531 million including disposals across the year. Again, we generated free cash post dividend before property disposals. As we said in September, we exceeded our £2 billion three-year cash flow target six months early, delivering £2.3 billion over the three years. We have continued to reduce net debt again and in the year at just under £1.2 billion in line with the lower guidance we gave in September.

Cash CapEx was £419 million, around £30 million below guidance. Cash outflow and onerous payments was £94 million in line with guidance. Proceeds from the disposal of properties and investments was £123 million, and the operating working capital inflow was £360 million for the year with the drivers being the same as the £318 million in the first half. And over the three years, we have now delivered £914 million. We are on track for net debt to be below £1 billion by the end of this year.

I've first showed these charts six months ago, and they show our progress on free cash flow and net debt. This chart shows the movement in net debt down £1.6 billion from its peak. The chart at the top shows free cash flow before capital returns, and the bottom chart shows free cash flow generated before capital returns, before property proceeds and before working capital improvement. As we said at the interims in September, we expect the sustainable free cash flow to continue.

On to the balance sheet. On the pension, the surplus on the balance sheet is £272 million, an increase of £86 million since last year. In the period with the trustees, we completed the triennial valuation and this also shows a funding surplus across the three schemes, and the assumptions in the valuation remained prudent.

Whilst schemes for all companies remain exposed to macro risks, particularly political and economic, we are pleased to have made progress on strengthening the balance sheet position this year and over the last three years since the time of the last review.

On debt, we continue to significantly deleverage the business. Gross debt has reduced by £717 million in the year, as well as net debt reducing by £552 million. During the year, we have redeemed the £250 million USPP, completed tender offers of £360 million across four bonds, and we also repaid a £200 million bond facility which had reached maturity. In addition, we did not renew a £150 million credit facility that expired in the period. Liquidity remains very strong. We haven't drawn on the revolving credit facility for over 16 months, and this facility runs until 2021. We have no covenants on any of our capital market instruments. And ROCE increased to 6.9%.

Looking at the elements of guidance for next year. On the cash flow, on cash CapEx, we have under spent versus guidance by around £65 million over the last two years. We, therefore, expect this timing difference to unwind in 2017 and 2018 and now expect CapEx to be around £450 million to £500 million for the year.

On onerous contracts, we expect a similar level of cash outflow in 2017-2018 as last year. We will continue to look for opportunities to buying freeholds as they come up, although no allowance is made for this in the guidance. And on pensions, we expect to open our defined contribution scheme later this year at which point the backdated contributions provided in 2015-2016 will crystallize as a cash outflow.

Moving on to the P&L. On the pension, we expect the P&L charge to be higher this year due to the reduction in the real discount rate year-on-year. We expect this non-cash impact to be an increase of around £20 million. We expect depreciation will be in the range of £420 million to £430 million, reflecting the mix of the CapEx. Gross debt has reduced and we now expect the interest charge for 2017-2018 to be between £75 million and £80 million. And lastly, this year is a 53-week year. We estimate the benefit on sales will be around 2% and around £5 million on profit.

At the interims, we said we plan to change the way reported like-for-like turnover from this year and that we wanted to flag the change well in advanced. From quarter one, we will report the headline ex-fuel like-for-like as total group like-for-like, and this will include what is currently other sales which includes wholesale. We will continue to report the like-for-like for the supermarkets and the related metrics. We will also continue to share the contribution to like-for-like from sales of three central dot-com facilities as we do now.

Sales from Morrisons.com [ph] fulfilled free (32:59) store pick will be reported as store sales and we will continue to share the items per basket and transaction metrics going forward relating to sales made in or through our supermarkets. And to be clear, these metrics won't include any wholesale sales including those to Amazon which will be included in wholesale.

In September, we also said we would review the lease multiplier used in the ROCE calculation. We will continue to include an adjustment for property leases. I think it's important that there is consistency between the lease adjustment applied when looking at debt and returns. The purpose of using a multiplier of rent is to get a proxy for the capital invested. This is currently off balance sheet. The multiplier is a function of the life of the rented assets and the yield. The average lease length is a known number. The longer the lease length, the higher the multiplier. And to be conservative, we have assumed that we don't exercise any break clauses.

And for the yield or the discount rate, the lower the discount rate, the higher the multiplier. Based on these variables, we will adopt a multiplier of 10 times, and the key driver of the difference between 10 and 14 times is simply that 10 times uses weighted average lease length, versus 14 times which uses the expected life of an equivalent asset.

I think it's important to note that this gives a better estimate of the lease adjusted capital base of the company. The impact of the lease standard when adopted in 1920 is obviously still to be worked through. For context, a 10 times multiplier is in line with the maximum, Moody's would apply, and at 10 times lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR is 2.5 times.

Here, the plan describes how we think about the business and how we are delivering an improvement in the economics, the operational levers that will deliver improving returns for shareholders, of volume growth, margin improvement and increasing asset intensity. David has spoken about the meaningful growth opportunity. This turnaround will be powered by listening to our customers, and this will guide how we continue to improve. And when we improve the shopping trip, customers do respond.

There is a significant amount of self-help. We are confident that we will deliver £50 million to £100 million incremental profit for making Morrisons a broader and stronger business. Our commitment to the capital allocation framework, capital discipline and the generation of significant levels of sustainable free cash is clear. The balance sheet is strong, freehold and pension specifically, and both gross and net debt have reduced significantly. The balance sheet will get stronger. We will continue on this path whilst in the Fix phase of the turnaround, working to rebuild profit and lower debt. We have talked through our approach to capital allocation consistently, and we continue to be guided by the principles we set as we've strengthened the business for all our stakeholders.

Thank you. And now let's move to Q&A.

Okay. So, thanks, Trevor. Thank you, David. We'll go to Q&A. So, we'll start with Dave McCarthy for whom size matters.

Thank you. David, you said earlier that the industry can't defy gravity and inflation increases will be passed on. It seems to me, you've got three choices. You can pass some of it on, which is then going to hurt your cash margin and your percentage margin. You can pass all the increase on, in which case you would protect your cash margin, but your percentage margin – gross margin would come down, or you can pass on the full cost increase plus extra to protect your percentage margin, which then potentially leaves you vulnerable for companies that don't. What's you inclination on those three options which is one most likely? Are you going to protect your cash margin or protect your percentage margin?

Thank you, David. That's a very, very important question. I feel in our case we have to see it in the [ph] rounds (37:26). We are in Fix as we talked about our company. And we're kind of reconnecting with our core customers. How I feel about the business is when we talk to customers about the things they love about Morrisons, the first thing out of their mouth is great value for money. Now, this is them speaking, not me. And so, how we deal with choppy water with regard to sharp reductions in the value of sterling or commodity price increases with our suppliers, with our productivity, with our own volume hoping, looking to sell more volume through price will be a measure of the managements. In the end, it will be a measure of the people in the business.

So, I have to say, just in my job, I don't quite see it as sort of beautifully parceled like that. I mean it's just kind of a view. And I genuinely feel in a company which on the one hand is in the value part of the industry, price is massively important as you know. On the other hand, absolutely, we're not a one-club golfer and the other two things they say they really like about the company is fresh food which they trust and the scale of service they get from our own people which is very good.

So, I think there's a lot still to look forward to as the recovery of the company takes its course. Again, I think we have to just take into account, if you like, the rough or the smooth. It's the challenge of the business this year. I think for our customers though if we've had some success in this past sort of 22, 23 months, a couple of years, it's because we started to reconnect with our core customers, and many of whom are on a budget, and therefore, we must respect that in the work we do.

So, we'll be working very hard to repay the trust that consumers have in Morrisons. And genuinely, if customers find prices that they feel don't offer great value for money, they should come on to me. So, I'll be managing the business in the [ph] rounds (39:34), but I'm confident in the context of the industry. I think as Trevor remarked this morning, that we're not as big as one or two others in the sort of general merchandise bought in dollars.

And I think we're blessed that – we spoke about Ken earlier, but we're blessed with vertical integration, which means we know we are in command of a number of our own costs. Two thirds of what we sell is British. We can do more of that. We're on the road next week for more British suppliers. So, my point about the full answer is that there's more moving parts within this. I see it as a challenge for the business. And it's a challenge that we must do well in, in the context of the industry and in the judgments and the perception of our consumers.

Hello. François Halconruy from Morgan Stanley. I have two questions, please. The first one is on your core profits. If I look at the year-over-year movement in your profits and exclude the benefit from lower losses in online, probably and the disposal of your convenience business, considering recovering like-for-likes and disposals of some underperforming stores, actually the profit improvement in your core business is actually pretty minimal. My computation would suggest at least. Could you comment a little bit on that? And you used to give the profit bridge so if you can help us understand if it's a case of you reinvesting 100% of the benefits that you're getting from the cost savings or not? And how do you think about this next year? How do you think you can grow the profits from the core?

And the second question is on your new initiatives. Actually it's a bit of a double question, but the first one is on, so your franchise convenience business with MFG, why have you stopped the trial there? And the second one is on the Morrisons at Amazon, if you can comment a little bit on the unit economics of this trial, please?

So I'll pick up the first bit and David, do you want to do MFG?

Yeah.

Well, it's one way at looking at it. I think we look at it slightly differently. So, I can simplify and write down the drivers of the profit growth in the year to two parts. The first half is £18 million coming through against the commitment we made to deliver £50 million to £100 million by making Morrisons a broader and stronger business. The second half is coming through the trading performance and really operational gearing of that like-for-like benefit.

When we exited the M Local business, I think we said in our very next meeting that those proceeds were being reinvested into the business straightaway into the price list. And so, when I stand back and look at the P&L, I think really there's those two drivers, starting to deliver on that commitment to be a broader, stronger business, £18 million balanced operational gearing trading.

In terms of how we think about the cost savings, in terms of our body language, in terms of the business, actually the purest form of productivity this business is going to have is going to be sales growth. And when we look at the benefits from productivity, we think straightaway about being in Fix phase of the turnaround, and we're guided right by those six priorities every week when we're back at base, and we're thinking about how can we recycle them to help us serve customers better and become more competitive. And everything we're doing is driven really by listening to our colleagues and our customers, and that is genuinely powering what we choose to do to improve the shopping trip for customers. And so, we'll continue on that path through the next year and see how we get on.

I think with the Motor Fuel Group, we had those five stores going, and I think I said at the half year that we were figuring out how we would be able to share returns three ways purely because that's how that model works with their contract managers in a particular site. And in the end, there wasn't enough in it for the business, and I thought it was the right thing to call an halt to that. Having said that, I thought we learned a lot from those stores and essentially working with another retailer in sort of doing that way, which I genuinely believe will help sort of new Morrisons where wholesale becomes important, which brings me on, I think, to Amazon. I mean, we have our own commercial arrangements with Amazon.

I think we've said before that it's their customers. We sell into them with a margin, and it works perfectly well for us. I think in terms of, will that become meaningful to the company? Then in the end, that's up to Amazon's customers whether they like the services that Amazon provides. Since we started the relationship, though, I think first of all, it's working well between the two companies. We've gone, I think, from three channels to five. Our relative sales, the way it works, it kind of seems to go up most weeks. So, if you go right back to base, we're around 75%, I think, up in volume since we started. On one of their channels, I think 18 of the top 20 items, its own brand, Morrisons are at the top lines. And so, from our side, I think steady as she goes and it's something I'm looking forward to more growth from.

And specifically, on the channel, where you're doing the picking yourself, I mean, the wholesaler, I get it, but the one that you're doing the picking yourself, how do you think about this? Is that something you're happy with or...?

Yeah. I think that's part of looking ahead. I see more postcodes coming in to that. And again, it's there. In the end, it is their core how they want to take that forward. But what is called Morrisons at Amazon is popular with customers. It's especially popular on Sundays. I think 10% of the week is Sunday. And that's just an indication that customers quite like this idea that the delivery comes quite soon. And it's kind of a convenience. It's a kind of digital convenience. It's like an online convenience operation. So, I mean, again, for us, it looks like it's a good way of getting our brand profitably into the hands of more consumers through a brand that customers seem to like, Amazon.

Okay. Yeah, just behind, over there.

Hi, guys. James Tracey from Redburn. One question for Trevor. Just on Note 20 of the commercial income. You've got the percentage of values of stock expensed and you can see by dividing commercial income by the percentage that value stock expense fell 2% year-over-year. Revenues were up 1% [indiscernible] (47:03) imply gross margins up 200, 300 bps. So, can you comment on what [indiscernible] (47:08) gross margin did, please? Thank you.

Well, I haven't got a calculator. The way I think about it is when I run that through, I think you could deduce that the gross margin running through the value stock expense is down by around 30 bps. If you decide to believe that that is an accurate read on the gross margin, which for reasons we've discussed in the past it isn't. But if you follow that through, against that, you've actually got a dilution effect from fuel, which would come off against that 30 bps, maybe a bit lower.

Within the gross margin, what's really happened, though, that gets you to there is you've seen a significant reduction in the actual [ph] bought in (47:55) margin, offset in the gross really by two things. The first would be a significant reduction in the cost of [ph] vouchering (48:05). For a large part of the year, we were annualizing the benefit of the decision to eliminate Match from what was the Match & More card. And secondly, you've got an improving dynamic in the online margin as average item price mix and how we trade that business improves. So, I think that's the way I would interpret that note really.

Thanks, Trevor.

Thanks. Niamh McSherry, Deutsche Bank. I have three questions. The first one is actually about stores opening in 2018-2019. I know it's only a few stores, but could you tell us if those are sites that you currently own, sites that you will buy or sites that you will lease? And also maybe some color on the kind of competitive set, the area where you're going to open stores that makes you confident that you can open stores profitably in this environment.

The second one is a quick one on deflation in Q4, if you have a number for that. And then third one is – sorry – back to François' question about fulfilling online orders for Morrisons at Amazon. Will or do Amazon pay you a fee for picking that order or is it purely a percentage margin and kind of model? Thank you.

I think it was flat in quarter four deflation. I think it was 2% for the whole year flat for Q4. The detail of arrangements with Amazon do remain confidential as sort of commercial arrangements. I feel on new stores I think it will be a mixture. If you remember, there was a pipeline of stores in the business and we went through all of those, and took a very large number out.

I mean, the hurdle rates that we have a high hurdle rates in a sense purifies the quality of a site, it we should do. I'm confident that when we look around Britain, there are locations outside of renewal and replacement where a decent Morrisons can be well received. And the type of criteria separates the finance really around visibility, the customers set that's outside of five minutes – sort of the competitor set outside of five minutes is properly important, is one that we're familiar with. And I'm confident that we've had a look and we can see some sites like that. So, if I think of somewhere like Hove, or the west of Sheffield, the west of Brighton, these are places that still are opportunities.

So, I think looking ahead, it's a handful. Some of it is replacements and renewal, which is an important thing for the company. Remember, the company has been through a number of mergers and acquisitions over time. So, the original company is a very pure supermarket estate. The later parts of it are slightly more of a mixed bag as we know. And so I just see it as part of the evolving opportunity for the company in a sort of disciplined way where we're very alive to the fact that consumers change their habits and these are things. So, I think we're going to be fine.

Just on the deflation, the first half was 2%. The full year, 1.2% deflation.

One back, and then we'll go to the [ph] sides (52:01).

Thanks very much. Morning. Rob Joyce from Goldman Sachs. Two from me. Firstly, just back on inflation, can you say whether you are seeing or expect to see gross margin pressure from input costs? I just ask that in the context of John Lewis who've said this morning that they expect the rate of changing selling prices to significantly – be significantly slower than the rate of change in input costs in 2017.

Second one is just on the P&L guidance you've given for the year. It looks to me like you're saying there's a sort of incremental £25 million headwind at the PBT line this year, if I net those numbers off. Consensus is looking just for a slowdown in PBT growth of £5 million this year from around £35 million to £30 million. Is consensus right to assume sort of underlying acceleration in PBT growth there for? Thank you.

Well, I think I'd pull out two sentences in the first paragraph in the outlook statement. I think the first one would be that we're confident we continue to turnaround and grow Morrisons. And secondly, the incorporated in our plan sentence. And the two headwinds we pull out specifically, we have pensions of £20 million, depreciation of £20 million to £30 million. And we just share those because they're relatively hidden variables of the P&L which I think is important to give you guys a heads up on so that you can model them how you wish and consensus can reflect the sum of the modeling. And I think that would be that on that bit.

The implication, if you're happy with consensus that that kind of PBT growth underlying is accelerating, should accelerate this year?

Well, if we weren't happy with consensus, it would have been in the outlook statement.

And just on the comments about inflation not been passed through, or been passed through much more slowly to consumers, what we've heard this morning.

Well, I haven't seen what John Lewis has I said, we've been a bit busy. Well, there is going to be inbound cost pressure, but I think David set out some of the key variables of that, right, at the start of the Q&A in terms of there's a number of moving parts. Yeah. Those inbound cost pressure, particularly on imported items. And there's a whole number of variables in how that plays out from contract lengths to the mix of how we sell, how we source, and how we choose to price. And we'll be aiming to deliver on the intent that David set out about becoming more competitive.

Specifically now, is it causing gross margin pressure or not the input cost inflation?

I won't really comment on now because we're in quarter one now.

Thanks.

Hi. Thierry Anid from Barclays. A question for Trevor. I'm on the credit side. Just wanted to have a bit of clarity on the guarantees of the Morrisons bonds. So, currently they have a guarantee from Safeway Limited. But given that you've tender bonds, there's a lot of uncertainty in the market of whether or not when the Safeway bonds are going to mature in 2018. Is this guarantee still going to be applied to the current Morrison bonds?

I'll take that one. I think I'll make three points. I think the guarantee explanation is very clear in the bond documentation. Secondly, the cross guarantees are in the RCF documentation, which rolls through until expiry in 2021 currently. And thirdly, to make any other comment, other than that, I think then to say, it's a matter we'll comment on at the time when it would be appropriate to comment, when we have something to say, is probably all I can really say on it. But it's in the bond docs.

There's a lot of different legal views out in the market in terms of conditional guarantees et cetera. But in terms of 2018, is there plans to do a restructuring from a corporate structure point of view in terms of dissolving an entity being Safeway and changing the guarantors?

On the 9th of March 2017 all I can really say is that in the bond documentation, the guarantees are very clearly documented. And there's nothing really the company can say about that or would say, until it has anything to say, without being anymore convoluted than that. But it's in the docs.

Just I've seen a lot of legal docs and it's the most complicated.

Are you talking about the bond ones?

Yeah, the bond ones. I mean, our lawyers internally and lawyers across the city having different views. Anyways, thank you.

Thank you.

Don't want to be a hand injury as a result of the last question you asked. But anyway, thank you for the question.

Thanks. It's Nick Coulter from Citi. One for David and then a couple of follow-ups for Trevor now that he's been warmed up [indiscernible] (57:42). [indiscernible]

(57:43)

So, firstly, for David, could you comment on availability and how that's moved into Q4 from Q3? It strikes me that SBO seems to have had quite a large impact on how you're trading and availability. So, just to get a sense of improvement that you're seeing in that dynamic first. Thank you.

Well, thank you. It definitely has improved though. And the key thing, as you know very well, probably from 20 years in other companies that it stops a lot of double handling. And the idea is the fixture runs down not runs out, and then the merchandise that comes in goes straight out.

And so, in a sense, the EPOS, as long as the stock record in the branch is accurate, then the order should be more purified. And genuinely, we have seen that. There are still, I think I said in the notes, around 30% less gaps, what we call gaps. So, I'm properly excited by it. And it's fantastically motivating for Morrisons to be able to move in this way without kind of the wheels coming off in a sense because it's a company that I think relied so heavily on a way of work and that worked beautifully sometime ago, but we're starting to show some strains in sort of – in nowadays. So, I feel very confident that it's the right thing we have done.

Like all these things that they're kind of iterative in that once the ordering system passes through Valentine Day or Mother's Day, it kind of learns that and it kind of helps it. Once it goes through an item lower in price, it learns that and what happens to the velocity. So, I think I said it's not going to be on clothing because clothing despite growing fantastically well for us remains relatively small, [indiscernible] (59:46) push, which I think is right at the moment. So, as long as we keep working on it, I think the gaps will obviously keep coming down.

The other thing it does, it allows us with – combined with Precima which is just helping us understand what customers truly value in each item. It allows us to manage the shelf space much better. And so, as we gradually recycle net square footage into things people want to buy as people change, we change, I think the Morrisons' ordering system will help us to do that.

So, I see that it's been an important move, actually, and we were able to put it in rapidly because few people kind of knew the end of the story, and also because our own people took to it very well, I think.

But on basis, you can't sell, what is it there and given that last Christmas [indiscernible] (01:00:42) it feels like that is having that should kind of lead to a very positive impact on how you're trading the business?

Well, I'd like to think that if you respond quickly to what customers say quite specifically then it should be a broad-based recovery of the company. [indiscernible]

(01:01:07)

The thing is if you can rely on the underpin of a strong effective ordering system, it does allow you to do the bits and pieces on cutting steaks and making hot cross buns and stuff. So, it does allow us, ironically, almost, to differentiate the company more and more in the market, I think. That's kind of how I see it. Sorry, Andy.

No. All I was going to say is someone who sort of drifts around the stores in a kind of vague, non-executive capacity. One of the – for the Morrisons watchers, one of the things that's been most reassuring to me is how store managers sometimes refer to their heritage as Safeway store managers or Morrison store managers. And there's always been a healthy skepticism of new IT systems amongst the core Morrisons store managers.

And they've been tremendously welcoming of this new system in the sense that it has made a real difference to their stores. And they were the most cynical bunch of all. So, that's been a great reassurance to me in a kind of anecdotal way that the system's really taking hold.

Thank you. Then a couple of follow ups for Trevor, if I may. On the £18 million in the context that I think, it's a £717 million reduction in gross debt that you mentioned. You're able to at least directionally guide us on how much of that £18 million is down to interest reduction.

Underlying interest is down from 99% to 97% in the year.

So, I'm guessing they're a bit sort of going up and down within that context in revolvers, et cetera, et cetera. So, you're basically saying its £2 million in the £19 million.

Last year, 12 months ago, I said that we'd completed on the USPP and gave the guidance of £100 million for the year with that behind us. We then completed a tender halfway through the year for, I think, £153 million. That basically is the delta between the guidance and the actual. And the last tender was completed, the cash went out the door last day of the financial year.

Okay. So, I guess you need more than £2 million for this year and considerably more going into next year, doesn't it?

Well, guidance for the year ahead is for underlying interest to be between £75 million and £80 million.

Okay. Well, I think we're drifting into a nice conversion here rather than Q&A. So, I think probably actually now is the time could you perhaps come up and have a chat as we finish because I think we have to sort of knock it on the head at this point.

So, thanks for coming. As I say, we will be here to take questions and answers. But thank you for your time this morning and we'll see you soon. Thank you.