Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Thomas Higginson — Chairman, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Director, Chief Finance & Commercial Officer, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Bruno Monteyne — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
Maria-Laura R. Adurno — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Dusan Milosavljevic — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Sreedhar Mahamkali — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
David McCarthy — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Nick Coulter — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Charles Allen — Analyst, Bloomberg Intelligence

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Preliminary Results for Morrisons. And thanks everyone for coming along today. It's been another good year for Morrisons with sales, profits and returns all growing and the balance sheet and cash flow remaining strong. The current retail scene in Britain is dynamic and ever-changing. But one of the recent constant has been the progress at Morrisons and that's down to the dedication and hard work of the whole team. We've got Trevor and David here today, of course. But I'd like to say a thank you to all the Morrisons colleagues who contributed to that and worked so hard over the last year.

As you know, alongside the ordinary dividend this year, the board here, again, delighted to be announcing a special dividend of £0.04 a share today bringing the total ordinary and special dividend for the year to £0.126 a share, up almost 25% on the year, and that's very pleasing given the strong balance sheet with low debt, strong freehold base and pension surplus.

So, on that note, I'd like now to hand over to David and Trevor to talk us through the details of the year.

Thank you, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the Chairman, Trevor, and myself here today. And as usual, as far as competitive pressures allow, I'm going to describe our progress.

As I said at the prelims, it was a busy year with lots going on. Continued into the second half a glorious summer and the highs of the World Cup, followed by a more challenging autumn as customers were cautious in more uncertain times. But the Morrisons team listened hard, responded quickly, provided great value and good quality when it mattered the most.

And at the busiest time of the year, Christmas and Hogmanay sales were strong, and 2018 ended well. As I've said before, we're not distracted by events or the ebb and flow, rather we're adaptive, we listen, we learn. Our convictions remain constant throughout. We have a relative catch-up opportunity. We keep improving for customers and execution is key. In eventful times for consumers, companies, and investors, it's worth repeating right at the start, for this audience what this turnaround is all about. We see our growth opportunity as meaningful and sustainable. We're rebuilding the profitability of Morrisons. And we're developing a strong track record of growth and capital returns. As I'll describe later, Morrisons is distinct in many ways and our consistency is making us increasingly attractive to all stakeholders.

A quick recap on how our strategy works. It's simple and pragmatic enough. We're well on with three concurrent phases of Fix, Rebuild, and Grow, a framework that requires bold and important decisions to be made. How we achieve these phases we summarize as six, five, and four. That's the six priorities you are familiar with, and I'll update on in a moment, supported by five ways of working; customers first, teamwork, freedom in our framework, listening and responding and fifth, improving our operations and that means selling not just stocking controlling costs and growing profits whilst removing wasted effort often called productivity. And stretching ambitions for our four stakeholders of customers, colleagues, suppliers, and of course shareholders. These ambitions are truly aligned. Doing the right thing for customers is also the right thing for colleagues, the right thing for suppliers and the right thing for shareholders.

So how did we do? Well, it was the third year of positive like-for-like. Profit before exceptionals up 10% on a 52-week basis and up 34% in the last three years. Debt remains low and both balance sheet and cash flow strong. £0.126 per share in dividends for shareholders. And most pleasing of all there was another big increase in customer satisfaction, particularly during Christmas and New Year and in the most important areas for customers of products availability and colleague friendliness. As well as our supermarkets, other areas grew too. We accelerated wholesale to McColl's more quickly than planned. And together with good progress on our wholesale partners means we achieved our initial £700 million annualized sales early.

Morrisons.com expanded through the new Erith depot and store pick of Morrisons stores. It's now available to 75% of UK households up from 50%. We've now introduced more than a 1,000 popular and useful service points on our supermarket sites. We opened three new stores which are loved in the communities they serve and are inspiring us with new ideas for the whole estate.

Now over on those six priorities. Great value, authentic British, fresh food made by our skilled food makers is at the heart of what we do. Throughout Market Street Fish, Meat, Fruit & Veg, Florist, Deli, Bakery, Oven Fresh and Cake Shop, Morrisons Makes It as a distinct brand for customers. Customers understand how these plus other favorites are now part of the Morrisons price list. Baskets are the most popular items they regularly buy and where we work hard to ensure the best value for customers. We've discussed the examples of potatoes and eggs before where we invest in supply improving both quality and price.

This year we completed carrots, investing in new grading and packing technology at our Flaxby produce site, resulting in better margins and better retail prices.

It was a good year for own-brand innovation, Naturally Wonky, Savers, Nutmeg, our new vegan range V Taste, our Little Kitchen children's meal range and two new healthy ranges named Fresh Ideas and Counted are all proving popular with customers. We continue to improve the quality of our own-brand and we will be redoubling our efforts this year. We're committed to reducing salt, sugar, and saturated fat, providing customers with alternatives to help them lead healthier lives. And for caring for the environment and sharing where possible that own-brand packaging is recyclable, reusable or compostable.

As we become more competitive for customers, Morrisons food makers and shopkeepers gain recognition. Here are some examples from a growing list of which our colleagues are rightly proud; Own Label Retailer of the Year announced in the first half; more recently, Supermarket of the Year; Food and Farming Retailer of the Year, Multiple Beer and Multiple Wine Retailer of the Year. And the Christmas spirit came early with our Best and Free From Mince Pies and our Best Hand Decorated Christmas Cake winning both the Good Housekeeping and BBC Good Food awards.

As I said earlier, customer satisfaction again improved, up 20% over four years. It's probably the single most important measure of our continued progress because it's constant real-time feedback of what our customers actually think about Morrisons. It's an online questionnaire completed voluntarily by thousands of customers every week, rating key measures such as checkout queues, availability and staff friendliness. We aspire to improve still further, in fact, to be outstanding in service.

Our butchers, bakers, fishmongers, 101,876 food makers and shopkeepers are what make Morrisons distinct. Our skilled butchers are professionally qualified. They cut 5 million steaks last year that meat counts as exactly to the thickness and weight our customers ask for. Our bakers made 2.3 million hot cross buns last year, baked from fresh dough made in store throughout the day every day. And we're introducing florists to make single stem fresh flower arrangements exactly as customers want. We'll continue to invest in our colleagues striving to provide outstanding service that's highly valued by our customers.

Improvements for customers this year also included the expansion of Morrisons.com that I referred to earlier, launching the Morrisons More app which allows customers to collect and redeem digital loyalty points and to receive personalized offers and useful recipes direct to their mobile phones. And today we're announcing a trial with Center Parcs for their guests to have Morrisons.com delivered direct to their holiday lodges just before they arrive.

I'm pleased to report that local had another good year. Elements of local are exactly that, truly local individual items sold in individual stores. For example, real Devonshire Apple Juice from Four Elms Farm that supplies our Plymouth store in Devon. Other local items grow to become regional and some even national. Squeaky Cheese made from local Yorkshire milk was first seen at our food maker was first seen at our food maker roadshow in June, was in 40 local stores in July and is now in 75. Local eggs started in 60 stores in June and are already in more than 330. Sales from local suppliers were up a further 27% during the year and has now almost doubled in the past three years.

Morrisons supermarkets have always been at the hearts of the community they serve. Being relevant to local communities is very important for us and our customers. Some stores in areas lend themselves especially well to local. This is worked into our new stores in Fresh Look program. For example, our new stores in Abergavenny, in St Ives opened with a total of 550 local items between them sourced from food maker events hosted ahead of those two store openings.

We're improving important regional events too and better targeting certain customer groups. Hogmanay sales were up 4.5% year on year. St David's Day was up 23%. And Ramadan was up 13%. We've been improving awareness of Morrisons among students. For example, attending more freshers' fairs and through our More for Students Club. Sales at our autumn student event were up over 5% year on year.

Customers in our new Baby Club receive offers on their favorite items in find-out-first about baby events. And we again increased the range and space allocated to British seasonal items in stores popular with tourists and holidaymakers, growing sales well ahead of the rest of the estate in those stores. Services are helping make Morrisons supermarkets more popular destinations for customers.

We recently passed the landmark of over 1,000 new service points introduced at our stores in recent years with partners such as Amazon, Timpson's, and Doddle, including 50 more Doddle locations in the second half. And we're trialing other services such as barber shops and Travel Money kiosks. Car – car care and tire change services are growing rapidly with more than 60 now on our sites with partners such as We Buy Any Car, Car Park Valeting, and Autoglass. We expect the number to increase substantially this year, including electric car charging points planned at up to 100 stores.

We've now opened nearly 50 Morrisons Daily convenience stores on our own petrol forecourts; shared learnings in operating costs, store layout, range, merchandizing, and promotions as shared with our wholesale partners as this format becomes formulaic.

As we simplify and speed up, productivity improves, which itself is creating more opportunity to simplify and speed up. It is a virtuous circle which will create further significant cost savings for many years to come. We simplified the way we work with suppliers, building collaborative relationships and a consistent framework around our ways of working. I've spoken before about how our new automated ordering system is enabling a new forecasting system. This end-to-end improvement is still in its early stages and we have more to go for as our systems self-learn to finesse orders further.

We've made changes to improve the distribution network as we get our skates on to absorb the new wholesale channel. We've invested in increased capacity and efficiency, for example, improving goods-in and goods-out at Bellshill in Scotland and in the new third depot at Swan Valley in Northamptonshire. So, we're making good use of existing assets. And in the longer term – in the longer term network plan, we're looking at robotics and automation.

We've now completed almost 300 Fresh Look store improvements. They've helped us develop new ideas and innovate initially Fruit & Veg, Free From, Food To Go and Café. And more recently, Nutmeg, Home & Leisure, Toys, Garden and Party. We've plenty more stores to improve through Fresh Look and plenty more ideas to get on with.

And as I've said, our new stores and biggest refits are providing us with inspiration and a great place is to try new ideas. We're delighted that our new St Ives store was selected by the IGD from over 750 stores in more than 50 countries to be on its short list of the top five global new stores of the year. And our very busy Wood Green store in London is our first to be designed around its food market and food-to-go.

It was an important year for wholesalers reaccelerate to supply to McColl's, and together with progress with other partners achieved our target of £700 million sales of annualized wholesale earlier than planned. On our own forecourts and or in partnership with Rontec or Sandpiper, Morrisons Daily convenience stores are now trading in 115 locations.

We look forward to starting to supply the remaining 300 also ex-McColl's stores towards the end of 2019 and still expect to achieve our target of £1 billion sales of annualized wholesale in due course. In addition, with McColl's, we're just about to trial converting 10 of their stores to Morrisons Daily stocking a wide range of Morrisons own brands and national brands.

Safeway is an important part of our relationship with McColl's, and we plan to grow the number of products within the range over the coming months. And Safeway is also now an important part of our new partnership with MPK. We converted two of their stores to Safeway Daily, just small stores but an interesting trial as the Safeway name returns to the high street for the first time since 2005.

Our business with Amazon continues to grow in all these channels especially the ultra-fast Morrisons and Amazon delivery service, which expanded its coverage further last year into parts of northeast London and into Essex. And our first overseas wholesale supply contract has got off to a strong start. We started to export a range of Morrisons own-brand items to Big C in Thailand.

Looking forward, we expect our market to remain challenging and highly competitive. But competition makes us stronger, makes us a better business. We're confident we'll compete, we're confident we'll grow, and we'll adopt as long as we keep listening and responding to customers. Core supermarket growth in a modest and sustainable two to three-year like-for-like range, plus there's a £75 million to £125 million incremental profit opportunity that [indiscernible] (00:17:26) from wholesale, services, online, and lower interest.

Growth will continue to be capital-light, driven by important investments in digital capability, in distribution and technology infrastructure, online, wholesale, and of course, Morrisons core supermarkets. And we'll continue to be different. Differentiation makes Morrisons broader, stronger, and more competitive. Our specialist manufacturing business, Market Street, Morrisons Makes It, the Morrisons price list, new initiatives such as Morrisons Daily and Safeway, and above all, our effective and entrepreneurial team of food makers and shopkeepers, they're different too, highly skilled, serving customers, improving the shopping trip each passing year. This is all germane to the continued turnaround and emergence of new Morrisons. I'm confident we still have many, many years to run. Thank you very much.

And now, over to Trevor. Thank you.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone. And as usual, I'll start with an overview of the key financial measures, and then, I'll take a few moments to describe some of the components in more detail. As you know, last year, it was a 53-week year versus 52 weeks this year. And the 53rd week added £5 million to profit last year and that distorts some of the year-on-year metrics. So, where appropriate, I will describe the 52-week comparatives.

Total turnover excluding fuel was up 5.1% on a 52-week basis, the strongest growth for over nine years. On a statutory basis, total turnover excluding fuel was up 3.2%. After adjusting for the 0.3% contribution from the three new stores opened during the year, group like-for-like excluding fuel was up 4.8%, and this includes a 1.5% contribution from retail and the 3.3% contribution from wholesale. Profit before tax, exceptional items, and net pension interest was £406 million. And as I said, last year's 53rd week added £5 million. So, on a 52-week basis, profit was up £37 million or 10%.

Lease adjusted return on capital employed has increased again to 7.9%. Net debt remains low, and lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR was 2.1 times. We have a sustainable ordinary dividend policy and a capital allocation framework which we use to assess the uses of free cash flow. Once again, adhering to this framework, the board is proposing to return surplus capital to our shareholders by paying a third special dividend.

So, moving on to the detail. Total turnover was up 2.7% for the full year to £17.7 billion. On a 52-week basis, growth ex-fuel was 5.1%, up £682 million, and group like-for-like turnover excluding fuel was up 4.8%.

Moving on to profit, as announced the interims, we have completed a review of the emerging practice around alternative performance measures and profit before tax, exceptional items, and net pension interest is now our key adjusted profit measure, and I'll refer to that as profit before exceptionals. And to confirm and moving to this new measure, there is no restatement of last year. We've also moved to a three-column presentation approach with exceptional items in a separate column on the face of the income statement.

For the year, exceptionals were net £86 million broken out on the slide. £51 million of these were announced in the first half. During the second half, there were £26 million of exceptional pension costs. This includes £7 million relating to the estimated cost of equalizing the minimum pension benefits for men and women. This follows the high court judgment in October 2018 relating to Lloyds Banking Group and further £19 million relating to the one-off costs associated with the previously announced closure of the Retirement Saver pension scheme.

Within other exceptional items, there was a £12 million charge relating to the one-off costs associated with improvements to the distribution network. These were incurred as we implemented new systems and added network capacity. Our annual store-by-store impairment and onerous contracts assessment resulted in a net charge of £5 million, and this was partly offset by £18 million of net pension interest income and a benefit of £2 million relating to profit on disposal of properties.

Before these exceptional items, operating profit was £465 million, up £25 million on a 52-week basis, and margin was 2.6%, 4 basis points higher year-on-year. EBITDA margin before exceptionals was 5.1%, up 12 basis points and 52-week profit before exceptionals was up 10% to £406 million. We continue to make progress against our target of £75 million to £125 million of incremental profit from wholesale, services, interest and online.

As we said at the interims in September, during the year, we invested in both the start-up of our new store pick capability, the new Erith CFC from Morrisons.com and the accelerated growth rollout of wholesale supply to McColl's. As expected, these start-up costs did ease slightly in the second half. Overall, the net incremental profit from wholesale, services, interest and online was a further £12 million during the year, bringing the total so far to £54 million. And we remain confident in delivering our medium-term £75 million to £125 million target.

Standing back, this is another strong performance, 5% sales growth, the best in almost a decade; improved EBIT margin; and profit growing at twice the rate of sales. And around two-thirds of that profit growth came from core supermarkets and the balance from the incremental opportunities delivered despite absorbing some significant headwinds such as depreciation and start-up costs, reflecting another year of building a broader, stronger Morrisons.

Turning to cash flow, group net debt remained low and ended the year at £997 million. Free cash flow was £265 million, bringing the total since the start of the program to almost £3 billion. As you can see from the bottom right-hand chart, we generated £296 million of free cash flow before capital returns, property proceeds, operating working capital, and onerous payments, so on a clean effective underlying basis, up by £44 million or 17% year on year.

With the majority of our disposal program already achieved, disposal proceeds were £22 million in the year, bringing the total to just over £1 billion since we started the program, and we still expect to achieve our £1.1 billion target.

The cash outflow from ordinary and special dividends was £289 million, a £160 million increase year-on-year. And there was a small operating working capital outflow of £36 million. This outflow was primarily due to our investment in growth areas such as the new wholesale supply business and stock contingency relating to Brexit. We still expect many significant future operating working capital opportunities ahead. And finally, cash CapEx was £461 million, slightly lower than our guidance of £500 million due to the timing of some of the projects which will now fall into this financial year.

Our focus and discipline around the strength of the balance sheet remains unchanged. Net debt remains low. The maturity profile of remaining debt facilities is strong. The net surplus on the pension has again increased now to £688 million from £594 million at the end of last year. We continue to work with the pension trustees to identify opportunities to derisk the pension schemes and, in the second half, completed a further £413 million buy-in of part of the Safeway scheme liabilities. We've now completed £819 million since December 2017. And during the year, we also announced the closure of the Retirement Saver Plan to new members and to future accrual.

Before I run through the detail on guidance for the year ahead, I wanted to touch on a couple of future reporting items. First, the impact of the new IFRS 16 lease accounting standard which we will report on for the first time at the interims in September. As I'm sure you know, IFRS 16 represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases. Foremost, I think it's important to remember that neither the cash flow nor the fundamentals of how we run the business will be affected. We are a predominantly freehold business, guided by our capital discipline and capital allocation framework. And we've always leased adjusted leverage ratios and return on capital employed.

As previously announced, we're adopting a fully retrospective approach on transition and are now in the final stages of quantifying their financial impact. Subject to completion of that detailed work, we expect restated 2018/2019 profit before exceptionals to be around £10 million lower than under the previous accounting standards. We'll provide a full update on the restatement of 2018/2019 during Q2, well ahead of the 2019/2020 interim results which will be prepared on an IFRS 16 basis.

Second, from now on, we'll be reporting Q3 and Christmas trading together in early January, so no longer reporting Q3 on its own in November. And we'll still be reporting four times a year which is very much in line with common practice.

Also going forward, we will no longer be reporting like-for-like customer transactions and items per basket. As the businesses evolved, for example, more Food To Go, more hot and cold counter sales, more lower item but higher value, Clothing sales online has grown and we've started the wholesale, number of items has become a less important KPI within the broader business.

We're, of course, still very focused on more and more customers coming to Morrisons supermarkets and transactions remains important. The reason for sharing transactions originally was to describe the opportunity in the supermarkets. Like-for-like transactions are now up 7.6% since 2016/2017, not just done by any means, but on its own, it's not a KPI we feel we need to formally report regularly. And as we're building a global and stronger Morrisons with customers online, in convenience and wholesale, a narrow definition of supermarket transactions is no longer as relevant as a guide to the group's growth.

The usual elements of guidance are on the slide and just a few lines to pull out. During 2019/2020, we plan to open up to four new stores, two of which are replacements, all weighted towards the final quarter of the year. Therefore, we expect the contribution from net new space will be around 0.1%.

Under current accounting standards before the implementation of IFRS 16, depreciation for the year ahead will be in the range of £470 million to £480 million. We plan to update this guidance when we outline the impact of IFRS 16 before the interims. As we referred to earlier, phasing means we expect CapEx to increase to around £550 million in 2019/2020.

Our capital allocation framework guides our decisions around the uses of free cash flow. And our plan has improved the total return for our shareholders. Both have served us and our stakeholders well and they remain unchanged. As David said, we would invest to improve our capability in store digitally and across our network. But this investment and the growth it supports will continue to be capital-light. We will have – we still have significant opportunities to continue to build a broader stronger Morrisons. These opportunities span sales, costs, productivity and every aspect of an improving shopping trip. We have a meaningful and sustainable growth opportunity and our principles and convictions will remain unchanged.

Thank you. And now let's move to Q&A.

Okay. So, perhaps we could start with a question from Bruno in the front.

Good morning, Bruno Monteyne from Bernstein. You talk about sustainable growth in the supermarkets. I presume that implies stable or growing volumes in the supermarkets, but if you look at the last six months in your supermarket excluding the online, you have declining volumes. So what needs to be done and how long can you run on the current volume growth in your supermarkets to still achieve your plans and how are you going to do that?

The second one is you referred a few times to the start-up costs in wholesale and online as things been suppressing. Can you quantify the relative order of magnitude, is it low single-digit, high single-digits, double-digits start-up costs for each of those activities?

And last, on the convenience stores, can you just clarify how many of those are fully owned and how many of your convenience stores are franchisees? Thank you.

I'll first go with those. On the convenience stores, we own none, and so, we supply as a wholesaler to the convenience operators. The organic Morrisons Daily that David refers to are effectively replacements on our full course or conversions on our own full course. We haven't broken out the investment in wholesale, supply and online in Erith and I don't think we will either.

I think though what you can see if you look at that £75 million to £125 contribution in the year, you can see about £5 million swing, I think if you look at the [indiscernible] (00:32:10) so, you can see that's starting to unwind as we said it would at the interims. And then I think in terms of this growth performance, I think in terms of the volume performance of the group, the volume performance of the group is strong. And we have delivered 5.1% growth in the year.

And as we said at Christmas, when we commented on inflation, the Christmas basket was flat. And so, we remain very confident that we can continue to deliver the work on improving the shopping trip, improving our competitiveness and continue to reconnect with our core customers and drive the volume through the supermarkets business to retail business and the group as we build out the extra growth channels in the years ahead.

I can undeniably see the overall growth which is very strong. But is it the requirement of your medium term plan to stabilize the volumes in the supermarkets or can the current mix – we have a little bit of volumes in the supermarket with high volume growth in your wholesale and online. Can that mix continue or do you expect it to stabilize in the supermarkets?

Oh. I think the volumes are stable.

Supermarkets.

Yeah. So I don't think we need to stabilize them. Quarter to quarter, things will move around as the market moves around. And I think you will see us continue on those principles around the shopping trip, Bruno, around competitiveness, serving customers better, popular and useful services, more and more reasons for people to come to Morrisons. And that is our intent in this model and plan ahead really.

Okay. Next? Behind Bruno.

Hi. It's Maria-Laura from Morgan Stanley. I just have two questions on free cash flow. The first one is around working capital. As we continue to focus on growth, should we see the cash outflows that we saw for the year as recurring for the year ahead? And then, maybe slightly more guidance around CapEx. So, you mentioned timing of projects, if we could just have a little bit more disclosure on that. Thanks.

On the CapEx, I think the stock CapEx is £478 million from memory and new additions in the fixed assets. So you can just see 17 stocking creditors. So, we probably be go – already gone out since year end. And then, there will just be the old project that just swings either way plus or minus £10 million each year. So, I think our guidance is for it to be around £500 million. And over the last three or four years, the [indiscernible] (00:34:54) has come in a bit under and then we've caught up on the timing differences the year after.

In terms of working capital, I think the big picture on the cash flow, we're very pleased to have delivered a 17% improvement in the sort of clean operating cash flow of the group. In terms of the working capital, I think in the end, there are some specifics in the micros, which are around if you've had a 53rd week last year, you've got a [indiscernible] (00:35:28) a year later. There are some buy-in around stock. The fuel price would have dropped a little bit through December and January. And so, I'll just see those timing – so flows really. I think if I stand back and look at working capital, I still think we've got quite significant opportunities ahead of us on stock, and I've touched on those, I think, back in September. And I don't think I would encourage you to assume that good growth is a drag. The more we grow the group, it should come with a working capital tailwind in the operational gearing.

Rob.

Thanks. Rob Joyce, Goldman Sachs. So, just firstly, in terms of that you mentioned the Christmas pricing, I guess quite a few external price surveys would suggest that you've been inflate – you've seen food inflation slightly higher than the rest of the market. Just wonder if you could comment in the second half of the year how you see your price competitiveness versus peers, how it's evolved?

And then second one. Just on the – I think David's on the wire commenting the 10 McColl's stores will be converting to Morrisons franchise stores. Just wonder if you could tell us what the economic impact or the differences between you having straight supply arrangements and when you operate a Morrisons franchise store? Are there franchise fees? Do you control the range more, et cetera? Thanks a lot.

Maybe if I do price first and then David picks up on the franchising. I think in terms of pricing, Rob, I'd probably say to you, if I look on the metric really of last week, last month, last quarter, half two last year, last three years, we're more competitive. So, I wouldn't really recognize those surveys.

Thank you, Rob. Well, I think Bruno picked it up as well. There are 52 Morrisons Daily now on our own sites, on our own largely [indiscernible] (00:37:25) sites where we can perfect sort of 1,500 square feet model. And so, for example, if our team at the office are perfecting our biscuit range and how it looks and so on, then our franchise customers, our retail customers of us as a wholesaler can benefit from that fire power we'd be putting into our own efforts and our own merchandizing plans. And that's really the point I make in the slides. I see that as quite an important relationship actually going ahead.

If you recall at the start of the turnaround, we exited on local which was – in the end, those convenience stores need to be well located. And what we've set off with this is a sort of capital-light strategy of improving the reach of the company through convenience which is a sort of growing channel by working with other people like Sandpiper CI, like Rontec, like MPK, and also McColl's, who with these bigger stores that are now coming over to us as a supplier over the next year, that this much bigger, these ex-coop stores are much bigger than your average McColl's. And so, they lend themselves, actually to sort of morphing into a more conventional supermarket-type convenience store, if you like. And that's why I think this trial of 10 stores is quite important to see if consumers like them and to work with McColl's as they manage them.

And so, yeah, within an agreed level, they're in command of their actual retail prices. I think we've always said that. And we provide the merchandize plans, the seasonality, the Easter Eggs right now, these kinds of things. So I think it's quite important move the company has made. And at the risk of repeating myself, I think us working quite hard on it in our own estate makes us more attractive as a wholesaler to other retailers in order for that to become something they benefit from. And I think we can see that in relationships in the industry.

Yeah. Sorry, just to be clear, outside of the sort of ranging and the broader estate benefits, are there any economic benefits to you if it been branded Morrisons versus having McColl's over the door?

Well, that remains to be seen because we haven't actually opened one yet. But at the end of March, we will. And yeah, I'll let you know.

Back there. [indiscernible] (00:40:20)

Good morning. Dusan from Berenberg. Two questions for me. First one for – probably both to Trevor actually. First one is since you've taken over new role of Commercial Director, what are kind of the key takeaways that you kind of – what are the key learnings that you had over the past couple of months and did you identify some catch-up opportunities there, too?

And the second question is, well, on the distribution and stock provisioning exceptionals. Should we expect those to continue next year or have those been already incurred?

Well, yeah [indiscernible] (00:41:01). I think stock described at half year was relating to the fact on the back of new systems enabling new processes. We were able to sort of modernize, if you like, our provisioning methodology to improve our ability to make those estimates and judgments. So in that specific, I think that is done.

And then, on logistics and the exceptional predominantly relates to adding on new capacity. First time, we've added on as a national leg of our distribution network, I think, for nine years and also on management restructure in those specifics that – I think if I stand back though and look out on that, there may be things in time that we choose to fix around the logistics network but I'd have them down on strategic. And so, I think the tight answer to your question is on those specific, yes, but there may be other things in the long term that we would want to look at as we fix the company.

In terms of commercial, I think the first thing I would say is that it is good fun, I'm enjoying it. Secondly, we've got a fantastic team in commercial and I knew that anyway. Just a small team, we all work quite closely together, but has a huge amount of talent coming through in that team. And the third thing I'd tell you is that there was absolutely nothing broken in commercial to fix. It's about the contribution commercial can play as we achieve our ambitions for our colleagues, their customers, and our suppliers.

And if I just dwell on that, it's making things easier for our colleagues and my priorities, which are the same as they were – as they have been making things easier for our colleagues both in commercial supply chain and the [indiscernible] (00:42:58) to be growing volume for our suppliers and to be continue on the journey to be easier to deal with. And the team made great progress again on simplifying the back margin through the course of the year. It's achieving the price list and enabling us to sell more things people want to buy. So, it's sort of more of the same on those basics really, but I've enjoyed it, it's been busy.

Thank you.

Morning. Sreedhar Mahamkali from Macquarie. A couple of questions then please. Just coming back to the incremental profit growth of £75 million to £125 million, clearly, last two years, it was – nearly all were flat, if not more than all of it was driven by lower net finance costs. Should we now expecting that to be substantially reversing to get to the next £50 million to £75 million, i.e., driven more operationally from wholesale, online and services? That's the first question.

Secondly, in terms of wholesale, are you planning to expand the range of supply to McColl's this year? Clearly, some ranges are missing, not in the overall agreement itself, but also specifically on Safeway. Is there anything that you're planning this year in terms of the supply [indiscernible] (00:44:24)?

Maybe if I'll pick up the technical one on the mass and that David comment on the Safeway. I think if you look over the three years, Sreedhar, underlying profit has grown, I think, by £104 million. The contribution from the £75 million to £125 million, I think is, £54 million. So when I look at that, I stand back and say okay, well, in that £54 million, £39 million I think is interest. And if you look at our debt stack, you can kind of see where those bonds sit, you've got some interest guidance. You can see that our bond profile matches pretty much [indiscernible] (00:45:07) the actual net debt levels. I think that helps you make some assumptions around the ongoing trajectory of interest. Because of the strength of the free cash flow this year, the dividends increased. Obviously, if we hadn't paid a special dividend in the context of the cash flow that would have been about £140 million lot.

I think if you then – just taking it a little bit broader in the context of the year, the contribution from the £75 million to £125 million is £12 million. So I'm expecting the interest contribution of that going forward to be less. But I'm still expecting this to be achieved in that range. And I think just closing the loop on all of that, in that £104 million over three years, I think you've seen £50 million of – the balance in numbers obviously come from the core and actually over that time and I think that the depreciation and amortization has grown by about £60 million.

So I think your comment's right about interest probably dominates in that £75 million to £125 million in the very early days. But I think you're starting to see a much broader-based contribution, stronger contribution from both new Morrisons and a sort of revitalized core Morrisons converted into both the cash flow and the P&L.

Just to follow through. Why not guide for lower net debt this year as opposed to remain – clearly confident in strong cash generation?

Well, of course, the guidance is low. In the end, net debt-to-EBITDA is 1.1 times, yeah. When I first did this, my – I think my first debt covenants, I'll have to check but it was roughly around – it was plus or minus £300 million, plus or minus £300 million. And so around – it's just £1 billion low. I don't feel we need to be guiding on the specific components or managing the plus or minus £25 million. And it's much more important, I think, that we continue to manage the business with consistency around the principles with which we've managed the business around the cash flow and the capital allocation framework over the last three years and I think we'll continue to do that.

Thank you. If I may come to the Safeway question. I think we're around sort of 240 items. We're going to develop an additional 100 – up to around 100 this financial year. And the overall total we will be given a makeover to the packaging and the style of the packaging to bring it rather to-date, we were quite fortunate we kept the principals from before do you know what I mean. And so we were able to present the items quickly in the absence of Palmer & Harvey and other things going on at that time. And, yeah, so I understand that our customers quite like Safeway. And I agree with you, there are gaps in that choice and we can fill those, and I am looking forward to doing that.

Good morning – am I on?

Yeah.

Good morning, team, it's Andrew Gwynn from Exane. Two quick questions. The first one just on the retail like-for-like. Bruno has alluded a little bit to it, but obviously we've seen a sequential slowdown. So, why do you think that is – maybe just sort of put out any context the way you see the industry and also the consumer at present?

And the second one, I mean obviously you've moved away from giving too much guidance from cost savings, but I'm wondering if you could help us understand a little bit more about what's going on within the PBT. So, loosely, what sort of level of cost inflation are we seeing and obviously, I suppose by connection, approximately how much cost saving do you think you've unlocked this year?

Let me respond to the question on sales. I think quarter four on a two-year stack was in line with the year. And I think as we've said before, quite often, like-for-like, on the one hand being a really important measure is often as much is to do with last year as it is this year and from time to time, even the year before. I think in this particular case, the quarter four like-for-like, yes, was lower than had been the case. And so, to some extent, I think it was a spend-up summer, coming to your sort of broader point. But our consumers, we know the reasons I think for that around the national team and the weather and so on. Perhaps, that caught up with society later in the autumn.

And although we don't talk about weather much, the weather was actually unseasonably warm in the autumn, and I think that caught people in the parks less than in the supermarkets. It returns well, I thought, actually, Christmas and New Year, in the industry and in this company. And so we take it as it comes. Like a lot of things, there's always another quarter coming. And yeah, I think there's so much we can do, just so much, guys, we can do to keep the momentum, keep the trade moving, keep responding to customers. So, yeah, and I think that's all. Can you pick up the first?

Yeah. I think if I look at it on a cash basis, I think in the core business, Andrew, I think you can see 52-week basis has grown by around £25 million, I think it is. And when you strip out the contribution from the £75 million to £125 million. When I look at that, I'm looking at that on a cash basis, and I'm looking through the £25 million increase in the depreciation and the amortization.

I think the three key building blocks are, one, where we've invested to improve the shopping trip, whether that be in colleague pay, whether that be in colleague hours or in price or frankly the trade – trade in the business [indiscernible] (00:51:28). Thinking terms of productivity more broadly, I'd say that we're pretty much bang on where we wanted to deliver this time 12 months ago in terms of our cost savings, in terms of both core operating processes and procurement of goods not for resale.

In terms of cost pressures in there, you've obviously got some headwinds running at you as energy hedges unwind over time and you catch those back up, rates actually would have been pretty flat last year. And then, you've also got the benefits from growth and mix in the wider group clicking through. I think are the key building blocks, Andrew. [indiscernible]

(00:53:17) questions, Dave?

Thank you. It's Dave McCarthy, HSBC. David, you said about you want to keep things going. You've got a chart which has customer satisfaction, very good increase of 20%, but you haven't put the scale on the chart. So, how much more is there to go on that level? If you started at low, is it high or is it very low and you're still in the middle there?

Can I answer that?

Yeah.

Yes, please.

Well, I think, first of all, it's going the right way. And second of all, it does slightly ebb and flow in the year just from time to time just in the cut and thrust of running the company and how we do our job well. But, overall, I think you'd have to say the trajectory is good at 20% – north of 20% over those four years. So, we break it down further around availability, friendliness, these are the things. I think in our case availability comes in below where our overall satisfaction is. I see that in two ways, one I see as an opportunity for the company moving forward and we have made progress on availability which we know is an important part of shopping trip.

And also in this company we are blessed with very friendly colleagues that customers truly value. When you chat to customers and listen quite hard to customers, it's one of the things that just comes out all the time. And so that is like a that – that really punches a little bit above its weight in the overall stat and long may that continue and possibly – possibly more to come. Well, I think in the end it is an output measure and so I'm always quite slow to predict the trajectory of outcome measure – output measures.

I think if we continue to work on the things Trevor has alluded to, a fair day's pay for a fair day's work, a boss who helps me, not hinders me, and work that I find interesting, that's flexible enough around my life then I think we can continue to develop a great relationship with our colleagues and that results in higher level of service which I see in the supermarket business of Morrisons as the future – the future for the business. So I would be looking for it to continue to improve actually in the collected, yeah. Yeah

So any clues then on how you compare it to the competitors on these measures? I'm trying to get – I mean it's a fantastic performance, that's not arguing, but just trying to get a sense of what the upside could be.

Yeah. Well, I think I alluded to availability, and I would say that it's within the industry and within ourself and with our own people, then they score very, very highly, a little bit like our British [indiscernible] (00:55:24) actually in the market. And we work quite a hard at choice in our ranging not duplication [indiscernible] (00:55:34). And if your average store size is 29,000 not 39,000 then from time to time people will ask us to stock something we don't stock and others may stock. And so, in most of the attributes I think in the spirit of Fix, Rebuild, and Grow, we continue to see a runway to improve. And we hold our own in the industry in most of those measures. And I'm looking forward to availability ticking up, yeah.

Thank you. Hi. It's Nick Coulter from Citi. Three, if I may. Firstly, on the onerous lease cash outflow of £60 million. How should we think about that going forward, please? Obviously it's been a recurring charge that we have hoped would roll away. How should we think about over the medium term?

It's rolled out. [indiscernible]

(00:56:44).

No, no, it's gone back in time. I think back in 2013, I've put a quantum on it. I think we've got about £90 million to spend, I think I said £100 last year, something like that. And I think about £60 million of that's going to go this year and a chunk of that in the first half. So, the quantum is unchanged, Nick. It's just obviously better not to rush to do a bad deal, someone once said on the TV.

So how many years of cash outflow should we expect?

Well, I think I guided you a year ago to expect £100 million of cash outflow offset against the £2.1 billion of inflows from working cap and disposals. £100 million to come from disposals, working capital opportunity still haven't achieved £1 billion and there's £90 million of onerous still to go within that pre-existing guidance of which £60 million is in a year ahead.

Okay. Thank you. Then secondly on the incremental profits. As you said, it's two-and-a-half or three years goal that you set those initial targets. How should we think about the timeframe for delivery or is it a rolling medium term target?

Well, [indiscernible] (00:58:02) three years ago because someone asked me what the medium term and – and I said, well, in the long-term we're all dead so somewhere between now and then. But... [indiscernible]

(00:58:14) three to five years, Trevor, so I hope that's not the case. [indiscernible]

(00:58:16). Yeah. Well, we're three years in, we gave guidance of £50 million to £100 million and it's at £54 million. And so, we extended it a year ago to £75 million to £125 million, I think from maybe 18 months ago.

Yeah, two-and-a-half years ago now.

No, we introduced the guidance three years ago at £50 million to £100 million. We're now at £54 million, £75 million to £125 million, and I think your definition of medium term is about right.

Okay. Thank you. Then lastly, you've been very good in that you disclosed like-for-like items and transactions and that's been a very helpful window on the company's performance. And others don't do that. But if not by items, how do you measure volume in the business? Do you look at tonnage? How do you look at volume in the core. Thank you.

Well, a multitude of ways. And because scans doesn't cover it. And so, on carrots it's tons. A great example would be eggs. So, when you cut the price of eggs, say £0.60, it's £1 on your scan, six pack of eggs, 12 pack of eggs or the loose eggs. And so you have to use a bit of smart really and assess it in different ways, but in the main, it's a mixture of scans and tonnage, and you just get a beat on it. There is no perfect measure.

So you're clear that the volume is moving forward in the core and a like-for-like basis?

Yeah.

Thank you.

Good. Well I think we're coming to – oh, Charles, one more and we'll take one more.

Yeah. Charles Allen at Bloomberg Intelligence. Could you talk a little bit about online customer recruitment for the Erith depot that particularly whether you've recruited net new customers to Morrisons.

Yeah. Erith is in the sort of [indiscernible] (01:00:22) of its volume. And so, yeah, the – I think particularly in a business like this where we've got a little bit less square footage in the southeast of England and around London, we would always see less cannibalization as we develop an online business down here. So, yeah, I think it's – [indiscernible] (01:00:51) more volume to go through that depot that – it remains to be seen, but so far so good on that

Thanks, everyone. Well, I'll now [indiscernible] (01:01:05). Thank you very much for coming and we look forward to seeing you later in the year. Thanks.