Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Michael Gleeson — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Operating Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Nick Coulter — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Victoria Petrova — Analyst, Credit Suisse Group AG
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Sreedhar Mahamkali — Analyst, UBS
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Clive Black — Head of Research & Director, Shore Capital Markets
James Anstead — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Morrisons' Interim Results Analysts Conference Call. My name is Molly, and I'll be your coordinator for today's event. Please note that this call is being recorded and for the duration of the call, your lines will be on listen-only. However, you will have the opportunity to ask questions via the phone lines. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the call over to your host, David Potts, to begin today's conference. Thank you.

Thank you, Molly, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I hope you and your families are safe and well. As usual, I'm here with Michael and Trevor. And Michael will take you through the financial performance and achievements in a moment. But, first, I'll update on the challenge of half one and how we responded for all stakeholders, and describe how we sustain those achievements as we hit the ground running so we keep armaments and so we build a new future.

First of all, total sales grew 12.5% in quarter two. Retail like-for-like for the half was 7.9% positive with a strong quarter one, followed by over 11% in quarter two. And today, we're announcing an ordinary dividend of £0.0204 per share, that's 5.7% growth year-on-year, reflecting our strong underlying performance and confident outlook.

At the start of the crisis, while the government told the nation to stay at home, they asked those key workers to go to work and feed everyone else. By working at pace with an experienced senior team and an unfaltering dedication from colleagues, we put the assets of the company at the disposal of the country and stepped up to the challenge.

Vertical integration and our manufacturing businesses enable flexibility and speed, rapidly reducing range yet increasing volume to get food onto our shelves and keep it there.

Our immediate focus was to protect colleagues and customers by installing screens, sanitizer and social distance measures, along with extra cleaning and marshals so that colleagues could focus on the job in hand to put food on the tables of Britain. As well as protecting our colleagues, we salute and thank them for their incredible efforts with guaranteed pay for sick, self-isolating, and other affected colleagues. We tripled the annual bonus for the frontline, with an average colleague this year earning £1,000 in bonus.

To cover for those who needed to be away from the business, we recruited over 20,000 new colleagues within three weeks, and also stepped up recruitment for our expanding online and home delivery businesses where we increased capacity fivefold. In total, we've recruited more than 45,000 colleagues since March.

In addition, we committed to pay our 3,000 smaller suppliers immediately so they, in turn, could provide their goods to the nation. We also redefined a small supplier to be those with £1 million annual sales from £100,000 before.

To say thank you for this enormous team effort, we introduced extra discounts for colleagues, 10% discount for NHS workers, and 5% discount for our farmers. And to help those most in need, we're providing £10 million of goods to Britain's food banks, making donations to homeless charities, and develop new food box solutions and bulk delivery services for customers, charities, and local authorities.

It's been a huge effort. Morrisons' 122,136 food maker and shopkeeper colleagues showing why they are our most important asset, responding with extraordinary dedication and professionalism, keeping up that huge effort throughout this extended period, working together with a shared sense of what matters, and I'd like to thank each of them for everything they've done.

The work completed in recent years means our strong balance sheet maximize flexibility to introduce many new initiatives to look after customers, colleagues and suppliers so they, in turn, look after the nation, acting rapidly in business continuity when food retail was one of few lifelines open to society.

Of course, we had our core purpose. After all, it's the reason the company exists. However, early on in these COVID times, we adapted a more urgent and immediate purpose to guide us through the pandemic: To play our full part in feeding the nation – it's more than our job.

Those few words triggered a great sense of camaraderie and ownership amongst colleagues. This crisis has been a real test of our priorities and ways of working. They stood up to that test and will shape new Morrisons long into the future.

In the short term, we're gearing up to make it a great Christmas, making sure we are fit and ready to compete in recessionary times, to be there for customers and colleagues when they need us most.

The pandemic has brought many fundamental changes. However, our focus on value is stronger than ever. Value is vital to Morrisons' customers, especially in periods of national uncertainty. We've improved the Morrisons price list by cutting prices and by improving product spec, packaging, and display across hundreds of customer favorites. We, again, made improvements in our absolute and relative competitiveness. Inflation was flat, including deflation in some big categories including fruit & veg.

We improved value in clothing and introduced flat pricing across Nutmeg for kids, which standardized prices now across all ages and sizes, starting with the Back to School range. And we took unleaded fuel down to below £1 a liter, our lowest price since January 2016.

Throughout half one, we kept investing in price, pairs of hands and service. This week, we've launched our biggest-ever price cuts on more customer favorites across the business. And in the second half, we'll invest further in product quality, service, and price.

Some refits, productivity, and customer service plans were COVID-delayed and they'll be back on track in half two. To continue to make investments, there remain significant opportunities to drive productivity and reduce costs.

With our service counters and Market Street now fully reopened, we're investing more hours in these areas. Trial stores have gone well, with improvements in sales and profit. These ideas will be introduced into many more stores. Our pharmacies remained open throughout the crisis, providing vital services to customers.

From mid-June, we opened a national food takeaway service, with all 402 cafés offering fish and chips twice for a tenor. And from July the 4th, when catering restrictions were relaxed, we opened 320 cafés for the first time since March, fitted 11,000 protected café screens and new social distancing rules to keep everyone safe.

As we move towards business-as-usual, we continue to improve the shopping trip for customers. New plans for the colleague structure slightly delayed by the crisis are complete and we have thousands more colleagues on the shop floor. We removed over 3,000 managers and created 7,000 new customer service jobs instead.

New Morrisons differentiated in the market by great value, by plenty of very friendly colleagues, and by higher levels of customer service. And the latest brand warmth and Net Promoter Scores suggest customers like it.

Whilst the phases of our Fix, Rebuild, Grow, and Sustain strategy remain concurrent, our attention is turning to Grow and Sustain. And it's the Grow story that I'll now describe.

We launched many new channels of growth in half one. We opened three new stores in Amble, Bradwell and Stirchley, plus a new Nutmeg store in Bolsover. Taking learnings from the new Market Kitchen concepts in our new Canning Town store, two weeks ago, we converted Manchester Piccadilly store to include our second Market Kitchen, plus our first dark kitchen where the final mile is covered by Deliveroo. We plan to open a further three new stores in half two. We have a further five Market Kitchens on the drawing board.

After significant growth in quarter one, online continued to grow at pace. Most customers across Britain now have access to several different Morrisons options. Our online strategy includes every Morrison Supermarket offering at least one delivery service.

For Morrisons.com, we more than doubled the number of weekly home deliveries, much higher than the 60% increase we initially predicted. There's been a substantial increase in the number of store-pick stores and click-and-collect, which is now in almost 280 stores. We've also formed a partnership with Deliveroo to provide groceries on average in 29 minutes to customers from over 180 Morrisons stores.

We set up a new food box channel. The boxes are assembled at four of our food manufacturing sites and depots, and then delivered direct to customers by a third-party. We've introduced around 20 different boxes so far, available either online or by telephone, aimed initially at providing essentials to those vulnerable or self-isolating, but now extended to events and celebrations such as Ramadan and VE Day. We also have a gluten-free box and various flower and craft ale boxes.

We significantly expanded the coverage of Morrisons on Amazon, the same-day home delivery service. In March at the prelims, it operated from 17 stores in 8 cities. It's now extended nationwide to around 50 stores, covering most major cities and many towns. New areas include Edinburgh, Cardiff, Bristol, Portsmouth, Cambridge, and large parts of the West and East Midlands. More London stores have been added, expanding delivery coverage to over 90% of Greater London postcodes.

In mid-August, together with Amazon, we announced that Morrisons on Amazon is now available on Amazon.co.uk, initially in Leeds, but destined for millions of Prime members across the country before the end of this year.

As part of our online strategy, this strengthening of our partnership gives more customers in more British cities and towns easy access to a full Morrisons range, including, for the first time, many unique fresh Market Street items of our counters.

We remain guided by our priorities. One of which is popular and useful services. One example we're most proud of is our new doorstep delivery service, which is a traditional telesales offer, introduced at all our stores and offering a lifeline for the most vulnerable and elderly in society who don't have access to online or other help. After a call to the office in Bradford, groceries are delivered the next day by the local store's Community Champion.

For many, it's not just about needing sustenance; it also tackles social isolation by providing a very welcome chat with a fellow human being. This is a highly valued service, with many younger generations now choosing to say thank you, Morrisons, for supporting their elderly loved ones who they, themselves, couldn't help during lockdown. And we've recently agreed with McCarthy & Stone, the largest retirement village provider in the UK, to provide doorstep deliveries to all their villages and other properties across Britain.

Across Britain, we also launched a wholesale bulk delivery service supplying local councils, care homes, and some charities, including The Salvation Army with great value bulk supplies for distribution to those in needs.

Morrisons' growth and change is enabled by the paced determination and creativity of colleagues. One of our five ways of working is freedom within the framework. In other words, everyone use man hours to get things done faster and better together.

For example, our new box and doorstep channels went from idea to execution in days, not weeks. And our home delivery services have multiplied as we found new and innovative ways to flex and grow our accessibility and our popularity.

The pandemic made us focus on what's really important. Local solutions, for example, have never been more punchy. Our supermarkets are the hub of the communities we serve. Each store has allocated more Community Champion hours, supporting local businesses, buying local products to be sold in our stores, providing complementary use of our training rooms and cafés. We've continued to champion and support British farmers, growers and other British suppliers, particularly in light of Brexit and especially in light of COVID. As Britain's biggest food maker, we know just how critical that support is.

In addition, we're British farming's biggest single supermarket customer. And by opening hundreds of summer barbecue, steak and fish bars, often with half-priced British steak and half-priced British fish, we've helped those farmers and fishermen when they needed it most when the hospitality industry was shut.

And of course, we continue to support many local products. For example, in Yorkshire, we're selling Fettle cheese in over 60 stores across the county made by a local family. It's a version of feta made from sheep's milk, which was in falling demand after the steep decline of the catering sector during COVID.

Very local shopping has been a lifeline for customers in recent months. Throughout the first half, sales through our convenience partners – McColl's, Rontec, MPK, Harvest Energy, and Sandpiper in the Channel Islands were strong. Together with 55 of our own Morrisons Dailys, we now supply a total of 1,300 convenience stores, serving customers in their communities. In addition, during the second half, we'll soon start supplying the remaining 240 bigger McColl's stores.

Another priority is to simplify and speed up, often described as productivity. We've completed our restructuring of colleague roles in stores. We've also reorganized head office in Bradford to be open six days a week by moving to a modern, digitized four-day week pattern with fewer bigger roles and more homeworking.

New and young talent is shining through at Morrisons and is the driving force behind many of our best new ideas. Our digital priority has enabled many of our new initiatives such as contactless stores that delivers and the increased contactless payment in stores. We're also trialing a scan and shop app, which allows customers to scan their shopping as they go so check-out is rapid. This new app means that customer shopping is contactless from start to finish.

So in summary, I believe we're witnessing the renaissance of British supermarkets and we're playing our full part. We're firmly at the heart of the communities we serve. Our strategy has served us well being ourselves and doing the right things when they matter most. We've gone faster, become more relevant.

Throughout the past six years, but especially in this first half, we've become a broader, stronger business. We've leveraged existing assets, utilized shareholder-invested capital and active at pace. Our priorities deliver growth and the sustainable business built on local integration, customer shopping trip improvements, and our environmental impact with self-imposed tough targets for our carbon and plastic footprints ahead of us.

We've created growth in the midst of crises. We are confident, by listening to customers, we'll develop new ideas, rapidly scaling some and building on that growth. New opportunities and channels make our brand popular and accessible to more and more people. For example, there's been a step-change in the online and eat-at-home markets, and we are well-set to build market share in these growing channels. It's never our intention to be first, only decisive and fast. It turns out in this moment, they amount to the same thing.

We've achieved so much in this first half. We've managed the significant challenge of COVID, and we're taking learnings forward to the challenge that lies ahead. Customer confidence and behavior are uncertain, especially around recession. There are so many imponderables, it's hard to call. But we know the nation will come out the other side. We know value and price will prevail. And I believe Morrisons will emerge stronger than before: New Morrisons hitting the ground running with a new future. We have the freedom, the capability and belief to take opportunities. We are confident that our strong momentum will continue into the second half and deliver another year of profit growth.

Thank you. And now, over to Michael.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone.

First, I'd like to echo David's thanks to all our colleagues for the truly incredible efforts during the first half. We've never been more proud of our work with and for all our stakeholders than during the last few months. There have been many additional costs, but these were part mitigated by four months of business rates relief and our underlying performance was strong. Debt was up, impacted mainly by significantly lower fuel demand. These characteristics mean a different shape to results than normal, which I will describe in more detail as we go through.

So, let's turn straight to the numbers. Total revenue, including fuel, was £8.7 billion for the half year. Profit before tax, exceptional items and net pension interest was £148 million compared to last year's £198 million, affect us as previously guided, by a significant COVID costs which were skewed to the first half as I will describe in a few moments. Underlying EBITDA was down just 8%, significantly less than the fall in profit before tax. Return on capital employed temporarily fell to 6.2%, in line with the first half/second half profit imbalance. We expect this to recover strongly in the second half. Net debt was £2,802 million.

The board is proposing an interim ordinary dividend of £0.0204 per share, which is growth of 5.7% year-on-year. At both the prelims in March and Q1 in May, we decided it prudent to defer a decision around last year's final special dividend given the unprecedented nature of the situation around COVID-19. That decision remains deferred. While our business is in a strong position today and we are confident for the future, we acknowledge there's still significant uncertainty around the impact of COVID-19. As David said, there are many imponderables, it's hard to call. In future years, we intend to take decisions around any potential special dividend once a year along with our preliminary results. In March 2021, this will include a review around both the second half 2019-2020 and full-year 2020-2021 special dividends.

Underlying sales were very strong. The headline number was impacted by very weak fuel demand during and immediately after lockdown. Total revenue including fuel was down 1.1% for the half-year to £8.7 billion, with group like-for-like down 3.9% in Q1 and recovering to positive 2.1% in Q2. Total sales excluding fuel were up 8.8% for the half and 12.5% for Q2. This was driven by a strong retail contribution to group like-for-like, 7.9% for the half, and accelerating from 5.1% in Q1 to 11.1% in Q2. The shape of sales has been encouraging.

As we said before, retail like-for-like had been improving since the start of 2020 and into Q1. Like-for-like was then volatile as COVID-19 began to unfold, with the peaks of stocking up and the troughs of lockdown and Easter. But there was a significant improvement towards the end of Q1 and into Q2, and then some slight moderation towards the end of the quarter as the eat-out-of-home market began to open up. As David said, all our home-delivery channels including with partners Amazon and Deliveroo, grew very quickly.

Sales to our convenience store operator partners were also strong, with wholesale contributing 0.8% to the group like-for-like in the half, 0.6% in Q1 and 1.2% in Q2. With three new supermarkets and the Nutmeg clothing and home and leisure store opened in the half, new store sales contribution was 0.1%,

Exceptional items are a net £3 million charge for the half. The details are on the slide. There was a £9 million restructuring charge for modernizing our ways of working at head office, simplifying and speeding up the business, and improving our efficiency and productivity. In addition, there was a £6 million cost relating to a slight delay in the retail restructuring that we announced in January. There was a net £4 million impairment and onerous contracts released. And as usual, we reported net pension interest outside of underlying process in the half. This was an income of £8 million.

The crisis created many challenges. Our business responded well, and our underlying performance was strong, although the shape of the first half versus the second is much different this year. There were many extra first half costs as we moved quickly to help feed the nation and protect the colleagues, customers, suppliers and communities we serve. In total, these extra costs were around £155 million as shown on the slide. As you can see, the largest were extra payroll paying absents colleagues, new temporary staff, extra marshals and security, and the cost of the guaranteed extra colleague annual bonus [ph] with travels (00:25:17) for those on the frontline.

These costs were part mitigated by four months of business rates relief of £93 million, meaning in the first half COVID-related direct costs and rates impact of £62 million which is reported within profit before tax and exceptionals. With that £62 million COVID impact, profit before tax would have been £210 million, up 6.1% year-on-year and EBITDA margin up 29 basis points to 6.1%. This is after absorbing considerable loss profits in various temporarily closed but important areas for the business such as our cafes and Market Street counters.

As we said in May, we estimate that the costs relating directly to COVID-19 will be broadly offset by the law business rates. This guidance remains unchanged, and means we expect the £62 million first half net cost will be offset by a broadly similar second half net benefits, comprising extra COVID-19-specific costs around half the level of the first half and six months of rates relief of around £137 million. Again, details are on the slide.

In addition to the timing of these direct COVID costs and benefits, the mix of a very strong first half sales growth was skewed towards online channels and lower margin categories. Demand for fuel was very low. Our cafes were closed for most of the period. And we invested in supporting our colleagues, NHS workers and farmers with extra discounts. We also, again, continued to invest significantly in cutting prices and delayed plans productivity initiatives to focus on our response to the pandemic.

Underlying operational gearing was strong, helped by the benefits of vertical integration and lower prices driving strong volume growth. In addition, shrinkage was lower, and we successfully reduced the number of less effective promotions. While some of the margin impacts may persist into the second half, we are planning for productivity initiatives delayed in the first half and further operational gearing benefits, especially as we again cut prices and invest in customer service and Market Street. We also expect the at-home and online markets to remain strong. Overall, as we say in the outlook, we are confident of continued strong momentum into the second half and another year of profit growth.

Now, turning to cash and debt. Group net debt was £2,802 million compared to £2,458 million at the end of 2019/2020. Free cash flow before dividends was an outflow of £228 million, primarily due to the previously guided temporary impact on working capital of lower fuel demand, a low retail price for fuel, and paying our smaller suppliers immediately. We also invested in stock availability during these uncertain times. However, the underlying operational improvements in working capital have been sustained. There was also the cash impact of the new quarterly tax installments as previously guided. We are confident that both net debt and free cash flow will improve during the second half, especially as fuel sales continue to recover. Cash CapEx was £200 million.

Morrisons continues to operate from a very robust financial position, with a strong balance sheet, low debt, total committed facilities of £2.85 billion, and a strong maturity profile. Immediately after lockdown was announced, we took the opportunity to further improve our already very strong liquidity profile by securing additional funding. On attractive financial terms, we extended one £100 million revolving credit facility from July and put in place another three new £100 million RCFs, taking our total RCF facility from £1.45 billion to £1.75 billion. As at the end of the first half, we were £470 million drawn on our RCF, so with still very significant liquidity headroom.

Also, on an IAS 19 basis, our pensions remain in substantial surplus, £880 million as at the end of the period and we own 87% of our stores.

Turning to guidance, we're almost at £1 billion of annualized wholesale supply sales, just three years after assessing the target. The components of depreciation, CapEx, interest and tax remain unchanged from when we last showed you this slide at the prelims. For onerous cash payments, we are now guiding around £25 million as we have taken the opportunity to renegotiate some legacy leases. Our program around onerous cash payments for freehold stores is now complete. For new space as well as the three new supermarkets and the Nutmeg store we opened during the first half, we plan to open a further three stores in the second half. We still expect 2021 net new space sales contribution to be 0.3%. And finally, due to the exceptional circumstances created by COVID-19, we are not reporting against our target for £75 million to £125 million incremental profit target.

So, to conclude, it's been a tough period in many ways, but our underlying first half performance was strong. Our very strong balance sheet and cash flow, the capital discipline and prudent financial principles embedded in our capital allocation framework have all served us well, enabling us to face infinite challenges and opportunities, and providing clarity and helping inform the decisions that we have taken on behalf of all stakeholders.

As David said, there is uncertainty around much in the second half and the in-year profit and cash flows do have a very unusual skew. But we are confident we can keep the strong underlying momentum going, keep improving the shopping trip and our competitiveness for customers, begin to deliver some of the temporarily delayed productivity and cost saving opportunities, and deliver another year of profit growth. Thank you.

So, Molly, we are ready to take questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Nick Coulter calling from Citi. Please, go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions, and obviously just acknowledge the role that Morrisons has played through the crisis. If I may, three questions. Firstly, with regards to online, you've got this scaled store-pick from morrisons.com quite dramatically in a short space of time from 33 to 193 stores. Could you talk a little about how you've approached that rollout? Presumably, you not only need to stock but also events. And I guess there are a number of learnings along the way and learning still to be had. And then, adding to that, it looks like you have almost 100 of the stores taking just morrisons.com click and collect. I guess, am I my understanding that correctly?

Secondly, on working capital, plays a large moving parts going into a net figure. But can I ask on the retail and manufacturing inventory buffer stocks, are you able to give a sense of the number of inventory days that you've added to the buffer stocks, please?

And then lastly, on your debt stack, you clearly have ample liquidity and a very strong balance sheet. And I guess, the RCFs of clearly that's the use. But should we expect an RCF drawdown to be an enduring part of your debt stack? Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Nick. It's David. I'll take the first, Nick, and pass you to Michael, who will take number two and three.

You are right, click-and-collect has come through strong. And interestingly, in Britain, society was quite slow to pick up on click-and-collect. But certainly during COVID, it has gone well. I think we can come in behind those doors and start to mobilize store-pick delivered as well as click and collect. In a sense, it was a sort of an immediate solution to get food on the table at Britain. And I think in terms of how did we do it, well, we obviously know how to do it here and other places. And we used that knowhow with one of the most senior guys coming through the business, Joseph Sutton, led on that.

I think, again, similar to click-and-collect, we will come behind there and say, okay, how do we improve those facilities in stores within guidance that we start to operationalize in a better way? But I think the remarkable thing really has been that that ability to scale existing assets, so use existing assets to scale morrisons.com at an important time for consumers.

Michael?

Hi, Nick. Morning. So, on inventory, clearly, you're seeing that inventory has increased during the half and we allowed cover to increase a little, too. So, part of the increase will be driven by the very strong sales performance in the first half, which accelerated in the second quarter. But also recognizing some of the uncertainty around COVID and potential impacts on – any potential impact on the supply chain, we have also increased coverage to reflect that uncertainty and protect the supply chain.

And in terms of the RCF, clearly, there's been a lot of moving parts on debt in the first half. We have £1.1 billion of structural bond debt with a good maturity profile. And as we look at the moving parts and add that during the half, clearly, the single biggest impact has been from fuel. And fuel sales during the half were down 37% for the half and that's had an impact on working capital. There are two components to that. We have said before that there was a 70% decline in volumes immediately after lockdown, which is – and that has begun to recover towards more normal levels as we've come to the end of – at the end of the quarter. But the impact of that in working capital takes some time to unwind. But volumes have recovered to closer to normal levels. There's also been an impact from lower price – fuel price year-on-year. So, we would see that level of drawdown on the RCF reflecting some of those temporary impacts that we've seen in the first half of the year.

I don't know if you can still hear me or whether I'm on mute or not?

No, we can hear you.

All right. Can I just follow up on the – on David's first answer? I mean, how much CapEx has gone into online? Presumably you have to get more vans and it sounds like there is probably more CapEx coming down the track if you're going to roll in delivery into those – into all of those 280 stores. And then, just if it's possible to get a sense of numbers around the inventory [ph] backup stocks (00:38:41), just some form of quantification will be super helpful. Thank you.

Yeah. Just on – Nick, hi. It's Trevor. Just on the online and the CapEx. I think as we look back in the half, it's probably double-digit millions or a few of them. And I think, as we look forward, I think in the context of our CapEx guidance, which is always toggled really between that £500 million and £550 million, it will sit right within there.

I think, on inventory, Nick, you can see that the increase – you can see what the actual increase in stock is year-on-year, it's a little over £100 million, a base of around £600 million. So, with like-for-like in the second half of the year being over 10%, you can figure out how much extra over and above sales we have invested in inventory.

Okay. But that's got fuel in it, too, isn't it? I guess it's a net figure. But we can follow-up. Thank you so much, guys. Much appreciated.

Thanks, Nick.

The next question comes from the line of Victoria Petrova, calling from Credit Suisse. Please, go ahead.

Hi. Do you hear me?

We can hear you.

Yes. Thank you very much. I have three questions. First is on price investments. You highlighted that you're planning to keep aggressive price policy. Is it the market requirement? What is happening to promotions in the second half of the year? I mean, we'll obviously have seen news that you are lowering prices on 400 items. Are you following sort of Tesco policy in pricing? Is it a requirement of the sector? Is it a requirement of – coming from discounters? Why in this high-demand environment you continue quite – to be quite aggressive on price, and that's not only Morrisons but the sector in general?

My second question is on the current trading environment. Are you seeing any significant changes in customer behavior in the beginning of the second half? Basically, has there been any dramatic change at the end of first half-beginning of the second half?

And my last question, within your new channels, what is the most and least profitable and what can be done to improve profitability? I suspect that click-and-collect is probably most profitable. What is the least? And maybe, you're seeing opportunities in automation, sales density in online et cetera, just to bring it closer to average profitability levels of the company? Thank you very much.

Thank you, Victoria. It's David. I'll pick up on the pricing investment and current trading and so on. But obviously, we don't guide on that, so – and Trevor will pick upon the final parts.

Well, look, we don't have that many priorities as a business, but one is to be more competitive. And of course, that means offering great value for money. And part of the Morrisons journey is towards that Morrisons pricelist where we can be more competitive. So, it is part of our belief, part of our plans to improve the overall shopping trip around very friendly colleagues, more pairs of hands serving on our counters as we drive for better prices.

I think with regard to promotions, it's a very important point you make. And Morrisons customers really quite like promotions. We've taken down the tail of promotions, because it's always important to identify which is the tail, quite a bit in half one. I see that continuing in half two. And some of our bigger promotions are actually doing better than before. So, I think we're on the right track. I think Monday was an important moment for the company to drive home that value with those 400 price cuts because, remember, they are on the customers' favorites; they're not on the list that Morrisons chose. And that means that they are quite meaty and important in the market that you refer to, but crucially very important to your customers.

I think in terms of how did the quarter – how did the half end and how did the half begin, well, I think you can see the strength in quarter two even though we had a strong quarter one. And part of that is because, as Nick suggested earlier, we turbocharged the sort of morrisons.com and other ways of getting shopping to people's homes. We do see that continuing to be there in half two.

As of the sales – actual sales are in the hands of consumers. The one, I think, notable point that happened was the Eat Out Help Out (sic) [Eat Out to Help Out] program brought forward by the government. And we did see that, I think, in some of the big proteins, but we our-self used that program across our cafes and we certainly felt it in our cafes. And then, during the month of August, we extended the three days provided for by the government to the whole week, of each of the weeks in August. So, that's where we are.

Yeah. And just on online then, Victoria, I suppose looking at the online business in total, it is profitable on a fully charged, fully reloaded, fully loaded basis. And if we look at the different channels, store-pick would be the most profitable. We're leveraging the fact that we own 87% of our stores, pushing the volume over the fixed cost base. And there, we've got nearly 500 very conveniently well-located supermarkets.

In terms of the least profitable or in terms of percent margin terms would be click-and-collect over the last six months. And really, the main driver is that as we've ramped up that capacity driven by our intent and purpose really to play a full part in feeding the nation. You've rolled it probably quicker than what you may have done if you were looking to perfect the operation coming in behind it. And your open from 8:00 till 8:00 every day for collections and you've got fixed manning around it, and that just drags the profitability back at bit. So, across the half, we're very pleased to have rolled out that capacity. As Nick said, we will have incurred some startup costs in half one as we ramped it as quickly as we did. But we're very pleased it's profitable on a fully loaded basis.

And in terms of automation or sort of getting it to a higher margin level over time, do you see any potential there?

Well, we benefit from sharing the facility with Ocado in Dordon and we're looking forward to entering the facility in Erith earlier in the new year, so we get the best of that mix model of central – big central facilities and leveraging our freehold-dominated stores state. Okay.

Thank you very much.

The next question comes from the line of [ph] Zavia Lemaine (00:46:06) calling from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, and thank you for taking my question. So, two, if I may. First, you've seen some positive leverage you said in H1. So, what are you guessing for H2, which is [indiscernible] (00:46:23) your outlook. So, do we expect delivery service to be quite strong and then to deliver some positive leverage?

Second question, we've seen the costs with COVID-19. Of course, you are expecting more costs in the second half also reducing from H1. But what will happen if the costs are going beyond 2020 and actually also impacting 2021 when you will not get the business [indiscernible] (00:46:51) anymore? So, what is your guess going forward?

Yeah. Thank you. I'll take the second question. Michael will pick up on your first on leverage in half two. Well, I think our primary concern is to make sure that our colleagues and customers can work safely and shop safely in Morrisons. And I think you can see from the figures in half one that they believe that to be true. As in all walks of life, once you get used to doing something, it can become a bit easier. And around social distancing and marshaling consumers, they get used to it, we get used to it, and life becomes more cost-effective.

As said, looking ahead longer-term, I think I've said in my speech that there are many opportunities for productivity and cost savings ahead of this company. And when we think how to allocate those and where to put our resources, then we look at what inbound costs we have around our competitiveness and our service and other costs, some of which you refer to.

I mean, the government's position is really around containment, and that's what you can see start to happen now in society where, in order to protect the workplace, in order to protect our schools and the fairly smooth return of schools, the British public have taken quite a lot of confidence from that. And in order to protect our NHS, then the government are quick to say these are the new six rule, or this particular town, the local authority is quick to say there needs to be quite tough conditions. So, the whole effort of the nation is going into avoiding that second spike, avoiding a second national lockdown. And we are very much part of that. Because remember, we, Morrisons, and the rest of the retailers in the UK have been right at the front of dealing with this crisis.

Thanks, Dave. Good morning, [ph] Zavia (00:48:45). Clearly, in half one with our strong sales growth, we did, as we said, get some – get good positive operating leverage out of that sales growth. As we look forward to half two, as we said in the statement, we're confident of continued strong momentum. We have had positive operating leverage within our manufacturing business, and we've worked hard to turn that volume growth into that positive leverage and as we look forward to continued momentum as we head into half two.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Rob Joyce calling from Goldman Sachs. Please, go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got three. So, the first one, just in terms of the £75 million to £125 million, so the step away from that due to the uncertainty. Given you've got quite a lot of details for the rest of the business, I'm just wondering what elements of that now look a lot less certain because you stepped away from that?

The second one is just in terms of the online business, I wonder if you could just let us know what the contribution to that retail like-for-like of, give or take, 8% in the first half online was? And what percentage of your retail sales are now online maybe just the last quarter?

And then finally, just a little bit of help us to understand a little bit how the Amazon delivery relationship works. Is it – are your staff taking those orders in the store? And how does the product – is Amazon or do Amazon delivery paying you a wholesale price or is there a cost recharge and also a take rate charge on that? Just to help us understand the sort of mechanics behind that, and then I suppose the financial and the other sort of physical picking. Thank you very much.

I'll take first, Rob, on online. I think our online is running, as we exit the quarter, about 10% of our sales ex-fuel. And I think we're seeing obviously quite strong growth. David talked about the orders more than doubling during the half in the period where we laid down an increase of five-fold in capacity. And then, we are not breaking out the specific contribution to like-for-like. But if you – if you looked across the half, online were probably contributing just under half of the group like-for-like number.

I think, Rob, just closing out on the third part – it's David – the arrangements haven't really changed with Amazon, of course, on the wholesale side of our book. But of course, there's still a peak where the growth has been quite significant. And I talked about us getting on the front page of amazon.co.uk across the nation. Then, basically, that's all about leveraging Amazon's site, Amazon's wheels and the same with delivery. So, essentially, we pay for those services and the sales are attributed to Morrisons in retail like-for-like. So, I suppose that is the biggest change. But we're looking forward to continue the profitable growth from that account.

Morning, Rob. It's Michael. Yeah. What we said was that due to the exceptional circumstances around COVID, we were not reporting against our £75 million to £125 million target. You can see interest. But there are a lot of moving parts within online wholesale and within the services business that has been materially impacted in the first half. So, we've made the decision in those circumstances not to report against this.

Okay. But you might come back to it at some point?

Yeah. We'll come back to you in March.

And thank you very much. So, very quickly, on the unit profits. Are you making – is that unit profitable? The Deliveroo and the Amazon store-pick where you pay them a delivery fee, is that unit profitable?

Yes.

Thank you. Molly, next question. We answered yes to that, Rob's last question.

Got it. Thank you.

Sorry, Rob. Yeah.

The next question comes from the line of Sreedhar Mahamkali calling from UBS. Thank you.

Yeah. Hi. Good morning. Three questions as well here, please. Firstly, in terms of the wholesale target of £1 billion, you're pretty much there with the targets, as you say. I'm curious to see if you've got any thoughts in terms of what's next in terms of either the growth from here or what sort of profit contribution you think the wholesale business can make? I'm looking beyond the exceptional set of circumstances right now in a year or two perhaps. That will be helpful.

Secondly, coming back to the cash flow, the £284 million – the swing in working capital, is there any help at all you can give in terms of the sense of fuel contribution to this, please? Obviously, we've got a couple of moving parts there. You called out the £65 million in supplier terms and we see some inventory growth, but it'll be helpful if you could give us a sense of how we should be thinking about some of it being reversed in the second half.

And finally, maybe slightly trying to look at next year's, I think, David, you talked about holding onto the sales and customer gains in the second half. But would you be willing to give us a sense of how you might be starting to think about next year? So, will the comps become too daunting? How do you plan, how do you think about next year given the base that is going to be quite elevated this year? Just some time ideas will be helpful. I know it's far away. We still got second half to play and all that stuff, but it'll be interesting to hear your thoughts. Thank you.

Yeah. No, thank you very much. So, they're all important questions. Thank you. We appreciate them.

I think, first of all, the wholesale business, you're right to say we're getting towards that target and it's one of those businesses where you set up the assets around cost per case and then you drive it down through volume of Morrisons Dailys and other formats, and new customers. So we're well on with that journey. And in the half, wholesale was profitable and we intend to continue that journey.

I think we've always said we're open for business in the wholesale side of the industry. That remains the case for new retail partners to work with. But people like Rontec, they've got plenty more sites that we would look to convert with that team as well. So, I think we're in good shape on wholesale.

Of course, it would remain a wholesale margin and it's up to us to drive those efficiencies with our retail partners. And we're certainly getting used to being a franchise operator and becoming a wholesaler that's highly valued by other retailers. And it can be quite a word-of-mouth type of industry.

I think in terms of holding on to growth, some of it, of course, is that shift around Fix, Rebuild, Grow and Sustain. We're quite neatly focused on Grow and Sustain, and having done a fair amount of fixing and rebuilding.

Yeah. I think I can see online continuing to grow as we leverage more of our assets as consumers keep on with that channel. We would intend to open more new supermarkets in the way we've guided before.

I think as far as like-for-like goes, clearly, whilst we don't guide, there will be some weeks where it'll be quite choppy in those stocking-up weeks. But there are always other things coming along that we'll benefit from as well where we had whole chunks of our business closed during half one that I think Michael referred to. And then attitudinally in the company, we are looking for more growth channels as well. So I think there's plenty of reasons to look forward to growth.

Morning, Sreedhar. Yeah. So, to give you some color on cash, fuel is significant. If we excluded the impact of the decline in both fuel volumes and fuel price in the half, net debt would have been lower than at year-end. So hopefully that gives you some color.

As you said, there have been some other impacts, including paying our smallest suppliers immediately and that's had a £65 million impact in the half.

On the fuel side, as I said earlier but to repeat on volume, it did trough at 70%, but has started to recover to more normal levels as we come to the end of the half.

Was there anything in the inventory, Michael, on fuel or was inventory entirely related – [indiscernible] (00:58:38) entirely related to fuel side?

I think as I've said before, Sreedhar, we keep relatively little fuel stock at any one time. It's a little more than a couple of days. So fuel stock won't have changed materially.

Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Andrew Gwynn calling from Exane. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, all. I think I've been asleep at the *1 wheel this morning, so most of my questions would have been asked. But I'm just going to drill you down firstly on the consensus. I mean, that does look like it's in line with the guidance today, but the very fact that you're typically very, very prudent and you're essentially sanctioning this sort of small growth or some growth in the profit. I'm just wondering where the risks might lie to that consensus. So, a bit of an open question, but any thoughts very welcome.

And then the shape of trading, I mean you've hinted a few times. Obviously, we've seen some disruption during the period from things like the cafés closing but now reopened, presumably a bit of staycation effect to a degree in some of the half. So I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit more of an update on where trends are at present, maybe a bit optimistic. I know it's also been asked before or perhaps the last few weeks like-for-like even. Thank you.

Let me take the second part, Andrew. And Michael, perhaps pick up the first question.

Staycation is obviously helpful and perhaps the hospitality industry being open, but consumers are being a little bit slow to return to former habits, which is we describe the renaissance of supermarkets. We are still seeing those bigger shopping baskets. Have they come down in size? They have, but the delta is the increase in transactions. So we're not back where we were on transactions, but we're higher than we were in the peak of COVID, which I think one would expect.

Yeah. I think if you open 400 cafés or thereabouts, then you do start to attract customers who we kind of had before. We've altered the menu. We've refitted every café, not just screens, and therefore, we're looking for different consumers as well to come into those.

I think some of the trends around the big proteins, around fish and meat are still there and solid in growth. Clothing, which we would have had negative half one – end of half one positive, we'd expect that to continue.

And home and leisure, I think people spending a bit more time at home are looking for like new cushions and new mugs and stuff like that, then I think we've seen a tick-up there as well. And core grocery continues to do well.

Perhaps where our customers are shopping around the industry in some of those small – sort of medium-sized stores a bit less because when they are coming out and they're coming to a place where they're very confident about social distancing and the knowledge of our own people – for example, Morrisons – then I think they are buying a bit more. And of course, long may that continue.

Morning, Andrew. It's Michael. See, as we look into half two, as we said in the outlook statement, we are confident of continued strong momentum and another year of profit growth. Consensus I think is set at somewhere just around 6% growth for the full year.

As we look into the second half, cafés, which have been shut for much of the first half and the fuel impact of lower demand particularly earlier in the quarter, we see those businesses, including food-to-go and counters, beginning to recover. There's a lot of moving parts as we look into the second half, but as we said, continued confidence in that momentum and another year of profit growth.

But maybe just to help us, out of touch, but obviously some of the cost-saving initiatives have been deferred. So perhaps if you could fill in some of the sort of – well, a little bit more color on that. Are those likely to be very material in terms of tailwind in the second half? Thank you.

Well, they're very important and they are one of the ways we square the circle on the investments we're making. So, I think we said that we went through a significant restructure where 3,000 management jobs were curtailed and we've replaced that with thousands of frontline colleagues. So, that drives its own level of productivity.

And many of the sort of supply chain efforts that we had in train, we'll be starting those up again as we can concentrate on more things during the second half. So, I think we're in pretty good shape actually looking ahead over these next 18 months and perhaps even longer term with the scale of our productivity through the supply chain network and through other digital means, which means our frontline colleagues can spend a lot more time on service and less time on administration.

Thank you. Molly.

Okay. Thank you. Cheers, guys.

The next question comes from the line of Clive Black calling from Shore Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning and evening, gentlemen. Thanks for the update. Two questions from me, if I may. Firstly, often overlooked this, but could you just clarify how you see Sustain within your strategic priorities?

And secondly, just by way of clarification as well, actually, the deferral of the special dividend, how do you think shareholders should see that term at this stage, please? Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Clive. It's David. Well, I'm very grateful for the question as a matter of fact because I think Sustain generally holds the keys to the kingdom for the company. And when we think about all of the things we're doing to Fix, Rebuild, and Grow this business, in capability and breadth and choice and all of these, accessibility and popularity and competitiveness, the key thing about Sustain is to make those stick. That's the first part of Sustain.

The second part, I think, is that if you have our market position, you do need to differentiate yourself within the market. And we see very friendly colleagues, great value for money, and local integration as a very important part of that differentiation.

And it's the local integration, it's the local ranging, the local employment, the local facilities, the way we are there for the communities we serve that we see very much as part of Sustain, how we sustain that brand warmth in that Net Promoter Score is all about our local integration.

And then, finally and perhaps most importantly for the whole of society, Sustain for us – the third part of Sustain for this company includes our plastic footprint and our CO2 footprint, and how we play our part in containing and lowering the temperature of the earth as we go through on our lower plastic targets going towards 2025 where we intend, all of own brand, to be 100% recyclable. And we intend to have reduced our plastic in total of our own plastic by 50%, and these are quite stretch in target.

So, when we think about Sustain, it's across those three areas.

Clive, if I can take the second one on deferral of the special. So, as you know, we said in March that we had anticipated paying the special dividend for the second half of 2019/2020. But we said at the time, given the uncertainty around the then-emerging COVID pandemic, that'll be the prudent thing to make a decision at that time to defer the payment of that special dividend.

And if we look at – wind-down six months, while we believe we've got a good understanding of how COVID is affecting our business and have good visibility of future cash flows, our decision to continue to defer that special for the second half of last year reflects a prudent approach. It reflects some continued and sustained uncertainty how COVID plays out to the winter and the impact on customer behavior as a result. So, it reflects that continuing prudent approach.

Yeah. I think – Clive, it's Trevor. Just building on what Michael said and maybe back to his closing remarks in his speech, I think if you put it in a longer context, the company's got a long-term commitment to the capital allocation framework. And in the context of that, in this period which we're reporting today, I think the performance in the statement reflects a strong performance in like-for-like and in underlying terms, strong profitability and strong cash flow when you adjust out for the exceptional things like Michael said earlier in response to Sreedhar's question.

I think the statement that came with the prelims in March, as Michael said, the board anticipated announcing a final special relating to half two last year and that decision was deferred, and that remains the case. But I think to put it in context, I think the guiding principles with which we run the business first to build a business that's more popular, more accessible, broader and stronger, and second to be seeking to achieve that relative rate of improvement in the shopping trip.

Third, managing the business for the long term for all of our stakeholders, our colleagues, customers, suppliers, the communities we serve, as David just alluded to, and our shareholders. And often in specific context of this specific question, being very disciplined in terms of cash and capital allocation. All four of those principles, convictions are unchanged. Thanks, Clive.

Excellent. Thanks guys for the clarification.

Thanks, Clive.

Could I just ask, David, a supplementary on sustained lease around the involvement of your manufacturing set because you're clearly not a conventional retailer with your vertical integration and how manufacturing played into Sustain as opposed to stores based in communities, please?

Yeah. I think being very close to British agriculture by dense of being Britain's biggest single food maker and British farming's biggest single supermarket customer means that we are shoulder-to-shoulder with their sort of net zero commitments to a whole load of things around British agriculture. And that takes us to a very good place.

Clearly in terms of [ph] AMRs (01:10:48) and these are the thing – two-thirds of what we sell is already British and 25% of what we actually sell in total is actually made by ourselves either in those manufacturing facilities that you referred to or, in fact, in our stores.

So, I think the vertical integration model exercised by Morrisons certainly keeps it all top of mind – front of mind, rather. But I do think it gives us the opportunity to play a very full part actually in all of the challenges that all of us do face with regard to climate change.

Thank you very much, guys.

Okay. Molly, I think we got time for one more question.

The final question comes from the line of James Anstead calling from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning guys. Two final questions then, if that's okay. Firstly, [ph] I have (01:11:44) appreciated the extent to which you've been on the front foot with respect to fuel pricing with the price per liter falling below £1. I know you always see the fuel price as a way of advertising your overall price credential, but is it a fair conclusion to think you've decided to noticeably step up your price competitiveness on fuel as a way of driving traffic into stores? That's the first question.

Second one a bit quicker, which is just can you remind us of the approximate annualized sales uplift at these 240 additional McColl's stores should add to your wholesale revenues?

Hi, James. It's Trevor. Just in terms of fuel pricing, it's an important price on the totem. It's important to price perception. It's important when people have got a bit less disposable income. It's a big part of the weekly spend. And as a value retailer, we've been very competitive over the last five or six years on fuel price.

If I look back through that time, a big part the working capital improvement has been the fact that our fuel business probably pushed on by about 15% in terms of volume in liters, which is fundamentally on the back of attracting more customers. So, we wouldn't be trying to point you towards a step-up in our competitiveness, but you can be reassured we will be very competitive on fuel.

And then, in terms of the McColl's guidance, we've got those 200-odd shops to come over. And we haven't guided, James, on what that's going to contribute and that will probably be something we would look to revisit back in – when we get to March at prelims when we've got a clearer view of what that transition profile looks like.

Okay. That's helpful. Thanks.

Okay. Well, thank you everyone for joining the call. We do, of course, as always, appreciate it very, very much. And Molly, thank you for handling the call so well. Thank you very much.

Thank you for joining today's call. You may now disconnect your lines.