corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
©
 
2001
-
20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Sir Ian Gibson, Chairman


Good morning everyone and welcome to the preliminary announcement for our year end, 31st,


January. My name’s Ian Gibson and on my right of course, is Richard Pennycook who w
ill be your


sole and main performer today.


I’m delighted to report that in a difficult period for the U.K. economy and for the consumer, has seen


Morrisons have another good year, with market beating sales growth, a 19% rise in Underlying


Profits to 767 million and, in line with our policy of reducing dividend cover to sector average, a


41% increase in the dividend.


Once again our focus on fresh food and great value resonated with shoppers throughout the


country and ensured we welcomed more customers through our doors than ever before as we


continued on our journey to take the business from National to Nationwide.


These results are testament to all the people in the business who enabled us to establish another


set of Morrisons’ records. But this year I wo
uld also like to take the slightly unusual step of thanking


the senior team for their focus and commitment through a period of CEO transition. You’ve met


some of them before, and I’ll ask them to stand just now so you can them as I thank them on behalf


of the Board and shareholders for a successful year. Would you do that, guys? I say guys because


out in the senior team we actually don’t have any women who are present, so as to say, although


we do in our non-executive.
 
Thanks.


Concluding that transition, we appointed Dalton Philips as new CEO and he takes over at the end


of this month. During the year, of course, Marc Bolland left us and we thank him for his contribution


and leadership through a key phase of Morrisons’ development
 
and wish him well in his n
ew role.


Also as part of our Board succession planning, there were also some changes in our Non-


Executive ranks. Susan Murray retired in December, and I’d like to thank her for her contribution to


the business over the past four years. Penny Hughes and Johanna Waterous joined us earlier this


year. Both bring a wealth of experience and I’m pleased to welcome them to the Board.


As usual our colleagues and customers have given generously of their time and money to support


charitable causes this year with over £2.5 million being raised for children in need, the Haiti


earthquake appeal and our charity of the year, Cancer Research. I thank them as ever for their


continuing generosity.


Looking ahead, we expect the economic environment
 
to remain challenging, with disposable


incomes under continuing pressure and value remaining a high priority for consumers. Against this


background, Morrisons’ unique offer of high quality, fresh food at great value prices puts us in a


strong position to continue to win customers from our competitors and drive further growth in


market share.


I’d now like to hand over to Richard, who will take you through a two part of the results, our


operational review and plans for the future. Thank you. Richard?


Richard Pennycook, Group Finance Director


Thanks Ian. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. As Ian mentioned, I’m doing both the financial


and operational reviews this morning. I’ll start in the usual order with financials first followed by the


operational highlights under the key headings shown here.
corrected transcript


Wm Morrison Supermarkets


Plc
 
MRW.GB
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company▲
 
Tick er▲
 
Event Type▲
 
Date▲


w w w . Ca l l Stre e t. com
 
•
 
1
-
877
-
F A CTS ET
 
•
 
Copy right
 
© 2001-20 14
 
CallSt reet
 
2


So, turning to the results. 2009 was a vintage year for Morrisons. We strongly outgrew the market


for the second successive year, whilst investing for future growth and delivering a significant profits


upgrade. Turnover was up 6%, despite a large negative fuel impact which I will break out in a


moment. We were delighted with our operating profit growth of 21% to £812 million. Net debt


increased as anticipated, because we invested in 45 new stores and a new regional distribution


center in the year.


We turn to the detail and start with the top line, you can see here the split of the 6% like for like


sales increase between customer numbers, up 2.3%, and spending growth per customer which


rose 3.7% to just above £23. We saw an average of 10.5 million customers a week in the year, an


increase of 1.3 million since we relaunched the brand in ‘07.


As usual, on the next slide, we break out here component parts of the turnover growth in the year.


It’s taken on a slightly different shape for us. The key el
ement remained the like for like store sales


growth of 6%, that contributed £686 million of sales to the business. But new space also stepped


up that contributed 359 million, accounting for 2.5% of our total sales growth. The biggest element


within that, of course, was the 34 Co-op and Somerfield stores opened approximately mid-year and


they delivered 230 million of sales in the year.


Fuel once again had a significant impact. Average pump prices were around 5% lower than the


previous year resulting in a price related decline of £143 million. Volumes were also marginally


down, reflecting the recessionary impact of people driving less.


Turning now to underlying profit, it was up 21%, with only very small adjustments this time for


property profits and pension scheme returns. The major adjusting item was the exceptional


pensions credit of £91 million.
 
We dealt with that fully at the interim stage, so I don’t propose to


repeat any detail here. With a normal tax charge, underlying basic earnings per share, were up


23% to 20.5p and the dividend up 41% with dividend cover of 2.5 times. This fulfilled our


commitment made in 2007 to bring dividend cover in line with the European grocery retail average


by January 2010.


Operating profits grew by 21% to 812 million, equivalent
 
to 5.3% of sales. This percentage was


slightly ahead of the level we anticipated when we first launched the Optimisation Plan, and that


reflects both over-performance of individual
 
plan elements and the operational leverage benefits of


the strong
 
volume growth we’ve delivered.
 
The gross profit increased to 6.9% of sales, reflects this


leverage,
 
but the year-on-year increase of 60 basis points is also flattered by approximately 30


basis points reflecting the mix effect of fuel.


Administrative expenses were up 12%, well below the level of profit growth as one would expect.


Our marketing activity increased, but it was offset by reductions in the cost of advertising in the


marketplace. Also included in this line are the LTIP costs from the maturity of
 
the Group’s first LTIP


which was launched three years ago and this will reward approximately the top 650 managers in


the company for their role in turning around the business.


Turning now to cash flow, 2009 was a peak year of investment for us. Operational cash generation


continued to be strong, despite the need to stock-up a new RDC, with the result that cash from


operations was £1.0 billion and that’s some 40 million ahead of the year before. Capital expenditure


of 906 million included 520 million for the opening of new stores, 50 million for Sittingbourne RDC


and 57 million for the continuing systems programme. Despite these big investments, net debt


increased by less than we had originally anticipated, due partly to the improved buying power as a


result of the recession and also the tight internal control on our cash flow. Our net debt continues to


be at very comfortable levels. At the year end, we had 650 million, headroom against our revolving