Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Thomas Higginson — Chairman, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Daniel Ekstein — Analyst, UBS Ltd.
Bruno Monteyne — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
David McCarthy — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Dusan Milosavljevic — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Andrew Porteous — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
James Alan Tracey — Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd.
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Well, good morning, everyone, and thanks for coming along today.

It's been a good year for Morrisons, I think, with sales, profits and returns all growing. And I really quite heartfelt and genuinely want to thank the team really for a terrific effort over the last three years since David got here; obviously, Trevor longer than that. But to bring the business to this point and to have improved the shopping trip for customers in the way they have has made a big difference. And I think the work that's been done around cash led by Trevor, obviously, and the strengthening of the balance sheet has allowed us this time now to – alongside the usual ordinary dividend, we're delighted to be able to announce a special dividend stake of £0.04 per share. And it is a moment because it kind of is a signal of the progress we've made and the strength of the business as we face into what is undoubtedly an incredibly competitive market where every day, you're judged by customers on the job you do for them and someone just down the road is there to take that business if you don't do a good job for them. But it is a significant moment and I would like to thank the whole team for all their hard work and making such a difference.

We did, at the last board meeting, welcome the latest member of the team to the board. Kevin Havelock joined as a Non-Executive Director with – he has vast FMCG experience most notably with Unilever. And he's going to sit on the remuneration audit norms and corporate compliance and responsibility committees. So, we should get our monies worth there, I think. And so, it's a business – as we continue to evolve the business, evolve the board and keep moving on, so far so good in terms of the progress. So, well done, the team.

And I hand over now to David and Trevor to talk you through the details.

Thank you, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the Chairman, Trevor, and myself here today. To the extent that competitive pressures allow, I'm going to describe progress in our Fix, Rebuild and Grow strategy, and illustrate how new Morrisons is becoming broader and stronger.

Our performance was, again, strong in the year just ended. We made good progress in the now concurrent phases of Fix, Rebuild and Grow. Key to Fix was stabilizing the sales of our core supermarkets. It's progressing well with nine quarters of positive like-for-like on the balance.

Capability is improving across the board. The offer is more consistent, increasingly competitive and differentiated for customers, colleagues, for our suppliers, and of course, for shareholders. Our colleagues have so many ideas to keep fixing and improving the business.

But also on with Rebuild and Grow. For example, rebuilding confidence, customer loyalty, profitability, and return on invested capital. Our capital-light broad-based strategy leads to profitable growth to a broader, stronger Morrisons growing in a bigger market.

As true today as when we started this turnaround, three strong convictions are sacrosanct. First, we have a relative catch-up opportunity in the market. We've made up ground, but there's still more to go for. Second, to keep improving for customers. The shopping trip can always improve. More customers can always buy more from Morrisons. And third, execution is key. We're restless and relentless in the pursuit of the highest standards in every store and channel, and the best execution involves everyone in the company.

As I said, performance last year was strong with like-for-like excluding fuel up 2.8% for the year. And on a two-year basis, like-for-like was up 4.7%, accelerating for more than 6% over Christmas and New Year. As the chart show, customer transactions are now entering their third year of growth.

The year had its challenges, especially inflation. But in the second half, as a British retailer with a British supply chain, we took the opportunity to become more competitive for customers. Customers are strongly associating Morrisons with being British and being committed to buying British. Customer satisfaction is showing real improvement, too, up another 7% year-on-year and up 12% since our journey started.

It was also an important year for wholesale. There's no doubt that our new and organic wholesale business is attracting new retail customers and is open for business. With McColl's, Rontec and recently, Sandpiper, we'll be supplying well over 1,700 convenience stores across Britain and the Channel Islands. A roll-in program to supply all of McColl's stores started in January, adding around 25 stores a week.

Our new Safeway range so far of around 400 items is proving popular with McColl's customers. We're also now supplying 40 Morrisons Daily stores on the forecourts of Rontec and have recently announced we'll be taking Morrisons Daily to the Channel Islands where our new partner, Sandpiper, has around 40 stores.

In addition, we're supplying more to Amazon as its various channels continue to grow. And during the year, Morrisons at Amazon store pick was extended to more London and Hertfordshire postcodes and into parts of Leeds, Birmingham and Manchester. All of this wholesale growth requires little new capital from us and utilize the spare capacity in our manufacturing business, so driving meaningful growth at a high rate of return.

Trevor will speak in more detail in a moment, but we're pleased with another year of double-digit profit growth, very strong cash flow, and debt once again lower this year to less than our £1 billion target. The principles of our capital allocation framework have been guiding our decisions for some years now, and we're returning some surplus capital to our shareholders in the form of a special dividend.

I'll now run through a year of progress in the six priorities. I mentioned earlier, we made continued progress in becoming more competitive for customers. Price Crunch, Way Down and Morrisons Makes It are communicating a distinctive and popular Morrisons price list for customers. As food input inflation persisted throughout the year, our customers' shopping budgets remain static. So we work hard to keep prices low.

For example, our basket of key Christmas items was the same price as last year; customers noticed and responded. We're saving customers every penny we can, cutting prices, not putting them up wherever possible, getting to the sharpest prices for Wonky and Savers, plenty of special offers across the store and strong events at key customer moments in the year. This is what our customers truly value and, therefore, Morrisons values it too.

And we've had a bigger contribution from manufacturing this year. Our food makers are wholly focused on improving productivity and increasing capacity. Lowering cost, improving yield, driving volume and quality, these are the key measures for the second largest food maker in Britain. In categories such as potatoes, eggs, nuts, blueberries, crumpets and pitta breads, we've moved to own more of the supply chain this year to have closer relationships with growers and farmers and, as a result, we're providing better quality and lower prices.

Potatoes are a good case study. We recently bought a graving and packing facility in Carnoustie and invested in industry-leading automation and robotics in our repurposed food processing plants at Gadbrook and Rushden.

As a result, we now direct source from over 200 Scottish growers, cutting out middlemen and agents. We machine wash, grade and pack spuds from Wonky to Best using the most modern and efficient technology. Our potatoes are high quality and at much lower prices for customers. The process is efficient and the economics are much better for us, too. In addition, you'll have seen since the year-end the acquisition of the free-range egg packing business, Chippindale Foods.

At Morrisons, being more competitive is about selling more goods and services that more and more people want to buy. During the year, we introduced new and improved ranges in so many areas. For example, we replaced and improved almost our entire Home & Leisure range; and extended Best range grew sales another 25% over Christmas. Our Nutmeg women's wear is now in 96 stores. And as we become more competitive, our colleagues are winning recognition.

At the half year, I mentioned several awards; amongst them, Best was named Own-Label Range of the Year and we're Sandwich Multiple Retailer of the Year, too. Well, I'm delighted to say the winners list goes on. In the second half, we gained other awards: Supply Chain Innovation of the Year for automated ordering; Wines and Spirits Innovator of the Year; Multiple Beer and Cider Retailer of the Year; and our extended Nutmeg brand won Best Disposable Nappy for the Nutmeg Ultra Dry Nappy at the Mumii Awards.

Now, serving customers better properly differentiates Morrisons. Our front-line colleagues deliver an outstanding job for their customers. As I said, customer satisfaction improved by 7% during the year, which is a real step-up in the third year, a third consecutive year of improvement. Automated ordering and other productivity initiatives are freeing up more time for front-line staff to serve customers better. And the recent simplification of in-store structures created 1,700 more customer service roles in stores.

We're also serving customers better online. Our new store-pick, Morrisons.com service is now available in North East England, parts of East Anglia, Lincolnshire and the Isle of Wight, with more new areas to follow. And our new Food to Order service is now available both online and in-store as the year-round service is proving popular with customers, where Christmas Food to Order sales were up 50% year-on-year.

We still have more we can do to serve more and more customers better and better; visible and expert food makers on Market Street, a more consistent shopping trip in-store and online, better availability in every store each day, and to keep recognizing and rewarding our colleagues' contribution to greater levels of productivity and service.

We're invested in pay and bonus in this, a colleague-led turnaround. We've again increased hourly-based pay for front-line colleagues this time to £8.70 an hour from April 2018, an increase of 27% over three years. And the average colleague bonus has more than doubled over the last two years.

We had a very strong year for local, too. During the year, over 200 of the nation's local growers, farmers, fishermen and other food makers began supplying Morrisons. We've introduced over 750 new local products, such as locally sourced meat in South West England, local market street vegetables in Yorkshire, Plumgarth's sausage in our Cumbrian stores; and in Malvern, the Friday Beer Company, who brew beer just two miles from Morrisons, is now a top-selling bottled ale. Overall, sales of local suppliers' products across Morrisons are up 50% over the last two years.

And data from our More Card is now targeting our local offer, too. It's become a powerful tool store by store in refits, defending against competitor openings, in local marketing and in ranging, so local solutions are driving a national benefit with much more to come.

It was a busy year for services. We completed the modernization of our cafés and introduced over 50 new barista coffee bars. We now have 30 Morrisons Daily convenience stores on our petrol forecourts, many of which were extensions of dated kiosks. These stores offer customers a full convenience offer and extended opening hours. Results so far are strong with sales up over 40% and we expect to open many similar stores over the coming months and years.

With Amazon lockers now in over 400 stores, we've made further progress with parcel pickup services. Doddle, who's recently been introduced into over 160 stores, and it handled over 25,000 parcels a week over Christmas for our customers. Timpson has extended beyond the original 150 of our stores that had dry cleaning, and is now in around 180 stores. And in addition, we started a trial with Sunlite, which offers customers a similar service.

We are continuing to simplify and speed up the business. Christmas 2017 was the first, where our new automated ordering system was fully operational. As planned, it's saving labor hours, improving availability, and reducing stock levels. In addition, we're beginning to realize cost savings in administration, distribution, and procurement of goods not for resale. I believe we're at the beginning of simplifying and speeding up the company.

The opportunities at Morrisons are across the business to tackle big end-to-end work streams, to drive productivity and service. For example, tightening the joints between manufacturing, distribution, and Market Street to improve efficiency and yield; the more efficient flow of products and goods in both primary and secondary distribution; and offering customers a choice of modern and efficient payment options in-store.

Our supermarkets are getting stronger. We delivered another 80 Fresh Look stores during the year, meaning we've now refitted half the estate, achieving a better shopping environment for those customers.

We are pleased with the results so far, Modern Morrisons stores with their roots firmly in Fresh Food and Market Street, for which we are rightly renowned. And thus, in prior years, we applied our Fresh Look learnings nationally. For example, our Fruit & Veg and Florist departments were updated across the whole estate during the year just ended.

As we improve capability, supply chain, technology and data, we'll simplify the business. And as I mentioned earlier, we're recruiting more front-line customer service colleagues and we're able to do this whilst removing some managerial roles.

As you can see, Fix, Rebuild and Grow are concurrent, so let me say a word on growth. Sales growth is building. It's meaningful sustainable and has four parts. Like-for-like, modest, sustainable, always aiming to be in a decent two to three-year range. Our like-for-like has been in that range for nine quarters now as we continue to overhaul our goods and services, as well as the key components of everyone's shopping trip.

New stores, delivering profitable opportunities are handful each year. There are locations in Britain where our customers haven't got access to Morrisons, and others where we have an opportunity to renew or replace an existing store, all subject to a strict returns criteria.

During 2018, we'll open three new supermarkets, one opened last week in Cambridgeshire; Abergavenny opened this morning. And in the autumn, we'll open one in Birmingham, each are new communities for Morrisons to serve. Online, with Ocado and now Morrisons store-pick. We look forward to Ocado opening its new Erith depot later in 2018, so more customers in the South East of England and London have access to Morrisons.com for the very first time. It also means we can ripple new capacity into Dordon. Our new store-pick capability means we've opened Morrisons.com in new geographies with more new areas to come. Wholesale, so far with Amazon, McColl's, Rontec and now Sandpiper, an exciting year ahead for all our retail customers including brands such as Safeway newly revived and with potential for the future.

Some of the new initiatives such as those with McColl's and Sandpiper, or the new store-pick online service and new Erith depot do, of course, come with startup costs. And some of our new services, utilizing car parks, petrol forecourts and space beyond the checkouts, are in their infancy. But they're all important opportunities and I'm confident, together, they'll grow profit, cash and returns.

We're expecting further growth on growth in profits, too, from both the core supermarkets and the incremental £75 million to £125 million opportunity. As new Morrisons grows, it'll be broader and stronger a popular and accessible brand, its growth led by its colleagues. Most importantly, for shareholders, that growth will be meaningful, sustainable, capital-light, and highly cash generative.

Thank you. And now over to Trevor.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with an overview of the key financial measures, the ones we're focused on. And I'll then go through the components of the financial performance in detail. Total turnover excluding fuel was up 2.5% on a comparable basis or 4.4% on a statutory basis. We have achieved nine quarters of positive like-for-like. We're especially pleased to have made strong progress with wholesale, expanding the markets we operate in and it's an important part of the group's meaningful and sustainable future growth opportunity.

Underlying profit is up by £37 million, 11% year-on-year, including a £5 million contribution from the 53rd week as guided. We are rebuilding profitability. Delivering 11% profit growth is a strong performance in any year, but especially so in the context of 2017, where the market conditions were challenging.

We will rebuild profitability sustainably. This will be done as we improve the shopping trip for customers. We have reinvested some of the benefits of operational gearing into improving the shopping trip. We will improve our competitiveness, customer satisfaction, and colleague engagement. We manage this business for the long term for all our stakeholders.

We remain committed to generating significant and sustainable levels of free cash and to being capital disciplined. We've delivered our full-year guidance of net debt below £1 billion, down by £1.8 billion from the peak. And in the context of the balance sheet, lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR is now 2.1 times.

The key feature of the growth opportunity is its capital light and accretive to both cash flow and returns. Lease-adjusted return on capital employed has increased to 7.7%. This is a very important measure, but a long-term one and an output. The improvement is a result of focusing on improving the inputs and from being capital disciplined.

We have a clear capital allocation framework. We have invested appropriately in the business whilst improving the debt position. We have a sustainable ordinary dividend policy and we have a strong balance sheet. Leverage is down. The pension is strong. Freehold ownership is 85%.

You will have heard me talk about the principles of our capital allocation framework before. Consistent with our meaningful progress so far and our expectation that progress can be sustained, the board has determined that now is an appropriate time to return surplus capital to our shareholders. This will be done from within cash flow generated in the year and as a special dividend of $0.04 per share to benefit all of our existing shareholders. Going forward, given sales and profit growth and the generation of free cash, the board each year will review our opportunities to invest in profitable growth to continue to deleverage and strengthen the balance sheet further, and where appropriate, return further surplus capital to shareholders.

So, moving on to the detail, total turnover was up 5.8% for the full year to £17.3 billion, up from last year's £16.3 billion. Group like-for-like turnover excluding fuel was up 2.8%, contributing £351 million as you can see from the turnover bridge. We were once again pleased with strong growth in customer transactions, up 2.9% over the year and up around 7% on a two-year basis. Online, through the Dordon CFC, contributed 0.4% to like-for-like for the year. Fuel continues to trade well. We were very competitive throughout the year and volumes were up.

Wholesale sales stepped up through the year. They contributed 0.8% to like-for-like in quarter four as we helped one of our partners, McColl's, with tobacco supply slightly ahead of our original plans. This is merely timing and so does not affect our guidance of £700 million annualized sales by the end of the year and £1 billion in due course.

So moving on to profit. In the year, there were input cost pressures and headwinds in the middle of the P&L, specifically the impact of depreciation and pension in addition to the startup costs associated with accelerated wholesale growth. Given that context, we're pleased with the underlying profit increase of 11%.

Operating profit was £458 million, 2.7%; and profit before tax was £380 million. For the year, items excluded from underlying profit are a net positive of £6 million, and these are broken out on the slide. Property profits were £19 million. On impairments and onerous contracts, there was a net credit or write-back of £6 million made up of freehold stores written back, freehold stores impaired and net charges for onerous contracts and commitments.

On pensions, as I said at the half year, we have concluded the consultation process around the new defined contribution scheme. This has resulted in the release of £13 million; £10 million of which we reported in the first half. There was a charge of £16 million related to the early repayment of borrowings. Net pension income was £9 million. And, finally, there was a charge of £25 million relating primarily to restructuring. Before these exceptionals, underlying profit was £445 million, 2.6%, up £13 million, 7 basis points lower year-on-year. And underlying profit before tax was £374 million.

We are pleased with the continued progress against our increased target of £75 million to £125 million incremental profit, delivering a further £24 million in the year and taking the total over the last two years to £42 million. To remind you of the four component parts: lower interest, reflecting a strong and improving balance sheet; income from popular and useful services; online losses reducing as we break even through this channel in time; and wholesale, where we are driving volume and increasing asset intensity.

Within the detail of the cash flow, net debt at year-end was £973 million, in line with our guidance of less than £1 billion. Cash CapEx was £500 million. Unlike last year, the phasing for CapEx was second half-weighted driven by more Fresh Looks being completed in half two.

Cash outflow on onerous payments was £42 million for the year, below the £100 million we guided for the year due to timing. There are around £100 million of onerous payments to come, of which around £60 million is likely to be in 2018 and 2019.

Proceeds from disposals were £108 million, taking the total proceeds since the start of the program to £1 billion. We completed a bond tender in the second half and incurred a £17 million cash cost associated with the repayment of borrowings. And within net debt, there is a £19 million non-cash movement which has already started to unwind in the first few weeks of the year. Operating working capital achieved in the year was a £35 million improvement, taking the total achieved since the start of the program to £949 million.

There was an outflow in half two as we guided, and the key driver is timing with four component parts. The first is an unwind of the normal seasonal benefit from the half year. The second is the impact from the 53rd week, moving the year-end to be after the January month end. The third is a combination of the balance sheet date being a week later and events this year, specifically Easter, being earlier in the year. And the other key variable was the acceleration of tobacco supply to McColl's in Q4, which also impacted working capital.

Looking at the cash flow, these chart show free cash generated in the year was £350 million. Then adjusting for dividends paid in the year, the reduction in net debt was £221 million. And again, we generated free cash before capital returns, before property proceeds and before working capital improvements and onerous payments of £252 million in the year.

The balance sheet continues to get stronger. We have sustained the working capital benefits. Debt is lower. Net debt to EBITDA is 1.1 times. Lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR is 2.1 times. The maturity profile of debt facilities is strong. ROCE increased to 7.7%, and the net surplus on the pension is £594 million.

During the year, we continued to work with the pension trustees to identify opportunities to de-risk the schemes. In December, the trustees completed a £377 million partial buy-in of the Safeway scheme liabilities. We've also changed the reference for calculating the discount rate, reflecting high-quality corporate bond yields from gilt as we believe this better reflects the profile of the scheme's liabilities.

Regarding guidance for 2018/2019, we expect annualized wholesale sales to be around £700 million by the end of the year, as previously guided. We plan to open three stores in the financial year and expect net new space contribution to be around 0.2%. Depreciation will increase and will be around £440 million to £450 million. Interest will reduce further to around £65 million due to the annualizing benefit of the bond tenders completed in 2017. CapEx will be around £500 million. And as guided, net debt was less than £1 billion at year-end and we expect it to be lower still in 2018/2019. And as I mentioned earlier on onerous payments, there will be around £60 million in the coming year.

You have seen these final two slides before. The first is our capital allocation framework. Looking forward, we will use this framework as we continue to assess the uses of free cash flow. We will continue to invest in the estate. We have a sustainable ordinary dividend policy.

Each year, we will review the capital requirements for profitable growth, and we expect that growth to be capital-light and we will continue to be capital-disciplined; and we expect that the balance sheet will continue to strengthen. We will assess the degree to which we strengthen the balance sheet further by reducing leverage and assess whether to return surplus capital to shareholders.

This is why the plan is improving the economics of the group. That plan and its components remain unchanged. Meaningful volume growth, sustainable profit growth, increasing asset intensity, rebuilding returns, delivering significant levels of free cash flow with a strong balance sheet getting stronger, all of which will enable us to continue to improve the total return for our shareholders. Thank you.

And now, let's move into Q&A.

Thank you. It's Dan Ekstein from UBS. I've got three questions, please. I mean you talked about a lot of the good things that are happening in the business last year. So, volume growth, OpEx savings, positive mix in terms of premium and clothing, yet we saw no growth in operating margins. So, I wonder if you could talk a little bit more and potentially sort of quantify what the offsetting headwinds were and what the outlook for those headwinds as we move into 2018.

The second question is of the £1 billion of ultimate wholesale target, could you describe the shape of that a bit more in terms of what percentage of that would be Morrisons/Safeway private label and what will be branded goods in tobacco, et cetera? And then, thirdly, just on the Fresh Look. Is there any guidance you can give on what sort of like-for-like uplifts the remodeled stores are delivering? Thank you.

Why don't I take the last two, and then Trevor will pick up the first one. I think on Fresh Look, we, to some extent, have mastered the disruption of the actual refit itself, which is real, particularly if you're doing 50 to 80 a year of an estate of 491. But I'm happy that we, over an 8-, 12-, or 16-week refit program, we've got a good hold over that process. And I think there's enough newness going into the refitted stores. The customers are reacting and responding well, both existing and new ones.

So, I think when we combine that with the More Card, which just gives a slightly more reach and contact with individual customers, then I think I'm very happy and very pleased with that refit program. It'd be good to get to the end of the estate. As we know, refit programs are a little bit like the fourth bridge you kind of come around again, but I'm happy enough with the pace.

With regards Safeway, I think it remains to be seen. I mean, we're adding 25 stores a week, for example, to the McColl's estate of our own supply as a wholesaler. I've seen three or four around – well, I didn't see how it looks on the shelf, but Safeway looks good. I think we're up to 360 items out of the target of 400 now. And so far so good, they are pleased with the uptick in sales with regards to Safeway. Yeah. So, I think it's early days to sort of define some sort of mix between supply. I think it's given both this company and, as stated, their company a strong brand to trade with as well, which benefits from Morrisons' credentials as a food maker as well as a shopkeeper. Trevor?

Yeah. I think in terms of the margin, it depends on how you choose to look at the business and what choices you make when you're running it. And so, when we're looking at it, I'm starting with the profit is up and managing it in around then the sort of underlying profit growing by 11%.

I think in the context of the year in spite of the sort of the FX impact causing COGS pressure, I think we have improved our competitiveness, which obviously we set out to do. And in addition, I think, in the context of the sort of margin structure, I think commercial income is pretty much nearly halved actually over the two or three years we've been reporting it. And that's helping us deliver a better quality profit and a more competitive offer for our customers.

I think so improving in competitiveness is one part. I think choosing to access wholesale or making the market we operate in significantly bigger is an important factor. And then, we have absorbed a number of other headwinds in the P&L specifically depreciation, pension, both of which we guided at the start of the year and some wholesale start-up costs. And so, we're pleased really with underlying profit being up by 11%.

Good morning. Bruno Monteyne from Bernstein. Free cash flow, I think you described it as sort of strong and sustainable. Is £350 million the right level to think about for Morrisons going forward as the right level of free cash flow? The second question is around your topline growth seems to be supported by the growth in general merchandising, the pictures you showed on Nutmeg and these things. How long can general merchandising you think drive the topline as it is today at Morrisons, please? Thank you.

Should I do the cash flow one? And then maybe, David, you pick up GM. I think, Bruno, if you look at the guidance we've got for the improvement programs, I think we've got about £150 million still to do for those improvement programs from working capital and disposals. And I think if you look at that chart in the bottom right and you sort of adjust out for working capital disposals and onerous, I think onerous payments – I think the free cash flow in the year was £252 million. And obviously then, the shape of the number will be determined by the phasing of the disposals and the working capital improvements coming through and the rebuild of EBITDA through time.

Yeah. I think it's an important question to address with regards to the broadening out really of what Morrisons Supermarkets can provide. I think our first stage was to reconnect the company with its core customers. And I feel within that sort of boundary fixed, the company have made progress there. You can see that in the nine consecutive quarters of like-for-like positive.

So, yeah, I see our future on a like-for-like basis as very broad-based within the supermarkets. And although from time to time it's helpful to talk about things like Free From and healthier food in Food to Go, and Nutmeg Baby, Nutmeg Children, Nutmeg Women and Home & Leisure, all these other things, the core of the business remains massively important to our company and to customers. So yeah, looking ahead, there's obviously more we can do always. And we get in our manufacturing business to be that closer now to our Market Street business, both structurally inside the company and how we think about it. And I'm very interested to see how that unfolds over the months and years ahead to increase our competitiveness.

It was quite a challenge for the company to, I think, essentially replace 1,401 items, I think, nearly on Home & Leisure in the autumn. And so we have growing pains in that around continuity with customers who bought things perhaps more than we thought. And we're getting used to inbound from Asia in a more attractive range. So, I think, we can look forward to Home & Leisure growing well as we learn how to retail it better, both online and offline.

Dave?

Yeah. Good morning. Dave McCarthy, HSBC. You described the growth in wholesale as capital light. But can you tell us what capital expenditure there is involved there. I mean, is it really absolutely de minimis or is a meaningful amount? And then related to that, you can see that we've got this widening gap between CapEx and depreciation. How long can that carry on? Is it sustainable long term or is it just going to be a situation for a year or two?

Well, I think that CapEx on the wholesale will be low-single-digit millions. CapEx, obviously, got a bit closer to depreciation since we brought the CapEx down. I think the mix of that CapEx now is relatively short life assets and so you're going to see, and I think over the next couple of years, depreciation moves towards CapEx as a function really of both the mix of the CapEx and the sort of prudent depreciation policies we've got. I think it will all get distorted though, Dave in 2019, 2020 when the lease standard rolls through and depreciation obviously get quite disrupted I think across the sector as that standard gets adopted. [indiscernible]

(40:32).

Thank you. It's Dusan from Berenberg. I just had a question, I think recently, a lot of market commentators have flagged that the CPI is exceeding PPI first time in many years and that the gross margin pressures are easing in the industry. Is there something you recognized in the second half or do you think market is reading too much into the macro data?

I think all of those sort of market indicators are directionally helpful but they're also not necessarily directly applicable. And I think the biggest variable on cost of goods in the last year would have been both commodity prices and FX, and I think both of those impacts would have crystalized at different times with different suppliers in the margin mix through the course of the year. Obviously, the dollar movement over the last few months is a prospective tailwind, but we're relatively light – a low participation in dollars. And so, I wouldn't overweight really on the relevance of those directional measures.

Sorry. Andrew Porteous, HSBC. Just a quick one on wholesale, actually. Obviously, Tesco-Booker merger now completed and seems like most of the UK wholesale industry is up in the air at the moment. I'm just wondering if you've seen any increase in or uptick in and saw new business opportunities within wholesale and perhaps talk about the capacity put in place to be able to cope with that?

We are often approached about our wholesale credentials. I think, probably as you land deals, there's this little splash of publicity and people sort of get to know it a bit more. So, yeah, I think we described it as open for business. So we feel that given it's organic and it's new, it's made a good start. We have James Badger, who's our director accountable for that area, our experienced leader in the business, senior leader. And we're gradually strengthening that team with account managers against each account.

So each company, whether it's Rontec or Amazon, frankly, will feel as though they've got a direct line of sight into the business. And then, we leverage other parts of the company to make the world go round with those particular relationships. So, for example, our Easter offer in the main estate would essentially cascade through to our retailers, the retailers we work with. So I feel quite confident that we're building quite a capability in that area going forward. I'm looking forward to it.

And then, obviously, we are a small business compared to quite a few others and people have a very close contact with us personally. And I think that helps get through questions and discussions, and these are the things quite quickly. So we're very available.

There's one on the left.

Morning, guys. James Tracey from Redburn. Three questions from me. First one is, are you able to break out the EBIT contribution of wholesale? The second one is on consensus. Consensus is looking for 10 basis points of EBIT margin expansion this year versus a 7-basis-point decline you just reported. So are you happy with that and what would explain the improvement? And the final question is on the number of staff. There's a 6% reduction in the average number of staff at the year-end. So how long can you continue to cut staff at this rate?

Yeah. I'll take them. I'll do them in reverse order. That note – and remember that note in average number. And if you think back to last year, we outsourced effectively the cleaning out of our stores as part of the fixing of that store base. And we also entered into a partnership with Timpsons (sic) [Timpson], which moved a lot of our dry cleaning arrangements. So I'm looking right through that really. It's just the way we shape the company going forward.

And in terms of consensus underlying profit, consensus I think published on the website, £398 million. If we'd have had anything to say on consensus this morning, we would have said it. And then, in terms of the EBIT contribution in wholesale, I'd probably make a couple of comments really. I think the first one is the subset of that £75 million to £125 million of incremental improvement.

I think, secondly, it's a new business really. And I think that's the extent of the disclosure we're going to give on it, as we give it a chance to breathe and grow. And then, I think as I look at the year ahead specifically, we'll be incurring some startup costs really related to the network as we grow into the volumes, the network we're laying down for it. And so, I'm expecting it to be dilutive and it's impacting the year ahead.

Good morning, all. It's Andrew Gwynn from Exane. I lost my voice, but I'll try. Just on pricing, obviously, you've had a year of effectively trying to consolidate your position against the others in the market. When is enough, enough on price? I mean, when will you ever be happy on price and when maybe can you see some self-help in margin?

And the second question just comes back maybe to the balance sheet, during the year £350 million of free cash flow, dividend I think is about £125 million, the special dividend about £95 million. So at least £100 million of excess free cash flow, if you will. What's the target on the balance sheet? I mean, where do you want to take it before you can see greater capital return to investors?

Let me say a word on pricing. It's something we think about a lot, pricing. And earlier, in response to Bruno, I was suggesting we'd reconnect to the company with its core customers. It's great value for money, good quality, friendly service. These are the things that customers truly value when they shop at Morrisons. And so, we've been listening hard and figuring out ways to provide that. I think you can see some [indiscernible] (47:35) transaction count over two years has witnessed some progress there. More to do, of course.

Yeah. I see absolute price has to be a continuing part of our program of becoming more competitive. We spend a lot of time on it and we're investors in our pricing. I think the examples of spuds, it's an interesting discussion. But in this world of food maker/shopkeeper, with that capability right in the center of the organization, you really can bring to life really great value for money with very good quality products. So, customers respond to that so kind of why wouldn't we carry on doing more of it?

And the small acquisition of the Chippindale's free range egg packing business seeks out another opportunity in an important staple in the British diet, British eggs at great prices and so on. And it may well bring forward our ability to close out towards completely free range earlier than so far. So, yeah. Keep going on pricing, I think.

I think in relation to the first part of question, I think the first point I'd make, Andrew, is that – I said in the script and as we said in the RNS, we expect that to be lower in the year ahead.

I think in the broader question, it's obviously a judgment. And I think this is going to be a feature of the new Morrisons. I think we've demonstrated for our actions that we get capital discipline. We get – we can see a way to grow this business in a capital-light way that's meaningful and sustainable. And we've said that we expect to generate significant levels of free cash.

I think the balance sheet is strong. It's an absolute and a relative strength. And I think we want it to get stronger. But we've said we'll review the uses of that cash flow each year and we'll be assessing how we allocate it between our opportunities for profitable growth, the extent to which we think it's appropriate to deleverage further, and whether and how much would be returned to shareholders through the form of special return.

And then, I think in the context of really why not have a leverage target? I think we would be better served by sticking to the principles and the convictions we've set out in that capital allocation framework rather than being bound really by a rigid framework, which has to be set in a context, but context always moves.

And so, those principles of debt getting lower, strong balance sheet getting stronger using the capital allocation framework to assess how we allocate that free cash flow is going to be part of the new Morrisons narrative, I think.

Yeah.

Morning. Rob Joyce, Goldman Sachs. Two for me. So, firstly, you've referenced sort of falling input costs. Just wondering if at this stage, does it look like that is fully reaching the consumer or is there any evidence that people are holding onto a little bit more of that after last year?

Second one just on the store pick operations with Ocado, it looks to be rolling out quite nicely. Is that now in a position to roll out for you across the estate, and could it potentially take that online number back up again having seen it fall in 2017? Thanks.

I think we're steady as she goes really on store pick. It's a new capability for the business. As we know, when you pick a customer shopping yourself, the dual benefit is you learn a lot about shopping experience for who went out – who comes in to do their shopping in that store. And so, I think we're in seven or eight stores; two opened this morning now.

And we'll assess the numbers, assess consumers' alacrity to use it. So far, so good. And I genuinely think it's another way of improving the capability of the company by understanding freshness, home life, code rotation, replenishment, availability. And that we do increasingly stock things more and more people want to buy.

Yeah. I think our outlook on inflation is lower. And so, we would be cycling through those commodity price increases and other price increases during the year. I can't really speak for whatever – anyone else is doing with regard to holding on and letting go. But, yeah, we'd look to be more competitive in the context of the sector and the fact that we're recovering the company.

Okay. Maybe time for one more if there is one. Otherwise...

We'll see. We'll do Q&A afterwards for people, but thank you very much for coming. Thanks.