Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David T. Potts — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Michael Gleeson — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Trevor Strain — Chief Operating Officer & Director, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc
Rob Joyce — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Victoria Petrova — Analyst, Credit Suisse
Nick Coulter — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Andrew Gwynn — Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Clive Black — Analyst, Shore Capital Markets
Xavier Le Mene — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International
Andrew Porteous — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
James Anstead — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Sreedhar Mahamkali — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Morrisons' Preliminary Results Analyst Conference Call. My name is Patrick, and I will be your coordinator for today's event. For the duration of the call, you will be on listen-only. However, towards the end of the call, you will have the opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

I'm now handing you over to your host, David Potts, to begin today's conference.

Thank you, Patrick, and good morning, everyone. As usual on these occasions, I'm here with Michael and Trevor. We're going to change the order a bit this morning. Michael will take you through the numbers first, then I'll describe how our ways of working and priorities have evolved through the year, and how they support our forward momentum, then we'll all take your questions. Thank you.

Michael, over to you.

Thanks, David, and good morning, everyone. It's been a very different first year as CFO than I expected. But Morrisons strengths have been familiar and very much provided the foundation for everything we've been able to do for stakeholders during the crisis. It's stuff which I wanted to say a few words on first before I take you to the numbers.

The balance sheet is very strong, both absolute and relative. We own 87% of our shops, and the pensions are £718 million in surplus with around a quarter of scheme liabilities bought in so far. Underlying debt is low. We have a strong maturity profile. And fundamentally, Morrisons' is a very cash-generative business. These attributes have been hard-won and carefully preserved over many years and will continue to be cornerstones of Morrisons. And with the added benefit of significant operational gearing during a year of very strong sales growth, we've been able to do some unique things in what are unique times more than playing our full part during the crisis.

You've heard us talk about some of the initiatives before and David will talk to you more. But just to give you some of the financial context. Right at the start of COVID-19 when Britain was all but shut down shop workers and those in the food supply chain were amongst the tiny minority asked to come into work, into our shops serving customers and putting themselves in the way of the then unknown virus.

We want us to reward that commitment and thank our colleagues straight away. We tripled the average bonus for our shop floor colleagues and guaranteed it for a whole year. That was an extra cost to us of £68 million, but very well earned. We guaranteed pay for thousands of affected colleagues and recruited tens of thousands of temporary colleagues at a cost of almost £100 million. And we donated £10 million to help restock Britain's food banks. Also, we waived £230 million of business rates relief and encouraged some exceptional one-off costs which I'll talk you through later.

We deployed our strong cash flow where it was most needed – in paying small suppliers immediately to help them through temporary impacts, such as the closure of restaurants, building stock levels to cope with the peaks and troughs of the lockdowns as well as Brexit's preparation.

And our financial strength has helped us weather the most severe COVID storms. The working capital and profit impacts are fuel sales being at times less than half their normal levels, tens of millions of pounds of lost profit in our cafes, counters and food-to-go.

But it's also helped us be agile and innovative. Initiatives like doorstep delivery are service for the elderly and most vulnerable in society. It didn't make money for us last year, but that's not the point. We're proud to be there helping out when most needed. The operational gearing I referred to has been employed and absorbed in mitigating the lost profits and a total of £290 million of COVID costs, some of which I just referred to. We also invested in key stakeholders, discounts for colleagues, NHS workers, Morrisons farmers, teachers and blue light workers. We've announced £0.01115 per share of dividends for shareholders including another for £0.04 special last December and paid in January.

So, the year was a one-off in many ways, both our profit and cash flow are lower. In part, due to COVID but also because our financial strengths enabled us to do the right thing for all stakeholders. In the year ahead, there are undoubted continuing uncertainties but we are confident that the same financial strengths that allowed us to help all stakeholders last year, the strong trading and operational gearing momentum supported by our very robust underlying cash flow and balance sheet will help us carry on that work while targeting profit growth and a significant fall in net debt in the year ahead.

Now, let's turn to the detail of last year. First, our usual overview. As you can see, sales were very strong with group like-for-like of 8.6%. After the £290 million of COVID costs, lost profit in key areas such as cafes, together with our decision to wave £230 million of rate relief, headline profit and ROCE were down and debt was up. We very much see these as one-off impacts as I shall explain. The £0.111 total dividend I just referred to was up over 27% on the year including a £0.0511 proposed final ordinary based on underlying EPS prior to the rates payment and the £0.04 special dividend from half two 2019/2020. As you know, our policy is for the full-year ordinary dividend to be sustainable and covered around 2 times by underlying EPS. The EPS equating to £431 million of profits pre-rate payment was £0.1374. Total ordinary dividend grew 5.6% in line with profits and covered 1.92 times.

Moving to sales, total revenue including fuel was up 0.4% for the year to £17.6 billion. Net new space contribution was 0.4%, slightly higher than guided. Fuel like-for-like was minus 32% impacted unsurprisingly by the much lower national demand for fuel and far fewer car journeys especially during the three lockdowns. Group like-for-like excluding fuel was 8.6%, very strong on both an absolute and relative basis with 7.8% contribution from retail and 0.8% from wholesale.

After the initial sales volatility caused by COVID during the second part of Q1, our like-for-like remained high for the rest of the year driven by a bigger at home market, significant growth in online and our various initiatives to listen, respond and grow. Elsewhere, as David will describe, we're now seeing an accelerated rollout of various initiatives including with Amazon and McColl's.

Before I move on to profits, I just want us to cover off exceptionals and COVID costs. Exceptional items were £36 million. The details are on the slide. There were £56 million of restructuring costs. These related to previously announced and now completed reorganizations in both the stores and offices, enabling a more streamlined and modern structure, and costs relating to reorganizing our logistics infrastructure. All of this work will help us simplify and speed up Morrisons, in line with one of our seven priorities, and continue to improve our efficiency and productivity.

We incurred £66 million of exceptional costs related to online and home delivery. This included £42 million of costs across our various online channels as we transformed our online operations very quickly and significantly grew our capacity. In response to demand, we accelerated our multiyear online expansion plans and made one-off changes to transform our online business, operational processes, and ways of working. The unprecedented scale and speed of the implementation of these programs resulted in significant start-up costs during the year.

We also incurred one-off costs of £24 million relating to exceptional stock wastage as new process and systems integrations relating to store-pick were being adopted. Also for online, there was a £76 million store impairment write-back relating to stores where a store-pick online operations have become established and asset utilization has improved, generating a structural increase in sales and profits.

Other exceptional costs of £15 million include £9 million bonus for temporary colleagues not ordinarily eligible, and £4 million in respect of legal costs. In addition, net retirement benefit income was £16 million, property disposal profits were £2 million, and the annual impairment review produced and net credit of £7 million excluding the write-back related to online capacity acceleration.

The direct COVID-19 costs were £290 million, as I said, slightly higher than last guided. As you can see, the largest were extra payroll, paying absent and shielding colleagues, new temporary staff, extra marshals and security, and the cost of the guaranteed extra colleague bonus, colleague and customer protection, and within other, with some very significant seasonal waste and markdown especially around Mother's Day and Easter 2020 and extra distribution costs, for example, in coping with the extreme volatility of sales during the early stages of the pandemic.

Profit before tax and exceptionals including all the direct COVID costs was £201 million after our decision to waive £230 million of government business rates relief. Before, the business rates payment profit would have been £431 million, up 5.6% year-on-year, and EBITDA margin would have been up 20 basis points. And, remember, this is also after absorbing considerable lost profits in important areas of our business that were closed or temporarily severely disrupted such as café, food-to-go, and counters and fuel. Just those three alone were an impact on profits of well over £100 million which, we expect, will begin to reverse during the year.

A word here also on online and wholesale, as we said at Christmas, both are profitable. We are learning from both, but we are very pleased with our progress. For online, store pick, click & collect, delivery boxes, Deliveroo and Morrisons and Amazon are all very new for us. Already, we know what makes online more profitable than maybe some assume it is. Basket size is bigger. Margin mix and promotion participation mean gross margin is higher. Suppliers are supportive of volume and we receive media and marketing income.

And as we're new, we've grown at pace, doubling our market share in a year. We've got many efficiencies to come. Also, cannibalization is very low. And as we scale, drop densities and contribution per van are improving profitability further. So, even after the start-up costs of Erith, we are up based on online profit and are expected to keep improving.

Now, moving on to cash and debt, free cash flow before dividends was an outflow of £450 million. Group net debt was £3,169 million compared to £2,458 million at the end of 2019 and 2020. But even at this temporarily higher level, liquidity remains very strong with very – with still very significant headroom.

This slide shows our usual guidance as well as what I've already said on profit, we expect net debt-to-EBITDA to be no higher than 2.4 times, which I'll touch on later. I'd also highlight depreciation which we expect to increase to around £580 million and cash CapEx, which we expect to be around £600 million slightly higher than in recent years largely due to catch up on line CapEx as we continue to scale as quickly.

To sum up, I wanted to go back to where I started plus give a few reminders. Morrisons is well positioned to deliver for all its stakeholders especially shareholders. What we are doing is simple really growing and broadening our business built on a strong balance sheet and low underlying debts, generating significant levels of sustainable free cash with unwavering commitments to profit growth and our capital allocation framework. And our history and track record are strong.

As the slide shows, we have grown profit every year. And even after absorbing what for many other companies would have been an enormous cash headwind this year, we have still generated £2.7 billion of free cash flow since 2014-2015 including £1 billion of surplus property disposals. And over time bought back £1.4 billion of bonds and reduce debt significantly from almost £3 billion. 2019, 2020 IFRS £16 million, net debt-to-EBITDA was 2.4 times and paid and declared over £0.75 in dividends.

And last year we're able to realize significant operational gearing, which we deployed to absorb costs and lost profits from COVID-19 while rightly prioritizing key stakeholders such as colleagues, customers and the NHS. And while events of the last 12 months have been extraordinary consensus profit for the year just finished is unchanged since we spoke a year ago.

Moving to – from the history to now. Last year was one-off in many ways. As this slide shows, preleases net debt was just under £1.8 billion. But that was after £459 million of temporary working capital one-offs. The impact of much lower fuel volume in price was £347 million with fuel like-for-like minus 43% in January. Investment in stock was £67 million higher than normal due to both the pandemic and preparations for Brexit and helping our small suppliers by paying immediately was £45 million, which means underlying net debt would have again been low, around £1.3 billion. In addition, we made a decision to wave £230 million of rates relief.

As we look forward, we expect the working capital one-offs to unwind and cash generation to be strong. We intend to keep you regularly updated on our cash progress throughout the year. And as for every year since 2015, we expect profit to keep growing to be clear growth on the £431 million. Of course with COVID there are uncertainties and there are some scenarios we can't plan for as well as others, but we are confident that this year's lease adjusted net debt to EBITDA will be no higher than the 2019/2020 and 2018/2019 level of 2.4 times. And for those two years and one prior, we distributed surplus capital to shareholders.

So, our track record on capital allocation is good too. Our strong balance sheet and capital allocation framework are the foundations of our Fix, Rebuild, Grow, Sustain strategy. We have demonstrated we understand capital discipline well and have consistently used our framework to guide us on capital allocation. And we continued – and we continue to be guided by that framework to distribute any surplus capital to shareholders as we have done consistently for the last four years. Thank you.

And, now, over to David.

Thanks, Michael. And let me begin by saying we're very pleased that despite the challenges of the past year, we continue to grow our business, played our full part in feeding the nation and made sure no one in society was left behind. The business responded well throughout these very difficult COVID times. Our Fix, Rebuild, Grow, and Sustain strategy, our seven priorities, our ways of working all stood the test of time. They enabled many original plans to continue and provided strategic pandemic decisions made by government and by Morrisons. Even in such dramatic circumstance the framework of the company proved to be flexible and adaptable, reflecting the spirit of teamwork, community and support that is the heart of Morrisons. Hygiene, local communities and scaling profitable growth are new priorities reflecting significant progress made and consumer trends, environment and community and new stakeholder group central to all else. So, let me describe the key activities for each stakeholder and our strategic aims.

Being more competitive and serving customers better are two big priorities. And for customers' price, service and choice remained key determinant to a better shopping trip. Despite the pandemic, we continue to invest in value. During the year, cutting the price of our customer favorites basket by £120, whilst deflation at Morrisons was a feature throughout the whole year especially in fresh food and own brand. We also made quality improvements to own brand and have an ambitious program to do more in the coming year. We're investing in service with more hours and training on the shop floor and improvements in colleague pay.

We continue to make productivity improvements across the business in distribution and supply chain, in replenishment, in packaging, and by digitizing many manual tasks. Whilst delayed by COVID, we completed the store restructure with colleagues taking on broader roles on the shop floor with less managers. We've also moved to flexible working at head office. Colleagues now schedule for four days from six plus 13 Saturdays each year, providing better work-life balance for everyone and better coverage for stores and sites.

In stores, we've introduced capping shelves with back-room stock now held above sales floor fixtures, improving availability and reducing replenishment time. The capping shelves free up space in store warehouses to be repurposed for online. In the supply chain, we're improving product handling, for example, wheeled cages instead of wooden pallets across all fresh fruit areas. This improves product flow to and through the stores.

Our right product, right depot initiative moved over 3,000 items between national and regional depots to optimize productivity and cut mileage. We've invested further in ordering and improve the fresh infrastructure, whilst also increasing our double decker transport capacity. By improving end-to-end supply chain efficiency, we and suppliers save significant costs. We're reducing range and increasing volume on customer favor items. We invested in fewer, better promotions whilst removing those offers that customers no longer value. As you can see, plenty done and plenty more productivity to go for in the years ahead to benefit all stakeholders.

We now serve customers better online with an in year five-fold increase in capacity across online channels as we successfully scale the business. Morrisons.com sales grew strongly with a substantial increase in the number of store pick stores, up from 33 to 197 by yearend. And we now offer click and collect from 447 stores.

From February this year, our Morrisons.com capacity increase further as we reenter Ocado area sites and the building towards 30% of delivery slots. Morrisons on Amazon expanded rapidly during the year and is available to millions of Prime Now members on the Amazon.co.uk website and app. Those orders are currently being delivered to almost 50 cities and towns with many stores already exceeding 10% of store sales in Morrissons on Amazon sales. By quarter four online sales through Ocado's CFCs, Morrisons on Amazon, Deliveroo, and Morrisons Store Pick were triple the prior year.

Our food box channel is now supplying a variety of different delivered items with many different boxes developed during the year, either for seasonal events, gifting, or specific needs. For example, a Christmas Dinner Box feeding a family of four for 50 quids and the School Meal Box providing five days of breakfast and lunch that schools can order and have delivered direct to those children entitled to free school meals.

Our partnership with Deliveroo is progressing well and is now available from 183 stores, and in addition, we're driving a new food takeaway business from our 407 store cafes. Our ambitions for colleagues include a fair day's pay for a fair day's work, and during the year, we rewarded and said thank you to colleagues for their pandemic work and sheer resilience as well as the guaranteed triple average annual bonus for 2021. We also announced a new pay award for 2021, 2022 of at least £10 an hour for all Morrisons supermarket colleagues. That's an annual increase of around 9% this year and a 46% increase since 2015. Very, very well deserved, indeed.

We've invested in more labor hours improved availability and upgraded store equipment technology and colleague uniforms. Naturally, digital and simplify and speed up are two priorities which trigger improvements in cost savings in stores manufacturing, and distribution. For customers and colleagues, we now have smartphone payment, a scan-and-go app, headsets for colleague to improve communication and in three stores, digital shelvedge labels to automate price information, simplify stock consistent routines, and improve the online store pick process.

In manufacturing, we're investing in automation and robotics on production line, in product grading technology, improve product flow and raw material yield whilst automating repetitive manual tasks.

Right at the start of the pandemic, we set the tone for how we'd with suppliers when we moved to immediate payment for small suppliers multiplied by 10, the turnover of what we class as a small supplier. We committed to regular and open communications working together to benefit customers and the nation for as long as it takes.

This level of trust means acting quickly to create solutions, innovate, and learn. For example, when flour became a rare commodity, we bought flour in bulk and packed it in each store ready for customers to buy. For other products where the standard size wasn't available, we worked with suppliers to source different pack sizes and support its struggling businesses by taking additional product prepared for a hospitality industry abruptly closed.

We also focused on innovation and new ranges some pandemic driven around cleaning and hygiene, for example, making our own face coverings and hand sanitizer, and others innovating and responding to changing consumer trends. For example, our new healthy nourish range arrived right on cue, and evolving our best food range just as consumers were eating at home more often.

And as a product company own brand has been recognized too. Just recently we won a BBC Good Food award for our Free from hot cross buns and a Good Housekeeping award for the Best Valentine meal deal.

Now, turning to the environment. We recently added Sustain, Fix, Rebuild, Grow strategy. Sustain underpins everything we do, and comes in three parts. First, our shopping trip were a competitive improvement, most last and be additive to sustainability goals. Second, it means local integration and unwavering support for the communities we serve. And third, it reflects how we play our part in addressing climate change by reducing our environmental impact. To show how seriously we are taking the company's impact overall, we've added a new stakeholder environment and community.

Now, we often discuss improvements made to the shopping trip. So, today I'll describe the second point, local integration. Supporting customers in the community we serve is highly valued by society. A great example is doorstep delivery, a very popular service provided especially for the vulnerable and self-isolating in local communities. I've talked about it before, but it's something we're very proud of. Our telephone service, offering a lifeline for the elderly and most vulnerable who don't have online access or other help with their grocery shopping. Customers love it, and we recently passed our 800,000th order.

We've taken our doorstep idea and scaled it further by forming partnerships with retirement homes and charities. We also donated £10 million of food to food banks. And at the end of January, we announced a further £5 million donation. We raised £3 million for our main charity partner, CLIC Sargent, £1.3 million for The Poppy Appeal, £750,000 for Marie Curie, and supported thousands of local charities and good causes through our community champions. The Morrisons Foundation donated £3 million to local charities including more than £500,000 to those providing care and shelter for the homeless. And customers are noticing since the pandemic. YouGov data, which are shoppers from each retailer to comment, ranked Morrisons first of the big four on Net Promoter Score and first on overall brand warmth.

We take very seriously the part we must play in addressing climate change in our stores and our supply chain, working with urgency and clarity with suppliers and by nudging and helping customers play their part too. Delivering sustainable growth with low impact is now the North Star of Morrisons. We set stretching targets to reduce carbon emissions, to cut waste, and preserve natural resources by removing, reducing, reusing, and recycling while simultaneously sourcing from sustainable, ethical, and resilient supply chains. We've committed to 100% recyclable, reusable, or compostable plastic and to reduce own brand plastic packaging by 50% by 2025. Further, to all of this, just this week, we announced that, as British farming's biggest single customer, we've also committed to a net-zero in agriculture by 2030.

At the core of our business is a strong balance sheet, supported by freehold stores, a low underlying debt, and a pension surplus. So, for shareholders, we aim to keep growing to keep creating a long-term sustainable value. We're building a strong track record, too. Since 2015-2016, profit has grown for 43%, total shareholder returns is 30%, and having absorbed £459 million of COVID cash headwinds, now set to unwind, generated £2.7 billion of free cash flow. And we've paid and declared over £0.75 of ordinary and special dividends, and that's £1.7 billion. It's this financial strength that provides my confidence in this year's profit and debt guidance. Our lead indicator of Net Promoter Scores offer shareholders an increasing confidence in the Morrisons story, too.

We couldn't have achieved speed and scale throughout the pandemic without the continued support from shareholders. Your support made us agile and innovative, flexible and choiceful, and able to help those in need when it mattered the most. But, be assured, we are guided by our capital allocation framework, enabling a sustainable and successful business that fully rewards our shareholders.

So, I'd like to finish with a look back and a look forward: a look back on a year like no other, a year when Morrisons has been on a war footing, and a look forward to a critical year in our development. We moved quickly and decisively with an owner's instinct. There is an entrepreneurial spirit running right through this company, which enables us to innovate under pressure to quickly scale ideas. Online and wholesale are great examples of this, both profitable, both driving scale and innovation.

Our partnership with McColl's is growing quickly, too, with significant future potential in the Morrisons Daily fascia and format. And since year end, we jointly announce that 300 McColl's stores are converted into Morrisons Daily over the next three years. We've also extended the partnership contract out to 2027. Our wholly-owned and franchised stores are thriving in the communities they serve.

And we continue to innovate, learn and apply modular improvements to our supermarkets, too. Much of that innovation and learning is provided by new stores. During the year, we opened six new ones in Amble, Bradwell, Stirchley, Helensburgh, Glenfield and Dalton Park plus a new Nutmeg store at our existing Bolsover site.

Despite being on a war footing for the whole year, we developed the business on a much broader front. For example, we now have a Nutmeg Menswear range and 173 stores and have extended it online. Our new food-to-go market kitchen concept has been further developed and is now in four stores. Despite the challenge of COVID-19, we completed another 18 Fresh Look refits including many of our latest former ideas.

With a light touch, we upgraded fascia and signage at over 130 stores as well as refreshing 387 cafes. We introduced over 70 new single-stem florist departments and installed rapid electric vehicle chargers at a further 89 stores to take the number to almost 200. And we've continued to expand our food-making operations with the acquisition of Falfish just last week. So, now, over 80% of our fish comes from our own supply.

This year has shown that Morrisons colleagues are priceless. As I look back on an undeniably difficult pandemic year, my overwhelming feeling is one of immense pride. I've seen dedication, bravery and community spirit, galvanized colleagues organizing themselves into a highly responsive and effective force for good, working tirelessly to make sure customers get what they need in store, online and delivered to their doorstep. It's been an inspiration to witness. Early on in the pandemic, colleagues were proudly recognized as key workers by government and in the view of the British public have earned that title every day since.

We're a local business, trading and serving customers right in the heart of their communities where millions live, work and go to school. The pandemic has proved the positive impact Morrisons has across society and the environment. It's accelerated new Morrisons, a distinctive business, and I expect the COVID costs and lost profit to reverse as lockdown eases. And in addition, we have many more sales profit and cost-saving opportunities. I'm confident in the outlook for profit growth in 2021-2022 and 2022-2023. Many temporary cash flow factors will reverse and I expect a significant improvement in cash inflow and net debt during the year.

Of course, the year ahead contains uncertainty. None of us know when this pandemic story ends. But with vaccinations racing ahead, we do now know how it ends and we're ready. We enter the year with strong trading momentum, a strong financial position, 120,923 motivated and dedicated colleagues, and a brand that customers love; a better business, a popular and accessible brand to more and more people, delivering for all stakeholders a broader and stronger future.

Thank you, and now over to you for your questions.

Hi. This is your operator. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Rob Joyce from Goldman Sachs. Rob, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. So sort of three topics for me. First one, just on the PBT guidance of £430 million, at least £431 million, I think then David just said you expect further growth in 2022-2023. Can you just give us an idea of what your sort of top line assumptions around that are and what the key factors that can determine sort of how much above the at least £431 million you are?

Second one is just in online. Can you just give us the online GMV number for FY 2021? And just thinking any reason you think that you shouldn't be able to get your online share broadly in line with where your store share is or your overall market share, sorry?

And then third one just on the cash side of things. I think the cash exceptionals in terms of online have taken a couple of people off guard and those online transformation costs. Do you expect to incur those again in FY 2022 as you continue to grow the online business? Or are they embedded in that £600 million CapEx? And just linked to that, what do we now think of as a sort of long run CapEx for the business beyond FY 2022? Thanks very much.

Yeah. Thanks, Rob. Just let me take the market share point and the PBT 2022-2023, I'll let the boys just figure the response to your side. Yeah. I think the key point really is we kicked off in 2015 with just 3% online market share and obviously, the market leader at that point at 44%. So we did think there's plenty to go for. I think we will be sort of roughly north of 10% or thereabouts now. Obviously, it's grown so quickly, they're still adding it up. But you can also see the supermarkets have been growing market share as well. So I think leverage in an existing shareholder funds in the three whole business we've got is working well. If I look forward to 2022-2023, clearly half one 2021-2022 is going to carry some COVID costs and equally those areas that have been sort of closed in 2021 remain closed at this stage around café, food-to-go, and then the fuel obviously is limping until people can come out again from the 29th of March. So when I think about online continuing to mature over that following year and as, you know, getting the peak rates and all those type of things, then I'm confident in the unfolding positive picture.

Hi, Rob. Good morning. It's Michael. If I take your first point first and the key factors we think about around profit for the year we've just started, I mean, I think we come into the year with a good trading momentum as of the end of 2021 (sic) [2020] (00:41:35). And, as we said, we incurred significant COVID costs last year within underlying profit of £290 million in total. And we do expect that those will be significantly less this year.

We've spoken about more than £100 million of lost profit across the three areas of café, food-to-go and counters, and fuel volume. And, again, you know, the government has set out its unlock timetable. And, as that timetable unlocks, we see those lost profit areas begin to recover this year and, obviously, into 2022 and 2023 as well. So, I think those were the key – those are the key areas and key factors that would influence for – our 2021 and 2022 profit outlook.

And on the specific question of the online exceptional and does it carry forward into 2021 and 2022, the straight and short answer to that is no. And, as we – you know, as we look at the CapEx guidance of £600 million for 2021-2022, and we look at that as catch-up CapEx around the online, as we professionalize that operation, which we added five times capacity to very quickly during 2021.

Just, Rob, good morning. It's Trevor. Just a sort of longer term context point, back into the history really about the exceptionals, if you think back of 2014-2015, the company would have posted some quite chunky asset write-downs. And since that period, there's been very negligible write-backs. I think Michael has been quite definitive in the answer to the specific question, do we expect those to repeat outside of underlying earnings in the year ahead, with a no. But the scale of that online growth, equivalent, I think, of roughly 60 new stores being opened in a year and the scale of that write-back, we'll have to keep that under review as we go forward. And if we can sustain and grow further online, which is what we're intending to do, Michael will obviously be reviewing the carrying values of the assets each year and as we go forward.

Great. Thanks a lot. And just very clearly then, just actually, just the online GMV and the long-term sort of CapEx run rate, should we take that sort of back to the £550 million, £525 million level?

Sorry, Rob, could you clarify GMV?

Just, I guess, total value of your online stuff sold online.

So, the annualized sales, Rob, is we're exiting the year about £1.5 billion. On the CapEx, [ph] John, is it not Michael (00:44:45) as always?

Continue.

I'll do it. So, on the CapEx, Rob, right, you've got in that £600 million, what I'm very simply going to call catch-up, so, in the year that's been behind us, we were opening and scaling that online business as I just described. We will have some investment to put in to make those operating environments productive for our colleagues, and we'll also have some vans where we scale the vans as quickly as we could, and we'll be buying some vans rather than taking some short-term rentals. And if you look back through the history of us as a team I think the business has spent somewhere between £500 million and £600 million pretty much every year. And we're not trying to signal that we're seeing an underlying step-up ongoing beyond this year. We've just been upfront about how we've got a bit of a catch-up.

Very helpful. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Victoria Petrova from Credit Suisse. Victoria, you're now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you for taking my questions. My first question is around price investment and competition in the beginning of the year and looking into the next months what you're seeing. Are you following aggressive pricing policy, continue to follow aggressive pricing policy? Are there any sort of factual blends just to consider?

My second question is around discounters. Can you quantify somehow directionally the benefit of discounters losing market share in the last financial year? And do we expect the market share from discounters to continue to start accelerating in 2021 how you look at that overall?

My third question is around online profitability. As always, your online profitability versus in-store profitability and within your various channels was the most profitable and the least profitable online channel for you.

And the very, very last question is around £290 million COVID costs which are definitely of not recurring. I see that there is customer protection, £46 million. Is it more fixed than other areas and how can we look into it, assuming COVID continues and we see further lockdowns? Thank you very much.

Thank you, Victoria. Well, look, I think that the price investment we made at the start of last year was very fortuitous. And we can see during the year that the supermarket business has gained share. We continue to become more competitive. We think it's an important part of the journey. And, you know, as we continue to find ways to drive volume through those favorites, as we call them customer favorites, then we see those in increasing numbers of customer baskets.

I think with the discounters, to some extent, those are questions for them. We see market share as an outcome of serving customers better. And, you know, I'm sure in the year ahead, we'll continue to do that. Yeah. I think it's on those COVID costs of £290 million, then I've got those as sort of nonrecurring costs. Clearly, COVID is still with us. And so, in half one this financial year, we will incur some COVID costs. But as absence is starting to sort of normalize, we've paid for protective screens for our people and for our customers. We don't need to pay twice. And you already know the story on the tripling of the bonus which, in a sense, in year 2021/2022, it's been folded into the industry-leading pay rate of £10. So, I'm very confident that they are very tightly boxed off.

On the online profitability question, Victoria, Michael, you know, what we've said is that across each channel where we're profitable, we don't tend to look at each individual channel in isolation and tend to look at online within the store overall as one integrated offer. But within each time, we look at the – they are individually profitable as well.

Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Nick Coulter from Citi. Nick, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Morning. I hope everyone is keeping well. Three questions, if I may, please. Firstly, apologies to follow up on an earlier question, but could you get the online start-up waste is exceptionals for the first half, please? It looks like you may have changed your exceptional definition on those. I guess it's fair enough in such uncertain times, but it would be helpful to get the underlying base across the two halves even if they aren't recurring in the future. Then, secondly, akin with exceptionals, efficiencies typically require enabling costs. So, should we also expect that the run rate of £50 million or thereabout per annum for this year to be a good guide for going forward? And I guess any thoughts on cash or non-cash, please, would be welcome.

And then, lastly, can I ask how many stores impairment write-back related to the nature of those stores where they help stores, where you're picking and supplying click-and-collect to other stores? What's happened to in-store volumes in those stores, please? And I guess, implicitly, what are your assumptions moving forward? Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Nick. Good morning. It's Michael. If I take each of those, look at the cost of restructuring. We are – you shouldn't expect that those are recurring items were not – the nature is exceptional. We're not guiding to restructuring cost in 2021-2022. On impairment, what we said is we looked at those stores that have been most established and where their cash flows have settled down. But we haven't disclosed the number of stores that that impacts. Clearly, we will review our impairment position at the end of every year as we would in any normal year going forward.

In terms of the online exceptional, during the year, the acceleration costs and the waste costs, those have happened through the year mostly in the second half of the year. We're not splitting it out between both halves. And that is exceptional.

To add a bit of color, Nick, or context on impairment having done the booking of those original impairments back in time, yeah. And I think, on the asset values, the – is about the longer-term underlying value of the asset. And you've got to remember really that we are still in the midst of a pandemic. So, you'd want to be – we will be, I don't know, Michael, we'll be taking a sort of BDI on what the cash flow settle down at over the next one, two, three years. And we announced undertaking store pick in over 450 stores, which is ramped up through the course of the year. But when we entered the year, it was only in 38. So you've got about 38 stores where you've got more than 12 months experience. I don't really want to get into the inside like measurement of the impairment calculation, but that's just giving you a bit more context around of moving parts.

That's helpful. Thanks, Trevor. And I guess you're right. It does matter how it settles and where online sticks and what happens in store. Thank you for that. And then just to check, we shouldn't expect to see much in the way of exceptional charges in this year.

We're not guiding to any exceptional charges, Nick, in 2021/2022.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Gwynn from Exane BNP. Andrew, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, team. Two questions. So first one, sorry, I'm going to come back to online profit. But, Michael, during your introductory remarks, you commented on a few positives there. So, for instance, sort of the cannibalization is slightly higher gross margin. As I'm sure you've detected during the call and probably through months and months of questioning and a lot of skepticism on online profitability. So can you share a bit more color on some of the – well, I supposed percentages, any kind of extra help there would be very, very gratefully received.

The second question, which is sort of a bigger picture question, thinking about profit over the long term, you have obviously seen some improvement from that low. I think in the slides, you talked about the 2014 and 2015 base, but Morrisons of old used to be a 5% – a 5.5% margin business. Now and kind of on an IFRS-adjusted basis, it's sort of just under 3%. Where would we think about margins settling or am I just completely thinking about it just the wrong way? Thank you.

Yeah. Good morning, Andrew. It's Trevor. Why don't I just pick up a bit on the margins, first? I think and, I'd say, we've been pretty consistent, as a team, about where our margins and our philosophy that they are an outcome, which you won't be surprised to hear us say.

If the question is coming at will margins go up, my first response would be that they have, and the EBIT – the EBITDA has improved, and I take the historic context. But, I think, some of the discount to margins at that point were probably in the 60s, and now they're not.

If you're asking us if margin will go up, you know, in terms of cash profitability, I think we're demonstrating through the breadth of narrative we've provided this morning our confidence that they will, whether that be because you've got a delta on COVID costs, which is going to unwind over the next two years, really, in terms of the £290 million with the £230 million of waived rates, with a residual £60 million in the base, and we're guiding for £40 million this year, and then when we'll see where we are at this time in 12 months' time. And also, the points Michael made, quite extensively, I think, in his opening comments around the areas where we've lost some profitability, perhaps in some of our most profitable areas, whether that be food-to-go or cafés.

And then, you know, within the gross margin, we continue to mine out very significant amounts of sort of catch-up self-help really, enabled in a way probably that we weren't envisaging 12, 24 months ago around the scale of the group growth, but still through that end-to-end work, product by product, category by category, and reviewing each of those categories in quite a fundamental way.

So, that's enabling us to, one, continue on that journey to improve competitiveness and also convert into the bottom line. And I get that that is a bit washed away in the COVID impacts as a £290 million and the lost profit in the year we've just finished. And then over and above that in the margins, you've obviously got online improving in terms of it being profitable. And I think, again, we've got significant catch-up opportunities in there, really particularly in the context of the peak rate and the efficiency of the operation, given the rate we've scaled the business out and where I dimensionalize Best Buy where our shares come from and got to. I don't know if you want to pick up.

Let me answer to that, Trevor. I think it's that beautiful combination for this largely freehold business that we are essentially using our supermarkets as sales, you know, Trojan horse for sales of new channels. And, for us, that combination now of, you know, the store pick, excuse me, the central fulfillment, the Amazon and Morrisons and Deliveroo. And, you know, we are open-minded about working with other companies from around the world on consumer fulfillment.

I think it actually improves the bricks-and-mortar business. It allows us more volume to go into our stores. It improves freshness and home life for bricks-and-mortar consumers. And we are finding that those customers who've discovered online during COVID who also have continued to shop with us in the store are actually spending more with Morrisons. You know, it's not like a pound for a pound.

And that's very good news for us. We, of course – I think we've said before, Andrew, that we've got low cannibalization in this growth channel. And I guess I can see why there may be skepticism where we start to do more of the work than perhaps customers would have done previously. But on the pick side, of course, we fill the shelves, and then, we pick the stock but we don't actually have to scan it through the tills in that sort of new channel. That's good news.

And then the delivery charge goes some way to cover the cost of the delivery driver. The basket size, as Michael, I think, said, is quite big on the one hand. On the other hand, each basket size is a little bit different with each of the online sort of work – the ways of working on online. And that's because customers are just using it for different needs and it's very, very important that Morrisons is a part of that going forward. And then the mix is a bit better in that area, and then we don't always run every promotion online that we run in the store.

So, not only are we leveraging the existing invested capital of shareholders in these new channels through our existing assets, but we know it is a profitable business. And when we get into our stride on peak rate, and we use this catch-up CapEx, as we've referred to in this meeting. Then I expect the tablets, the vehicles, the totes, and the stages that we put into our backrooms for this new growth channel to improve profitability again for Morrisons, yeah.

Okay. It's like – I mean, obviously, I suppose at some point, we'd love to have some more sort of percentage color, some more numbers to frame the topic a bit better. It's a mission to not just yourselves, but this whole industry really. But a follow-up question which you've sort of nicely let into. But, obviously, you're sort of very, very happy with a store picking side of the online business and all the positives that brings. But, obviously, you also have the relationship with Ocado. How does that fit into how you think about online? In some respects it sounds like you're slightly less confused by that. It's only thinking about capacity forward you'd rather focus on the stores, but maybe I'm misreading. Thank you.

Well, clearly, if you've got 500 stores and one central fulfillment center then there's more to go for in a pandemic that nobody rehearse for. And I think you can see from the numbers this morning that we scaled online significantly. Yeah. So, it's a very important part of the makeup of the company. We've reentered Erith with Ocado. And, of course, it's the Ocado contract and the Ocado technology that has enabled since it was renegotiated the first time for store pick to be possible in Morrisons, and, you know, better to be born lucky than smart. But we are very pleased that we were able to do that.

Okay. Cheers. I'll hand the floor to somebody else. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Clive Black from Shore Capital Markets. Clive, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Well, thank you, and good morning. I'll try and keep my question short. Firstly, where do you sense your priorities are going to be in terms of the return of the surplus capital to shareholders through your capital allocation framework?

And secondly, in terms of stakeholders, where do you see Sustain environment in the community overlapping with shareholders? Thank you very much.

Morning, Clive. It's Trevor. Why don't I take the surplus capital point, and David will say a bit about Sustain? I think the first point I'd make is as we've tried to do over the last, well, of recession really, the equity case for Morrisons isn't just about special dividends, right? We spend a lot of time in the last three of these meetings specifically talking about how this business can grow and whether that be growth in terms of our like-for-like cost in our core supermarkets through new stores or in online wholesale which, I think combined, exited the year about £2.5 billion annualized turnover.

I think in the context of the capital allocation framework, you know, Michael and David and I were chatting about it this morning. And I'm starting from a point when we set that framework out in 2014. Net debt was at £3 billion, and the company was spending £1.2 billion per annum of CapEx. And it is something, I think, David and Michael both emphasized strongly in the remarks this morning that we feel a high degree of commitment to and which I think our track record says we have executed against consistently.

You know, in terms of surplus capital, it's something we will look at again at the end of the year. We said 12 months ago we were reminded to pay a special dividend, but the pandemic arrived and we deferred that and subsequently paid it in January.

We haven't declared one at this year-end. Debt is at £1.8 billion. Underlying profitability has halved, which one at this year-end. Debt is at £1.8 billion. Underlying profitability has halved, which we wear as a badge of honor, and David was saying it this morning. We've used that cash in terms of COVID costs, and we have absorbed a significant amount of temporary impacts in the cash flow.

Would we pay suppliers immediately again? Yes, we would. Absolutely, and we'll do it again tomorrow. Would we take on more stock for protection against COVID and Brexit and, in December, no one really knew where that was going. Yes, we would.

Are we impacted in working capital because the government has asked the people to stay at home, so they're not doing as many miles? It will unwind. And then, given that the instruction is being global, the oil price has been a bit lower. So, we've had some structural temporary impacts. But, within all of that, the dividend has gone up 27%.

And, I think, David set out in his comments about how supported and enabled we feel by shareholders to enable us to do all the work that we've done when we've put the assets of the company at the disposal of the nation. I think, one of the things that I'd be most proud of, looking back over the last six years is, I think, we've got a track record of managing this business for the long term for all of our stakeholders, and I'm underlining the word all.

And so, when we come around to look at it, at the end of the year ahead, right, I think for – in your jobs across the sell side, you know, you can take that consistency as read. You can look at the temporary impacts and form a view on when and how they will unwind. You've got the clear components of the underlying business cash flow, which you can model, including tax, and you could be assured that we will look at it at the end of the year.

I think, you know that we believe that special dividends in the past or, in principle, reward all shareholders, not just sellers. I think we have demonstrated through our actions, not just for our words, that we are capital disciplined, that we get it, that we're going to grow this business in terms of sales, profits, ROCE, free cash. That we can achieve growth and that we've got a strong balance sheet.

We're minded there. However, you return surplus capital is an appropriation of value back to shareholders. But I'd also say really that framework is not prescriptive about how we return surplus capital. So, we'll keep that under review in terms of mechanics every year and we'll be doing that in the year ahead as well. I don't, David, if you want to pick up some...

Yeah. Thanks, Clive. Well, I think community, first of all, is very sort of – it is where consumers are. Of course, we do welcome local ranging and we sell two-thirds of our goods of British and in a post-Brexit, post-COVID Britain, those things are very center of mind for many millions of consumers. I think as being that who support and serve those communities where we trade, it does provide more of a distinctive brand in a relatively crowded market for us as a retailer of goods and services. I think there is a symbiotic relationship between all our stakeholders with regard to our environmental impact and our overall emissions.

We are a company who listens really quite carefully to consumers as to where they want us to place our priorities. We reflect on those UN resolutions from 2015 with regard to the future of the planet as we develop our environmental programs. They, I think, are tangential very much to shareholders' interests because they provide for a sustainable Morrisons, for a Morrisons that can grow with low impact, high impact in the market, low impact on the planet. And that's really how we see that story, and I think bringing it front and center is, one, timely; and, two, important to shareholders.

And I think the announcement to go 2030 on net carbon zero in agriculture is a great example of that where we have a very direct relationship with over 3,000 farms. But if we can do great work 10 years ahead of the National Farmers Union, then I think that can be a beacon to all farmers in Britain as we start to identify those techniques that provide carbon sinks and those things that stop carbon emitters. And so I think the whole thing comes together very nicely around shareholders.

Yeah. Thank you very much. Very helpful answers, guys.

Our next question comes from the line of Xavier Le Mene from Bank of America. Xavier, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question. Two, if I may. The first one, you talked a lot about the COVID costs, [indiscernible] (01:10:40) incremental sales came from online, also in the store offerings [indiscernible] (01:10:44). Are you able to quantify also the leverage you had last year and how much it was? Just to get a sense potentially of what could happen if and why in full-year 2022. So that's the first question. The second one is about cost savings. You mentioned a lot of initiatives still going on. You also talked about labor cost rising by 9%. So I just want to see if you can quantify this cost saving going forward and also give us a bit more color on the initiatives you've got.

Let me just pick up the labor costs first and then perhaps hand to Michael. It wasn't so much labor costs rising 9%. It was the people, our people's pay rise in 9% to an industry-leading £10. And, of course, that's very important because they are the very people, the frontline colleagues, who discover new avenues of productivity as you might suggest. So when we think about technology, robotics, process, all of these things contribute the end-to-end review of supply chain, lowest stock levels, all of this come together to contribute to, I think, a very healthy environment of productivity where we mine out the productivity in order to invest in our stakeholders. And that's how we run the business. I think my point is that the more and more we include our 120,000 colleagues in the journey of service and productivity, the higher levels of service and better returns on productivity CapEx investments we're likely to achieve and so far so good on that journey.

Morning, Xavier. It's Michael. I mean, clearly, in 2021, we did benefit from positive operating leverage as we absorbed that £290 million of COVID costs. As we look forward into 2021, 2022, into the current year that just started, we – as I've said earlier, we did – we do see that £290 million of COVID costs significantly reducing. We do see the lost profits beginning to recover. And we go into the year with good trading momentum and confidence in our plans for 2021, 2022. And there will be – all of those things will balance including wherever like-for-like sales pans out of in 2021, 2022 in how we manage the year and in each of those dynamics and how our profit pans out for the year.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Porteous from HSBC. Andrew, you're now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, team. A few from me, if I may. So, I guess, if we look back sort of 5, 10 years, there's always been a view that there's quite a big catch-up opportunity within Morrisons. Do you think that the improvements that you've made to the business over recent years, that's still the case? And if so, what are the things you think you can do better relative to the industry that really sort of unleash that potential?

The second one was, you've talked a lot about growth – about profit growth each year. COVID, sort of volatility aside, what is it when you set up looking forward at the start of each year or out over the next three to five, what are the big building blocks that give you confidence that that bottom line can continue to give you confidence that that bottom line can continue to progress into the future?

And then the last one really around inflation. There's been a lot talked about it. You know, obviously, commodity prices moving all over the place. Is there any sort of pressures you're seeing within the supply chain that, you know, give you reason to believe that inflation might take up over the next year? And if so, how do you think – what it looks like and how do you plan to manage it?

Well, I think – thank you, Andrew. I think we've certainly started to try to catch up on tech, technology and supply chain, you know, and forward cover and just the breadth of our branding. I think there's a fairly chunky list there. Clearly, we're on a journey of continuing competitiveness and to develop our relationships with other retailers as we continue to be capital-light driving towards profitable growth. I think that's more to do and there is evidence that we're doing it. But, of course, it's important that we continue to do that.

I think in terms of profit growth, I think we are in that virtuous circle now of high levels of productivity and able to shoot straight in terms of where to make investments that trigger volume either through, you know, different formats or a broader range of goods or the way that we sell. I think on inflation we'll know that Morrisons has deflated over the past 12 months. There are commodity pressures in the system around perhaps beef and lamb at the moment, offset a little bit by pork. And then we see some feed pushed along a bit by soya as a commodity coming down the line a little bit as well. But in the end, of course, it's a very competitive market in the UK and, you know, much of that gets managed by the industry as a total. And so, we'll see where we get to with that.

On commodity inflation as we look forward, clearly, there's been some pressures on inflation within these beef, lamb, and freight but those are things that we look at, we'll be working on, and intend to become more competitive as we go into this year.

Our next question comes from the line of James Anstead from Barclays. James, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning. And I've got the traditional three questions, I wonder if that's okay. Firstly, on sales, even taking into account the really fast growth of the industry in the last year, your sales seem to benefit more than most. I just wondered to what extent you'd attribute that to identifying and investing in these 2,000 customer favorites and to what extent you think your customer base has got quite distinct differences in preferred items versus custom with the other main grocers. So, that will be the first question.

The second one would be Morrisons and Amazon. You talked about over 10% of sales coming from that channel in the stores where it's being picked. But could you give any indication of what that would be as a percentage of your overall retail sales? Presumably, less than 5%, I would guess?

And then, the final one would be around the exceptional costs. I mean, clearly, future cash generation is really the key focus, and you've given us a very clear guidance on that point. So, we're still a bit surprised to see you classify as exceptional those £66 million of costs on the expansion of online and home delivery. Can you – I don't know – if you can just explain better why they should be seen as exceptional and, maybe my memory is wrong, but I don't remember you having exceptional costs, for example, related to, you know, when you were building up rapidly on the McColl's contract. So, just any kind of justification on why we should see that as exceptional would be just interesting to hear.

Yeah. Hi. Hi, James. It's Trevor. I'll go first and then Michael can pick up a bit on the exceptional piece. On the Amazon question, we won't be disclosing that, I don't think. But in the question on sales and outperformance, I wouldn't attribute it to any one thing but more of a combination of everything in the sense that, yeah, we did make a very good progress on that price journey, as you talked about and as you mentioned. We made a great progress on – through price perception by holding our prices in that period and in sort of half one, really, past the start of the pandemic. But it was about many more things than that, about helping our customers, where all the actions that we tried to do resonated in that brand warmth that David has talked about, about making great strides towards achieving that more popular, more accessible, you know, broader business.

And, I think, in terms of sort of exceptionals, Michael can pick up, I'm sure, on the specific. But just on a slightly bigger picture point, you know that business has absorbed £290 million of COVID costs, and that's up £60 million since half one. We – it's £60 million higher than the rates and we've incurred over £100 million in lost profit. We've invested significantly and significantly ahead of our plan in pricing. And, in service, we've achieved a lot on productivity. We have had some exceptionals. I know Michael will pick up the specific in a moment. But the most notable feature I think, as I tried to allude to earlier, is that write-back of the assets. And we have grown capacity fivefold and open the equivalent of nearly 60 new stores, showing the benefit really of having a largely freehold to the state, driving the cash flow out of the underlying assets and really a capital lightweight. David talked about that sort of ecosystem concept of where we look at stores as an access point and we can use them to scale growth from leveraging the reach of those existing assets.

And then, I'd say, over and above that in the context to the year, if you adjust back for the rates, whilst we have another upgrade, we have another downgrade either. And we've landed pretty much on the dot of where the consensus was 12 months ago and that's another year of strong profit and underlying margin progression.

I think, James, in the specifics of online, we've come from virtually nothing at the start of the year doing store pick-up of 38 stores. So between store pick and click-and-collect being in virtually all stores and we've accelerated capacity into three to five months, three to six months of our plans that might have taken three to five years. And inevitably, we've incurred significant start-up costs in achieving that. And those are exceptional in nature. And as we – as I said earlier, it's not something that we expect to recur into 2021-2022, but very specifically exceptional in 2021.

That's helpful. And just going back very quickly to the Morrison/Amazon question, Appreciate why you wouldn't want to give us a specific number. But – and apologies if I've missed it. But can you say how many stores do you have that functionality?

£60 million.

£60 million. Okay. Thank you.

Unfortunately, we have run out of time. I'd only have time for one more question. Our final question comes from the line of Sreedhar Mahamkali from UBS. Sreedhar, you are now unmuted. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks for squeezing me in. Actually, just on the Amazon point. One thing that I wanted to explore. Now I know you're not going to give us the numbers, Trevor. So, a couple of other things. I mean, broadly, the Amazon partnership seems to be expanding and now seems to include Amazon Go. But I guess you don't really give us too much insight into what is actually happening. By deduction, you can see it's going well.

But aside from numbers, maybe a couple of things if you can sort of shine some light on, please. What are the learnings from that relationship that you're getting and that you're probably able to bring back to the broad of Morrison business? And any insights that you're picking up from your experience? Very early days, of course, but in preparation to growth and to get to the Amazon Go stores, maybe just broadly talk about what you're learning. That will be very helpful.

Yeah. Thank you, Sreedhar. I mean, clearly, Amazon in Ealing, we wholesale to Amazon and they sort of decide what they're doing with that store. So, questions like that is not – we don't give much information. It's just that it's their store. The questions are for them. The relationship, I think, is in good shape. We're committed to finding those innovative solutions that consumers like.

I think in terms of learning, for us, we enjoy working with Amazon Web Services to think through tech solutions to consumer and colleague needs. And a bit like Morrisons actually, they've got a tremendous ethos around customers and their data is always pointing at customer satisfaction. It's very important for them in order to trigger growth, a sort of customer satisfaction first in pilots, if you like, and then growth, not the other way around.

And how they continue to sort of chip away, if you like, at those things that are sort of blockages or obstacles to get into higher levels of consumer satisfaction. So, for us as Morrisons, we can always learn from those techniques. Why wouldn't we? For the broader business. And that is something I hope to continue to do.

Look, I think we'll call it quits there. Thank you very much, indeed, for joining the call. We do appreciate all your questions, and we look forward to seeing you soon. Thank you very much.