corrected transcript


Activision Blizzard, Inc.
 
ATVID
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to this Activision Blizzard’s Quarterly Conference


Call. Today’s conference is being recorded.


At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Vice


President of Investor Relations, Ms. Kristin Southey. Please go ahead.


Kristin Southey, Vice President, Investor Relations


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for Activision Blizzard’s June quarter conference


call. As always, I will start today’s call with a review of our Safe Harbor disclosure, followed by


comments from Bobby Kotick, CEO; Thomas Tippl, Chief Financial Officer; Mike Griffith, President


and CEO of Activision Publishing and Mike Morhaime, President and CEO of Blizzard


Entertainment.


I would like to remind everyone that statements will be made during this call that are not historical


facts and are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on current


expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The company cautions


that a number of important factors could cause Activision Blizzard’s actual future results and other


future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking


statements.


Such factors include, without limitation, sales levels of the company’s titles, shifts in consumer


spending trends, the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive game market, the company’s


ability to predict consumer preferences among competing hardware platforms, declines in software


pricing, product returns and price protection, product delays, retail acceptance of our products,


adoption rate and availability of new hardware and related software, industry competition, rapid


changes in technology and industry standards, protection of proprietary rights, maintenance of


relationships with key personnel, customers, vendors and third-party developers, domestic and


international economic, financial and political conditions and policies, foreign exchange rates,


integration of recent acquisitions and the identification of suitable future acquisition opportunities,


Activision Blizzard’s success in integrating the operations of Activision and Vivendi Games in a


timely manner, or at all, and the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits and


synergies of this transaction to the extent, or in the timeframe anticipated.


Other such factors include the further implementation, acceptance and effectiveness of the


remedial measures recommended or adopted by the special sub-committee of the independent


directors established in July ‘06 to review Activision’s historical stock option granting practices, the


finalization of the tentative settlement of the SEC’s formal investigation related thereto, and other


litigation unrelated to stock option granting practices.


These important factors and other factors that potentially could affect the company’s financial


results are described in the company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. The company


may change its intentions, belief, or expectation at any time and without notice based upon any


changes in such factors in the company’s assumptions or otherwise.


The company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking


statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of


unanticipated events.


I would like to note that certain numbers we will be presenting today, including net revenues,


operating income, earnings per share, manufacturing and distribution costs, product creation costs,


sales and marketing expense, and G&A spending, will be made excluding the impact of expenses
corrected transcript


Activision Blizzard, Inc.
 
ATVID
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


related to the equity based compensation costs, one-time costs related to the business combination


between Activision and Vivendi Games, including transaction costs, integration costs, and


restructuring activities, should there be any, and the associated tax benefits.


For the respective future period, Activision Blizzard’s non-GAAP results and guidance will also


exclude the impact of the change in deferred net revenues and costs of sales; the operating results


of products and operations from the historical Vivendi Games businesses that the company intends


to dispose or exit; the impact of purchase price accounting related adjustments including the


amortization of intangibles, and the increase in the fair value of inventories and associated costs of


sales; and the associated tax benefits. Please refer to our earnings release which is posted on our


website at www.activisionblizzard.com for a full reconciliation.


I would also like to point out that we are changing our fiscal year end to December 31 and the


numbers we are providing today do not incorporate any adjustments made as a result of our


previously announced stock split.


And now, I would like to introduce our CEO, Bobby Kotick.


Robert A. Kotick, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kristin. I’d like to start by welcoming our new shareholders, employees, partners and


customers. As you know on July 9, we completed our groundbreaking combination with Vivendi


Games, which has made us an even more profitable company with a far greater ability to generate


predictable financial results, tap into new international markets and capitalize on the growth trends


in both the console and online markets in which we operate.


We now have one of the broadest and most diversified product portfolios and leading market


positions across all categories of our rapidly growing industry. Our commitment to delivering


consistent profitability and long-term shareholder value creation will remain our focus.


Today I’m very pleased to introduce Mike Morhaime, the CEO and Co-founder of Blizzard


Entertainment, which is the world leader in subscription-based online games. Mike started Blizzard


in 1991, the same year that I joined Activision. Together, we’ve accelerated Activision Blizzard’s


entrance into the high operating margin and fast growing massively multiplayer online genre and


should help us to establish a meaningful presence in the growing Asian markets.


We’re also excited to add a number of the Vivendi Games properties to the Activision Publishing


roster of franchises, the majority of which are wholly-owned IPs including such proven properties as


Crash Bandicoot and Spyro. Activision Blizzard now has the largest portfolio of proven wholly-


owned internally developed intellectual property of any third-party publisher, which will continue to


drive operating margins and shareholder value.


The benefits of the combined company are numerous, including positioning us to be one of the


fastest growing, most profitable entertainment companies in the world. The integration of Activision


and Vivendi Games is going very well and it illustrates the complementary nature and excitement


that is felt throughout the organization about becoming a leader in interactive entertainment.


I’d like to again thank the employees from both companies for their commitment, hard work and


dedication in making this transaction seamless. Today we’re much larger and stronger company


than we were on our last conference call. But as I said our priorities and focus remain unchanged,


growing our global presence, expanding our operating margins and continuing to create


shareholder value.