Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martín Pérez de Solay — Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Allkem Ltd.
Christian Cortes — Chief of Staff, Allkem Ltd.
Christian Barbier — Chief Sales & Marketing Officer, Allkem Ltd.
Keith Muller — Business Leader - Australian Asset, Allkem Ltd.
Reg Spencer — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity (Australia) Ltd.
Al Harvey — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Australia Ltd.
Hayden Bairstow — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Kate McCutcheon — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Australia Pty Ltd.
Mitch Ryan — Analyst, Jefferies (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Max Vickerson — Analyst, Morgans Financial Ltd.
Lachlan Shaw — Analyst, UBS
Matthew Frydman — Analyst, MST Financial Services Pty Ltd.
David Adam Deckelbaum — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Ben Lyons — Analyst, Jarden

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to Allkem's 2022 Full Year Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the Speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And finally, I would like to advise all participants that this call is being recorded.

Thank you. I would like to hand over to CEO and Managing Director, Martín Pérez de Solay to begin the call.

Thank you, Paul, and welcome, everyone, and thank y for joining us today for Allkem Limited financial results for the year ending June 30, 2022. I will provide an update on our very successful merger, our operations, product execution, growth strategy and the lithium market. Also filling in for our CFO, Neil Kaplan today is Chief of Staff, Christian Cortes, who will present our financial results.

We'll be going through a slide deck on slide number 4. I am pleased that we have achieved a record financial result in the first year of the transformational merger of Orocobre Limited and Galaxy Resources. The merger has generated substantial value for the combination of outstanding operating assets and the development projects. We have restructured our business around our global portfolio and we continue to strengthen the management, operating and development teams attracting the highest quality personnel. Through effective management, the group has significantly improved safety performance and achieved record production at both among couplings of 194,000 tonnes of spodumene concentrate and Olaroz of 13,000 tonnes of lithium production.

We enhanced our sales contract scheme, but we – excuse me. We enhanced our sales contract terms with our customers and continue to improve for the quality and maintain our lowest quartile cost performance. As a result, we have been able to capture the benefit of higher lithium prices to deliver record revenues of $770 million and EBITDAIX of $515 million. With a robust balance sheet, including cash and cash equivalents of $664 million and two revenue generating operations being supplemented by new operations in financial year 2023. We are fully funded to deliver our global growth pipeline.

New developments and expansions are expected to see the business expand threefold by 2026, with the aim of maintaining 10% market share as the lithium industry continues to grow with increasing adoption of electric vehicle. During the year, we advance all our development assets. Olaroz Stage II has now reached over 91% construction completion, designed to deliver an additional 25,000 tonnes of technical grade lithium carbonate product.

In line with our strategy to diversify our product offering to customers, we completed construction of Naraha Hydroxide plant and commissioning is underway and we're well [ph] advance and (00:03:27) commands the construction of the Sal de Vida Stage I. We also completed feasibility studies on [ph] three Level I projects (00:03:34) which include a 2.5 times increase in the interim Olaroz results to 16 million tonnes of LCE, making the combined Olaroz/Cauchari resource of 22.5 million tonne, one of the largest in the world, a 40% increase to Sal de Vida production capacity to 45,000 tonnes per annum in two stages and a 10% increase in the resource to 6.85 million tonnes of LCE. The James Bay project economics demonstrate a very competitive hydro project that gives access to – that gives unique access to a high growth North American market.

On slide number 5, there has been a clearly material step-up in the scale and cash flow of the business over the last two years. The next two years represents another step-up in the business where we can expect to see first production and ramp-up of the Naraha and Olaroz Stage II, Sal de Vida Stage I – Sal de Vida Stage I construction and first production with sequential development of Stage II and the construction of James Bay.

Now, in addition to this, we have further growth opportunities in the earlier stages of development, which I will discuss in the further detail later in the presentation. This includes Olaroz Stage III, James Bay downstream and optimization projects in Argentina. Firstly, sustainability remains a core focus in Allkem's journey and we continue to be recognized for our leading ESG practices. Not only did we deliver a record production volumes as we continued to successfully operate within our COVID-19 biosecurity protocols and improve our overall safety performance achieving a TRIFR of 2.6 for the rolling 12-month period. This is a reflection of our focus on and excellent operation and management, despite increasing our global footprint, operational and construction activities.

Further, you can expect us to continue working with all community stakeholders to create long-term value through areas such as local employment, education and procurement. We also continue to advance our strategy to deliver responsive products in respect to climate change and human rights.

I will now hand over to Christian to go through our financial results.

Thank you, Martín, and good morning to everyone. I will take you through the financial results slide starting from page 8. Following the merger and substantial increase in lithium carbonate and spodumene prices, Allkem achieved record revenues of $770 million, which is substantially higher than prior years. With the strong revenues and effective cost control measures at Mt Cattlin and Olaroz delivering some of the lowest cost lithium produced in the world and very strong EBITDAIX of $513 million with a profit after tax of $337 million. Cash in the balance sheet has been boosted to approximately $664 million, with a combination of cash added from the merger and strong free cash flow generated during the reporting period.

Moving on to the next slide, record revenues of $770 million with Mt Cattlin contributing approximately $452 million for the 10-month period post-merger and $293 million from Olaroz. EBITDAIX of $513 million included Mt Cattlin's contribution of $336 million and Olaroz contribution of $220 million respectively. Spodumene average CIF unit sales price of $2,221 compared to $415 for the prior period and Lithium carbonate FOB unit sales price of $23,398 in FY 2022 compared to $4,983 in FY 2021. Disciplined cost control in a challenging environment of inflation with Mt Cattlin's operating unit costs of $420 and pass margin of 80%, whilst Olaroz unit cost of sales of $4,282 approximately 11% higher than prior year due to inflationary cost pressures and a higher sales mix of battery-grade lithium carbonate also delivering record-high cash margins of 82% for the period.

Higher depreciation and amortization costs relative to prior year was due to the addition of Mt Cattlin's operation. This resulted in a record profit before interest and foreign exchange of $463.1 million. Net finance costs are lowered to the prior year, mainly due to reduced interest rates for a large portion of the year and reduced Olaroz debt outstanding balance.

Income tax expense of approximately $93 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22% has benefited from $64 million of previously unrecognized tax losses brought into the balance sheet, partially offset by foreign currency movements and hyperinflation in Argentina. Net profit after tax of $337 million included $38.5 million of once-off costs related to the purchase price allocation and transaction costs associated with the merger.

Moving on to the next slide. Profit performance bridge to prior year pro forma EBITDAIX, include a very strong pricing increase for both spodumene and lithium carbonate delivering revenue increases of approximately $600 million, which, after taking cost variances for the period, delivered a very strong increase of approximately $495 million of EBITDAIX during the period. Improvement on product quality, focus on cost control and renegotiation of sales contracts and record production were key in delivering the increase in profits.

Moving to the cash flow and balance sheet. Cash on hand at balance sheet debt of $663 million was up by $405 million compared to prior year, which includes $210 million added from the merger. And the net increase of $195 million, generating during the period which is attributable to a strong operating cash flow of $475.6 million, partially offset by CapEx and of $261.4 million. Cash balance also includes $7.9 million and $83.9 million, which have been set aside as free completion guarantees for Naraha and Olaroz.

With the $83.9 million related to Olaroz, available for Allkem-performed CapEx, VAT and working capital related to the Olaroz Stage II expansion. Bank debt of $228 million related to the project finance for Olaroz, which will reduce to approximately $210 million in September. And working capital facilities were fully repaid during the year in Argentina. CapEx spend $261.4 million mainly relates to the progression of Olaroz Stage II Sal de Vida and James Bay projects.

In summary, record revenues, EBITDAIX and net profit after tax, a robust balance sheet with cash on the balance sheet to fund a pipeline of projects and an expectation of a very strong financial year ahead of us.

Thank you. And I will pass back to Martín.

Think you, Christian. And I will now provide an update on our operation, starting with Mt Cattlin. On page 13, we achieved record revenue of $452 million from sales of over 200,000 tonnes of spodumene concentrates at an average selling price of $2,221 per tonne CIF for the period. Despite raising prices, we remain focused on strong cost management. As a result, high growth cost margin of 81% was achieved for the year in-line with low cash cost of production of $420 per tonne. Excellent operational performance was due to favorable head grade and improved processing rate and recoveries, particularly in the first half of the financial year. Towards the end of the year, the ore source commenced transitioning from two northeast pits to two northwest pits where pre-stripping works continue.

Challenges arising from COVID-19 and the Western Australian labor markets continue to impact operations in WA, including Mt Cattlin in the September quarter. Mitigation mechanisms have been implemented and will deliver progress in Q2 financial year 2023 and into the second half of financial year 2023. This include the mobilization of additional mining contractor and the replacement and emphasizing of mining equipment with the existing mining contractor that was implemented in August and the installation of magnetic ore, processing of low-grade stockpiles to be commissioned at the end of September.

As a result, financial year 2023 production forecast has been revised to 140 tonnes to 150 tonnes of SC6, and production is expected to increase across each respective quarter with an average cost of approximately $900 per tonne. This deferred production will be partially offset by the sale of 130,000 tonnes of lower grade spodumene concentrate to existing customers in the first half of financial year 2023. We recently increased our mineral resource tonnage by 21% to 13.3 million tonnes at a 1.2% grade, principally reflecting the application of an $1,100 pit sale at 6% lithium oxide concentrate grade compared to the $900 per tonne used in the 2021 estimation. We're also making good progress with our resource extension drilling, the best immediate extensions to mine life, where about 40% through the program with 60 holes completed to-date and over 14,000 meters of drilling and we will provide an update of results in the September quarter.

At Olaroz, on slide 14, we achieve record profitability driven not only by stronger pricing but focused cost control and strong operational management, which delivered stable high-quality production with an improved sales mix of 54% battery grade and better price realization. Record revenue of $293 million reflects a 341% increase in revenue from the prior year, largely due to an average FOB pricing increase of $176 to AUD 23,398 per tonne. The material increase in revenue was only partially offset by industry wide inflation. Our gross profit margin remained very high at 82%.

Now, I'm moving to the project execution of our development assets and other projects that we are advancing to unlock further growth. On slide 16, we are focused on executing our growth pipeline, particularly production. To do this, we must optimize our operations and deliver our development projects while we minimize the impacts of the pandemic and other global challenges. In addition to this, we're investigating a number of value adding growth projects, including advancing studies on Cauchari/Olaroz Stage 3 and James Bay downstream, the soon to be acquire Maria Victoria tenements and advancing the James Bay downstream project.

The expansion of Olaroz is well above with overall construction at 91%. On site, complete, commissioned and filled with brine, Lime Plant 3 is complete and commissioning. Lime Plant 4 is near completion. The soda ash plant is nearly complete and the carbonation plant has reached a construction progress of 69%. First production of Olaroz Stage 2 is anticipated by the end of this calendar year.

On slide 19 (sic) [18] (00:17:14), at Naraha, we successfully and safely completed the construction activities during the year in the backdrop of the global pandemic and commissioning activities are well underway, with first production expected early in the December 2022 quarter. This project will provide exposure to the high value lithium hydroxide market, with production expected to be around 10,000 tonnes per annum.

Sal de Vida, we are leveraging our skills from Olaroz and construction is progressing well with the first two strings of ponds of Stage 1 at over 32% completion. During the remainder of this calendar year, we are focused on commissioning the first two streams of ponds and commencing the construction of the carbonation plant. First production from Stage 1 is expected by the second half of calendar year 2023, and Stage 2 development will occur sequentially after that.

On James Bay, we have signed an agreement with Hydro Québec and we are progressing our regulatory approvals in anticipation for construction commencing in early 2023 calendar year. We will commence a drilling program in the December quarter to determine the upside potential of the resource that remains open to the north, south, east and also at depth. James Bay downstream provides an opportunity for a cornerstone regional processing facility to serve the North American market. We have been investigating locations for a conversion plant in Québec that will be in close proximity to rail and other infrastructure that would deliver material economic advantages.

Capacity will be linked to James Bay spodumene production and potential resource expansion with the optionality to process third-party ore. A pre-feasibility study is on track for completion in Q1 calendar year 2023. The Olaroz and Cauchari resource is one of the largest in the world and with a recent agreement to acquire Maria Victoria tenement provides further potential to unlock significant development pathway for Olaroz Stage 3. We are currently reviewing the development options for our Stage 3, setting a substantial increase of production capacity for Stage 3 above the previous study and advancing ongoing studies for conventional and alternative processing technology.

On our continuous improvement projects on slide 23 we will discuss a dedicated purification facility. We have a clear strategy to capturing as much of the chemical supply chain as possible to maximize return to our shareholders. As such, we are progressing an additional dedicated purification facility to supply increasing demand battery grade products. These may be located near Jujuy, which would benefit from a lower altitude, proximity to service, contractors, and labor, thereby reducing Olaroz capital cost.

Currently, we are completing a Class 3 estimate engineering package which is expected to confirm lower costs and better sustainable performance with increased carbonate recoveries. This project would allow Olaroz Stage 1 to become a dedicated technical grade facility, which would increase lithium carbonate production by 30% to 40%. The enhanced brand recovery is progressing and applicable to both Stages 1 and 2 of Olaroz. This would likely see the lithium recovery in primary reprocessing increased from 75% to approximately 95%, resulting in additional production.

Currently, we are reviewing and piloting processing options with a combination of our standard technology and new technologies. We expect the results to have high return on investment and add material value and then to complete a feasibility study for the end of the first half of calendar year 2023. We're also commencing studies on the local supply and manufacture of key reagents to meet increasing requirements with higher production at both Olaroz and Sal de Vida. The objective is to develop self-sufficiency and maintain lower, lower quartile costs. Options are being considered for the development of Allkem owned lime properties located in the northwest of Argentina.

Moving on to the lithium market on slide 26, we are seeing a strong ramp up of brownfield expansion, but this is still unable to reach surging demand. In immediate and long-term, we expect the market to remain tight. Customer demand for electric vehicles remain resilient despite changes during the year, with global EV sales up 71% from the prior year and up 123% in China's from the previous year. Prices rally to new record during the year and our marketing efforts maximize our financial year 2022 realized pricing and revenues.

Our strong customer relationships back our long-term contracts. At Mt. Cattlin, demand in the spodumene market remains robust and spodumene concentrate pricing in the September quarter is expected to be above $5,000 per tonne CIF. At Olaroz, we successfully restructured our contract, traced out from favorable commitments to capture higher realized pricing in line with upward pricing momentum. Average pricing for the lithium carbonate is expected to be in the $47,000 per tonne range for the first half of financial year 2023, excluding Naraha feedstock.

Following the merger of Orocobre and Galaxy, we have had record-breaking operating and financial results. We have also successfully accelerated our growth project to meet our target of tripling production by 2026. We will strive to continue delivering excellent results by optimizing our operation, executing our development assets, and above them our growth projects. The industry supply and demand profile requires new development projects and we are in a very unique position with a clear growth strategy and with further upside to deliver the scale and the profitability required by the customers as the world transition to a net zero economy.

We will now move on to the Q&A session.

Thank you, all speakers. [Operator Instructions] Speakers, your first question comes from the line of Reg Spencer from Canaccord. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys. Congratulations on a very good FY 2022 result. My first question relates to your guidance for pricing in the September quarter of AUD 47,000 a tonne for Olaroz production. You mentioned that that excludes Naraha, which I presume relates to build up of inventory ahead of commissioning there. Can you let us know what kind of net impact that might have on pricing?

Thank you, Reg. Christian Barbier will answer your question. The guidance I gave was for the first half, not just for the fourth quarter.

Sorry. Yeah.

Yes, Reg, this is Christian Barbier speaking. Thanks for your question. Look, it doesn't really have a material impact resupplying technical grade feedstock to Naraha and as such, we thought these more appropriate and more representative to continue to report prices on the covenant that we sell in the market. What we see is quarter-on-quarter improvements in our weighted average carbonate prices and that's what we also wanted to report in this half year guidance of AUD 47 per kilogram.

Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Second question related to Mt Cattlin. You've mentioned that you'd been looking at selling about 100 tonnes or 1,000 tonnes of low grade concentrate. What kind of pricing should we expect for that material or it should we work on an implied pricing based on a 6% benchmark?

So, look, Reg, for this about 130,000 tonnes of these low grades concentrates that we're planning to sell during the half year. So, we reported a price range of between $500 and $600 per tonne for this product. Now, if you make your own calculations, you will see – the grade of this product is within the range of 1.1% to 1.3% Li2O. So, it is a significantly lower grade product to the SC6 that we normally market.

Okay. But I presume, given that the production costs for that material are going to be beneath an expected selling price?

Of course, yeah, yeah. We would not though...

Yeah, yeah.

...because the reason also we're doing this is because we wanted to complement the Li2O unit, to our customers in order to continue to supply important Li2O units.

Reg, adding on that, it's a very profitable operation that we are undertaking.

Understood. Understood. Last question is for James Bay. I'm quite interested in your comments on the sizing of the downstream there to handle any expanded resource or third-party feed. Are you in a position to guide us as to what kind of total capacity that might be and that there's a lot of work to be done and you have got completed pre-feasibility, but should we be thinking about linking that directly to implied capacity based on James Bay or something materially larger than that?

Listen, you said the answer yourself, it's a lot of work yet to be done on that project. What we are seeing is a tremendous potential for James Bay to go beyond its currently expected production, and that's why we are undertaking this drilling program to probe resources in the area of north, south and east of the current pit shale designs. And that will tell us who have the definitive capacity there. We see a tremendous opportunity in the Canadian market. It's not just up, but there are many other projects that are arising in the area that we see them being smaller in terms of total capacity and head grade, which will require further processing capacity. We also see a tremendous demand in the hydroxide market in the US building up and as a consequence we are including unfortunately in these opportunities in our feasibility study.

Understood. I have to agree with you on the potential in Canada. So, I'll pass it on. Thanks very much, guys.

Thank you, Reg.

Your next question comes from the line of Al Harvey from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Good morning, Martín. Just a follow up on the carbonate price guidance. Wondering if you could give us the split of battery grade versus primary grade there and maybe any guide on the transfer price between Olaroz and Naraha?

I will ask Christian to answer the details on your question. The split is going to be very similar to what we've seen this year based on the contracts.

So yes, at the moment the split is about 50/50 between battery grade and technical grade. But as the Olaroz expansion will kick in, the technical grades will increase in proportion to about 75% of the cabinet production.

Thanks for that. And, again, maybe another follow up on the lower grade concentrates coming out of Mt Cattlin. So, can you just reiterate who is taking that product and how does that make money would be quite expensive to ship and whatnot? Can you just step us through that?

Yes. Well, we have a number of converted customers in China, which is the main market for converting spodumene at the moment. And these people are able to process lower grade concentrate as well as spodumene 6% Li2O concentrate. So, basically these are the same population of converters we are supplying to or we are in discussions with at the moment. In terms of prices, both shipments between Australia and China are about AUD 80 a tonne at the moment. So, with the prices that we've reported, this is still a very profitable product.

And so, is the 1.3% concentrate essentially like direct shipping or like you have some high grade stockpiles or does it go through the plant and take the same processing to get it to a concentrate?

Let me introduce Keith for this answer, which is more technical.

Al, it's Keith. Thank you for your question. I just want to highlight that out of the 130,000 tonnes that we intend to do sell this off. We've already shipped 30,000 tonnes of that. It's a combination of legacy stockpiles on the site as well as material that's coming through the process plant at the moment. So, about 50% of what we're intending to sell is coming currently from the process plant, so it's a stream that we are tapping into that we haven't previously done and then 50% of that material is legacy stockpiles that we are basically just taking to port and shipping.

Great. Sorry, guys. Just my final one there, just looking at the Mt Cattlin resource that's going up, but reserves haven't moved up as well. When can we expect that larger resource base to convert into reserves?

Al, it's Keith figuring so the depletion that we have reported is the mining depletion over the last 18 months, since the last report on the 31st of March 2021. We were expecting to complete resource in full drilling as well as the resource expansion by the end of this financial year. And then we will update the resource and reserves early in the second half of FY 2023.

Thanks, Keith.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Hayden Bairstow from Macquarie. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Just a couple for me, first one just on the ramp up of Olaroz, just going to understand the percentage of battery grade you're expecting or how quickly you can get that. I guess the reason the target was closer to 100% on Stage 2 and just to understand what we should be factoring in during the ramp up phase in terms of moving to full battery grade product?

It's Olaroz Stage 2 designed to produce technical grade lithium carbonate, not battery grade. That's why Christian was mentioning that once Olaroz Stage 2 kicks in, but we'll see the technical grade production going up. While we wouldn't find the same level of sale for battery grade production from Stage 1. When I referred earlier into projects we're looking into we're seeing a very larger market for battery grade growing and growing and we are thinking of other options to maximize production of battery grade. Going forward, so as to meet customer demand of Stage 2 with 100% technical grade facility.

So, what are the options to go to battery grade?

Well, the options to battery grade Stage 2 will produce technical grade lithium hydroxide that will be converted into battery grade hydroxide at Naraha. And as I said before, we're analyzing a larger purification facility at a more convenient size, we will result in lower costs and increased production from all our facilities, both Stage 1 and total output of battery grade.

Yeah. Okay. And then on James Bay, just the discussions with the government, et cetera on, is that more likely going to shape it as a fully integrated project in the hydroxide or do you think it'll be initially a spodumene project lead so into the European market, the North American markets and then look at downstream later on.

So, this has always been the same. The current approvals and discussions with the government are from upstream spodumene project and we are now working on the downstream project. But we'll take that spodumene and convert it into hydroxide for the US market. Given the timing, the approvals from the starting of construction of the upstream projects in the first quarter of next year, we expect to sell some spodumene into the US and European markets for a few years until we get the downstream facility up and running.

Okay. Just a follow on, just on the technical grade conversion to battery grade or through hydroxide, can you just give us an idea of how long that actually takes if we look at production coming out of Olaroz to getting through the battery grade product and then delivering it to customers, I mean, how much additional time does that add to the production pipeline, if you look?

But that's not additional time to the production pipeline itself, because it's basically running the same purification segment that we're running today on more product and finding a better location for our purification segment to be able to operate it on further lower costs. That project is currently being analyzed and we will not see the battery grade volumes increasing. It's exactly the opposite. We shall see by battery volumes increasing as we start to produce from this purification project, which is currently in the study stage.

Okay. Thanks for that. Cheers.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Papaioanou from Citi. Alexander, your line is open. Alexander, just checking, are you there?

We'll move to another one.

We're just going to return Alexander back to the queue. And your next question comes from the line of Clarke Wilkins from the Perpetual. Your line is open.

Hello? Oh, hi. Sorry, it's Kate at Citi. Is my line open now?

It is.

Hi, Martín. I'm not sure what's going on there. Thanks for the call. Guidance to Mt Cattlin, can you just walk me through what happened such that you've had to revise guidance around 30 days after it's being set? Were the metallurgical issues a surprise? Why have you had to reset total material moment assumptions very soon? Thanks.

Yes, Kate. It's Keith. I'll take that question. So, during the first quarter, we anticipated to process a small transitional lens that we first intersected in the upper portion of the ore body. This first lens turned out to be of fine-grained spodumene material, which is not able to be processed through the plant in its current configuration setup. In addition, the delays in pre-strip from the previous calendar year following the COVID restrictions in WA as limited our ability to open up more than one mining phases and it has restricted us to access further ore deposits and a more a better higher grade core spodumene ore body that we're anticipating to now open up in the second quarter of this financial year.

Okay. Okay. Yeah. And then you previously said in June quarter you've expect to carbonate pricing for September quarter of around $41,000. Is that still the case? And then new news today is weighted price for the half of $37,000?

Yes. Kate, this is Christian Barbier speaking. Look, yes, we guided these prices in reality during the current quarter. Our weighted average price expect to be a little bit higher than the previous guidance and continue to have a quarter-on-quarter increase. So, the $47,000 a tonne that we have indicated, the weighted average over the half year, you can consider, there will be slightly lower in this September quarter and slightly higher in the December quarter.

But in both cases, it will remain above the guidance we gave for the quarter.

Yes, absolutely.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Ryan from Jefferies. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. I've just one question I just wanted to clarify, are the lower grade sales from Mt Cattlin suits outside of the revised guidance?

Yes, it is.

Yes. And that previously would've been accounted for as waste?

That's the other part of the material being told, I guess.

Okay.

So, Mitch, yeah, this is Christian again. We were not selling these products before. And as Keith mentioned, it's a combination of some existing stockpile and some product stream from the plants. And so, it is not something that we were marketing until this current quarter.

Okay. Thank you. That's it for me.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Max Vickerson from Morgans. Your line is open.

Thank you, guys. Just firstly a quick question on lithium hydroxide prices as Naraha is mapping up, how relevant are things like the LMA benchmark in terms of your pricing.

So, Mike, the first thing is, we intend to produce battery grade hydroxide from Naraha. However, it will take a few months to first adjust the quality, but also to have the products approved by battery grade customers. There is no battery grade hydroxide spot market. All battery grade hydroxide customers are buying on long-term supply agreements. So, during the first few months until the product is approved, the battery grade product is approved, we'll be selling hydroxide technical grade basis on the spot markets and progressively we'll be transitioning into multiyear supply agreements with customers we have started conversations with.

Excellent. Thank you. And then just another question on your carbonate pricing and so it might be a bit sticky here, but when you're talking about the split between battery and technical grade, excluding the Naraha site, can I just be very clear there, is that 50/50 split taking into account what sort of going to in Naraha, as you mentioned the stage 2 technical grade is what's going to see Naraha?

Sorry, production is about 50% technical grade, 50% battery grade at the moment. Now, we are starting to supply some quantities of technical grade carbonates to Naraha in order for them to have a feedstock to process when the commissioning starts. Now, the Olaroz Stage 2 expansion will produce technical grade, which will be the main feed to Naraha, does that answer your question, Max?

That does, yeah. That's great. Thank you, guys. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Lachlan Shaw from UBS. Your line is open.

Good morning, Martin and team, great results at the end cut line, well done. Just a few questions to clarify something from my side, so just on the Mt Cattlin downgrade, what confidence have you got, that the steps you're putting in place around remediation, mobilizing additional contractors can deliver the progressive step-up in production there through the supply?

Good morning, Lachlan. It's Keith. We've not only put those states in place, it's already operational. So the additional mining fleet upgrade has started mining this week and the key personnel and equipment of our second mining contractor is already on site and they will be operational in the first week of September. In terms of confidence for the mineralogy of the rest of the ore body, we've got a number of diamond drill core holes that we've analyzed in the upcoming ore feed and they show no signs of fine-grained ore. It is limited information in terms of core drilling, but is about 12 holes that we've looked at in a very small area that we're mining. So we're quite confident that the mineralogy will return to what it has been in the past.

Okay, great. And then just moving across to Olaroz now, so just the enhanced recovery project, so as you have sort of sense so in far around timing of that if all goes to plan? And I guess just a question, once installed would it be an instant sort of ramp-up in addition to recovery there or would it take some time to start getting that through?

It's – this is a chemical plant and ramp-up of chemical plants are never immediate. So, it takes time. What we are looking there is improving the recovery from the carbonation reaction and be able to transform all of the lithium fluoride into lithium carbonate through a second step of stage of recovery. We are completing the technical piloting for the project. We expect to have a DFS in the first half of next year. Construction should not be very, very difficult [indiscernible] (00:46:20) with the construction of 4,000 meters, right. So, you have to consider that.

And on the back of that it's a simpler plan for Olaroz but in any case you have to remember it's a chemical plant. So, it requires fine tuning of parameters. And also this ramps up some another immediate. So once we have the DFS ready first half of next calendar year, we will be able to get more details around ramp-up and expected – how we expect to reach a maximum production from that facility. It is very – when you look at the increased production, this is basically getting more product from the same line using the similar operation on, it's just adding additional value to the project by improving recovery. It looks very attractive.

Great. Thanks, Martín, and one final one just on the purification facility. So in [indiscernible] (00:47:15) is that in addition to the current circuit on site or that would be relocating the current circuit down to [indiscernible] (00:47:23)? And then just to in terms of the impact on volume from the 30% to 40% lift in technical grade production, is that just sort of share of overall production or is that allowing Stage I to get towards notional nameplate of 17.5 dozen times per annum? Thank you.

It is up significantly by when you move the purification [indiscernible] (00:47:45) to a more favorable location where you get improved verification result and we increase the throughput of Stage I to reach its namesake capacity by producing 100% technical grade. And that will not only increase production of Stage I, but we'll also increase production of battery grade throughout the plan because we'll have more tonnes of technical grade to be converted into high quality purified battery grade, which is – if you'll remember, the quality of our purified product is quite high since we run the secondary – the second crystallization.

Got it. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Frydman from MST Financial. Your line is open.

Sure. Thanks. Good morning, Martín and team. Firstly, on the [indiscernible] (00:48:40) unless I've missed this, you haven't provided any guidance for production or cost. I'm guessing that's maybe because you might be thinking about how you're going to incorporate the ramp-up to Stage II over the year. But can you give us a sense of what you're expecting from Stage I? Is flat production and costs at Stage I versus FY 2022, is that a fair base case to consider or anything else that we should be thinking about that might change that view, maybe the mix of technical grade production or anything else is going to drive costs of production versus taking FY 2022 as a base case?

Yeah. Well, thank you for your question. And your answer is within your question. The reason why I would not provide guidance is because we have to factor in how the ramp-up of Stage II happens into the overall production of the plant. When you look at Stage I, as you have seen, we have continuously improved year-over-year the performance from Stage I, not only increasing the quantity of battery grade, but also increasing the total throughput of the plant while keeping the costs well under control. That is going to be the case for this current financial year with regards to Olaroz Stage I, we'll continue to improve. As you know, the movement between the exchange rates under the evaluation in Argentina may create some short-term movement in the costs, but in the long-run costs Olaroz Stage I will remain in similar levels of competitivity, taking into consideration increased production and increased battery grade production.

Got it. Thanks, Martín. And then secondly, maybe plant the case, but the legacy stockpile of material that's forming part of that low-grade product. Just wondering how much of that legacy inventory that you have? And I guess, with 100 kilotons of low-grade shipments would actually consume the remainder of what you've got in that stockpile? And then at that point, if you wanted to continue selling this low-grade product, it would just be from this tailings stream? Yeah, wondering if you can give us a sense of how much material is there. Thanks.

Thanks for the question. Once we sell this 100,000 tonnes that would not consume the full stockpiles that we have at the moment. Not all that material is suitable to be shipped. So we haven't done the work to fully understand exactly how much of this sits in reserve. We've only been able to access those that we are very familiar with the quality and we don't want to take any risks to ship something that we do haven't tested before.

Got it. Thanks, Keith. And then just finally, I guess, another one on unrealized prices for all of us, you have quoted at $47 a kilo. I'm just wondering what assumptions around market pricing are embedded, I guess, in that guidance. Or maybe to put it another way, if spot prices are flat through the next the next three months, can we expect an ongoing repricing of sales into Q2 that would be positive for realized pricing relative to that guidance?

Yeah. Well, Matt, this is Christian. Thanks for this question. You've probably seen that if spot prices have remained relatively flat over the last six months. The weighted average contract prices have continued to catch up and to increase. And this is what we've taken into consideration looking at the pricing formulas of our long-term supply agreements. So, we haven't factored in dramatic increases in spot prices. We believe the market will remain tight, and we know the mechanism of our contracts allows for a continued improvement.

Got it. So, there's already some element of ongoing repricing obviously to get that weighting between the Q1 and Q2 in your expectations?

Yeah, correct.

Okay. Thanks very much for the question.

Your next question comes from the line of David Deckelbaum from Cowen. Your line is open.

Thanks, Martín, and everyone for taking my questions this morning. I wanted to follow up a bit on the spodumene sales. It seems like implied in the guidance that you should be exiting the fiscal 2023 year close to 50,000 tonnes in the fourth quarter. I know on the last update you provided us you said that you should see growing volumes, obviously, in the 2024 as head grade improves. Obviously, the back half of the 2023 year is going to benefit a bit from some perhaps deferred sales. As we think about the trajectory, I guess, into fiscal 2024, is that 50,000 tonnes or more or less close to capacity? Is that a reasonable run rate to think about on a quarterly basis?

Keith, over to you.

Sure. So, we'll see the head grade return to approximately 1.04 over the life of mine at the current nameplate capacity of the plant, which is approximately a throughput of 1.8 million tonnes. That's a quarterly run rate of approximately 45,000 to 50,000 tonnes of spodumene at about 5.6%. And so yes we can expect to see around the 45,000 to 50,000 tonnes each quarter going forward into FY 2024 as well.

Thanks for that. And then just the last one for me, was – just on Olaroz, you discussed some visions around Stage III. Can you give us some thoughts on timing of when you'd be able to speak to the market around Stage III plans? And it sounds like you're considering incorporating the Maria Victoria tenements in there. Is that accurate?

Yes. Listen. Let's start with the Maria Victoria tenements. It's the agreement to [indiscernible] (00:54:42) Maria Victoria gives us a great opportunity to increase our reserves and resources in the area, increasing the potential of production from oil Stage III, I think it would be more brine concentrated in the same area. As I've said before we are currently working on the technology selection for Olaroz Stage III including all of the Olaroz assets now are carrying by Victoria and other properties that we have in the area.

As we said, we are looking into hybrid solutions here. We – it's – we don't foresee 100% DLE system. We don't foresee our 100% evaporation system. We're looking into a mix of hybrid solution that would maximize the profitability and return of the project, as well as minimize the environmental impact and focus on sustainability in the area. As I told you before, we are piloting and testing different technical solutions. We expect to be better positioning on the technical side by the end of this year, and that will help us to get our DFS in the first half of next year.

I appreciate that, gentlemen. Maybe if I could sneak in one more since you guys are being generous with of allowing three questions. It was interesting to me that you brought up...

We'll do it for the next.

...yeah, fair enough in the States, we only get two so I'm going to take a third here. And your guidance for spodumene in the subsequent quarter obviously somewhere in that 20,000 tonne range. Now, you highlighted the operational issues at Mt Cattlin and obviously the incremental volumes of the lower grade spodumene. Now we've read a lot in the headlines around the power rationing for converters in China. I guess as you see the market today, is that – that's something also impacting volumes or as that converter market in China sort of being prioritized with some of the energy rationing as you see it?

Yes, David, thanks for bringing this issue up. It's an interesting development. The acute drought in China impacting the power supply. We've been in contact with our customers on almost a daily basis over the last couple of weeks. What we've heard from them so far is that it is still the lithium supply that is constraining their production rather than the power supply. However, yesterday one of them was talking to us under 41 degrees in his office without air conditioning. So it is progressively affecting them and we're very closely monitoring the situation.

Inventories of cathodes are low in China. So, basically the tightness remains. And what we seen is this probably will further increase the interest of consumers for electric vehicles because this historic drought in China combined with what is happening in Europe and in North America is pushing consumers to move away from internal combustion engines into EVs. But again, to go back to the converters in China, at this stage, they are still tight in spodumene supply and asking for more material.

It's an interesting point. We're more constraint on the feedstock than we are on energy right now. So I appreciate the update.

Your next question comes from the line of Ben Lyons from Jarden. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good day, Martín. Just one question from me and it's probably more direct at Christian. I'm sorry to belabor the low-grade Cattlin concentrate point, but I'm – I'd just like to approach this one and question the wisdom of the marketing strategy. To me, that essentially sounds like DSO, given your resource grade's 1.2% this year and your reserve grades close enough to 1% of the deposit, and you're basically selling a 1.1% product. So, if I think back a couple of years, it was sales at DSO, albeit from other market participants that actually killed the cycle.

And yeah there's very few merchant vendors of concentrate at present. It's still a highly concentrated market. So, I get the converters in China are currently short and they'll still be short next quarter and they'll still be short the quarter after. That you're selling a product at 500 or 600 bucks at a really skinny margin. So, you compare that to selling a spec product at 10 times that price. Yeah. Can this material actually go through the concentrator and be upgraded or is it essentially waste that you're just chipping into the market and probably impacting the price of your other product at the moment? Thank you.

Yeah, thanks for your question, Ben. This is not DSO, very clearly, this is not – we're not shipping ore that we mine. This product is a combination of waste material and a product stream that has gone through the plants, and that could not be upgraded into SC6. So, we've actually developed a lower grade product which is a good way to supplement SC6 production, but would not otherwise become SC6 in our own product stream. Our current head grade is below 1.1 because of the geology of the pit we're mining at the moment. And the product that we are going to do – we are currently selling these lower grades spodumene concentrates is of a different grade, but the range is probably between 1.1% and 1.3% at the moment. And we are getting credit for every 0.1% grades above what the agreed price with our customers.

Yeah. Ben, this is Martín. To complement Christian's answer that this is not a long-term strategy. This is a solution that we're putting together with the final decision products that we are processing through the plants and finding a way to support our customers through a difficult cycle. If we had other assets equal with explaining, shall we have other all sources that would enable us to produce SC6 we would be doing that. So it's not a change in strategy at all. It's a short-term solution to support customers and minimize the impact of the short-term problem that we have at Mt Cattlin in this quarter. Is it clear?

Yes, it is. Thanks very much for your response.

Presenters your final question today comes from the line of Al Harvey from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Thanks for the follow-up, guys. Really just do want to get on top of this – the low-grade product. You've coated a – like a kind of like an SC6 equivalent, but is the mineralogy actually spodumene? Is that a diluted spodumene or is it kind of a stream that's coming from mica materials or lipid lots? If you can provide any color there, that'd be helpful?

Al, it's Keith here. Yes, it is indeed a spodumene product. It is fine-grained spodumene. So the ability to process this in your typical [ph] DMS (01:02:59) setup is diminished. However, with flotation or other processing technology, you would be able to beneficiate this fine-grained material. So short answer is yes, it's still spodumene.

Thanks, Keith.

There are no. further questions at this time. I would like to hand back over to Martín to complete the call.

Thank you very much, and thank you, everybody, for joining the call. It's a very sensitive closing remark for us today, it's one year since we announced a merger between Galaxy and Orocobre. As you know, it has been a challenging but quite rewarding year for all of us. And the merger has proved that together we did better than most companies would have done independently. This is the role that we continue to go ahead as our motto says, together we go further. Thank you very much for all of your support during this particular year. And we share with you the happiness of our first anniversary. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.