Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martín Pérez de Solay — Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Allkem Ltd.
James Connolly — Chief Project Development Officer, Allkem Ltd.
Christian Cortes — Acting Chief Financial Officer, Allkem Ltd.
Liam Franklyn — Head of Australian Operations, Allkem Ltd.
Christian Barbier — Chief Sales & Marketing Officer, Allkem Ltd.
Rahul Anand — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd.
Alex Ren — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Reg Spencer — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity (Australia) Ltd.
Thomas Hays — Analyst, CLSA Australia Pty Ltd.
Max Vickerson — Analyst, Morgans Financial Ltd.
Hugo Nicolaci — Analyst, Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd.
Glyn Lawcock — Analyst, Barrenjoey
Al Harvey — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Australia Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to Allkem Limited FY 2023 Half Year Results Briefing. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And finally, I would like to advise all participants this call is being recorded. Thank you.

I'd now like to welcome, Martín Pérez de Solay, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer to begin the conference. Martín, over to you.

Thank you, Gavin, and welcome, everybody and thank you for joining us for Allkem Limited half year results briefing for financial year 2023. As usual I will be providing an update on our business; and Christian Cortes, Acting CFO, will be covering the financial results. Also joining us for the Q&A is James Connolly, our Chief Project Development Officer; assisting us in the development of our significant growth project pipeline. We also have Liam Franklyn leading Mt Cattlin; and Christian Barbier, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer.

In financial year 2023, we have continued with a strong focus on safety, quality and productivity, and our half year results demonstrate improved profitability of our existing operations and the strong demand we are seeing from customers. Amid strong demand for lithium products we have delivered first production at Naraha Lithium Hydroxide plant and advanced Olaroz Stage 2 to commissioning. Sal de Vida construction is well-underway, and James Bay is advancing with approvals received by the federal government for the ESIA.

With two revenue generating operations being supplemented in the near future by Olaroz Stage 2 and a strong balance sheet, we are fully funded to complete construction of the Sal de Vida and the development of James Bay.

We also recently shared the sad news that Neil Kaplan passed away. Neil was an outstanding CFO and highly respected colleague, who dedicated more than 10 years of service to the business. We will miss him greatly and offer our deepest condolences to his wife and family.

Christian Cortes has accepted the role of Acting CFO and will ensure a seamless transition of the company's finance functions, while the Board conducts a formal search for a permanent CFO. Allkem remain focused on safety, productivity and executed our committed projects, while also advancing on the next wave of growth.

Firstly, with sustainability, we continue to be recognized for our leading practices and endeavor to increase our transparency and performance across our operations. We were recently included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. And more recently, we were included in the 2023 edition of the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook. This means that our corporate sustainability assessment score is in the top 15% of our industry.

During the half year period, we saw our TRIFR reduced by 30% and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate reduced by 33%, demonstrating our strong focus on safety. We continue to maintain regular positive engagement within all the communities we work as our development and construction activities advance. Of particular note, with the finalization of an updated easement and participation agreement with Olaroz Chico community, which now incorporates production from Olaroz Stage 2 and the receipt of full final approval for the expansion of Sal de Vida to 15,000 tonnes per annum. We continue to undertake positive stakeholder consultation with the local communities at the James Bay project.

I will now hand over to Christian Cortes to share our financial results.

Martín, I believe, Christian's phone just dropped out. Maybe you could just keep going a little bit and we'll come back to that.

Shall I move then to slide 11? We have achieved record production at Olaroz, 17% above the previous period at 7,542 tonnes of lithium carbonate. This was due to increased productivity, good plant performance from outstanding mechanical reliability and asset utilization.

Record revenue of lithium carbonate of almost $300 million from sales of 6,852 tonnes, reflecting a 351% increase in revenue from the previous corresponding period, largely due to average FOB pricing, increasing by 290% to $43,236 per tonne.

Sales volume was up by 16%. Cash cost of goods sold increased by 2% and gross margin was very favorable at 89%. Since our last quarterly update, the export Puna – the export and Puna credit benefits that applied to lithium chemicals production has been removed, effective from February 6. This will impact net profitability by approximately 3.25%.

Regarding Mt Cattlin, we achieved revenue of $257 million, which includes spodumene revenue of $190 million from sales of 36,951 dry metric tonnes and low-grade sales of $66 million, reflecting strong customer demand. Overall, total revenue represents a 124% increase from the prior corresponding period.

Results from the recent grade control drilling program have confirmed our expectations that production will increase, as mining progressively moves from the upper end of the ore body into more central zones.

It is expected that the Mt Cattlin process plants will again – once again be operating at full capacity. The company anticipates production for the June half will be approximately 80,000 to 90,000 tonnes with annual production totaling 114,000 to 124,000 tonnes.

We are eagerly awaiting the results of our resource grading update on the back of a resource drilling extension program that was recently concluded. The third phase of exploration drilling commenced in January and is focused on the area to the southwest of the current mine to test additional targets and prospects.

Moving on to our development assets and other projects that will underpin significant growth of Allkem leveraging from our operations and productivity. We are focused on executing our world-class assets to firstly treat the level of production capacity and then expand beyond that to meet growing demand.

There are a number of valuable projects underway at various stages of development and the team is working tireless to deliver key milestones. I will go into a little more detail on each.

On slide 15, the Olaroz expansion reached 97% completion at the end of January, with the carbonation plant at 89% completion. Activities in the carbonation plants are progressing to plan and pre-commissioning works are underway. New operating staff have been recruited, have been trained in Olaroz Stage 1, ahead of first production and operations ramp-up during the June quarter.

We successfully achieved first production of lithium hydroxide at Naraha, utilizing technical grade lithium carbonate from Olaroz. An outstanding achievement proving the technology exceeded our expectations for product quality and reaching utilization rates of 85% with first lime. Approximately 200 tonnes of technical-grade lithium hydroxide have been sold to third-party customers. The second product run commenced early in January with a key milestone being steady-state operations.

At Sal de Vida construction of the first two strings of operation ponds is at 87% completion. Camp expansion activities and procurement from long lead items continue. The EPC contract for the process plants has been awarded and detailed engineering advances. We are targeting first production in mid-calendar year 2024 with Stage II development to occur sequentially, which will provide an additional 30,000 tonnes per annum of predominantly battery-grade lithium carbonates.

At James Bay, we are advancing the project on a number of fronts, with detailed engineering 60% complete and process plant engineering 79% complete. This will allow construction to commence as soon as permits are issued.

As previously advised, Federal approval for ESIA was obtained and positive stakeholder consultations continue in conjunction with final approval process with the provincial governments. Once permits are secured, construction will commence and the company will update guidance for first production.

Working is ongoing with engineering construction contractors to evaluate opportunities, structure the construction schedule, including the use of prefabricated models. We saw substantial drilling progress to 24% at the end of the period and our mineral resource update is targeted by the end of the financial year.

Shall we continue with the financials before getting into the marketing, Andrew? Christian, are you there?

Yes. Sorry, Martín. Apologies if I had some technology issues. Good morning to everyone. I will take you through the financial results. So if we can go back to Slide 7, please. So we appreciate that Alkem continued to capitalize on strong market conditions for the six-month period with record financial performance. Half year revenue of $558 million represents a 209% increase on first half of FY 2022.

In addition to having benefit from favorable pricing conditions, Allkem has continuously managed cost effectively. With disciplined control measures in what is a challenging inflationary environment. The combination of strong pricing and cost control measures enabled Alkem to deliver a very strong EBITDAIX of $401 million and profit after tax of $219 million, representing margins of 72% and 40%, respectively.

At an operating segment, Olaroz has managed to maintain unit cash cost of sales at $4,617 per tonne largely in line with first half FY 2022.

The highly competitive cost performance at Olaroz can be attributed to record production, which has offset the impact of inflationary cost pressures. Olaroz delivered high EBITDAIX margins of 82% for the period.

Mt Cattlin's first half production was limited by fine grained mineralization and a lower grade ore with associated low recoveries. Consequently, Mt Cattlin's unit cash cost of production increased to $902 per dry metric tonne during the six months period. This unit cost includes the pre-stripping costs for transitioning into the 2 Northwest pit. Mt Cattlin delivered EBITDAIX margins of 79% for the period.

Moving to the next slide. Olaroz and Mt Cattlin operations recorded combined EBITDAIX of approximately $450 million compared to $106 million from the first half of FY 2022. The improved financial performance outcome was principally a result of substantial price increases for both spodumene concentrate and lithium carbonate, delivering incremental profits of approximately $366 million.

The renegotiation of sales contracts were key in delivering these price increases. Olaroz lithium carbonate average pricing was $43,236 in the first half of FY 2023 compared to $11,093 in the same period last year. Mt Cattlin spodumene average realized pricing of $5,136 in the first half of FY 2023 compared to $1,186 for the prior corresponding period.

Favorable pricing variance was reduced by lower spodumene concentrate sales volumes of approximately $60.1 million compared to the previous – sorry, compared to the first half of FY 2022, particularly arising from the fine grained mineralization and lower-grade ore production as previously mentioned. This was largely offset by lower grade products sold from Mt Cattlin.

The increase in Mt Cattlin and Olaroz cost of approximately $16.7 million are largely attributable to higher selling costs linked to higher sales prices and higher Mt Cattlin's unit cost of production, which were offset by lower spodumene concentrate sales volumes.

Corporate and administration costs reflect the expanded operations of the merged Allkem Group for a full six month period compared to four months in the previous comparable period. Such costs are comparable for the prior half ended 30 June, 2022. The $32 million profit elimination represents deferred profit associated with the sale of lithium carbonate to the – sorry, to the Naraha Hydroxide plant. Such profits related to inventory of lithium carbonate held at Naraha at balance sheet date.

Moving to cash flow highlights in the next slide. The group experienced operating cash flow of $358 million in the first half of FY 2023 compared to $45 million in the first half of FY 2022, which largely mirrors the operating performance of the group.

Capital expenditure, including exploration, was $195 million across Olaroz, Sal de Vida, James Bay and Mt Cattlin. Such amount includes growth CapEx for Olaroz, Sal de Vida and James Bay, as well as sustaining CapEx and exploration spend at Olaroz and Mt Cattlin. Allkem added net cash of $138 million during the six month period from $418 million at 30 June 2022 to $552 million at December 2022. Over the same period, cash and cash equivalents increased by $106.7 million to $770.3 million.

To recap, Allkem achieved record revenues during the period of $558 million, generated strong EBITDAIX of $401 million, and a net profit after-tax of $219 million. It has a robust balance sheet with net cash of $552 million, and it's well positioned to fund the pipeline of projects.

Thank you. I will now pass you back to Martín.

Thank you, Christian. And if we can now move to slides 19 and 20 to cover the marketing. There has been lots of news and noise, but we continue to see no significant changes to the market dynamics, particularly in the longer term. As you know, EV sales and lithium pricing was strong in 2022, and forecasts were upgraded throughout the calendar year.

Sales of some low-grade material and lithium carbonate by-products reflected supply side tightness throughout the December half. As expected, we did see some softening towards the end of the year in the lead up to the Chinese New Year. And now we are seeing a normal adjustment. The ending of the Chinese subsidies had a minimal impact and more significant incentives such as the tax purchase – asset purchase tax extension remain intact.

We do expect new supply from various other projects to enter the market later in the calendar year, but we also expect a very robust demand. We maintain our March quarter guidance of $53,000 per tonne of lithium carbonate and spodumene pricing is expected to increase by 5% on the December quarter.

The first half of the year has been very strong with record results for Allkem, which leaves us in an admirable financial position and the ability to fully self-fund our committed development projects. We will continue to focus on safety, quality and productivity in all areas of our business as we move to triple production by financial 2026 to meet growing demand.

As a whole, Allkem is very well positioned to take advantage of the current market dynamics, and we remain confident on continuing to deliver excellent results for our shareholders for the remainder of financial year 2023.

I will now hand back to the operator to commence the Q&A session.

[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Rahul Anand from Morgan Stanley, Australia. Your line is open.

Hi, Martín, Christian and team. Thanks for the call. Martín, first one perhaps for you, obviously, update to that Argentinean royalty regime. I just wanted to get perhaps a bit more clarity obviously, the Puna credit and the export credit are now gone. Does the export duty still apply? And is that still around that 4.5% rate and then just as a follow-up to that question, how would the first half operating costs look like if we remove the Puna credit or any other credits from that number which was around $4,521 as reported. I'll come back with the second question. Thanks.

Thank you. Thank you, Rahul, for your question. I will answer the first part and will let Christian Cortes go with more details on the second part. Yes, the tax duty on export continues to be applicable in Argentina at the same rate, the removement of the credit does not imply any change in the export duties. Christian, second part of your question over to you.

Hi Rahul. Thank you for your question. With regards to the impact at operating profit level, we've always treated the incentive as a reduction to our operating costs on a, I guess, on a simplified basis, about half of that was reducing our cost of sales, as its related to a portion of the subsidy and the other half was going against the export duties that we were paying. So, we were effectively reflecting a lower OpEx as a result of the benefit.

As we articulated in the release, the benefit was approximately 4%, equivalent to the prices that we were exporting at. So if you were to take current level of pricing, which is roughly around $50,000 FOB for us, then we're talking about reducing our profit at operating level by about $2,000. Half of that, as I said, the cost of sales, half of that was the selling costs. And I think, we also noted in the release when you work through, I guess, the segment you end up with about a 3.25% of reduced NPAT as a result of the removal of the benefit.

Okay. That's very clear. Thanks for that. Look, second question, then perhaps for Martín. Martín, we've seen the labor market be quite a challenge all through COVID and then we've tried to catch up on some of the project builds, very small delay there for Olaroz Stage 2. But how are you seeing the ground conditions in terms of general availability of construction teams. And then also, how is that inflationary environment going to perhaps feed into some of these project builds that we have coming up in the future? How are you viewing those CapEx forecast as well?

Well, on that Rahul, we're exposed to what everybody else in the industry is exposed and inflation would impact across all projects and all of our costs. We – nobody is protected against that. It's something that does flow through your numbers. In terms of the impact that such inflationary adjustments would have it would depend on the type of work and the amount of progress that projects had. In the case of Olaroz, we recently updated the CapEx forecast, in the case of Sal de Vida CapEx forecast is about 1 year old and something similar in the case of the James Bay project. Obviously, some long lead items, purchase orders have been placed and those costs have been locked, but most of our construction costs would be affected by that.

With regards to tightness of the work in the different environments in which we are working. We have the advantage in Olaroz of having a very strong team delivering the project there, and James can talk through it. But as we progress on the completion of Olaroz, we are moving the team to work on Sal de Vida, and we already have appointed an EPC contractor to build the Sal de Vida carbonation plants and the plants have significantly been progressed.

In the case of James Bay, key frame contracts with contractors are being achieved and engineered contracts are already in place, long lead items, purchase orders have been issued. And as such, we are managing exposure to changes in costs. However, we don't have any silver bullets there to avoid inflation, it will impact us as it impacts any other projects. Perhaps James can comment a bit more on this, please?

Yeah, Rahul, specifically to your labor market concerns, yes, so obviously, it's tight out there. I would expect differences in geographies, less so in Argentina, more so in the North Americas. In terms of modeling, I'd see it heavier in the first world countries, Australia as well. But for the moment, we seem to have it in check in Argentina. We're also choosing seasoned contractors to partner with. And we also have labor market obligations within the province. So we have to build capacity within both Jujuy and Catamarca, obviously. And that does offset some of the challenges we have. But yes, we are trying to manage our costs and we'll keep you posted if they go above guidance. But at this time, we're not there yet.

Perfect. That's all from me. Thank you very much all.

Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ren of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

Morning, Martín, James, Christian and team. I'm very sorry to hear about Neil's passing. Truly just tragic to lose a men from the Allkem family. Could I please ask two questions. First one is on the latest Mt Cattlin downgrade. Is this because the recent grade control drilling identified like a theme or like a continuation of fine grained mineralization or other reasons? And for the low-grade sales, should we expect like a similar amount in the second half as we saw in the first half. I'll circle back on the second one. Thanks.

Thank you very much, Alex, and I'll take advantage of your comments to thank all of the market for the appreciation and motivational start we received for Neil. He was an outstanding professional and a great friend to many of us around this call. So thank you for your comments. And thanks to many market players that express condolences and we pass all of them to Neil's family.

With regards to the Mt Cattlin question, I'll take advantage of having Liam on the line. Liam took over control of Cattlin since end of last calendar year in the September quarter. I'm sorry. And he's been conducting the grade control drilling to update results, so he can tell you a bit more on the details that we saw when we completed a grade control drilling for phases 1 and 2 and how this reguidance came.

Yeah. Thanks, Martín. Thank you, Alex. The nature of the grade control drilling was really providing more definition into that Stage 2. So we've completed Stage 1 and the Stage 2 grade control drilling was the next phase to inform us of what we would be seeing for the remainder of the financial year. So it's not necessarily a continuation of the fine grained mineralization, which was typical of the upper lens, but it was really just a confirmation of the head grades that we should expect to see in the [indiscernible] (00:27:40), which was slightly below what the resource model was estimating. So it was just greater definition for us.

Okay. So is that just deviation on the Recon model?

Essentially, yes.

Okay. Understood. Then my second question is, I remember on the Strat Day back in April 2022, like last year, there was a chart outlining Alkem planning to triple output by 2026. But since then, there has been a couple of downgrades at Cattlin and Olaroz experienced a slight delay. Just wondering like what would be the impact on this five-year outlook, and how confident are you to not deviate too much from this five-year plan?

Listen, thank you for your question, Alex. I think, it's a good point to remind where we are in the five-year plan. Our current production last financial year was about 40,000 tonnes of product. 25-plus, close to 30,000 tonnes coming from Cattlin then in LCE and around 13,000 tonnes coming from Olaroz. Those 40,000 tonnes will very quickly come another 40,000 tonnes of LCE with the inclusion of Olaroz Stage 2 and Sal de Vida Stage 2 97% progress, and we're aiming to complete a mechanic – to reach mechanical completion, commissioning and initiating the ramp-up in the second half – in the second quarter of this calendar year. And the plant is progressing to plan.

In terms of Sal de Vida, I think, another 15,000 tonnes. We have reviewed the schedule and we think that in mid-2024 calendar year, we shall be doing in the 15,000 tonnes from Sal de Vida, so that makes an additional 40,000 tonnes. The remaining 40,000 tonnes to [indiscernible] (00:29:46) production will come from the James Bay project, which we are currently working on the final stages of the approval.

We had – when we did the marketing – the Strategy Day updates, we thought that we are going to be able to initiate construction at the end of the first quarter of this year. We're seeing a bit of delay there. We expected to have the ESIA at the provincial level, a couple of months faster, but we are taking advantage of the timing to work on improving the scheduling of the James Bay project.

So I would tell you, short-term, which is what will happen in the next two calendar years, calendar year 2023 and calendar year 2024. I don't see significant variations, no significant risks for us to be able to deliver this three times production. As you said, [indiscernible] (00:30:42) that we faced in Olaroz and we factored it into the timetable for Sal de Vida which we initially have scheduled for the end of 2023, we now have in mid-2024. And I'm waiting to get the final approvals from James Bay to be able to confirm the actual date for production – for first production on James Bay.

But I foresee that during calendar 2024, based on where we are today, and again, depending on where we end-up with the approvals from – at the provincial level in James Bay, we should be able to achieve distributable production.

As we work on delivering on these projects, we continue to work on the second wave of projects that we presented in that calendar day that we've been able to further grow production to meet the market demand between 2025 and 2030.

So again, I see, ourselves in a very strong position and perhaps the only company with the ability to deliver three times growth within the next two years fully funded, executing the projects. And half of that, it's already been constructed.

And the other half is 61% and 79% progress in engineering, most of the long-lead items purchase orders achieved and final stages of permitting. So I think we are in a unique position to deliver that growth at low-risk and high-confidence.

Yeah. Understood very clear, again, sorry about Neil. Thanks Martín and team, that's it for me.

Thank you, Alex.

Your next question comes from the line of Reg Spencer of Canaccord. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. So my first question relates to Mt Cattlin, we've all seen your updated guidance for the second half. I know your comments around your plans to continue to produce and sell some low-grade concentrate.

Are you in a position to provide any kind of guidance on volumes that we might expect in the second half? And an associated question with that, given the moves in the Chinese spot market, what kind of pricing might we expect for that low-grade concentrate relative to the first half.

Listen I will forward those two questions. Thank you, Reg, for your questions, and I will forward them straight away to Christian that have the answers.

Please bear in mind that we initiated the sale of this low-grade concentrate to meet our customer demand as we encounter some progress in production in the first half. So as we grow our production. And Andrew would be – excuse me, Christian will be able to give you more details on this answer.

Okay.

Yeah. Good morning, Reg. This is Christian Barbier. Thanks for your question. So look, first on the spodumene market, we see the market remaining tight. Converted customers, they're still buying every tonnne they can from the contracts that we have with them.

And in terms of prices, we haven't seen spot prices changing much lately. And the fact that actually that spodumene is feeding into the hydroxide market is a strong point for this. Our sales are all contracted and as we guided for this quarter, that we would see a continued increase in our weighted average selling price for spodumene, a 5% increase over the December quarter. Relating to your question about low grade. So as you know, our sales were meant to support our customers while we have a shipping backlog from Mt Cattlin, not spodumene. The idea is and was to support them by supplying additional bits of units. We're continuing to do this at the moment. And we – as we said, I think during our last call, we continue during this quarter, and we will continue as long as it's necessary.

Again, it's a byproduct of our production. It's a product that we can't concentrate any further in our existing operation in Mt Cattlin. So we're taking advantage of these high market prices to sell it. I can't really give you more guidance for the June quarter because it really will depend on how our Spodumene production goes during that quarter. We've lowered our guidance. So if required, we will continue to supply this additional low-grade shipments.

Understood. Thanks, Christian. I guess we should just assume then that you'll continue to produce and sell some volumes of this low grade until you don't in other words. All right. My next question, and maybe this is one for you as well, Christian. Just interested in your comments about future looking prices, a lot of people are talking about we see futures price that's come down a lot. There's some maybe the Chinese spot chemical prices coming down a fair way from recent highs. Have you got any comments about how reliable – do you think that futures price is an indicator of forward prices. And again, part of that question would relate to, have you seen any change in behaviors from your contracted customers and how they've been short-term versus long-term?

Yeah. So thanks for that question, Reg. Obviously, I'm not going to comment much on future prices. But I think it's a really important question, especially with what we've seen is happening in spot prices in China lately.

So look, what happened – in the context of what happened, you remember that around November last year, Chinese spot prices reached record levels. And it was not a surprise as Martín mentioned earlier, that's some adjustment would take place. And again, that's about Chinese spot prices, which are not representative of all lithium price transactions. This Chinese New Year period – in China was the perfect time to have these adjustments because of the seasonality, and that was an opportunity for buyers to change the perception.

And I'm sure you realized that buyers were frustrated that lithium prices unlike other metals had not come down. But it was also an opportunity for the industry to take advantage of the holiday break to implement maintenance schedules.

And again, you probably remember the industry had been operating at over 100% capacity for probably more than 18 months. So operations were welcoming a pause and that all created this dynamic. At the same time, and I think it's important to explain really the different dynamics in the market. At the same time, a fight for market share in the EV market has happened, a price war between OEMs and that has impacted probably in an unintended manner, it has impacted consumer behavior in China because a number of people are waiting to see if prices will further decrease. There's been, as I mentioned, the adjustment on the spot price for lithium chemicals in China. And again, that needed to happen, and I think, it was a healthy thing.

And the third dynamic that I think I'd like to underline is the fight for market share that is now happening at the battery maker level in China, where the market leader is aggressively trying to take market share away from its smaller competitors and using its weight to put prices down.

So every player is pushing its own agenda. It's creating a bit of a complex situation and the overall sentiment has been a bit down, but fundamentals, however, are extremely positive. Market growth is very strong, stocks at a very modest level and profitability around the supply chain, and you may have seen that lately in announcements, profitability is very strong too. So that's why we're not concerned about the overall fundamentals and the future direction of prices.

Okay, Christian. Is it fair to say then that the average selling price that you guys will receive, I think, you mentioned on previous calls, there's three different price indices that will feed into your contracting both in short and medium-term, premium for hydroxide over carbonate has gone out in recent times. So there's still very much a regional influence on your average pricing, and that should continue and arguably smooth out some of the short-term volatility?

So at the moment, so we've confirmed our guidance of $53,000 per tonne for carbonate, excluding related parties during this current March quarter. We have a portfolio of mostly contracted sales at the moment this current quarter. It's probably about 80-20 contracted versus spot. And we're selling, again, in China, but we're also selling in other Northeast Asian countries, namely Japan and Korea, and spot in other countries as well in Europe and North America.

So we continue to diversify our portfolio of customers, and we will continue as our production increases with our new developments. So that gives us also a – yeah, the diversification of the portfolio gives us a protection against some regional trends.

Excellent.

Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Hays of CLSA. Your line is open.

Hi, Martín and team. My condolences as well for Neil [indiscernible] (00:41:50) family and friends. My first question is just on James Bay with the focus very much on the provincial level approval given it's been five weeks since the quarter end. I'm wondering if you can provide any additional color on how that process is progressing and whether there are any speed-bumps. Thank you.

Thank you, Thomas, for the question. On the progress on the approval of James Bay, as you know, there are two approval levels. I think, we covered this in the quarterly call, there's one at the federal level, which is the JAC. That approval was granted in January of this calendar year.

The second approval that we need to be able to submit the permits for initiating construction is the approval at the provincial level. The provincial level is a joint body between the Cree Nation and the Quebec Provincial Government. That process has – it's a very long process that requires the presentation of ESIA, which was completed in August of last year, a series of questions that went back and forth that was completed in December of last calendar year.

That opened up the realization of a public hearing that was conducted on the 24 and 25 of January of this calendar year. The COMEX has up to 30 days to collect any further inquiries to those that were presented in the public hearing, so that gives them time until the 27 of February, which is within four days by which the period for public consultation will end.

And after that, the federal, the provincial government will ask if there are any further remaining questions that have not been answered at the public hearing on the 24 and 25, may ask for further clarification on those things. And then the final issuance of the environmental social approval happens. This goes with the bureaucratic times of the French-Canadian government of the Province of Quebec, which we have suffered over the last few months, but we feel that we are very close.

No surprises during the public hearings. We yet don't know whether there were new questions both on the projects, good reaction to the press towards the projects. No major claims, good relationship with the Cree community of Eastmain and good relationship with the Cree National Government as well as with the provincial authorities at this point in time, nothing tells us that we will have further delays apart from the time that it takes to put all the signatures and stamps on the documents, but that is a process that we have to go through.

So as I said before, we were expecting to have those approvals during January. So that we could start mobilizing at the end of the March quarter and take advantage of the spring and move on quickly to the construction of the project. Doesn't seem to be the case because it's still – it's already in February. It's a bit from month of delay from what we originally expected.

And we don't have full certainty on the – on how long it will take to the government to issue all of this approval. So our impression as of today, this is working very good according to the – what do you call it, the process that it has to go through, a bit slow. But moving forward, no surprises through the process, and we expect to get this approval soon.

But I think as I explained in the quarterly call, it is very difficult for me to run risk on the time it takes to the Government of Quebec to issue the approvals. I've been wrong already. So I don't want to be wrong once again. We'll wait until they issue final approval. And we'll tell you when we expect first production from Mt – from James bay after that. The good news is that we are taking advantage of the time to progress on the engineering and progress on the long lead items for this, so that we can very quickly move into construction and deliver the project once all approvals are obtained which – I insist, I expect them – that to be very soon. But think that's now with the government of Quebec.

Thank you. Thanks for that. And then just a follow-up, piggybacking off Rahul's question on ground conditions in Argentina. I'm just interested to understand the threshold requirements around the hiring local labor force for Sal de Vida, noting that at Olaroz you have about 75% of your staff from the local provincial areas.

Sal de Vida has a requirement to employ 70% of the people from within the province of Catamarca. I would tell you that we don't see that as a significant hurdle, we currently employ 75% of the people that works in Olaroz from the province of Jujuy, 35% of that – excuse me, 45% of that 75% from the 10 local communities surrounding the Olaroz projects, remaining 30% from the province of Jujuy. So we've done that in Jujuy could do it in Catamarca again. And so far, we are meeting the requirements.

So yes, it's challenging, but I think that our strong ESG work and our strong work with the communities, enables us to achieve these goals. And we – I did question the Governor of Catamarca said, listen, I don't think you need to enforce if we really meet this in Jujuy, we will meet it in Catamarca. So it's not an issue of us not willing to do it, we think we can do it. We're doing it in Jujuy, as I told you. So I don't see a problem there.

Thank you very much. I'll leave there.

Question comes to the line of Max Vickerson of Morgans Financial. Your line is open.

Good morning. Can I just change tack just a little bit there and just talk about Naraha. Can you remind us, Martín, what the typical sales cycle looks like there? Do you need to build much more in terms of inventory and how long do you think it will probably take to move through to increase sales there?

Well, all of the inventory that was required to start up Naraha was built during the last quarter. I think, we disclosed that in the last quarterly results. And Christian Barbier could give you a little more detail on how long it takes for the product to go from Olaroz to reach Naraha and how that cycle works.

Yes, Max, this is Christian. Thanks for your question. The production that we have today from Naraha in technical grade hydroxide and it's sold on a spot basis. It will continue to be sold like that until we have a sustainable production of battery grade, which is qualified by customers. The qualification process is a lengthy process. It goes into the battery application and we will complete this with the key customers that we are discussing long-term supply agreements with. And in the meantime, we will continue to sell hydroxide on a spot basis. There is not a lot of hydroxide transacted on a spot basis. However, because it's a very tight market at the moment, there's actually quite a number of players who are happy to buy spot quantities. Again, the growth in the market and the constrained hydroxide market make it a really good time for us to have to sell spot hydroxide.

Excellent. Thank you. If I can just ask one more then. You mentioned that one of the large players in the Chinese battery market is looking to flex its market muscle and consolidate demand and also some supplier contracts to have a better sense of things. Do you see a similar move happening in some of the ex-China battery producers?

Sorry, Max, are you saying outside China, the same happening outside China?

Yeah, that's right. Are there other larger players making moves along the similar lines?

Yeah, no, I think the dynamics are completely different outside China. And the way prices are driven by sentiment in China is very particular. In other countries, people have more, I mean see more stability in prices as a factor to facilitate the way they run their business. So the other thing is that spot prices in China were much higher than anywhere else in the world in the December quarter. I would say now that prices are somehow converging between Chinese spot prices, Chinese contract prices and prices outside China.

Excellent. Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Hugo Nicolaci from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Thanks. Hi Martín and team. Thanks for the update. I guess just following on from that question around pricing. I appreciate you won't give us any comments around future pricing. But to the extent that you are seeing offtake as using the current pricing environment to get prices lower. Can you give us any color around how your conversations are going at the moment on those offtakes for 4Q pricing both in terms of spodumene at Mt Cattlin and carbonate at Olaroz. And then I have a second one afterwards. Thanks.

Yes, Hugo. So look, a lot of it is about the way people see the market. So one is the current sentiment that is observed in China, and again, people expected that after Chinese New Year, the sentiment would improve and customers would come back to buying very quickly. It hasn't happened yet.

However, inventories that are now at a very low level in China, and we expect in the next few weeks, customers will come back to the buying market. So I mean, I don't want to give too much, I mean, to spend too much time on inventories. But a lot is being said about this. What we see is that with the level of production that there has been in China plants being shut down and people having refrained from buying over the last few weeks, the level of inventories downstream is very low. And upstream, we see the level of inventories also which it has increased a little bit with converters, but it's still quite low. One of the main converters and a key customer of ours yesterday was actually reported of having only one week of hydroxide inventory and they're going into a two-week maintenance shutdown. So, we certainly are not concerned about any of our offtake agreements. All our customers are calling the quantities as per the agreement. And again, with Mt Cattlin with the delays that we've had, our customers are still concerned and they're asking us to supply as quickly as possible. Does that answer your question?

Yeah. That's super helpful. Thanks, Martín. And maybe just a quick follow-up on that, though, just around the Mt Cattlin delay comments. How much of the kind of lower grade volume is kind of used to meet your offtake agreement at Mt Cattlin. And to the extent that production doesn't necessarily hit your second half guidance, are there any ramifications in terms of having to meet volumes from spot or anything like that for that off-take agreement.

So, you're right, well, first, we don't see the possibility of not meeting this revised guidance. We're quite confident that we will meet these figures. We're in constant conversations with our customers, and we have agreed shipping schedules with them. And I really don't think, we will not be able to supply. That's – I'd actually – I'm on the optimistic side that we may be able to do a bit better. As far as the low grade is concerned, look in this current March quarter, we continue to ship. So we sold during the second half of – sorry, the first half of the financial year and in December, we sold about 100,000 tonnes of low-grade material. We're continuing on that trend during this current quarter. And again, during the June quarter, we would see as further requirements of our customers.

Great. That's super helpful. Thanks for the clarification. My last one was just a follow-on on James Bay. I appreciate you cannot control the timing of the government. But curious if anything has come out of the consultation hearings that would require additional conditions over and above the conditions set out in the prior approval. And then you touched on wanting to get construction up and running in the spring. To the extent that you see kind of further delays around timing, do you have the scope to accelerate the early construction ahead of winter? And do you see that potentially being an issue if you can? Thanks.

Well, thank you. On those two questions very quickly, we are not aware of anything in the public hearings that would be a kind of problem for additional conditions. With regards to the second part of your question, our initial target was to initiate construction during spring. Clearly, we don't think that, that is going to be the case. So – and we will know the exact date at which we initiate construction when we get approval on all the permits. So that is – I can't tell you when we are working on different alternatives with prefabricated models, pre-cast steel, building the – making the building for the DMS plant and sheltering it before winter. It all depends on the timeline which we get the approvals. We may go one direction or another depending on the timing. But, clearly, we don't foresee a significant slip in the timing for James Bay as a consequence of these delays, because we're progressing on the projects and engineering and developing all of these alternatives.

Next question comes from the line of [ph] David Fung (00:58:40) of China International Capital Corporation. Your line is open.

Hello. Good morning, Martín, Christian and Andrew, yeah, thanks for taking my question. My first question is, could you just remind us how long we should expect the production ramp up of Olaroz Stage 2 would take after the first production in the June quarter. And also for Mt Cattlin, could we expect the run rate and cash cost to fully recover to normal by, let's say, the beginning of FY 2024?

Well, thank you, [ph] Fung, (00:59:16) for your questions. We are maintaining what we always said, an 18-month ramp-up for Olaroz Stage 2. And for the time being, we are keeping that ramp-up period.

With regards to Mt Cattlin, the current production guidance that we've given only incorporates the period until June 2023. It is the 2023 financial year. We are completing the grade control drilling on stages 3 and 4 of the 2 Northwest pit, that EPO, that we will access during the next calendar year, and we will be able to give you more certainty on those figures once we complete that grade control drilling exactly as we just did for Olaroz stages 1 and 2 – excuse me, for stages 1 and 2 of 2 Northwest pit in Mt Cattlin.

With regards to the current production guidance for the second half of the year, 80,000 to 90,000 tonnes is a healthy production at the actual life of mine head grade for Cattlin. So we will – as I told you, it's good that we have this view now from the grade control drilling, and we will be able to give you more detailed guidance once we complete the grade control drilling of phases 3 and 4.

Okay. Thank you so much. So another quick question. So from a market share perspective, given that we are seeing some project delays, so what is your latest outlook for Allkem's market share be? Are we still aiming to maintaining a global market share of 10%?

We aim to be a strong company in the market. And, yes, we aim for a 10% market share, but we don't control the size of the market. So we only control the size of our production. And by 2025, taking our production will enable to be around the figures. For 2030, we are working on the projects that we'll be able to further grow our production to try to maintain a similar percentage of market share, that is what we aim for.

Your next question comes from the line of Glyn Lawcock from Barrenjoey. Your line is open.

Martín, thanks very much. Martín, just to follow up, firstly to something Christian said, 80% contracted, I think, in the March quarter. I assume that is volume contracted and it's just the floating price on a lag against the indices. Is that correct?

It is volume contracted, and it's floating on indexes.

But essentially then with the fall in the indices we've seen in the last four to six weeks as we head into the June quarter you'll just pick-up prices on a lag basis. So, it's not unreasonable with prices where they are now in the market. but June quarter prices can be lower or is there something special that would prevent that?

I'll let Christian give you more details. But we are not giving any guidance for the June quarter pricing yet. We want to see the how the indexes move in the next few weeks. Christian, you can give more color on this.

Yeah, Martín. Glyn, look, your comments are not wrong. I mean, however, yea, we have a variety of contract and a variety of pricing formulas and different indices. If you look at the indices, they have as I mentioned before, probably most prices have converged in a closer range. So with our pricing formula you would – we'll not necessarily see, a decrease in the resulting price. Again that depends on which contract – and as far as spot prices, look, it's the same. You have some spot prices – you've had some spot prices at $80. You've had some spot prices at $50. It depends on the specification of the products that you sell and at the time when you're selling it. So, I'm not really answering your question. But at the moment, we see prices – our realized price as being stable, and this is why we've confirmed the guidance – there was a strong weighted average price we recorded in the December quarter with $63. And we expect to have the same level in the current quarter when indices are softening. So, a bit of a lag in some pricing formulas, but not in all. So, don't know, that gives you a little bit more color. I probably cannot go into more detail than that.

No. That's fantastic. I mean, it obviously, we're only halfway through the quarter or just over, so things can. A couple of quick ones then, just your cash balance of $770 million, just confirm how much of that is outside Argentina, but also available freely for use on James Bay and other projects? Thanks.

Christian, you have the detailed number?

Hi, Glyn. Thanks for your question. The majority of the cash is outside Argentina. In Argentina, we carry around $100 million at balance sheet date. And of that cash balance, most of that is effectively unrestricted. So we can fund comfortably James Bay with what we have in our balance sheet currently.

All right. That's great. And then just the final question. Just, Martín, in the quarterly, just over four weeks ago, you said the grade control drilling has been conducted in areas of near-term production, which has confirmed the expected grade and location of ore. So four weeks ago, you were telling that you had – you knew what you were going to be mining, yet we've now downgraded post that. What changed in the four week period through the downgrade when four weeks ago, I thought you told us you knew what you're going to be mining? Thanks.

Yeah. We were referring to short-term mining. This incorporates all of the areas that we will be mining until June 2024. And the results of the head grade of the grade control drilling showed head grade that was slightly lower than the average life of mine, and that's why we put the new guidance as the coming months, we will not see higher grades as we saw over the last calendar year.

Life of head grade is returning to normal there, and that impacted in lower expected production. The expected production for the last month of this calendar – of this financial year was higher than what we could foresee when we completed that head grade drilling. And I think, we were very clear there. I would say it was very short term mining that we have completed was only Phase 1 of the 2 Northwest pit. This incorporates the Phase 2 that is [indiscernible] (01:06:53) until July or August of this calendar year.

Next question comes from the line of Al Harvey of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Good afternoon, team. Just one last go at the pricing. Are you able to comment on the average lag cost your contract portfolio, just trying to figure three months, six months, one month. Any kind of color there that would be helpful?

So, you said the average life on the project portfolio?

On your contract prices.

Oh, the average life on the contract price portfolio, Christian, you can cover that one in more detail than I please.

Yes, Al, look, like I said we have a variety of pricing formulas. We have a variety of contracts. There always is a lag of some months. We had a lag last year, and we mentioned that, the lag continues. However, like I think everyone in the industry, our prices are a little bit more reactive now. But again, the diversity from the types of pricing formulas, the types of indices and the types of regions we're selling into is dampening any strong effect that may happen.

So I can't really give you more details than that. What I'd like to add is, again, that the fundamentals we see in the market are extremely healthy. Growth in the underlying EV market, low levels of inventories in the supply chain and very strong profitability for all players in the supply chain that has been able to scale up their production. So strong fundamentals. And look, I think, the short-term movements or the price adjustments that have happened lately have probably been healthy for the industry. And we don't see that any source of concern.

All right. Thank you. And I guess just looking at James Bay. Just want to – any early wins on the resource extension there, potential timing of that could flow through to reserve and thoughts on the potential upside capacity of the asset, that was [ph] 320 (01:09:51) on the last study, but where do you think that could land following more drilling?

It's very early now. We only progressed 24% on the drilling. It's a good progress for taking advantage of the winter there to do the drilling. But very early to say anything on that. We think that we could have something towards the end of the financial year, we have to see where the results come. For the time being, it's only drilling.

Sure. And just finally, Mt Cattlin drilling resource work there? What are you thinking about in terms of potential to extend life? And have you seen similar mix issues to the fine grade material that you've encountered over the last six months or so?

Well, a couple of things on that. We just completed the drilling for the resource extension. We will publish results on resources towards the end of the first quarter of this year. What we've seen here, we're now in the laboratory testing for those results. And in any case, it doesn't have the accuracy of a grade control drilling. So we'll be able to foresee life extension of the mine. But with regards to fine grained mineralization and else, may take a little longer, and we'll have to work that as we put forward the yearly guidance for the product. Liam, you can comment on that more than me. So please update us. Hello, Liam, can you hear us? We lost the connection with Liam apparently.

Sorry, it's not...

Listen, I answered that already, Liam. So that's – thank you. I think it's – are there any more questions?

There are no further questions. I'd like to hand back to Martín for final comments.

Well, thank you very much. And as I said we are committed to delivering scale and process ability required by our customers as the world transitions to a net zero economy. In achieving this, we must remain focused on safety, quality and productivity with strong operational performance, project execution and excellent management cost – management of cost in this environment.

Thank you all for joining our half year results briefing today. If you have any further queries, please don't hesitate to contact our Investor Relations Team.