corrected transcript


Argo Group International


Holdings Ltd.
 
AGII
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2008 Argo Group International


Conference Call. My name is Tanya and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question and answer session towards


the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Michael Russell,


Investor Relations. Mr. Russell, please proceed.


Michael Russell, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Tanya, and good morning everyone. Welcome to Argo Group’s conference call for the


2008 fourth quarter and full year. With me today is Mark Watson, President and Chief Executive


Officer; and Jay Bullock, Chief Financial Officer. We are pleased to have the opportunity to review


the company’s results and provide management’s perspective on the business. No earnings


guidance will be provided in this call.


I would like to remind you that this conference call is being recorded, and all participants are in


listen-only mode. Following management’s opening remarks, the operator will provide instructions


on how you may queue in to ask questions.


Let me remind everyone that as a result of this conference call, Argo Group management may


make comments that reflect their intentions, beliefs, and expectations for the future. Such forward-


looking statements are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future


expectations, and are generally – and may materially differ from actual future results involving any


one or more of such statements.


Argo Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements as a result of


the events or developments subsequent to this conference call. For a more detailed discussion of


such risks and uncertainties, please see Argo Group’s filings with the SEC.


With that, I would like to introduce Mark Watson, Chief Executive Officer of Argo Group. Mark?


Mark E. Watson III, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Mike, and hello to everyone. We appreciate that you’ve taken the time to join us today.


I’ll lead off the call with some general observations regarding 2008, comment on the environment


from a capital and pricing perspective, reflect upon what we accomplished last year and provide


some perspective on why we believe those actions will manifest positive results ahead for Argo


Group.


After my opening remarks, our CFO, Jay Bullock, will provide additional details on our financial


results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31. After Jay’s comments, we will open the


call for your questions.


So let me begin. For property and casualty insurers, it was hard to believe so soon after 2005 that


we’d face another anomalous year. Recall that in the second quarter of 2008 more than a dozen


serious weather events destroyed properties in the U.S. As we rolled into the second half of the


year, two hurricanes including Ike hit the Gulf Coast region, damaging property from Texas to the


upper Midwest.
corrected transcript


Argo Group International


Holdings Ltd.
 
AGII
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


All told, Ike is one of the most costly hurricanes in U.S. history. Finally, as 2008 entered the fourth


quarter we witnessed another type of catastrophe, a collapse of the financial and credit markets.


As with most companies in our industry, Argo Group was affected by each of these events. I’m


pleased to report however that we weathered the storms and market turmoil, and our business


remains strong as we enter 2009. Moreover, what we achieved in 2008 ideally positions Argo


Group to capitalize on the future. I will comment more about the market environment in a moment.


Let me just make a few comments about the 2008 consolidated results. Despite the market


challenges I just mentioned, our 2008 financial results remained solid. In fact, we were able to grow


pre-tax operating income from $113.9 million in 2008, excuse me in 2007 to $121.5 million in 2008.


And despite the soft market and increased competition in many of our lines of business, our


company’s diversified business platform, which we built both organically and through acquisitions


allowed us to grow our business. In 2008, gross written premiums increased by nearly 36%,


revenue grew by about 26%, and operating income was up 7%.


During 2008, our businesses maneuvered carefully through the softening market, maintaining our


underwriting discipline. Intense marketplace competition continued to impact parts of our Excess &


Surplus Lines segment, yet we were able to produce operating profits for the year of approximately


$98 million with a combined ratio of just over 93%.


With Trident strategic acquisition of New England’s leading public entity insurer, Massamont, our


Commercial Specialty segment increased gross written premiums by 21% and continues to be a


strong contributor to our bottom line. Our Reinsurance segment performed to plan, generating


operating income of nearly 25 million in 2008.


We see additional upside at Argo Re as reinsurance rates firm, and finally since June 1, our


International Specialty segment became part of Argo Group. Unfortunately, their heavily weighted


property book was impacted by Hurricane Ike and other attritional losses resulting in a $5 million


operating loss in the last seven months of 2008.


While we reported decline of 2.5% in book value per share, which normally would be very


frustrating, but given the current environment, I can’t complain too much and I should also say that


our balance sheet remains strong as we entered 2009 with invested assets increasing to


approximately $4 billion.


I would like to talk about our business platform for a minute. During 2008, we moved into the early


stages of a much stronger position for 2009 than we’re in before. Last May, we acquired the final


piece to our International Specialty platform adding a Lloyd’s syndicate that gave us a strategic


presence or I should say a more significant strategic presence in the London insurance


marketplace.


With our presence in the Bermuda and the U.S. markets, our broader geographic breadth allows us


to offer Argo Group’s products suite to the entire specialty insurance distribution network, which


from a strategic perspective we view as a single converging marketplace.


In our optimism about the company’s diversified infrastructure, I should mention that parts of our


platform are still in the early stages of development. Needless to say, we believe our platforms’ full


potential is yet to be realized. In Bermuda, our reinsurance team led by Argo Re President Andrew


Carrier just completed their first year of full operations, writing about $100 million of business and


delivering nearly $25 million in operating profits notwithstanding the significance of hurricane Ike.