corrected transcript


Argo Group International


Holdings Ltd.
 
AGII
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 7, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2007 Argo Group


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shameka and I will be your operator for today. [Operator


Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mike Russell, Investor Relations. Please


proceed, sir.


Michael Russell, Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Argo Group’s conference call for the third quarter of


2007. With me today is Mark Watson, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mark Haushill,


Senior Vice President and Iterim Chief Financial Officer. We are pleased to have the opportunity to


review the company’s results for the third quarter as well as management’s perspective on the


business. No earnings guidance will be provided in this call.


I would like to remind you that this conference call is being recorded and currently participants are


in listen-only mode. Following management’s opening remarks the operator will provide instructions


on how you may queue in to ask questions. Let me remind everyone that as a result of this


conference call Argo Group management may make comments that reflect their intentions, beliefs,


and expectations for the future. Such forward-looking statements are qualified by the inherent risks


and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and may materially differ from actual


future results involving any one or more of such statements. Argo Group undertakes no obligation


to publicly update forward-looking statements as a result of events or developments subsequent to


this conference call. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see


Argo Group’s filings with the SEC.


With that, I would like to introduce Argo Group’s President and CEO, Mark Watson. Mark?


Mark E. Watson, III, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Mike, and good morning everyone. We are pleased you could join us today for a review


of Argo Group’s third quarter financial results, as well as an update on some of the initiatives we’ve


undertaken since we announced the completion of the Argonaut Group PXRE merger. Our focus


has been on three things; strengthening our balance sheet by reviewing legacy issues, evaluating


our capital management strategy, and most importantly growing our core business.


Let me begin my remarks by providing a summary of third quarter highlights. While we are


competing in a challenging marketplace, our earnings reflect the strength of our business model,


specifically targeting smaller accounts. Top line growth continued with gross written premiums


increasing more than 8% over last year for the same quarter.


Margins in our largest business segment, Excess & Surplus Lines and Select Markets remained


strong with combined ratios just above 90% for each of those segments. Book value per share


increased to $43.81 per share. Our International Specialty segment is performing in line with our


expectations as Peleus is just getting started. And finally our post merger operating plan is on track


and as you may have seen last week, we announced new executive appointments at both our U.S.


and international operations.


Since the completion of the merger some 90 days ago, we have been hard at work enhancing the


company’s infrastructure and planning for the successful future of Argo Group, and I’m very


pleased with our progress thus far. We have started to execute our strategy at Peleus, our
corrected transcript


Argo Group International


Holdings Ltd.
 
AGII
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 7, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Bermuda based underwriting company, including our other international business, the International


Specialty segment generated $20 million in gross written premium for the third quarter resulting in a


slight operating profit.


You may remember last quarter we announced that Andrew Carrier will become President of


Peleus. Last week we also announced the hiring of a Chief Underwriting Officer and an underwriter


for Peleus, which will round up that team. Matthew Wilken and Mike Cornish respectively are


former colleagues of Andrew and both have extensive experience in the reinsurance industry.


We continue to believe that property reinsurance market presents Peleus with opportunities to build


its portfolio in 2008. We intend to be disciplined in our underwriting approach so as to protect our


capital. In fact we continue to expect International Specialty to represent no more than 15% of our


gross written premiums.


Last week we also announced the appointment of Dale Pilkington as President of Argo Group’s


U.S. operations. Dale is an industry veteran with nearly three decades of experience. For the last


five years, Dale has led our E&S segment through a remarkable growth phase, and I’m confident


he is the right executive to lead our entire U.S. operation through its next stage of maturity.


We also appointed Bill Meisen to head up our operations at both Grocers and Great Central. With


20 years of insurance industry experience, Bill’s new responsibilities reflect the confidence by


having his ability to deliver on Argo Group’s superior service and innovative products to our retail


business clients.


Moving on to our underwriting operations in the U.S., we continue to focus on profitable margins


rather than growing in our specialty E&S and Select Markets platforms. Having said that, we did


manage to grow Select Markets in a judicious manner for the quarter. Gross written premiums in


our E&S segment were down approximately 5% compared to the year-ago quarter, reflecting the


increasing appetite by the standard market. In the face of current market conditions, we are


pleased with the margins in E&S.


Select Markets produced an improving third quarter with gross written premiums up nearly 20%


over the same period last year. We’re beginning to see results from various niche programs that


we’ve targeted, which are generating a positive impact to the segment’s top line momentum.


These programs are just beginning to develop and I’m encouraged by the pipeline of additional


opportunities that we have in front of us.


As respects to marketplace, rates are down between 3 to 4% overall for our account. We are not


seeing the same declines as some of our competitors due to our focus on small accounts, but


certain classes are seeing more pressure than others. It’s not uncommon for us to see our renewal


business come under pricing type pressure with competitors frequently offering 15 to 20% rate cuts


or even higher. We are defending our renewal book as appropriate by meeting competitor’s pricing


on the better price risks and letting go of the business when it falls below our target price book.


With respect to new business, we are faced with the mirror image situation of our renewal business


challenge. We are playing that game selectively and prudently and as a result, our renewal


business writings are slowing in some areas.


Let me now talk about the balance sheet. First, let me say that over the past eight years our


company has maintained a strong balance sheet and we continue that commitment today. Our


recent action highlights that focus. Our balance sheet was further strengthened by our sale of


PXRE Reinsurance Company, which we expect to close in the first quarter of 2008 after regulatory


approvals are obtained.