Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Susan Spivak Bernstein — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations, Argo Group International Holdings Ltd.
Mark E. Watson III — President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Argo Group International Holdings Ltd.
Jay Stanley Bullock — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Argo Group International Holdings Ltd.
Amit Kumar — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc.
John Thomas — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Argo Group 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Call. My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Susan Spivak Bernstein, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Susan Spivak Bernstein, you may begin.

Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to Argo Group's Conference Call for the second quarter of 2013. Last night we issued a press release on earnings, which is available in the Investors section of our website at www.argolimited.com. With me on today's call is Mark Watson, Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Bullock, Chief Financial Officer. We're pleased to review the company's results for the quarter, as well as provide you with management's perspective on the business.

As the operator mentioned, this conference call is being recorded. Following management's opening remarks you will receive instructions on how to queue in to ask for questions. As a result of this conference call, Argo Group management may make comments that reflect their intentions, beliefs and expectations for the future. Such forward-looking statements are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and may materially differ from actual future results involving any one or more of such statements.

Argo Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements as a result of events or developments subsequent to this conference call. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see Argo Group's filings with the SEC.

With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Mark Watson, Chief Executive Officer of Argo Group.

Thank you, Susan. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Argo Group's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. I'll briefly share my thoughts regarding this quarter's highlights after which, Jay Bullock, our CFO, will add more detail to the quarter's financial results.

Overall, we're pleased to report our results for the second quarter having generated $31.7 million or $1.13 per diluted share of net income, which is up from $24 million or $0.84 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.

Our second quarter for 2013 operating earnings were $0.74 per share compared to $0.50 in the comparable quarter in 2012, or an increase of almost 50%. During the second quarter, the capital market suffered as a result of interest rate volatility, and like everyone else, our investment portfolio was affected by the significant rise in rates, widening of credit spreads, and the June decline in equity values. From year-end, the decline in our unrealized gain position was approximately $80 million on a pre-tax basis.

As a result, we ended the quarter with diluted book value per share of $55.73, which was still up modestly from $55.22 at year-end's December 31, 2012. Fortunately, with the market recovery in the month of July, we regained approximately 50% of the second quarter decline. This is mainly from the diversity in asset classes added to our portfolio over the past few years. That said, the decline in rates over the past several quarters and changes we've made in asset class selection have impacted our net investment income and will likely continue to do so for the next few quarters.

Our objective is to create long-term value for our shareholders, and we believe the decisions we've made will do just that. So in the short run our investment income will likely decline as the duration of our bond portfolio shortens even more than in the past. We've maintained a measured pace of return of capital to shareholders in the quarter. While our stock prices moved up quite a bit this year, we continue to think of our – we continue to think our franchise is undervalued and still view share repurchases at a discount to book value as a great investment.

In the first six months of this year we repurchased approximately 750,000 of our shares or 3% of our 2012 year-end share base. In the second quarter, we repurchased $17.8 million or 427,751 shares of – at an average price of $41.58. Our dividend remained consistent with the previous quarter at $0.15 per share on a slightly larger number of shares for a total dividend payment in the quarter of just over $4 million.

Turning now to our underwriting business, in the second quarter we produced consolidated gross written premium of approximately $543 million, an increase of 14.3% for the second quarter of – from the second quarter of last year. All of our segments contributed to the growth this quarter with the exception of our Commercial Specialty business, but as I forecasted on our last call, that was as expected. In terms of market conditions, we continue to experience rate improvement consistent with the first quarter of 2013 and within our expectations for each of our businesses, with the sole exception of our property catastrophe business where we've seen slight rate decreases. While signs of increased competition are becoming evident in the marketplace, our established positions in our selected areas of focus have allowed us to continue to push for rate increases. As we noted last quarter, in businesses where we identified the greatest need for rate improvement, we're still achieving our plans.

Unlike the first quarter, the second quarter of this year presented a higher frequency of small to mid-size catastrophe and weather events, the effects of which were experienced across the market. Despite this higher activity, our combined ratio improved just over four points year-over-year. We continue to benefit from favorable reserve development on prior years, and we see the benefit of our past and ongoing repositioning efforts in certain businesses.

While we had our share of large losses in the quarter and were impacted by some of the catastrophe events, the incidence of loss to us is reduced relative to the similar set of events two years ago. A good example of this would be the European floods, the impact of which was approximately $4 million to us. If we had this happen a couple of years ago before the re-underwriting actions we've taken, we would have seen a much larger loss.

As we've said in past quarters, our expense ratio remains higher than is acceptable to us. It is however, a reflection of our long-term investments in the business, and we expect to see continued quarter-over-quarter improvement as our initiatives take hold and our recent growth begins to flow through our results.

Let me briefly comment on each of our operating segments before turning the call over to Jay to discuss our financial results in more detail. Our Excess & Surplus Lines business grew just over 22% in the second quarter. We continue to build on the positive momentum from the first quarter and last year, driven by continued improvement in rates, strong submission activity, and good growth in new business. We are particularly pleased that much of the growth is in our most profitable segments. Our practice of reserving prudently in current accident years has been most pronounced in this segment, where, as in prior quarters we've benefited from positive prior-year development.

In Commercial Specialty, as expected we saw a decline in gross written premium, which is a direct result of our strategy of removing under-performing counts – accounts. The decline was partially offset by rate increases and modest growth in other business units. I have to say I feel very positive about the progress we are making year-to-date as we are achieving rate increases in excess of our plan, at least at the moment, and I want to thank everyone who's been working on the implementation of this turnaround over the past 12 months. You'll recall that we had a fair amount of negative reserve development in this quarter a year ago, and fortunately that hasn't happened this year.

Our International Specialty segment achieved an increase of 14% in gross written premium, benefiting from growth in all of our business lines. Notwithstanding the market challenges in the Property Catastrophe business I mentioned earlier, we actually grew premium modestly. The build-out of our Brazilian operations is moving along as planned as well. And market conditions continue to improve in small increments in our excess casualty and professional liability businesses here in Bermuda. Fortunately, our margins – and I should also say that our margins in these businesses remain good.

Rounding out our segment discussion is our Lloyd's Syndicate 1200, which had another good quarter. Gross written premium grew over 20% in the quarter, benefiting from increased writings in our property book as well as stronger-than-expected additional reported premium from recent years of account on binding authorities in both Small Account Property and Liability units. Our Specialty business was down in the quarter within the syndicate as we exited certain geographies in the energy sector due to declining rates, which I'm pleased we did.

In summary, the results for the first six months of the year are an improvement from a year ago, and certainly two years ago. We continue to focus on growing where we can in an intelligent manner, improving our underwriting margins, focusing on expense management, and producing consistent results across our business units. We'll continue to invest in our stock and return capital to shareholders, laid carefully against the risk-adjusted returns of other capital uses. With the investments we've made in our people, systems, and processes, 2013 is shaping up to be a pivotal year for Argo and I'm optimistic about our long-term outlook.

With that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Jay Bullock.

Thanks, Mark, and good morning, everyone. I'll take everyone quickly through some additional detail on the financials and then open it up to Q&A.

As Mark has already been through growth by segment, I'll simply point out that the variance in growth rates in total for gross written, net written and earned premium is largely a function of a change in the timing and composition of one of our larger reinsurance programs. Overall, our underwriting margins for the business continued to improve. Inclusive of cat losses and a higher-than-normal incidence of large losses, our accident year loss ratio improved by almost 200 basis points over the first six months of 2012. These improvements are primarily due to rate and underwriting initiatives. At the same time, our expense ratio improved by almost 100 basis points over the same six-month period in 2012, and by 200 basis points when you strip out the effect of the additional equity compensation expense incurred as a result of the increase in our stock price during the first six months of the year. Not a bad improvement, but not where we want to be yet. And away from the current accident year, we experienced favorable reserve development in each segment.

In E&S positive development of 9.2 was primarily – was $9.2 million and was primarily from accident use 2008 and prior, with smaller amounts coming out of 2009 and 2010. In Commercial Specialty, the positive development totaled $1 million, which was the net of positive results in Rockwood Insurity offset by small movements in Argo Insurance and Trident. In International Specialty the result was a positive $300,000 and the net effect of small favorable movements in Liability lines offset by small changes in Short-Tail lines. And finally, in Syndicate 1200 the positive of result of $1.3 million was the net of small positive movements in Property offset by small negative movements in Liability.

In the quarter, losses from cats totaled $9.7 million, coming as Mark mentioned from the European floods and the US storms and were largely in line with our expectations. The only other thing to mention on the income statement was the effective tax rate. For the quarter the rate was slightly higher than expected given the larger proportionate share of income generated in taxable jurisdictions. For the first six months, the effective tax rate was effectively the same as our expected tax rate of approximately 20%.

Turning to investments, the overall size of the investment portfolio including cash declined approximately $200 million through the first six months of the year, reflecting decline in asset values from the market movements in June that Mark referenced and from the transfer of approximately $100 million in assets related to the whole account quota share transaction for 2009 and prior, and the syndicate we talked about at year-end. There remains approximately $100 million of additional assets yet to be transferred related to that transaction.

We'd note again that any associated investment income, including the income from assets held on our balance sheet goes to the benefit of our counterparty. The impact of the transaction, combined with continued lower investment yields and reallocation of the portfolio of certain strategies targeted towards total return rather than income, and modest shifts in portfolio duration, resulted in the decline in net investment income this quarter versus the same period last year.

The book yield on the fixed income portfolio was 3.2% this quarter compared to 3.4% in the first quarter of 2013 and down from 3.6% from the second quarter last year. We recognized pre-tax realized gains of $11.5 million. Included in realized gains was approximately $6.5 million in gains from our equity strategies as we took the opportunity to reduce position slightly during the market's strong first half performance. As well, gains included approximately $3.4 million from small mandates we've made in the past 24 months that would have historically generated net investment income, but because of the structure of the investment are accounted for in realized gains and losses.

We ended the quarter with a pre-tax unrealized gain position on the portfolio of $225 million at quarter end, down from $305 million at year end. As mentioned, July was a strong month, and a meaningful portion of that decline has been recovered. That said, the duration of our bond portfolio is designed to support our liabilities, giving us the ability to hold fixed income investments to maturity. At June 30, while the spread of duration across the portfolio was tightened a bit, the overall duration remained effectively unchanged and the average credit rating on our fixed income portfolio was AA minus.

Our equity position at June 30 was approximately $1.5 billion and our total capital approximately $1.9 billion. Both our financial and operating leverage remained modest, which provides us the flexibility to respond to market opportunities. We returned $22 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases in the quarter and have continued to participate in the market post-quarter – at quarter end through a 10b5 program, repurchasing approximately another 120,000 shares for $5.5 million. As always, we evaluate all alternatives to deploy our capital and continue to buy back stock – to buy back our shares as warranted by the availability of competing investments relative to the compelling valuation in our stock.

Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now – we're now ready to take questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And we have Amit Kumar from Macquarie Capital on line with a question. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Amit Kumar from Macquarie Capital. Congrats on the quarter. Just a few quick questions. Maybe starting with the E&S Lines, can you talk a little bit more about, I guess the increased submissions, and how do you feel about the quality of these submissions?

I think that we're seeing more submission activity for a number of reasons; I'll focus on two. One, I think more business is flowing back into the non-admitted marketplace. And the second, I think that we're doing a better job of executing; meaning, I think we're doing a better job of working with our distribution partners and getting out and making sure that we're meeting their needs, and they understand the products that we have available to them. So, I think working harder is generating more opportunity.

Okay, and so there's nothing specific going on in a specific sub-segment which is generating? It's just a broader trend?

Yes – no, I think that that's across the board within our business. It's not coming from one part of E&S.

Okay, now that's helpful. The other question is, going back to the opening remarks regarding I guess the discussion on the commercial side regarding the under-performing accounts, the retooling of the book, can you sort of expand on that and how should we think about that going forward from here?

Well, so let's go back and think about the last year. Was on this call a year ago that we talked about the significant adverse development that we recorded; was over $10 million. And of course, we didn't see that this quarter. We spent – as we've done with other portfolios which we've talked about on various calls, we spent a lot of time going back and coloring and getting back to really more of our core business for that underwriting team, and we've now been at it for about a year in one portfolio and, well, probably pretty close to that in the other.

So I think a lot of the hard work has really been done, particularly as of the first of July. Recall that that's a really big date for renewing much of our public entity business. I don't mean to suggest that we don't need to continue working to optimize our portfolios and how we interact with our distribution partners, but I'm really pleased with how hard everybody's been working and I think that the fact that we haven't seen a lot of additional negative reserve development speaks well for getting to it soon. And the fact that our premium didn't decline more than it have – than it did, I think is a good thing as well. It is possible, and we should plan for the top-line in Commercial Specialty to be lower for the remainder of this year as compared to 2012. I think it's reasonable to think that in 2014 it will flatten out relative to 2013.

Got it. I guess the final question – and I'll stop here, is in the opening comments regarding buyback you mentioned the stock price – the price book I guess, and I know that we've chatted about this in the past few quarters. Based on your business mix, would you slow it down during the hurricane season, or did – the trend lines would generally continue?

Well, as a practical matter I think we all tend to slow down a bit during the hurricane season. Having said that, as Jay pointed out in his remarks a minute ago, we're in the hurricane season now and we've still been buying back a modest amount of stock. So we've been a buyer in the market for quite a while and I suspect we will stay in the market in some way from now until the end of the year.

And how do you think about buyback? Is that buyback plus dividend equal to sort of net income kind of thought process? I'm trying to recall what we have talked about in the past.

Well, I know that a lot of – I know that a lot of companies think about it in a formulaic manner. We think about it differently, and perhaps it's just worth repeating; capital, we first use capital to support our balance sheet and the risk we have on it today. The second use of capital is to support our organic growth. And really, adjacency growth is very core to our business and the business that we're writing today. Third, depending upon where our share price is, I have either put capital repatriation next, or new business opportunity beyond what we're doing today. And then the last few years, I have focused more on capital repatriation. I can't – when our stock was trading at $0.50 on the dollar it was hard to imagine a better use for what we thought was excess capital than buying back our stock.

As our share price comes up, then we may look at other opportunities on a risk-adjusted basis, but as you can – just – as you look at what we've done over the last couple of years, we've clearly still been very focused on buying back our stock relative to making other investments, notwithstanding our share price coming up. So it's – we're looking at how we can best invest that capital, and it's not necessarily just a function of repatriating earnings – repatriating capital relative to earnings. We don't think about it that way. We think about how we can best use our capital.

Got it. Okay. That's all I have for now. Thanks for the answers. [Operator Instructions]

And we have John Thomas from William Blair on line with a question. Please go ahead.

Hi. Why did the expense ratio decline so much in Syndicate 1200 for the first half of 2013 relative to 2012?

Earned premium grew substantially year-over-year from about $80 million to $107 million.

And that's just for the quarter.

Right. Sorry.

For the first six months...

Was $151 million versus $198 million. So it's...

Substantially better leverage.

Right. The denominator went up faster than the numerator.

And as the years – as successive years have progressed as well, that mix of business is changing a bit there such that the acquisition cost is slowly working its way down. It won't change dramatically, but there is a modest impact from that as well.

Correct.

Okay. And then International Specialty, if you could comment on the growth that you're seeing there and what lines you're expanding in?

Well, as I mentioned in my remarks we're seeing a modest amount of growth across everything within International Specialty, whether it's property cat, excess casualty, excess professional liability. The piece that's growing the most on a percentage basis would be Brazil, but that's just because it's coming off a smaller base.

All right. Thanks.

And we have no further questions.

Well, I would to thank everyone for dialing in this morning. We look forward to talking to you again at the end of the third quarter. And hopefully we will be able to continue talking about continued progress in running our company. I'd like to thank everyone at our company for working hard over the last year. It's starting to show in the financial results. And we'll talk to you next quarter. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating, and you may now disconnect.