raw transcript


Avid Technology, Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Avid Technology Third Quarter Earnings


Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introduction, I


would like to turn call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr Dean Ridlon. Please go ahead,


sir.


Dean Ridlon, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon. I’m Dean Ridlon, Avid Technology Inc.’s Investor Relations


Director. I’d like welcome you to today’s call. Before we begin, please note this call will include


forward-looking statement as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Including statement about projected growth of existing or new markets and anticipate results of


operations during 2005 and 2006. There are number of factors that could cause actual events or


results to differ materially from those indicated by such statement. Such as competitive factors


including pricing pressure, fluctuating currency exchange rate adverse changes in general


economic or market conditions, particularly in the content-creation industry, delays in product


shipment, market acceptance of Avid’s existing and new product, and other important events and


factors disclosed previously and from time-to-time in Avid’s filings includes the US Securities and


Exchange Commission. In addition, our forward-looking statements represented our estimate only


as today October 27, 2005 and should not be relied upon representing our views as of any


subsequent date. Avid undertakes no obligation to review or update these forward-looking


statements. During this call, we’ll be referring to non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP


measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The


most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with to GAAP and


reconciliation of these GAAP measures to these non-GAAP measures are contained in the press


release announcing this quarter’s results and available in the investor section of our website


www.avid.com. And now I would like to introduce David Krall, President and CEO of Avid.


David A. Krall President Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you Dean, I’m David Krall and I’d like to welcome you to our third quarter 2005 results


conference call. In a moment I will handle the call over to Paul Milbury, our CFO who will provide a


detailed review of this quarter’s financial results then I’ll discuss some highlights from our different


business segments. Finally Paul will come back and update our financial outlook for the fourth


quarter 2005 and for 2006. Following our prepared remarks Paul and I would be happy to take


your questions. Now let’s look at the quarter. Today, we reported strong top and bottom-line


results with all segments performing well. Including the results from the acquisition of Pinnacle,


revenue in Q3 was $204.4 million, up 28% sequentially and up over 38% from Q3 of last year.


Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2005 was $24.2 million, up over 50% sequentially


and up 19% from the third quarter of 2004. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.60 per diluted share, up 40%


sequentially and up 3% from Q3 of ’04. The integration of Pinnacle into Avid is going well and we


are already beginning to realize the benefits from this combination.


I’d now like to hand it over to Paul’s to review the quarterly numbers in more detail.


Paul Milbury, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Thanks, David and good afternoon everyone. Before I get into the results, I would like to remind


everyone that our earnings press release which is posted on our website includes both GAAP and
raw transcript


Avid Technology, Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


non-GAAP financial statements and tables reconciling the 2 set of numbers. During my remarks, I


will be referring primarily to the non-GAAP numbers while encourage you to refer to the financial


statements to reconcile back to the GAAP numbers. The adjustments to our GAAP financials are


significant. So let me take a minute to summarize the adjustments which are all non-cash and


which are related primarily to acquisition activity. The following non-cash acquisition and restricting


related items were excluded from our GAAP P&L to arrive at our non-GAAP net income and


earnings per share. 1), in non-recurring in-process R&D charge of $32.4 million related to the


closing of the Pinnacle transaction, 2), non-cash acquisition related amortization charges of $6.4


million, 3) restricting cost of $2 million reflecting a revised estimate of a loss on a facility vacated by


Avid in 1999; 4) A non-cash Pinnacle acquisition related tax charge of 1.2 million offset by


approximately $500,000 of tax benefits related to acquisition related amortization and the


restricting, and 5) $500,000 of non-cash stock based compensations charges related to our


acquisition of M-Audio in 2004. We believe that these non-GAAP measures after a more


meaningful insight into normalized operating performance and will assist investors in understanding


results of operations on a comparative basis.


We should also note that in Q3, we changed our presentation of operating expenses by


reclassifying certain European G&A expenses.


Prior to Q3 of ’05, we had classified our G&A type expenses incurred in Europe, both internally and


externally as sales and marketing expenses because these costs were primarily to support our


sales function in Europe. With the change in our business and the acquisitions of Pinnacle, M-


Audio and NXN, we have increased the overall scope of operations in Europe being supported by


the G&A group to include not only sales, but also significant R&D, manufacturing, customer service


and other functions.


For this reason, we have decided to reclassify the G&A expenses being occurred in Europe to the


G&A line in our financial statements from the sales of marketing expense line. The amounts


reclassified were $1.5 million and $1.9 million in Q3 ’04 and Q3 ’05 respectively. For the 9 nine


months ended September 30, ’04 and ’05, the amounts were $3.7 million and $5.5 million


respectively. This reclassification of operating expenses does not impact reported revenue or


reported operating profit.


Now back to the results. Q3 revenues were approximately $204 million up from the $160 million in


Q2. In line with previous guidance; the acquisition of Pinnacle added more than $30 million to our


revenues sequentially. Video segment revenues were $118.9 million, up 25% sequentially.


Pinnacle broadcast added roughly $15.5 million to video revenues in Q3, so organic growth was


about 9% sequentially and 8% year-over-year. Broadcast market sales were up sequentially even


including, I am sorry even excluding the Pinnacle impact. Host market sales were slightly lower


sequentially primarily due to sluggish Avid DS Nitris sales as customers await the release of Avid


Symphony Nitris.


Audio revenues were $67 million up from $65.1 million in Q2. Consumer video revenues will $18.5


million representing the contribution of the Pinnacle consumer business for the period from closing


on August 9. Exchange rates negatively impacted Q3 revenue on a sequential basis by


approximately $2 million non-GAAP gross margins were 54.2% slightly better than our previous


guidance. As you can see in the financial statements cash to our press release, non-GAAP


operating expenses were $86 million or approximately 42% of revenue in Q3, excluding the in-


process R&D charge, acquisition related amortization, stock-based compensation related to the


acquisition of M-Audio, restructuring cost and tax items. The $13 million sequential increase an


operating expenses form Q2 is related to the acquisition of Pinnacle during the quarter.


Non-GAAP operating income was $24.7 million or 12.1% of revenue, non-GAAP operating profit for


our video segment was $13.4 million or 11.3% of revenue and non-GAAP operating profit for our


audio segment was 11.1 million or 16.6% of revenue. Non-GAAP operating income for our