raw transcript


Avid Technology, Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Avid Technology Second Quarter Earnings


Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I


would like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Dean Ridlon. Please go


ahead sir.


Dean Ridlon, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. I'm Dean Ridlon, Avid Technology Inc’s Investor


Relations Director. I would like to welcome you to today’s call. Before we begin, please note that


this call will include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995, including statements about the status of Avid’s proposed acquisition of


Pinnacle Systems Inc, projected growth of existing or new markets and anticipated results of


operations during 2005 and 2006. There are number of factors that could cause actual events or


results to differ materially from those indicated by such statements, such as the possibility that the


Pinnacle acquisition will not close or if that the closing it will be delayed. Competitive factors


including pricing pressures, fluctuating currency exchange rates, adverse changes in general


economic or market conditions, particularly in the content creation industry. Delays in product


shipments, market acceptance of Avid's existing and new products, and other important events and


factors disclosed previously and from time-to-time in Avid's filings with the US Securities and


Exchange Commission, including with respect to the transaction with Pinnacle, the joint proxy


statements perspective filed by Avid with the SEC on June 14, 2005. In addition, our forward-


looking statements represent our estimates only as of today, July 21, 2005, and should not be


relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Avid undertakes no obligation to


review or update these forward-looking statements.


During this call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP measures


are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The most directly


comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation of these


GAAP measures to these non-GAAP measures are contained in the press release announcing this


quarter's results and available in the investor's section of our website, www.avid.com. In a moment


I will hand the call over to Paul Milbury, our CFO who will provide a detailed review of this quarter’s


financial results, and then David Krall, our President and CEO, will discuss the trends and


opportunities we see in the markets we serve. Finally Paul will come and update our financial


outlook for the balance of 2005 and for the full year 2006. Following our prepared remarks, David


and Paul would be happy to take your questions. I would now like Paul to review the numbers in


detail.


Paul Milbury, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Dean, and good afternoon everyone. Before I get into the results, I would like to remind


everyone that our earnings press release, which is posted on our website includes both GAAP and


non-GAAP financial statements and tables reconciling the two sets of numbers. During my remarks


I will be referring primarily to the non-GAAP numbers. So I encourage you to refer to the financial


statements to reconcile back to the GAAP numbers.


In line with our announcement last Wednesday, Q2 revenues were $160.1 million. Video revenues


were $95 million down approximately $10 million from Q1 reflecting the recognition of lower


broadcast revenue to the new product delays and lower postproduction revenue. Audio revenues


were $65.1 million, up nearly $4 million sequentially as both Digidesign and M-Audio continued to
raw transcript


Avid Technology, Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


perform solidly. Revenues in the quarter were also impacted by unfavorable foreign currency


translations. The foreign exchange impact reduced revenues by approximately $2.6 million


sequentially.


Gross margins declined from 57.2% in Q1 to 55.5% in Q2. The major negative impacts came from


currency, promotional activity and reduced volume. As you can see in the financial statements


attached to our press release, non-GAAP operating expenses were $73.2 million or 45.8% of


revenue in Q2 excluding amortization and stock based compensation related to the M-Audio


acquisition. The sequential increase from Q1 primarily represents the expenses associated with


our participation in this year’s National Association of Broadcasters trade show partially offset by


favorable currency impact on expenses.


Non-GAAP operating income excluding amortization and stock based compensations related to the


M-Audio acquisition was $15.5 million or 9.7% of revenue. Non-GAAP operating profit for our video


segment was $7.1 million or 7.5% of revenue and non-GAAP operating profit for our audio segment


was 8.5 million or 13% of revenue. Interest in other income net was $1.2 million for the quarter.


Our non-GAAP provisions for income taxes which excludes $172,000 of tax benefit related to


amortization was $857,000, excluding the amortization related tax benefit and stock-based


compensation related to the M-audio acquisition and acquisition-related amortization, non-GAAP


net income for Q2 was $15.9 million or $0.43 per diluted share on 37 million shares outstanding.


GAAP earnings per share were $0.37.


Cash increased during the quarter by approximately $16 million to 192.6 million. Day sales


outstanding at the end of the quarter increased to 56 and our inventory turnover was 4.5 times.


I will back you shortly to update our guidance for the balance of 2005, and full year 2006. But now I


would like to turn the call over to David for discussion of the trends and opportunities in each of our


businesses.


David Krall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Paul. Before I discuss the opportunities we see in our main business segments, I would


like to give a quick update on where we stand with the Pinnacle acquisition. The shareholder


meetings for both Avid and Pinnacle are scheduled for next Wednesday July 27th. We expect the


review from the European regulators to be completed sometime by mid-August. If the shareholders


and European regulators approve the merger we therefore should be able to close by mid-August.


As we move through the final stages of this process, we are all looking forward to putting our


integration plan into effect and tapping into the many opportunities that this acquisition presents to


us.


Now let’s turn to our results and the discussion of our market opportunities. As Paul just detailed


this quarter’s results were negatively impacted by new product delays in our core broadcast market,


as well as the negative effects of foreign currency movements. While these product delays have


shifted out revenues in our broadcast business. The demand for our broadcast products remains


robust. As indicated by our sequential increase in broadcast orders and backlog.


Looking at our business and its entirety, the fundamental growth indicators in each of markets we


serve are still pointing in the right direction. I could spend a half hour talking about each area of our


business, but I will be brief. Suffice to say that in video postproduction, the transition from standard


definitions to high def continues to represent significant potential for Avid. And there is a great deal


of data supporting our belief that this transition is still in its early phases. This opportunity


standard’s a wide range of applications and customer segments from event videographers and


documentary filmmakers to editors working on a feature films and primetime television dramas at


full service post facilities. There has been a major increase in the amount of HD content being