Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tom Fitzsimmons — Director-Investor Relations, Avid Technology, Inc.
Louis Hernandez, Jr. — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Avid Technology, Inc.
John Wilbert Frederick — CFO, Chief Administrative Officer & Executive VP, Avid Technology, Inc.
Buzz A. Zaino — Managing Director & Portfolio Manager, Royce & Associates LLC
Russell Lynde — Analyst, Park West Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the Avid Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tom Fitzsimmons. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. I'm Tom Fitzsimmons, Director of Investor Relations for Avid. I'd like to welcome you to today's call. With me today are Louis Hernandez, Jr., Avid's President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Frederick, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer.

Before we get started, we wanted to note that, during this presentation, we'll be making forward-looking statements including, among others, statements related to our recently filed financial statements; future performance related to revenue, operating expenses, earnings, bookings, backlog and free cash flow; our future strategy and business plans; our product plans including Avid Everywhere; and our objective to obtain relisting on the NASDAQ stock market.

These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Also, these statements are based on expectations as of today, October 21, 2014. And we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise these statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Please review the description of these statements and the risk factors described in our reports filed with the SEC.

In addition, we have presented a number of non-GAAP financial measures that we use to monitor our business, including non-GAAP operating results, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, all of which are defined and reconciled to the comparable GAAP measure in tables accompanying the release of our results. These non-GAAP measures reflect how Avid manages its businesses internally. Our non-GAAP measures may vary from how other companies present non-GAAP measures.

Non-GAAP financial measures are not based on a comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Our non-GAAP information supplements and is not intended to represent a measure or performance in accordance with, or disclosures required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. When analyzing Avid's operating performance, investors should not consider these non-GAAP financial measures as a substitute for net income or other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We also reference bookings and backlog, operational metrics we use to measure our business. Our definition of bookings and backlog are included in our SEC filings and financial press releases. You may replay this conference call by going to the Investor Relations page of our website and clicking on the Events & Presentations tab.

And now, I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Louis Hernandez, Jr.

Thanks, Tom. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome. We're very pleased to have accomplished yet another major step in our journey with the filing of our Q2 results, which now brings us current with our SEC filing requirements. As I mentioned in our last call, John and the team have done a tremendous job in driving this long process to a close in a timely and methodical manner. We've also filed our application for relisting with NASDAQ and believe we could be trading on NASDAQ later this quarter.

Since our current management team joined Avid less than two full years ago, not only have we been busy with this unexpected restatement, but we've also made a significant progress on our ambitious transformation strategy. As you recall, we completed an intense initial evaluation of the company, formulated a strategic vision and went immediately to work and executing this strategy.

During our last call, I reviewed our insights on the changing industry dynamics and those critical pain points that are impacting our business model for our customers. I also discussed the sizable economic opportunity for Avid as we help solve those problems and reassert our role as the industry thought leader. I went into some detail about our strategic vision, our three-phase transformation designed to address the key industry pain points while driving improved growth and profitability here at Avid.

Well, today, I'd like to give you an update on how we're doing in executing that strategy and our growth plans. I'll start with sharing some key financial and operating metrics, which we believe will provide some insights into how our plan is working. I'll touch on a few new product and service announcements that are designed specifically to leverage the power of our industry-defining platform and examples of our customers who are benefiting from the Avid Everywhere vision, enabling them to solve some of their most painful issues.

And finally, I'll talk a little more about the competitive landscape and how that impacts our plan specifically as it relates to our cloud and subscription offerings.

I'd like to review some selected financial and operating information which offer some insights into how we're progressing with the execution of the strategic vision I talked about before. And John will be expanding on those in just a few minutes.

Based upon the results that we've seen so far and our outlook, we're raising our 2014 guidance for adjusted EBITDA and providing a range for both bookings and free cash flow. The increase in adjusted EBITDA guidance is a result of better than expected conversion of bookings to revenue, an improved product mix and continued execution of our cost-saving initiatives.

During the first half of 2014, we observed an improvement in the rate of bookings that were converted to revenue, which we believe represents a trend that we'll continue to see for the remainder of the year. The improved product mix is driven by an acceleration of bookings in our newer higher growth and higher profitable products and, conversely, lower bookings in the deemphasized or less profitable products.

You may recall from our last call that we discussed how overall bookings have stabilized after a period of inconsistency and decline. We also described, soon after joining the company, how we completed a product rationalization analysis. And to give you a little more detail, this included determining which parts of the value chain were growing, which parts we're participating in, which products led to higher cross-selling and what the profitability profile was for each of the related products and our service offering. And it was based on this analysis that we began to deemphasize lower growth and less profitable products and emphasize and also build products that were designed to generate higher growth and higher profitability.

The success of this strategy has resulted in more profitable product mix that I described earlier. And if you give effect to those products that we've been deemphasizing, the bookings growth has increased well above industry growth rates. As a result, while overall bookings are muted by lower bookings from less profitable products, the mix provides greater comfort towards accelerated adjusted EBITDA.

On the cost side, we continue to see a positive impact from our cost savings initiative as our adjusted operating costs continue to decrease. In fact, non-GAAP operating expenses had decreased by $3 million over the last six months. We see an opportunity for additional cost savings as most of the efforts that we've done so far had been focused on non-personnel expenses, preserving our resources to execute on our strategy. And we think there is more of such expenses available to reduce.

Now, revenue visibility has also increased as backlog from transactions after 2010 have increased by about $34 million or 9% since the end of 2013. In addition, new platform sales of Avid Everywhere are more than double the comparable period and the newly launched subscription bookings have shown impressive initial adoption reflecting broad acceptance of our strategy. Now, you may recall that the Avid Everywhere product strategy allows us to deliver existing products more efficiently, add new products in higher-growth areas and makes it easier to cross-sell and up-sell.

Now, Avid Everywhere is ideally suited for our larger enterprise clients, but it also allows us to more aggressively price and package our solutions to the independent professional market. So, this flexible pricing structure for subscription in cloud-based delivery options will also increase our recurring revenue.

Now, a good example of the Avid Everywhere related surge is the momentum in platform unit sales. Through June of this year, platform unit sales on a trailing 12-month basis have more than doubled the same period of last year, reaching nearly 1,000 units, all of which represent opportunities to expand our participation in our customers' technology spend. And a significant portion of these sales are to some of the largest and most influential media organizations in the world, who seem to be adopting our platforms the soonest.

As you recall, we soft-launched our subscription offering for Media Composer just a few months ago. And we've been pleased so far with the adoption even without the help of a formal marketing campaign.

Our subscription cloud offerings allow us to address the need of the independent professional market in a way that can be priced and package more competitively to that market. Now, just imagine for a minute that somebody can use the same tools that are used for television shows such as Game of Thrones or movies such as the Life of Pi or Gravity for only $49 a month via the cloud.

Historically, we've seen independent professionals who felt abandoned by Apple with Final Cut Pro or maybe they turned Adobe as they were the only viable down-market option. Most in the industry appreciate that few can match the capabilities and breadth of Avid's offerings. But without a cloud or subscription option, they were largely priced out of using the best-in-class Avid product suite. Well, now, with Media Composer offered on a subscription basis, those same professionals have the ability to access the best tools with a pricing model that works for them.

So, we'll be more actively marketing the Media Composer towards the end of the year and more completely in early 2015 when additional modules of the Avid suite will be made available creating what we feel will be the most comprehensive cloud-based suite in the industry, well beyond the simple creative tools that some of our competitors offer.

Now, you'll also note that the first of our cloud-based subscription offerings will be what we consider to be anchor products, such as Media Composer, because this will not only allow us to drive revenue for new markets, but will also create a platform for future cross-selling in these new market opportunities.

As a reminder, we'll continue to offer flexible license alternatives in addition to the subscription cloud offerings, and we predict that larger enterprise clients will more carefully adopt the newer pricing models, while the independent professional market will likely be the early adopters of our cloud and subscription offerings. And, that's what we're seeing so far.

In addition to our expanded product suite, we're engaging more deeply with our community, which is an important part of our strategy to provide a better return on investment by having a clear view of the clients' needs, led by an impressive group of leaders in the industry such as Richard Friedel, who is the EVP and GM of Fox Networks; David Rabinowitz, the SVP of Technology for Univision; Barak Moffitt, who is the Head of Strategic Operations for Universal Music. A good measure of our community engagement is the membership in our Avid Customer Association or the ACA, which hopefully you've heard about by now. It's been talked about quite a bit in the industry. And we're excited to report that we now have over 1,300 members compared to the 800 or so we had back in April when we first launched the ACA.

Let me move over now to product innovations, and I'd like to share just a few of our newer Avid Everywhere platform-enabled innovations that we announced last month and how these can drive growth while supporting a more efficient business model for our customers. Now, just to remind you, you may recall that sharing common services on a single platform that can run both our applications and third-party applications is what makes [ph] Everything (12:51) more efficient and more integrated, and this is what has really captured the excitement about the industry to have this shared common platform, the Avid MediaCentral Platform.

And let me give you a couple of examples of why this is so powerful. So, let me take something that we recently announced called the Avid Resolution Independence. It's an example of this strategy on full display. So, you probably know that the world is adopting higher and higher resolution to make the media experience richer. So, imagine for a minute that a change as simple as 4K will require every vendor in the value chain to make investments. So, from the camera manufacturer to the vendors involved in the entire production process, even the consumer electronic manufacturers, so you at home can enjoy that 4K experience.

In fact, just last month at IBC, almost every vendor had something to say about their proprietary approach to the 4K upgrade. So every vendor has to address it in the value chain. And our customers, after making this significant investment, gets the look forward to the next [indiscernible] (13:58) upgrade when 8K comes around. And they basically throw out everything they've invested in and they do it all again. And this is how our industry works and one reason why that business model is under so much pressure.

Well, with that Avid MediaCentral Platform that I discussed, this allows us to take a totally different approach to solving the problem at the platform layer. We can solve it once and allow it to be available for everyone. Now, Avid Resolution Independence is the foundational solution to this high-resolution problem. Let me explain how it works.

We basically address this at the architectural level. So if you think about your smartphone and the shared services that each of the apps have, this is underneath it all so that each app can take advantage of this shared service. That's how we solve that at the architectural level. It's a more – it scales fluidly with any resolution across the entire workflow. So that may mean 4K today, 8K tomorrow, and who knows, 64K, even hundred 128K, there is really no architectural limit. It recognizes where you are on that journey and it adapts to it either on proxy or native.

So, this is a pretty dramatic breakthrough on how to save the industry a lot of money much more efficiently and still solve this transition that we're in. So, remember, a fundamental part of Avid Everywhere is choice and flexibility, and this is what we're delivering with Avid Resolution Independence.

The MediaCentral Platform is agnostic to resolution, demonstrates we think a quantum leap forward in this age of rapidly accelerating resolution. And it's – you probably begin to appreciate just much more cost efficient. It's a more sustainable option for our customers to keep pace with this accelerating technology, Now, I am not going to go over a long list, but another innovation that I thought you might be interested in that demonstrates the power of the platform is something we call the Connectivity Toolkit.

Now, let me again remind you of the problem. The problem is that this is such a fragmented industry with so much proprietary technology. The industry is spending a disproportion amount of their budget just keeping everything connected. And with things such as 4K, it just exacerbates the problem. So we wanted to end this issue with a simple yet powerful set of tools. So we launched a technology toolkit that allows anyone to connect to one of the most broadly used media technology platforms in the world simply and easily. The initial response had been overwhelming with hundreds of companies wanting to use this capability to connect to our platform and integrate more seamlessly.

Now, we've recently revealed the first set of certified partners who have leveraged this connectivity integration to seamlessly join the platform and make their products available in the Avid Marketplace using the Connectivity Toolkit. So now customers can make technology decisions knowing that these partners are already integrated with Avid's products and enjoying the benefits of that shared MediaCentral Platform without having to pay for expensive and cumbersome interfaces.

In fact, the vendors that are connected to the platform can take advantage of that Avid Resolution Independence that I just described earlier. That's solving their own resolution issues, again, by sharing the capabilities of a common platform. And for Avid, it allows us to participate much more broadly across the workflow to clearly demonstrate the value proposition and to extend our product offerings to include those of our partners in a efficient and highly repeatable manner.

So, we've made all kinds of other product announcements. They're too numerous to mention, but I did want to mention – touch on one last item, which is on our services side. Our Global Services organization unveiled the Avid Advantage, which is setting a new standard for services in our industry. Digital media technology services is around a $21 billion market and growing. And in fact, we are seeing more and more clients proactively look to us to support them in maximizing their workflow productivity because we have such a comprehensive suite. And in some cases, they actually want us to manage their infrastructure for them.

So, with the strategic nature of Avid Everywhere vision, we're seeing larger and more complex discussions with clients who are looking for services that complement our product suite, and we see this as one more opportunity to deepen relationship with customers and better access a large and growing market.

All right. So, let me give you just a couple of examples. We think that value proposition is probably best told through examples of how our customers are using our products to solve their most painful issues while driving more meaningful participation across their workflow. And we're excited that the units that I talked about, the adoption is very broad and deep adoption in almost every part of the world, from Brazil to Qatar, to New Zealand, to Chad, to Korea, to Kurdistan. And it's really across all segments, broadcast station groups, film, audio, et cetera. I mean, we're talking about customers like Al Jazeera, Sinclair Broadcast, ITV, Grupo Televisa down in Latin America, MBC, TV Globo, all of these clients have adopted major components of Avid Everywhere.

And so, let me give you a couple of examples real quick. So, let's take dock10. dock10 is a leading European media service provider of cutting-edge content creation, management, and distribution services. And they run what many consider the most technically advanced, high-definition production facility in Europe, that's why I mention them.

They've implemented a fully integrated end-to-end workflow, all focused on the MediaCentral Platform. The new Avid workflow covers the entire content lifecycle from studio to post-production, all the way to archive and distribution, just what we talked about with Avid Everywhere, because this enables dock10 to greatly extend the reach of their business by allowing collaboration with geographically dispersed teams via the cloud, all working in real time on projects that are housed in their highly resilient, secure and protected UK headquarters.

Let me give you one more example. Closer to home here, CBS News, they're adopting Avid Everywhere to fuel their upcoming CBS Interactive project, a much talked about next-generation project, Web streaming channel that will produce original content and repurpose existing content to fill a 24-hour interactive news channel. Now, CBS News has adopted the Avid MediaCentral Platform for ingest and playout news production, remote collaboration and content distribution across multiple social media and online video platforms such as Brightcove, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook, all using Avid Everywhere. These customer success stories demonstrate, we think, the opportunity for Avid as more and more media enterprise and professionals get on the platform.

Now, as many of you know, we service some of the largest media companies and most renowned creative professionals in the industry mostly for broadcast video and audio, but we also have a pretty strong client base in both government and education. Now, the Avid Everywhere approach allows each of these groups to tailor the offering for their unique needs in a much more efficient way. But I wanted to touch on some of the advantages Avid has.

You see some of the major advantages that we offer include a comprehensive suite that extends well beyond linear editing. It includes creative tools for audio, for songwriting, for broadcast, for video, in addition, providing tools to help with distribution, asset management, production management and a wide range [ph] of storage (22:07) options. With our MediaCentral Platform and applications such as Media Composer and Pro Tools to be offered through both on-prem and out – and cloud basis, we think we're very well positioned to participate in that growth.

All right. So, hopefully, you found this update helpful and share our excitement over the economic opportunity ahead of us. We're very pleased to be current with the SEC reporting and look forward to trading on NASDAQ again here in the near future. You can see that we've been making progress on our transformation strategy and pleased that it's showing up in our results.

The increasing guidance for adjusted EBITDA is a reflection of the acceptance of our strategy in the market. And despite the results so far, we are still very early in our journey in solving the industry's most important issues, leveraging our brand and distribution in a way that we think will create higher growth and higher profits.

Now, I'd like to thank again our investors for their patience and support. Since we had our first business update call about a month ago, we've had a chance to talk with many of you and are genuinely appreciative of the support and great feedback we have received. We look forward to continuing these discussions in person in the coming months. And in fact, we're planning on embarking on a comprehensive and intensive schedule of one-on-one and small group meetings to make a more direct connection with you and share our vision for the industry and Avid's opportunity for value creation.

All right. With that, I'd like to introduce John Frederick, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer, to review more detailed financial results. John?

Thank you, Louis. As you can imagine, we're pleased to have filed our second quarter results and now be current with our ongoing SEC requirements. The team has been working extremely hard to get to this significant milestone and we look forward to moving forward in a more normal cadence of financial reporting. I'd also like to echo Louis's comments and thank the investor community for their patience and support throughout this process.

So, before I discuss the results, I wanted to touch on the status of our NASDAQ listing. On October 8, we filed our application for relisting on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange. Since this is a NASDAQ process, we can't provide definitive time frames for conclusion, but we do believe that we could be relisted before the end of the year.

Turning to the business, we talked a lot about our strategic vision and about our three-phased operating transformation designed to create value through both growth and efficiency. Because there's so much happening in a relatively short period of time, it's important to identify the right metrics to accurately measure performance.

On our last call, we discussed how bookings, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow were all effective measures to gauge our performance. We believe that our Q2 results demonstrates a good progress. Bookings for the second quarter were $128 million, a 6% increase over the same quarter last year, and the fourth consecutive quarter of growth.

On a trailing 12-month basis, bookings increased about 4% annually. It's good to see that bookings have stabilized over the past few quarters and, in fact, we've seen above-market growth rates in these product lines that are central to the Avid Everywhere framework.

This growth has been muted somewhat by a number of product lines which we've deemphasized as they were low in low-growth segments or low margin or not strategically relevant in the long term. An example of strategically important product lines includes our platform products. On a unit basis, sales of our platform products in the last 12-month period are more than double the comparable period.

Our solutions are designed to address some of the most intense industry pain points with platform sales are relatively small but an absolutely key anchor component of our overall solution sale. Outside of the platform, which is usually about 8% to 10% of our total deal value, the typical deal includes many of our other products like editors, media, ingest, playout servers and storage, the deal size can be comparatively large. In fact, the larger and larger portion of our overall bookings are generated from transactions that include the platform.

In Q2, about a third of our bookings came from deals that included the platform, which is up from about 16% in the preceding year. These platform sales not only help fuel current bookings growth, but also serves as an anchor for future cross-selling, which is the major component of our growth strategy. However, larger deal sizes have led to longer sales cycles that is more typical of an enterprise solution sales cycle. This longer sales cycle, coupled recently with the elongation of the restatement, has added to bookings variability.

Adjusted EBITDA was $10.7 million for Q2 and about $30.7 million for the first half of 2014 and approximately $70.1 million on an LTM basis. As we see growth from higher-margin products and continued cost improvements, we've gained more confidence in our view of 2014 estimated adjusted EBITDA. We continue to believe that 2014 establishes an adjusted EBITDA floor from which we can expect to improve.

Free cash flow was a positive $2.7 million as compared to a use of $2.7 million in the same quarter last year and up significantly from the first quarter 2014 free cash flow use of $14 million. Contributing to both positive adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow results was a continued decline in operating expenses.

As a demonstration of our operational efficiency, second quarter non-GAAP operating expense was down sequentially and year-over-year by about 2%. As Louis discussed, we also believe there are some key, additional key operational metrics that will translate directly into value creation, namely, platform unit sales, ACA member growth and subscription adoption.

We believe it's important for us to measure platform sales as it informs us about our ability to deeper penetrate our customers' wallet. While important, and it's still a little premature to disclose subscription metrics since we launched it late in Q2, and we anticipate sharing our progress on this once we have a few more data points behind us.

All of these financial and operational data points correlate to the success of our initiatives and reflect the hard work of the team over the past 18 months to move beyond this first phase of our operating transformation. So, I'll now shift to our operating results on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.

As a reminder, the tables in our press release provide a description and reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results. As we discussed in some detail during our last call, the impact of the burn down of pre-2011 deferred revenue was meaningful. In the second quarter, we had approximately $24 million of revenue from pre-2011 transactions down from $31 million in the second quarter of 2013.

This $7 million decrease can obviously mask the underlying performance for revenue, gross margin as well as operating performance. Revenue for the second quarter of 2014 was $124.6 million as compared to $141.3 million from the second quarter last year. This year-over-year decline is attributable to the pre-2011 revenue burn down and the timing of revenue recognition related to certain transactions that shifted to the third quarter.

For the second quarter of 2014, GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin were 59.5% and 59.7%, respectively, compared to GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins of 61.2% and 61.7%, respectively, in the same period last year. The decline primarily related to the lower pre-2011 revenue amortization, although we did see an improvement in our direct product margins on bookings on a year-over-year basis and expect that trend to continue as we experience higher growth in some of our more profitable product lines.

GAAP operating expenses were $76.6 million, essentially unchanged from the same period in 2013. Second quarter GAAP operating expenses included approximately $6.7 million of restatement-related expenses.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $67.7 million in the second quarter of 2014, as compared to $69.1 million in 2013. This decline in non-GAAP operating expenses is attributable to savings resulting from operational initiatives primarily related to lower head count and personnel costs, as well as cost savings generated by our efforts on managing indirect procurement. So, as an example, our companywide travel and entertainment expenses were down about 12% for the second quarter as compared to the prior year.

Partially offsetting this reduction was an increase in marketing costs related to the Avid Connect event just prior to NAB. If you remember, this was our first Avid Customer Association or ACA event at which we launched Avid Everywhere. As we've mentioned before, ACA is one of our strategic pillars and a key area for growth for us.

For the second quarter of 2014, non-GAAP operating profit was $6.7 million as compared to $18.2 million in the same period in 2013. On a year-to-date basis through June 30, 2014, non-GAAP operating profit was $22 million, as compared to $32 million in the first half of 2013. I note that the $10 million decline in the first half non-GAAP operating income includes $50 million less of pre-2011 deferred revenue amortization.

So, next, I'd like to turn to the balance sheet. At June 30, 2014, our cash balance was $23 million, with $5 million drawn on our credit facility for working capital purposes. We expect to repay all amounts under our credit facility during the fourth quarter of 2014. Restatement-related payments continue to impact our cash balance and we expect about another $14 million to $16 million of these payments from June 30, 2014, forward. The majority of these payments will occur in 2014, but there could be some residual payments that carry over into the first quarter of 2015.

Accounts receivable as of June 30 was $49 million, representing a DSO of approximately 36 days, which compares to a DSO of 39 days in the first quarter. It's important to note that until the amortization of pre-2011 revenue dissipates, changes in DSO may not be representative of working capital management effectiveness.

Inventory at the second quarter was $55 million, which reflects a reduction of over $5 million from the end of 2013 and approximately $8.5 million from the same point last year. Our inventory continues to trend down as we improve our sales forecasting process and become more efficient with our supply chain. Our annualized inventory turns for the second quarter were 3.7 turns as compared to 3.4 turns in the same period last year.

Deferred revenue as of June 30, 2014, was $430 million, which compares to $467 million at the end of 2013 and $514 million at the end of June 30 last year. Deferred revenue was lower due to the amortization of pre-2011 transactions, masking growth for more recent sales activities. In fact, our deferred revenue balance at June 30 included $126 million related to pre-2011 revenue as compared to $150 million at March 30 and $176 million at December 31, 2013.

Backlog as of June 30, 2014, was $543 million as compared to $559 million at the end of 2013. After normalizing for the impact of the pre-2011 deferred revenue, backlog of $470 million increased by $34 million or 9% from the end of the 2013. In addition to the three metrics we discussed earlier, we believe the backlog is another positive indicator reflecting our improved revenue visibility.

So now that we've discussed our progress through Q2, I'll provide some updated guidance for the full-year 2014. Specifically, adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in a range of $64 million to $72 million or approximately 12% to 13% of revenue, up from $58 million to $65 million prior – which represents our prior guidance. We continue to believe that this margin represents a floor from which we can continue to improve over time.

Annual bookings are expected to grow between zero and 3% as compared to the point estimate of 3% growth we previously shared. And we expect free cash flow generation to be in a range of $15 million to $20 million as compared to the point estimate of $20 million in our last update.

The increase in guidance for adjusted EBITDA really is just a reflection of our improved expectations of bookings conversion to revenue and from higher product margins and continued cost reduction realization for the remainder of the year.

These updates to our bookings and cash flow guidance reflect a few learnings. First, as Louis mentioned earlier, growth in our newer higher margin products is accelerating and contributing more to the bottom line. However, as we rationalize our product portfolio and deemphasize less profitable product, it's having a temporary drag on our overall bookings growth.

In fact, and as we become more strategically relevant to our customers by providing solutions that address some of the industry's most intense pain points, average deal sizes increase, and the selling cycle now is more like a traditional enterprise selling cycle, thus, longer and has more period-to-period variability. This combined with the elongation of the restatement began to have a more meaningful impact on certain deals as customers were deferring decisions until we either filed the restatement, became current with our filings or were successfully relisted on NASDAQ.

As we've successfully achieved two of these three milestones and expect to be trading on NASDAQ again by the end of the year, we therefore anticipate that this is a temporary phenomenon and won't impact our long-term growth outlook. It's also noteworthy that revenue on the larger deals often is deferred until certain milestones are achieved. So, it doesn't have as much of an effect on Q4 adjusted EBITDA. As we see a trend towards larger deals becoming more prevalent, we feel it's prudent to reflect some of this variability into our bookings and free cash flow guidance.

I'll briefly touch on some other updates to guidance that support our three primary metrics. Due to improved bookings conversion to revenue, we now expect that 2014 revenue to be down 3% to 5% from last year compared to the 5% point estimate that we provided in our previous guidance. We also expect that non-GAAP gross margins to be between 59% and 60% due to accelerated growth in our higher-margin products.

Our non-GAAP operating expense guidance remains unchanged at $265 million to $275 million; however, we expect to be trending towards the lower end of that range. We expect our GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments to be approximately $26 million to $30 million, unchanged from our prior estimate. As a reminder, these items are associated with costs around the restatement, restructuring expenses, stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles and related tax adjustments.

As we approach 2015, we expect continued execution of our transformational strategy and further operational improvements to transfer into increased bookings and higher adjusted EBITDA margins. As I mentioned earlier, we've enjoyed talking with many of our investors and we really received some great feedback including the desire for more direct interaction with the management team.

And as you heard Louis say, we currently believe the most meaningful approach to engaging with the investment community is really through individual and small group meetings. And as a result, we've decided to refocus our efforts on these sorts of meetings so our investors can get to know us more personally. So we'll be setting out on the road later this fall. Consequently, we're going to defer plans to host an Investor Day until 2015.

With that, I'll turn it back to Louis for some closing remarks.

Great. Thanks, John. Well, as we enter the last quarter of 2014, we're pleased with the progress to date on executing our strategy, and we think that lays a solid foundation for future growth. We believe that our sharp focus on sustainable growth and efficient cost structure and disciplined investment in our businesses on those areas to provide the highest return on capital, combined with the company's transformational approach to succeed in the evolving competitive landscape, offer a unique and compelling value creation opportunity. You could imagine we're pretty happy to be current on the SEC filings and look forward to trading on NASDAQ in the near future. The increased guidance on adjusted EBITDA also represents what we believe to be a floor and provides strong value opportunities going forward.

So, on behalf of the entire Avid management team, thank you again for your support and we look forward to talking to you again soon. And at this time, we'll be happy to take questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Buzz Zaino with Royce & Associates.

Good afternoon. Could you help us out a little bit with the recognition of revenue, especially as we're going to define bookings and backlog on the new ways that you reflect your revenue?

So, really, the key change between historical accounting methods and the current accounting methods really ends up in the – it really ends up being that we're deferring revenue and recognizing it on an amortizing basis over the period of service that we're providing to our customers. It's a differently – there is roughly, say, 70% of our products that we recognize today like we did under the old model, and about 30% of our revenue is being deferred and amortized generally over a fairly extended period of time, say, anywhere between, say, 18 months as much as seven years.

Okay. Secondly, when would you be reporting third quarter numbers?

So we anticipate that we're going to be filing our third quarter results on a current basis. That basically means that we'll likely take advantage of the five-day automatic extension under 12b-25. So, essentially, we'll be on time and getting back to a normal reporting cadence.

Okay. And as you look at your growth going forward, your cash is much diminished. How are you ranging your banking facilities?

So, as you may have heard me mention earlier, we expect to be fully paid off on our revolver before the end of the year. The real drag on cash over the past 18 months has been restatement-related costs, they've been pretty substantial. We expect that the total costs associated with the restatement to be, give or take, roughly around $45 million. So you can imagine the impact on cash.

Okay. Lastly, I may have understood or misunderstood your comment on your EBITDA for the year, you suggested that would be a floor and that would then for – you would deduct from that, that you would expect next year to be higher than that number?

Yeah. So we expect that our EBITDA margins to really be a floor and really be something that we can grow on a – grow off that. So that's kind of a 12% to 13% roughly EBITDA as a percentage of revenue floor. The good news is as we've been selling more the platform-related products, margins have been higher, and that really adds to our confidence on the go forward to be – to really set that EBITDA floor around that range.

But, yeah, Buzz, just more directly, you understood that correctly.

Okay.

Expect that to be the floor, and based on what we've seen so far in the mix and the other things we've talked about, we think there is upside to that.

Yeah. Thank you.

And next will be Russell Lynde with Park West.

Hi, can you hear me?

Yes.

I'm clear, Russell.

Hi. Hey, how are you? Just following on the previous line of questioning, so I think you've said you expect your EBITDA margin this year to be 13%, and that includes $92 million of basically 100% margin revenue from pre-2011. Is that correct?

Yes.

So, to keep margin flat, you need to at least keep up with the decline in that amortization, correct?

That's correct. So, the burn down, the incremental burn down is, say, give or take $30 million. And we've been – as you've seen, we've improved bookings, and the bookings that we're – where we're seeing growth are in places where we have higher margins with prints and software.

Right. Right. So, in other words, I think next year you have a $24 million headwind or something like that on a year-over-year basis from that burn down?

Yes. It's a little bit higher, but it sounds – it's about right.

Okay. So you have to – EBITDA has to grow by – well, yeah, I mean, EBITDA has to grow by at least that much for you to have flat margins essentially?

Yeah. So, essentially, we'd expect through the end of this year revenue to be slightly down and our EBITDA margins as a percentage of revenue to be around 12% to 13%. We expect that to continue into 2015.

But EBITDA margins have to be a lot higher next year for EBTIDA to be flat, because revenue is going to be down?

No. So we're saying that EBITDA margins set the floor.

Okay.

Not EBITDA, not absolute. Yeah.

Got you. EBITDA margins [indiscernible] (46:03). Okay. And then my other question is you guys raised at the midpoint your EBITDA guidance for this year, $6.5 million, but lowered your cash flow at the midpoint by $2.5 million. Can you just help us bridge what's going on there?

Sure. It's a great question. So we're – first of all, we're pretty pleased to see the better conversion of bookings in the revenue and we're certainly happy with the higher margins related to the platform products and lower costs. So that's helped fuel our confidence around the EBITDA guidance.

But as you can imagine, one of the things that impacts cash is going to be bookings and the timing of bookings. And as the selling cycle has elongated and has – it's been impacted by the restatement, we've revised our bookings guidance to 0% to 3%. And so what you can reasonably expect is timing of bookings has an impact on cash flow, which is why EBITDA is higher and cash flow is slightly lower

But better margins and faster revenue recognition should have an impact on cash flow as well, right?

Yeah. Also bear in mind that our revenue recognition model is impacted by the rolling of deferred revenue. So, at least as we sit here today, EBITDA isn't as direct of a cash flow predictor as bookings is.

Got you. Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

You're welcome.

Thanks, Russell.

Thank you. That does conclude the question-and-answer session. I'll now turn the conference back over to Mr. Fitzsimmons for any additional or closing remarks.

Well, thank you all for joining today's call and we look forward to speaking to you soon. Thank you.

Thank you. That does conclude today's conference. We do thank you for your participation today.