Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Roose — Director-Corporate Development & Strategic Planning, Avid Technology, Inc.
Louis Hernandez, Jr. — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Avid Technology, Inc.
Ilan Sidi — Vice President of Human Resources & Interim Chief Financial Officer, Avid Technology, Inc.
Steven Frankel — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Hamed Khorsand — Founder, President & Chief Compliance Officer, BWS Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Avid Quarter Three 2016 Business Update. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Director of Investor Relations, Robert Roose. Please go ahead, sir.

Good afternoon. I'm Robert Roose, Director of Investor Relations at Avid Technology. Welcome to our Q3 2016 earnings call. With me today are Louis Hernandez, Jr., Avid's Chairman, CEO and President; and Ilan Sidi, Avid's Interim Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Human Resources.

Slide 3, non-GAAP measures. On our call today, we'll be using both non-GAAP measures and certain operational metrics, both of which are defined in our Form 8-K and supplemental financial and operational datasheet available on our Investor Relations webpage. These non-GAAP measures are also reconciled with GAAP measures in the slide deck that accompanies this call, the tables to our press release and in the supplemental financial and operational datasheet.

Slide 4, I would also like to remind you that certain statements made on this call are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities laws such as, for example, statements about expected future operating results and financial performance and the progress of our transformation. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. Any forward-looking information relayed on this call speaks only as of this date and we undertake no obligation to update the information, except as required by law.

For additional information, including a discussion of the key risks and uncertainties associated with these forward-looking statements, please see Forward-Looking Statements section of our press release issued today as well as the Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements sections of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be filed with the SEC today, November 9, 2016. Copies of these filings are available from the SEC, the Avid Technology website and our Investor Relations department. We've also added a supplemental presentation in an effort to complement today's narrative. We hope that you will find that helpful.

We'll be recording today's call, which will be made available for a two-week replay. You may replay this conference call and access the supplemental presentation by going on the Investor Relations page of our website and clicking the Events & Presentations tab. Later, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.

Next slide, and now, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Louis Hernandez, Jr. Louis?

Thank you, Robert. Hello, everyone. I'm on page 6 now on the presentation. The company produced mixed results for the quarter achieving guidance on operating expenses, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted free cash flow while below guidance for bookings and revenue.

Operating expenses improved as a result of the continued execution of our efficiency program, which benefits from the single platform approach. Operating expenses declined around $10 million on a year-over-year basis.

Despite revenues coming in slightly below guidance, adjusted EBITDA met guidance on the strengths of the efficiency program execution. Adjusted free cash flow met guidance, improving $28 million sequentially due to the cash impact of the prior efficiency efforts and strong cash management despite the booking shortfall.

Gross margins remained relatively flat year-over-year, and if you exclude the pre-2011 revenue amortization impact, they improved about 180 basis points year-over-year. Bookings and revenue were impacted by the transition of our storage product line and ongoing volatility in the enterprise market. The excitement over the new NEXIS storage line initially launched for the non-enterprise market, essentially has frozen the enterprise market, as they deferred normal upgrades and renewals of the existing storage product, until the enterprise level features were delivered for NEXIS. These enterprise level features were delivered in Q3 as expected. However, ongoing storage upgrades and renewal had already been deferred. We expect to rebound in Q4 in this area.

While we continue to sign meaningful enterprise deals, it remains difficult to predict the timing of these deals. I'll provide some additional context to this dynamic shortly. While the transition in our storage suite posed challenges, we saw continued strong growth in key metrics of our Avid Everywhere strategy that continues to resonate with our customers. This included growth in our enterprise users on MediaCentral Platform, which increased 43% year-over-year and the individual cloud enabled subscribers which are up 2.9 times compared to the prior year. Recurring revenue bookings as a percentage of total bookings increased to 39% from 28% a year ago and in the midteens when we started the transformation.

At the same time, we continue to execute on our efficiency programs. We have completed $67 million of the planned $76 million targeted for this year and on track to complete all the actions as expected. These trends continue to position the company for a more diversified revenue stream, allow us to participate in the higher growth areas that we've outlined before, and create higher recurring revenue with a leaner, more directed cost structure.

We're adjusting guidance to account for the storage product transition and continued volatility in the enterprise market. Despite expected improvement in the storage performance in Q4, we don't believe it will be enough to make up for the Q3 shortfall. We do expect a return to a normalized run rate for storage.

We're also further risk-adjusting the timing of large enterprise deals in our guidance, essentially eliminating all but specifically forecasted transactions in our guidance. With three quarters to go, our transformation, we believe, is on track. We're targeting a clear, more predictable financial model with normal conversion of bookings to revenue, revenue to EBITDA, and EBITDA to free cash flow.

We're also planning to move from the end of the transformation to our next phase of growth. Those plans are well underway. And with the platform sufficiently mature with over 40,000 enterprise users at hundreds of major customers, we plan to cloud-enable the entire suite.

As we enter 2017, the shift to growth will be accelerated and we plan to realize additional efficiencies of greater than $30 million. Additional targeted efficiency gains are result of increased benefits of the shared services platform and a focus on growth areas.

The benefits of an enterprise shared services platform is that much of the prior silo-ed development effort can be shared thereby creating scale in previously subscaled product lines. And that allows continued margin expansion and pricing flexibility.

Let's go on now to the next page, next slide. I wanted to briefly remind everyone of why we thought so critical to transform Avid and the strategy that we followed to address the industry's most critical challenges and our customers' greatest needs.

Three years ago, you probably remember, if you're around, that we launched the Avid Everywhere vision. We were in the middle of the restatement at that time and that vision led to the creation of the MediaCentral Platform strategy. Now if you look at the slide here in the upper left, the idea was to take this incredible brand that we have and distribution almost to 140 countries with this category-creating and leading products that we're in the slower growth areas but still very well known in the industry, combine them on to a common services platform or services bus, and then add additional products that allowed us to participate in the higher growth areas and then begin certifying third-party products into our ecosystem.

The goal at the bottom was to expand our addressable market to allow for a greater lifetime value per customer and to begin to target bundling and packaging and pricing by tier, having primarily been focused on Tier 1, opportunistic on Tier 3, mostly resellers in Tier 2, and if you recall, it took us a few quarters to get the Tier 3 going now one of our fastest growing areas.

To the right, the idea was to expand the market, to create new revenue streams, and increase the lifetime value per customer and lower overall costs, therefore driving higher profits and cash flow. In the end, we want to have the best and most comprehensive suite of products for every step in the workflow, from creating to distributing to optimizing where more of the dollars are being shed today. We combine this with MediaCentral, the industry's most open and tightly integrated and efficient platform with flexible pricing and delivery options from on-prem to cloud hosted to license to subscription, all shaped by the preeminent client and user community that's grown from a standing start to around 8,000 members or so.

While we've been going through our changes, the industry of course is undergoing its own changes and we believe that has accelerated, and accelerated in a way that has made our strategy more obvious and in line with what we see clients [ph] going (09:46). However, customer budgets are seeing pressure and the changes are causing folks to reevaluate their overall strategy. I think the good news is the Avid Everywhere strategy we're finding its highly aligned solution set which is why we continue to sign the enterprise deals that we do.

Let's move onto the next slide, you've continued to see progress in some of the key areas underlying the strategy platform sales, as we talked about, up 43% year-over-year. These again are to the largest media companies in the world predominantly. Cloud-based subscriptions and digital sales continue to surge, growing 2.9 times the prior year on cloud-based subscribers, digital sales also up significantly. We mentioned recurring revenue is accelerating and that the efficiency goals are on track.

Let's move on to the next slide, I wanted to spend a minute on the two key drivers of the adjustment to our bookings. You will see on page 9 that while the transition of our storage product impacted the timing of the purchase decisions in Q3, we believe it will be a strong driver of growth for both Q4 and beyond. We've broken this slide into two parts – what exactly has been this transition and the impact and the timeline and how do we think that will impact our go-forward strategy.

Many of you know, we launched our new storage product NEXIS at Avid Connect – some of you were there – before the NAB Conference in April. This was the first version of our next-generation storage solution targeted for non-enterprise users. NEXIS is a state-of-the-art software-defined storage solutions. If you've read about it, it's fully cloud enabled, 300% more dense, 600% more capacity and around 30% cheaper than our prior storage product, something we are really excited about, but we initially launched it only for the non-enterprise user.

NEXIS has been very well praised in the market, having won broad recognition, including the Best of Show Award at NAB, our largest industry conference where thousands of companies exhibit their products. We signed several key deals on this product as well, U.S. basketball team, the Miami Heat, Canadian broadcaster CBC, Church of Latter-day Saints, Italian digital satellite television platform Sky Italia and many others.

During the third quarter, what happened with some enterprise clients deferred certain upgrades and renewals, purchase of our existing products, which is what we had expected to happen as they waited for the release of the enterprise-class NEXIS offering. This was delivered in late Q3 as we expected, and we expect it to drive improved growth in Q4. But we're still about two quarters behind on our total storage from what we expected because of this disruption.

Our enterprise clients had initially expressed skepticism of moving to a new and unproven platform, in fact asked for our commitments to continue to offer the prior storage offering even after the enterprise class functionality became available. I think what happened was the excitement over NEXIS caused more interest than we expected at the enterprise level, and thus the delays in the ongoing renewals and upgrades, as they decided to wait for the NEXIS Enterprise version to be available.

We do not believe we are losing these customers in the storage area. Because of the integrated nature of storage with our other products, we would have to be made aware of clients who are shifting to competitive products because of required integration. That integration is highly proprietary and not only have we not received such notification. Beyond the normal run rate, we believe there's pent-up demand building due to the increased level of content being created in our clients. We see no change in the targeted market size for this opportunity.

Let's move on to the second major component of why we decided to adjust our guidance. And this has to do with the enterprise market and the large opportunities that we're pursuing today. Large enterprise deals represent a very attractive opportunity but they are hard to predict, and it's something that is increasing interest by our clients that we're in several discussions today. The volatility in the enterprise market also impacted the bookings. While we signed several important enterprise deals – which I'll discuss here in a moment – the timing of these transactions remains very hard to predict. While we believe that it's potential upside from a number of large enterprise deals in the pipeline, we have decided to de-risk our guidance by applying a much heavier risk adjustment to many of these opportunities.

We believe the industry's transition is moving in our favor of this strategy and, as an organization, we need to respond by creating better alignment to serve this market and this type of deals, formalizing things like enterprise licensing strategies, so it doesn't have to be negotiated on a one-off basis, augmenting our go-to-market strategy, improving our deployment and delivery for large enterprise accounts [ph] so we can – pricing's (14:47) quicker for the services end, and we're also answering the demand to deploy more of our solutions in the cloud.

Let's move on now to some examples of some of these enterprise strategies at work. Let's take a couple of minutes here on the Rio Olympics. I was very proud in the third quarter to be able to attend the Olympics, along with several of our staff and [ph] has serviced its (15:11) capacity. It was really inspiring and not – the athletes, it was the amazing community that worked night and day there for six to 12 months to bring the story to their communities.

We were in the IBC with the rest of the broadcasters working around the clock to make sure that the story was told around the world. Over 25 broadcasters used Avid as their core component for their content production workflows to cover the games. Every aspect of Avid's product was represented. In fact, it was the ninth consecutive time that NBC and Avid had a partnership beginning with the 2000 Games in Sydney.

Now the interesting thing is everything was on display there from the six or so folks who were running the Cuban delegation, two channels 24x7 with no backup, team to NBC which was the largest and, I think, NBC really encapsulated the challenge of the industry, Dave Mazza and Darryl Jefferson did an unbelievable job of bringing this to life. But what they had to do was they reduced their staff significantly on the heritage linear television side where the revenue model is very proven and lucrative, however the viewership is dropping – and they knew that. They invested quite heavily in additional staff on the digital side where they had almost 100 million unique users, quite a significant improvement, but that's a less proven or less attractive economic model. Luckily they had XFINITY and saw subscriber growth.

And this is the transition the industry is going through. How do we shift from a proven economic model to the future way to access the audience in a less proven or less attractive model, also probably suppressed somewhat by digital-only players who are currently rewarded by acquisition of viewers, not monetization. And that's the challenge that many of our clients have and, of course, we also have clients like Netflix and Hulu, which actually use us to a larger degree, which we see they don't have to make that kind of adjustment; they're just capitalizing on the distribution.

So this navigation, I think, reflects the challenge that the folks have but NBC did an outstanding job with their transition. They actually had every minute – every second of the Olympics was available digitally online. It's incredible experience. And that's an example of the products that were on display. They use MediaCentral Platform and the MAM system enterprise-wide using Avid Everywhere as the centerpiece to their entire technology stack.

Let's move on to the next slide, few other enterprise deals, I'll just mention a couple. RTL, you may know is a huge pan-EMEA customer of ours, 59 television stations, 31 radio stations in 10 countries, billions in revenue and this deal included an upgrade to the platform, entire news and extended support agreement. RTVE, Spain's state owned public broadcaster, a very large client also, bought into the platform, did some significant upgrades in expanding their news operations. So, those are just a couple of examples, I'll keep moving on.

I also wanted to announce or highlight something else that happened in the quarter. We announced the first Avid Cloud Managed Services Partner, and you may know dock10, established to help the UK Government move media assets and technology and infrastructure from London up to Manchester, has been extremely successful and they are the first authorized certified reseller of Avid's entire platform in the cloud. It's early days but this is the sign of things to come when you think about what's next for Avid.

So, those are some of the highlights for the quarter. And before I turn it over to Ilan to go over to the financial results and the guidance, I wanted to update you quickly on the CFO search. We've continued to see some incredible candidates. I'm cautiously optimistic we'll be able to fill this role before too long. We're in late stages with several very qualified candidates and they're coming at the right time, because towards the end of the transformation, I think they're going to have a huge – they see a huge economic upside if we can deliver on our plan. So, the good news is Ilan, whom I'm going to turn it over to, as you know has a strong financial and operational background. He was a public company CFO before and, as a result, we've had the ability to take our time and really find the best person for the job, and we believe we'll be able to find that person and announce them before too long here.

So with that, let me turn it over to Ilan. Ilan?

Thank you, Louis, and good afternoon, everyone. Please turn to slide 15 for an overview of our financial performance for the third quarter of 2016. As Louis mentioned, our third quarter non-GAAP operating expenses, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted free cash flow were in line with guidance while bookings and revenue were below the guidance range.

I now will review our key financial metrics for the quarter. Bookings for the quarter came in at $94.8 million on a constant currency basis and $89.5 million on as-reported basis, which was below our guidance range and down year-on-year. Bookings were impacted by the product transitions in our storage business and continued volatility in the enterprise market. This volatility in our large deals for storage and other enterprise products impacted our bookings growth which in turn impacts revenue and adjusted EBITDA. However, we continue to see strength in booking related to our cloud-enabled subscription and other digital channel, which Louis mentioned before. I'll give you more color on bookings in a moment.

Non-GAAP revenues were $119 million for the third quarter, which was below the low end of the guidance range by $1 million or a bit less than 1%, were down year-on-year by $18.4 million or 13%. Of the $18.4 million year-on-year decline, $8 million was related to lower pre-2011 revenue amortization and an additional $3 million was related to the elimination of free support for our Media Composer and Pro Tools software, which was started in Q3 2015. Sequentially, Q3 non-GAAP revenue was down $15.4 million, represent an 11% decline. Of the $15.4 million, $5 million of this drop is related to revenue amortization decline for elimination of free software support and lower pre-2011 revenue. While these declines were expected, the relatively modest missed revenue from guidance was due to lower storage bookings and the changing mix of bookings to recurring revenue. As more bookings shift to recurring revenue, it creates a short-term headwind on revenue but over time will make the business much more predictable.

Our non-GAAP gross margin as a percent of revenue was 65.1%, which is down 30 basis points year-on-year and down 200 basis points sequentially. If you normalize for impact of the pre-2011 revenue amortization, our gross margin as a percent of revenue improved by about 180 basis points year-on-year which we view as relatively strong performance. Non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $58.4 million which was within our guidance range. Our non-GAAP operating expense decreased almost $10 million year-on-year and over $6 million sequentially.

As a reminder, an important goal of our transformation was to create a leaner, more scalable cost structure. As we continue to expand the scale of our platform, it enables more opportunities for talent alignment, facilities rationalization and improved product profitability. As I will discuss in a moment, we are scheduled to execute the majority of the $76 million efficiency gains we have identified by yearend. And we believe we can realize an additional $30 million or more of annualized cost savings starting in 2017 as a result of our shared platform approach.

Adjusted EBITDA of $22.9 million was within the guidance range for the quarter and was down year-on-year and sequentially. As we expected, adjusted EBITDA for both on year-on-year and sequential perspective was adversely impacted by the drop in revenue amortization related to pre-2011 revenue and elimination of free support for our Media Composer and Pro Tools software, which had adverse revenue impact of $11 million and $5 million, respectively.

Adjusted free cash flow was a use of $2.6 million which was within our guidance range and was a dramatic improvement from the $30 million free cash flow use in the second quarter of 2016. The sequential improvement was driven by continued cost efficiency, seasonal spending and improved collections. On year-on-year basis, the improvement in free cash flow was largely driven by lower spending associated with our cost efficiency program. And despite the slowness in storage and enterprise deals, we were able to achieve a 75% reduction in our adjusted free cash flow year-on-year.

And now, I want to provide a bit more color on booking performance for the quarter. Q3 bookings for the quarter were approximately 10% below our guidance range and were down year-on-year and sequentially. We continue to see strength in our Tier 3 business and our direct digital channel performance well up 13% year-over-year. And the move to cloud-enabled subscriptions remained strong with over 50,000 subscribers at the end of the quarter.

The two most significant challenges for our Q3 bookings were the delay in storage bookings, as we transitioned to a newer product and continued volatility in the enterprise market. We believe many large enterprise customers deferred their normal storage upgrade cycle, anticipating the release of the new storage product. As Louis mentioned, with regards to large storage deals, we don't feel like we are losing orders but that the customers are taking more time in their decision-making process.

It will become very evident if customers were to move to new storage, as this will require more significant integration work with the rest of the product suite. Customer [indiscernible] (25:59) NEXIS. It is a state-of-the-art software-defined storage solution, fully cloud enabled, with higher density and higher capacity at the right price. We expect meaningful sequential improvement in storage booking during the fourth quarter.

The volatility in the enterprise market is related to purchasing decisions that are less predictable, as customers increasingly review and scrutinize their strategy and technology investments in light of the budget pressures and the need to spend on new technology in areas, such as digital distribution. Avid is well positioned to help solve these challenges, and we don't believe we are losing these customers. But customers' evaluation of solutions are taking more time than we have historically experienced.

Similar to our last update, I want to share that we remain on track for $76 million annualized savings goal and believe we move to the last stages of the transformation. We will be able to implement meaningful additional cost savings. These additional savings could exceed $30 million on an annualized basis and would include continued talent alignment and additional opportunities to rationalize facilities as we continue to realize the full benefit of the shared platform strategy. The benefit of enterprise shared services platform is that much of the prior silo-ed development effort can be shared thereby create the scale in previously subscaled product lines, allowing continued margin expansion and pricing flexibility.

As a reminder, these savings are relative to our run rate from mid-2015. We have already implemented $67 million of the annualized savings or almost 90% of the $76 million target, as a result of the actions we have taken through September 2016. We are on target to implement most of the remaining efficiency gains related to the $76 million program in Q4, so that the cost savings will be largely reflecting our full year 2017 results.

As you can see in the non-GAAP operating expense chart, we have made significant progress in lowering our cost structure. Since the cost savings are driven by platform, we have been able to improve our time-to-market and service delivery while lowering the overall cost structure.

Moving to slide 17, I would like to provide an update of some of our balance sheet metrics. At the end of Q3, we had total liquidity of approximately $53 million, including $48 million of cash. Our accounts receivable balance was $40.9 million on September 30, 2016, which was down from the second quarter by about $12 million with higher collections. Our DSO was 31 days at the end of the quarter.

Inventory was up sequentially by $1.7 million to $55.6 million, with an inventory turn ratio of 3.2 times. We have relatively light product shipments in Q3 and expected a meaningful reduction in our inventory levels in the fourth quarter, as we accelerate product shipments, preliminary related to our NEXIS storage and Consoles product lines.

Revenue backlog was $437 million on September 30, 2016, versus the $465 million reported at the end of Q2. Revenue backlog comprised of deferred revenue plus backlog, or firm customer orders we have yet to ship, fulfill or bill. The sequential decrease in revenue backlog was driven by the reduction in our deferred revenue balance of $27 million. Of the sequential decrease, $5 million was related to pre-2011 revenue and the additional $12 million was related to elimination of free software upgrade for Pro Tools.

Our backlog was up $48 million year-on-year to $197.2 million and up about $100 million since the beginning of the transformation. This shows we are advancing toward a more recurrent business model with greater visibility of revenue in future periods.

Our long-term debt at the end of Q3 was $188 million and we are in compliance with the bank covenant. The covenant requires a leverage ratio defined as the ratio of consolidated total funded indebtedness to consolidated trailing 12 months of adjusted EBITDA. This ratio declines over time. The September 30, 2016, required ratio is 5.4-to-1. At the end of the quarter, our actual ratio is 2.1-to-1, so we are well within the covenant. By the end of 2017, the ratio will drop to 3.3-to-1.

As we continue to execute our strategy, we expect to see bookings growth moving forward which, with combined with our additional cost efficiency opportunities, should allow us to stay within the covenant of our debt.

As we discussed, due to slower than expected bookings in storage product line and volatility in the enterprise market, we have updated our guidance for the full year. However, let me start with guidance for the fourth quarter. On slide 18, we have presented our Q4 2016 financial guidance. We expect bookings on a constant currency basis to be between $115 million and $145 million as compared to the $95 million that we reported in Q3. We expect bookings to increase $18 million to $48 million sequentially to between $107 million and $137 million or 20% to 53% on as-reported basis, as compared to the $90 million in Q3 2015. I'd also remind you that $201 million of bookings in the fourth quarter of last year included a very large multi-year booking with Sinclair which makes Q4 a difficult comparison year-on-year.

Non-GAAP revenue is expected to be between $105 million and $120 million as compared to the $119 million reported in Q3. Non-GAAP operating expenses of $56 million to $62 million are expected to be relatively flat sequentially and down approximately 13% to 21% from last year. We expect Q4 2016 adjusted EBITDA to be between $9 million and $16 million as compared to $23 million in Q3 2016 and $17 million reported in the fourth quarter of last year. I would note that if you normalize for pre-2011 revenue and eliminating free support, adjusted EBITDA will be improving both year-on-year and sequentially. Finally, we expect to move towards breakeven for adjusted free cash flow in Q4 with the range of $5 million use to generation of $5 million.

On slide 19, we have provided the full year guidance which is simply year-to-date actual performance plus the Q4 guidance I just provided. We have lowered our full year guidance for bookings for 2016 to reflect the storage product transition and continued volatility in the enterprise market. We have also taken a more conservative view of the number of enterprise deals, which we'll close in Q4.

Constant currency bookings are expected to be between $415 million and $445 million as compared to $562 million that we reported in 2015. On an as-reported basis, bookings range is expected to be between $391 million and $421 million, as compared to $538 million in 2015. The reduction in bookings guidance also impacts our guidance for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted free cash flow.

Our non-GAAP revenue is expected to be between $502 million and $517 million as compared to the $506 million reported last year. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the year are expected to be in the range of $247 million to $253 million as compared to $270 million (sic) [$272 million] (34:18) we reported in 2015. As a reminder, 2015 expenses only included a half year of Orad.

We expect 216 (sic) [2016] (34:29) adjusted EBITDA to be between $100 million and $107 million, which is about almost double the $55 million we reported in 2015. Finally, we expect free cash flow for 2016 to be use of $37 million to a use of $47 million for the year.

And now, I will turn it back to Louis for some closing remarks.

Thanks, Ilan. Now to wrap things up, I'd like to make a couple of comments about the end of the transformation. First, for the balance of this year, what we're going to be focused on is executing our plans that we've just laid out. This will include leaning into the growth areas that have shown great momentum. We plan to continue to add MediaCentral Platform users, continue to grow our cloud-enabled subscribers and leverage our powerful digital direct distribution, which seems to be going pretty strongly. We'll also continue to execute on our efficiency program, close that out and begin to launch the additional cost saving opportunities that we've identified. While we've signed some important deals in the storage area in NEXIS, our storage business is a couple of quarters behind where we wanted it to be. We've now rolled out the critical solutions for the enterprise customers and we plan to capitalize on that very aggressively.

Given the growing importance of the large enterprise deal opportunity for our business and the complexity of this business, we're dedicated to making adjustments to succeed here, including streamlining our processes, refining our messaging, aligning our organization, formalizing pricing practices and improving service and delivery, so we can convert these large deals more effectively and more predictably.

I'm going to move on to the next slide. We had previously mentioned that we tied the end of our transformation to three primary events which we've gone over with you before. We have completed the roll-off of the non-marketed products. We're about 90% through the announced $76 million efficiency program and the amortization of the pre-2011 revenue will end by the second quarter of 2017, the targeted end of the transformation and it should produce a much clearer view of our financial performance.

Additionally, we're targeting greater than $30 million in additional efficiency opportunities which, together with the other parts of our strategy, should allow us to deliver the diversified more predictable revenue model and standard conversion from bookings to revenue, revenue to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to free cash flow.

In addition to these metrics, which [ph] we've lined out (37:10) for you before, the product maturity is also on track. So if you think about the other piece of the operational strategy, it was so that the Avid Everywhere vision was mature enough to actually then lean into the growth areas, away from our heritage products and really into the areas that are growing more aggressively and lean into those more aggressively. That will require some additional changes organizationally but we believe we're also on track to complete that initial vision. You've seen an uptake in the platform, the applications, the cross-selling, et cetera and the final components of that will be finished, so we can now, concurrent with the end of the transformation, shift to really just trying to sell more of that, more rapidly. And I believe the market is coming towards us in terms of our strategies, so what we need to do is put in a better position to capitalize on those investments that we have made.

The last thing, of course, is that this all results in a more straightforward calculation and conversion to a financial expression, so we think we're on track to doing those things.

Let's move to the last slide now. From a product and technology perspective, I mentioned that we've made tremendous progress on the product side and operational side of our transformation, besides all the organizational changes, the switching out of management team, and all the other things, we have built the most open integrated platform. You've seen the growth on that platform. We've added individual products. We've added certified partner applications, launched the cloud-based subscription and digital services. We've aligned the talent and facilities to match the business opportunities. And these achievements, we think, have positioned us to respond quickly to the markets now that they've demanded more cloud-based solutions. And if you look at what we've done so far, we first launched our cloud-enabled subscription versions just for the Artist Suite, and so the couple of products we've launched for cloud-based subscription is what you're seeing that 2.9% (sic) [2.9x] (39:10) year-over-year increase and that's mostly new users. Now if you think about the opportunity, and there's a lot of companies who put their point solutions in the cloud, we can turn on the entire suite, so you're talking about 10, 20 upwards of 30 different applications all going into the cloud over time, in addition to the platform.

We announced our first Cloud Managed Services Partner who will be the first one to demonstrate the availability of this through a third-party. We also demonstrated and hosted the MediaCentral Platform and all the applications at the IBC conference, overwhelming response for customers and partners there.

The next step of course is to complete that transition, so that our clients can purchase either on-prem, in the cloud, on a license or in subscription across the entire platform. And that would really mark the end of the transformation. From a product perspective, we would simply then try and get as many people in the world to use this platform that we have created. In tandem of course, we're preparing the operational elements to support this growth at launch, including pricing plans, go-to-market, alignment and partnerships. And this is what is possible within reach we think with Avid Everywhere.

Finally, as a wrap-up just to recap the quarter, we met a majority of the guidance metrics but bookings and revenue were below expectations due to the transition of our storage product and continued volatility in the enterprise market. Our key growth initiatives, our indications, the customer adoption of Avid Everywhere, see continued very strong momentum. We've adjusted full year guidance for a couple of reasons: some lost ground on the storage product, as certain enterprise customers held back their normal upgrades and renewals waiting for functionality on the enterprise level which has since been released; and we have greater risk-adjusted the timing of the large enterprise deals.

As we close the end of the transformation, we believe we're on track. We believe we'll be able to deliver an attractive economic model and plan to be ready for full cloud deployment of MediaCentral and total Avid Everywhere suite products and services that will usher in our next phase, thus marking both economically, operationally and from business model perspective, the end of this transformation that started three-and-a-half years ago.

And with that operator, we're happy to entertain questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Steven Frankel of Dougherty.

Steven, are you there?

Mr. Frankel, your line is open.

Louis, can you hear me?

I can hear you now, Steve. We couldn't hear you before.

Okay. Okay. So [ph] lot to unpack (42:24) here. Let's start with the $10 million missed in bookings. Can you parse that between NEXIS delays and enterprise deals that aren't closing?

Sure. Ilan, take it away.

Yeah, sure. And so we're not giving specific guidance by product line. In our Investor Relations datasheet, you have the spread between our – the spilt of our bookings between product and services and you can see that we have less bookings on the product side and it's mainly related to the storage product that we anticipated to have in Q3.

But that's not the question I'm asking. I'm asking, bookings have come in lower and you've lowered bookings guidance. How much of that is due to storage business? How much of that is due to these enterprise deals, so generalized deals slippage? And let's define what you're talking about in enterprise deals. Are these Sinclair like subscription engagements or you're just talking about large direct deals in general?

Yes, Steven. Yes, the change in guidance, two-thirds of it is for these two items: the storage piece, just to be clear on what it is, is we announced NEXIS PRO if you remember for the non-enterprise clients. Enterprise clients expressed that they weren't interested in being the early adopters there. They wanted to see that working for as much as a year, according to our conversations with them. So, we launched NEXIS PRO first, and expected the ongoing renewal and upgrade business for ISIS to continue.

That basically dried up on us, especially as we got close to the launch of NEXIS Enterprise, which got launched in the last month of Q3. And so, we inadvertently froze out that market. Now, those clients couldn't really go anywhere else, if you know the way our technology works, because it would be very difficult to run at separate platform, storage provider with the old ISIS platform. We also would have had to be notified, and we didn't see any such trends.

If you look at the demand we're seeing now for NEXIS Enterprise, we believe we're going to see a bounce back. However, we're not going to make up for the shortfall in Q3. And we continue to expect ISIS orders and renewals in Q4 which we don't think we'll recapture in total. And that was a big piece of the adjustment.

The second big piece making up the two-thirds of the adjustment to the guidance had to do with the enterprise deals. And yes, there's Sinclair-like deals, which we have signed, but we've signed more in the $2 million to $4 million range, as opposed to larger than that which we had expected – or I shouldn't say we expected – where and are possible. We won't sign the size of the deals that we did with Sinclair, mainly because very few people are going to be signing 10-year deals with us, but the annualized run rate is a common discussion going on right now.

Complicating this is a lot of budgets are being compressed because of the transition I described like what NBC Olympics went through, not everybody has the tools that NBC Olympics had to navigate successfully. So you're just seeing a lot more scrutiny over these items. Now the good news is the dollar value is significant, that's also putting under scrutiny but the unit economics is very favorable and few people can offer the unit economics.

So if you think about an enterprise price, if you're paying $1 per seat for Pro Tools and $1 per seat for Media Composer, let's say $20 in that case for 10 users to use both but you have 30 people in your shop, very few people can say, well, why don't we just charge you $15 or $30 in total and everybody can use it. You have to have a platform-type approach in order for that to work successfully and multiple products. And we obviously have, I think, now the broadest, the most complete product offering compared to any competitor that I'm aware of.

We just are not sophisticated yet enough to bundle in price quickly. And that's what I meant we need to commercialize this and have it in the price book. And so right now we're negotiating these one-off and there are several of them going on. And between our delivery and professional services pricing and our overall licensing pricing, to make sure we don't turn a $1 into $0.10 and do the opposite, it just takes longer than we had expected. And on the other side, the clients, these are big contracts, and they're also not used to doing those kind of ideals with us. So those two combined have caused us to significantly de-risk any of those deals. The only deals that are in guidance now are specific ones, that we believe will close this quarter. Everything else, we've essentially taken out of guidance.

Okay. Let me switch gears. You have $5 million of borrowing capacity left, pretty ugly Q4 free cash flow guidance and historically Avid doesn't generate free cash flow till the back half of the year. Is anything changing in the business, so that you could get to cash flow generation in early 2017, or should we assume the business hasn't changed that much yet. So, you're going to kind of bump along with very limited capacity for the next few quarters.

I would say I'm going to take the first shot at it and then I'll let Ilan comment. But the biggest change is there's still a significant amount of the efficiency program that we have already executed that won't start showing up till Q1 and Q2 of 2017. And therefore, your historical models have to factor that in. And I think when you do factor those in, you'll have more comfort in where we might end up. Obviously, that will be laid out in our 2017 guidance. The additional $30-plus-million we've identified is a reflection of the efficiency of the platform and also to give us more comfort that we won't have a covenant issue in the latter half of the year.

And where have head count reductions gone? Where is head count today, where was it a year ago and where might it be by the middle of next year?

Yeah. It's probably down around, Ilan, correct me, around 10% for the year. Is that correct?

Yes, 10%.

Yes, okay. Around 10%. It's been around 60%-plus of changes. So, it felt a lot more dramatic around the company, because we've moved a few hundred people to Asia. We've moved a big chunk of people to Europe. The balance are talent to where the revenues are and also lower in the process are cost structure. And so it's been about a net change of 10%, a big piece of that is it used to be at every silo and you know we are subscaled in many of our product categories now share tools and that just dramatically reduces the cost structure from a development perspective. And also from a service perspective, we're now able to follow the sun and provide a higher level of service at a low cost. So, that's what the head count is.

And I think you'll continue to see, mainly driven by our function – you'll see adjustments in two areas, facilities reduction, there's still more opportunity. The platform as it gets more and more mature, we're basically going up the stack and we want the applications to be very lean and light, especially as we're moving to the cloud and having that cloud option. And I think the third thing is we're increasingly focusing on our higher growth, higher profit products and that's going to be reflected in our cost structure.

Okay. And one more, and then I want Ilan to answer the free cash flow question as well. So this was the third consecutive quarter, if my notes are correct, where you had, in essence, a pull-down of Pro Tools revenue. I remember a discussion last quarter that said that was kind of – Q1 and Q2 was hit, you kind of recognized everything that you were supposed to recognize. Where did this $12 million come from and how many more million are left for future quarters.

Absolutely. Let me have Ilan answer that as well. So, it has come down significantly but, no, it's still – remember that was originally supposed to be over multiple periods and we pulled – because of the accounting we were required to pull it in. But let me let Ilan give you a...

Right. The understanding at the time was you pulled it in and therefore it wasn't going to come down anymore, but, in essence, it's coming down in bigger pieces; rather than being spread over 12 quarters, it's come down in three big chunks, how many more chunks are left?

Correct. You have it right. To summarize, it's getting smaller but let me let Ilan give you an update.

Exactly, so we are going instead of amortize – recognizing this revenue over longer time, we're recognizing this revenue in a shorter time, so that we have a big effect. This effect is going down. In Q3, we recognized around $12 million of revenues related to this and it's going down. In the next quarter, it will go down and 2017 will be much substantially down.

So, how much will that be in Q4?

It will be around $5 million.

Okay. And then, how much is left after the $5 million?

We have but...

Small amount.

....yeah, very small amounts.

A very small amount after that. He's looking at the amount but it's...

Yeah, so it's very small amount.

Okay. So let's go back to the free cash flow question. Given you have $5 million of wiggle room left, what should give us confidence that you can hold free cash flow to less than that for the next couple of quarters?

Yeah. So first, I want to emphasize our guidance for the fourth quarter, is that we are moving towards breakeven of adjusted free cash flow in Q4. And to your question for 2017, so in 2017, we will – going to have more advantages that we didn't see in the past, on the additional cost savings that we had on the $76 million program that we already [ph] shed (52:59) and going to complete till the end of the year. So, we're going to have the full benefit of that starting from 2017.

As we discussed, we are going to have additional efficiency program of at least $30 million annualized savings, and we planned to start that as early as possible in 2017. So we are going to gain from that. And we also anticipate to have the first quarter strong collections given the high bookings, expected high bookings in Q4.

Okay. And do you anticipate that bookings should begin to grow once again in the 2017? It's been a long time other than the Sinclair deal that you've been able to grow bookings on a year-to-year basis, on a reported basis?

Hey, Steve. This is Louis. Yes, we think that the two lines start to inflect right around the transformation time, in terms of bookings growth. And obviously, we're not giving a guidance for 2017 but we do believe that, we will transition to a growth company, which is why I've been using that term. What we're trying to do now is get everything operationally ready, so we can fully capitalize. That means, our go-to-market strategy has to be adjusted, the way we comp people has to be adjusted, our pricing, our structure, whole bunch of things we're working on to get ready for that and that should happen sometime in 2017.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

And we will move next to Hamed Khorsand of BWS Financial.

Hi. I just want to follow up on those questions here. As I know you said commentary about customers not giving you any information about moving off but what are the chances that customers are just not using Avid internally anymore? They're just ordering competition, just letting whatever they have that's Avid related just sit there on their networks.

Yeah. Well, I think, that's low. This is Louis. I'm in the field all the time, and like it or not clients are not afraid sometimes they're gleeful in telling me when they'd move away from us. So, there is not any social, economic or political pressure for people not to tell us what's happening; in fact, sometimes, it's the opposite. If you are using one of our other products, and paying for it, and that's what we're referring to and using storage, and you decided to use another storage you would have to engage us to connect that storage to our other products. And unfortunately or fortunately, on that platform, that's nearly impossible, very difficult. You could decide to shut down all of Avid and be paying us a maintenance still and we would see that you wouldn't be calling us anymore and or engaging with us. And we don't see any of those trends at all.

And so those are the two things. I think with NEXIS, what we misread is that we knew it's very compelling. It's much more dense, it's much more capacity for a lower price – it's fully a software-defined and cloud-enabled which we can demonstrate, and we did demonstrate at IBC. However, our large clients were pretty clear that they're not interested in moving off an extremely stable market-leading product with ISIS anytime soon. And I think the fact is they or we just misread what their interest would be. I frankly think, it's the cost/benefit that drove people to be more interested in NEXIS sooner than they originally told us, because many of my clients – and again I'm in the field pretty constant – are experiencing real compression in their budget. Even after it's been approved for the year, they're coming back and getting – and it's basically reflecting advertising revenue.

Now, if you look at the new clients, let's look at Netflix for instance, one of our larger clients, who uses even higher percentage of our products, they're in a totally different mode. They're in an expansion mode. And there are several digital-only providers who are in expansion mode with us now. And so that's the nice thing about it. We can serve both sides of the equation. In the case of NBC, for example, while they reduced their heritage investment on linear, they increased their digital, that was still with us at the same platform.

So, anyways, that's where we get some of the comfort, and I guess the other comfort [indiscernible] (57:50) I have is, if you knew my clients, they're not afraid – like I said, they're very willing to tell me when we're not doing something wrong and they're always happy to tell me when either threatening to or actually leaving us and that's not what we're seeing here.

I'm just trying to get to the understanding of – there's $120 million of revenue being shaved off the guidance that you provided in Q2. So, that's a lot of revenue and I just can't imagine that was all storage related. So, I'm just trying to understand what were you guys assessing as far as actual or having contracts in place and orders by Q3 and Q4 that just never happened, because it can't just all be storage. Storage was never this kind of big product for you.

Hey, thanks for the question. Yeah, just to clarify, revenue is actually $33 million to I think it's $47 million. I think you were referring to bookings but two-thirds of the adjustment is for storage and is for the large enterprise deals where we had, had that included in the guidance before. So, on the storage side, it really is a pretty simple calculation. We expected the ongoing renewals and upgrades – no new businesses – renewals and upgrades primarily of ISIS to continue up until we had NEXIS Enterprise available, which is available in the third month of Q3.

Even after that, based on the research we have done and our discussions with clients, which has been the numerous, we expected ISIS to continue. In fact, many clients wanted us to guarantee support for some time, because they thought it was too risky. That essentially dried up and now they just want to wait till NEXIS. And we believe you'll see a rebound in Q4, but we don't believe we'll be able to recapture that rebound plus make up for all of Q3 and the continued ISIS we expected in Q4. And that's why – that's the storage component.

On the large enterprise deals, we are still in active negotiations all the time, and I think we make it worse because we don't have a programmatic way for these and we have a lot of these discussions going on. So, as I mentioned earlier, by the end of the year, or by the time we get to the end of the transformation, we really need to have in the price booked fixed pricing for – enterprise pricing for each product. When you bundle a product, you save even more in a unit basis, when you add duration, you save even more. And we're just not there yet, so these are individually complex negotiated deals for a company that is not used to enterprise delivery in the way we're talking about it.

Enterprise, what we're used to is hundreds of Media Composers connected with wires, not an application that connects all the components, and therefore the installation and delivery is more like an IT-based delivery tool with the work [ph] breakdown (01:00:46) structure and normal project management, so we're just adjusting that.

So, those are taking longer, and I think it's made worse by – the clients side has a lot of economic pressure, so they're evaluating. What they like about it is we can, in a large enterprise deal, offer a whole bunch of products at a lower unit costs, so you give a little more to me, you kick out other vendors, but you save more money, just like Sinclair. And we are talking about deals that are the same annual value with Sinclair. It's just usually not as long a duration as Sinclair was. Those are real conversations we're having right now. It's just too hard for us to predict, so we decided to de-risk the entire amount unless they're specifically called out to close this quarter, and essentially eliminating all the upside in our guidance. And those two items represent just over two-thirds of the entire adjustment to our guidance.

Okay. And my last question is given the circumstances around storage and demand you're having, why was it that in the third quarter, you were doing these bundled promotions with NEXIS?

The bundled promotions for NEXIS were on the non-enterprise product. So that was the product that we announced in April. We didn't expect much from that product. It was the low-end product that we really weren't that competitive in historically. We thought it was a good place to start. We thought we'd sell into competitive situations, because it's an open platform. So for instance, if you're using Adobe historically, you couldn't use our storage, now you can with NEXIS PRO [ph] it's called (01:02:20), PRO being for the individual professional or small workgroup, but it is not designed for the large enterprise user.

And so, we're still trying to promote that for that new market for us, which is the low end. Our base business in storage is really at the high-end enterprise piece and that's what we inadvertently froze out for a couple of quarters and it really came to roost in Q3, and I think it's because people heard that was about to hit the market, which it did, it hit in the last month of – actually very towards the end of Q3.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks a lot.

And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Roose for additional or closing remarks. And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.