Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Whit Rappole — Vice President-Corporate Development & Investor Relations, Avid Technology, Inc.
Jeff Rosica — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Avid Technology, Inc.
Kenneth Gayron — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Avid Technology, Inc.
Josh Nichols — Analyst, B. Riley Securities, Inc.
Jack Vander Aarde — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Nehal Sushil Chokshi — Analyst, Northland Capital Markets
Samad Samana — Analyst, Jefferies LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Avid Technology's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. During today's call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Following today's presentation, we will open the floor for questions and instructions will be given at that time.

Now, let me turn the call over to your host for today's call, Whit Rappole, VP of Investor Relations.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for Avid Technologies first quarter 2021 earnings call for the period ending March 31st, 2021.

My name is Whit Rappole, Avid's Vice President for Corporate Development and Investor Relations. With me this afternoon are Jeff Rosica, our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Ken Gayron, our Chief Financial Officer and EVP. In their prepared remarks, Jeff will provide an overview of our business, and then Ken will provide a detailed review of our financial and operating results, followed by time for your questions.

We issued our earnings release earlier this afternoon, and we have prepared a slide presentation that we will refer to on this call. The press release and presentation are currently available on our website at ir.avid.com and a replay of this call will be available on our website for a limited time.

During today's call, management will reference certain non-GAAP financial metrics and operational metrics. In accordance with Regulation G, both the appendix to our earnings release today and our investor website contain a reconciliation of the most closely associated GAAP financial information to these non-GAAP measures, and also definitions for the operational metrics used on this call and in this presentation.

Unless otherwise noted, all figures noted by management during the call are non-GAAP figures, except for revenue, which is always GAAP. In addition, certain statements made during today's presentation contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our comments and answers to your questions on this call as well as the accompanying slide deck may include statements that are forward-looking and that pertain to future results or outcomes.

Actual future results or occurrences may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. For more information, including a discussion of some of the key risks and uncertainties associated with these forward-looking statements, please see our press release issued today and our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO and President, Jeff Rosica, for his remarks.

Thanks, Whit, and thanks to everyone for joining us to review Avid's first quarter results. Overall, we are quite pleased with our progress during the first quarter of 2021 where we returned to year-over-year revenue growth and generated strong improvement in recurring revenue, earnings and free cash flow. At this point we remain optimistic in our outlook for 2021.

Last week, in fact, we spent time with the strategic advisory board of our customer association where we got to hear the many ways that our customers continue to adapt their business priorities and workflows in the current environment to a new normal. These valuable conversations and our first quarter performance reinforced our belief that the gradual market recovery that started in the third quarter of last year will continue into 2021.

The discussions with our customers also suggest that many enterprises will be looking to move to subscription and SaaS solutions or cloud-based workflows over the next few years. Okay. So there's a lot we want to share with all of you today in our prepared remarks. So let's get started.

During the first quarter, we continue to drive growth in our strategic revenue and saw continued strengthening in the end markets of our products and solutions. We work closely with our customers as they adopted more distributed and remote workflows. We are also excited to have return to year-over-year revenue growth in the quarter. Let's talk about a few key areas that contributed to that success.

First is the growth in our subscription revenue including strong performance across our creative tools and the continuation of the recent uptick we're seeing with the adoption of our relatively new enterprise subscription offering. Our enterprise customers' buying habits are a bit seasonal based on a typical budgeting and maintenance renewal cycles. But they are embracing the new business models, which is great to see.

Second our Integrated Solutions business continues to show signs of gradual recovery but remains below pre-pandemic levels. Solutions for individuals are rebounding nicely but large scale purchases by enterprise customers while improving are still yet to fully return to pre-pandemic levels, as many of these customers continue to wait to make some of these investments until they return to their offices or facilities.

Live Sound Solutions are only just starting to show some signs of recovery, as the restrictions on events imposed during the pandemic are starting to lift in some key markets. And third, we significantly improved our year-over-year profitability and free cash flow because of the increase in revenue combined with expanded gross margin, the benefits of the more efficient operations and cost structure, and of course lower interest expense from our recent refinancing.

Now, let me talk about some of the business highlights for the quarter. As I mentioned earlier, we saw continued gradual recovery in our end markets and we even exceeded our own expectations a bit. We are not saying we are at the end of the business impacts from the pandemic, but we are continuing to see more of our customers returning to business as usual and making key investments.

Growth in our subscription business continued to be strong with subscription revenue up more than 78% year-over-year. In our Creative Tools business, we continue to see strong adds in the number of paid subscribers with more than 28,000 net subscription adds in the first quarter. We also benefited this quarter from the continued uptake in the recently launched subscription licensing for enterprise customers. We saw increased adoption across a broad set of enterprises that included broadcasters studios, sports franchises, government institutions, and a major telco. We're also realizing an improved economics from these enterprises including an increase in wallet share from some of our largest customers.

Another trend we began to see is our ability to go into adjacent markets outside of the traditional media entertainment industry where the need for video content production with accompanying media management capabilities is quite strong and was made even more possible by the tighter integration of our MediaCentral platform and Nexus Storage Products with Adobe Premiere Pro.

And finally, during the first quarter we realized the benefits of the more permanent elements of the cost structure improvements and operational efficiency programs that we put in place last year. I'm very pleased with the continued diligence in this area by the entire Avid team, which contributed to the robust free cash flow of more than $11 million in the first quarter and the significant year-over-year improvement in our adjusted EBITDA.

Let me now talk a bit about where we see things going forward from a business perspective. As I mentioned earlier last week we spent some time meeting with dozens of our customers and we also have the opportunity to bring in some young creatives and students to hear directly from them about what they are seeing. I love hearing directly from our customers and users which we call our voice of the customer sessions because it helps us to validate and sharpen our strategic plans as well as offers us direct feedback on the trends our customers are seeing today. We also learn directly what their current requirements are and ultimately better understand where the most attractive market opportunities are for the future. We were encouraged to hear that their views of the market recovery were very aligned with our own expectations of a continued recovery trend for most end markets. They all spoke about issues and challenges they are still having, but for the most part agreed that things are starting to head back to normal. Although it will be a new normal and it will be different than it was before, we expect we'll get back to full production for the TV and film studios and we will see live events coming back as well later this year.

We did hear that the pandemic has accelerated their move to the cloud. And we talked to them specifically about new business models like SaaS and subscription for the Enterprise. From those discussions and other key indicators, we do see the trend continuing as enterprise customers make the transition from perpetual to script and licensing models and from less on-prem infrastructures to more SaaS or cloud-based solutions to support their business requirements.

In early March, we delivered the GA version of our cloud-based editing solution we call Avid Edit On Demand, which had previously only been available as an early access program. Since the launch we've seen good uptake in not only the number of customers but also in the use cases and types of customers that are embracing this new SaaS offering. We saw television studios looking at this tool to be used for new program development and we experienced studios wanting to take advantage of the bursting capabilities that Edit On Demand provides them. So we are quite pleased with the initial increased uptake of this solution and expect that to continue throughout the year.

Our teams will continue to drive new innovations in our SaaS offerings as well as look at new opportunities to solve industry challenges based on new business requirements. What our early adopters have shown us is that we do need to make additional investments in the areas of digital infrastructure and scalable operational processes for a SaaS and cloud-based offerings. So that will be a key area that we will invest in going forward. And our new CTO, Kevin Riley is already working on the plans to make this happen.

We also have a digital transformation initiative underway to address the digital customer experience requirements for today and the future especially as we continue to expand the high growth areas of our business including subscriptions and SaaS as well as continue to lean into our e-commerce and digitally enabled channel go to market to attract the next generation of users and pursue new market opportunities. To support our focus on growth investments for the future, we will be deemphasizing efforts on some of our less profitable areas and reducing our investment in some lower margin products and services primarily impacting the Integrated Solutions part of our business.

Let me end my remarks by saying that we will continue to focus on improving efficiency and maintaining the cost reduction initiatives that we rolled out last year. We believe the new products and features we have recently introduced combined with the operational improvements we have made during the past several quarters positions as well for future growth and improved profitability as we move forward through 2021 and beyond.

So let me now turn the call over to Ken to review more of the financial details. Take it away Ken.

Thank you, Jeff, and good afternoon everyone. Overall we are very pleased with our business and financial results in the first quarter of 2020. Our return to growth driven by robust performance in our subscription business and our growing recurring revenue plus our improving margins and cost structure is resulted in stronger profitability. Our focus for the remainder of 2021 to do drive higher quality recurring revenue and improve the non-recurring portions of the business related to our Integrated Solutions as our end markets continued to gradually recover.

We expect these efforts to result in continued improvement in our key financial metrics including stronger profitability and free cash flow through 2021. With that let's now turn to the details of our first quarter financial results.

We are encouraged by the continued growth of our subscription base, which reached a new high in paid subscriptions. Subscription revenue growth benefited from enterprise subscription adoption whose early returns exceeded expectations.

In the first quarter, we added roughly 28,000 net new subscriptions for our creative software solutions. And our total subscription count reached approximately 324,000 at the end of the first quarter, an increase of 49% year-over-year. Subscription growth was strong for all creative tools with Pro Tools up 55% year-over-year, Media Composer up 41% year-over-year, and Sibelius up 38% year-over-year. Annual paid upfront subscriptions grew 135% year-over-year in the first quarter and now represent 28% of total subscriptions, up from 18% a year ago.

These 324,000 paid subscriptions represent subscriptions for our creative software tools, Media Composer, Pro Tools and Sibelius where they're sold to individuals or enterprises and does not include subscription count for our MediaCentral enterprise subscriptions or our new SaaS offerings such as Edit On Demand. Over time, we plan on adding the subscription count for these products to provide additional detail on the progress of our enterprise subscription business.

Now, moving to the composition of our revenues. The continued growth in a number of paid subscriptions for our creative tools as well as our new revenue from enterprise subscription and cloud drove continued growth in subscription revenue during the first quarter, reaching $24.9 million, an increase of 78% year-over-year.

Continuing the trend that started in the third quarter of last year, several more of our enterprise customers signed enterprise subscription agreements during the first quarter resulting in several million dollars of subscription revenue. We expect additional enterprise customers to select our subscription offerings driving the next stage of subscription growth as we continue through 2021. However, we do know that the first and fourth quarters provide the largest natural opportunity for us to convert customers from maintenance to subscription, given traditional enterprise budget cycles and the number of existing maintenance contracts that renew around the calendar year end. As a result, the trends in enterprise subscription may be uneven in the second and third quarters, but we expect to see strong year-over-year growth in each quarter as more of our customers move to subscription.

Maintenance revenue was $29.9 million during the first quarter down 6% year-over-year and 3.7% sequentially due to enterprise customers transitioning from perpetual maintenance to subscription and due to the lower product sales during 2020 and the associated maintenance. Looking forward, we are seeing an improving trend in the renewal rate of maintenance contracts related to Integrated Solutions, which we expect should provide stability and growth for hardware maintenance revenue moving forward as our Integrated Solutions business recovers with the overall market.

Total Subscription and Maintenance revenue increased year-over-year by 19.6% in the first quarter as the subscription revenue growth was greater than the maintenance revenues decline. Professional license revenue was $7.1 million, up 31% year-over-year in the first quarter as some customers continue to prefer our perpetual licensing option. Total software revenue from combined subscription and perpetual licenses increased over 65% in the first quarter. Finally, total revenue was $94.4 million in the first quarter, an increase of 9.2% year-over-year with our first quarter of year-over-year revenue growth since the start of the pandemic in the first quarter of 2020.

Now, moving to recurring revenue and annual contract value. In Q1, LTM recurring revenue was 75% of total revenue, up from 66% in the first quarter of 2020. The recurring revenue percentage increased due to higher subscription revenue and lower non-recurring revenue. While we expect the recurring revenue portion of our business to continue to grow, we believe the recurring revenue percentage has been elevated in the last few quarters due to the impact of the pandemic, which has caused volatility in our non-recurring revenue streams. As such, the recurring revenue percentage could be uneven during the next few quarters as those non-recurring revenue streams continue to recover.

Annual contract value was $302 million at the end of the first quarter, up 14% year-over-year. ACV benefited from strong year-over-year growth in subscription revenue an improvement in contribution from long term agreements, which offset a decline in ACV from maintenance. During the first quarter, we added one new strategic purchasing agreement. We successfully renewed one other SPA and we do not renew another SPA related to the transition of our Latin American distribution partner that we discussed last quarter.

Now, let's look at the rest of our results for the first quarter. Combined Subscription and Maintenance revenue was $54.7 million, up 19% year-over-year. Integrated Solutions revenue was $26.2 million in the first quarter down 10.7% year-over-year. Integrated Solutions revenue is well above the low seen in the second quarter of last year due to the pandemic but the end markets for these products have not fully recovered. However, the year-over-year decline in Integrated Solutions revenue in the first quarter was the smallest of any quarter since the start of the pandemic last year.

A summary of our key Integrated Solutions product families includes the following: Pro Tools audio hardware revenue up year-over-year in the first quarter supported by new products including the Pro Tools Carbon interface introduced during the fourth quarter of 2020. Video service revenue was also up year-over-year in the first quarter. Live Sound Solutions revenue remains down significantly year-over-year as the recovery in that market related to theaters, concerts, and festivals is largely still to come. And third party video hardware revenue was also down year-over-year as we have deemphasized those lower margin sales.

Storage audio control surfaces and graphics solutions revenues were basically flat year-over-year in the first quarter and remain below pre-pandemic levels. The balance of our revenue comes from professional and learning services. Professional services revenue was $6.4 million in the first quarter, an improvement of 6% year-over-year. At constant currency, our first quarter 2021 revenue was up 6.3% year-over-year as the weakening US dollar benefited revenue growth by about 280 basis points.

Gross margin was 65.6% for the first quarter, up 390 basis points year-over-year due to the mix shift as higher margin subscription business made up a higher percentage of total revenue, 26% in the first quarter of 2021 versus 16% in the first quarter of 2020. Gross margin also benefited from a year-over-year recovery in gross margin from Integrated Solutions and Professional Services. Gross margin from software subscription Perpetual Maintenance was 83% for the first quarter down 2.5% year-over-year due to higher mix of lower margin subscription products and an increase in customer experience costs to help drive improved retention.

In the first quarter, Integrated Solutions gross margin was 37%, an increase of 460 basis points year-over-year despite the lower revenue volume, due to a mix shift within the hardware and improvements in our freight and logistics. Gross margin on Professional Services was 17.4% in the fourth quarter, up 1,200 basis points year-over-year as we have adjusted our resources to bring utilization back to target levels increase – keep gross margin above historical levels.

Operating expenses for the quarter were $46.3 million a $5 million decrease year-over-year. The year-over-year decrease in operating expenses was due to the benefits from our cost savings efforts during 2020 with the largest benefit coming from a $4.5 million reduction in selling and marketing expense. Overall, the year-over-year savings we achieved in our operating expenses in the first quarter keeps us on track for our 2021 target of roughly $190 million in annual operating expense, as approximately 60% of the savings achieved during 2020 are now permanent in our cost structure.

Net income per share was $0.28 for the first quarter, up $0.36 year-over-year reflecting the increase in operating income and lower interest expense. Adjusted EBITDA was $17.7 million in the first quarter up 324% or $13.5 million year-over-year due to higher gross margin on higher revenues and lower operating expenses. Adjusted EBITDA margin was strong at 18.7% in the first quarter, an improvement of roughly 1,400 basis points from the prior year period.

Free cash flow was $11.1 million in the first quarter, an improvement of $18 million year-over-year due to improved operating results and favorable working capital trends. We also paid $6.8 million of the employee 2020 bonus during the first quarter, and we paid the remaining $3.5 million of these bonuses during the second quarter of 2021.

Working capital is a use of cash of $100,000 in the quarter. We are continuing to see improvement in average working capital cycle as our business moves to more software and annual paid upfront subscriptions.

Capital expenditures were $1.3 million during the first quarter down slightly from the first quarter of 2020. We expect that capital expenditures will increase by several million dollars during 2021 as we had reduced capital expenditures during much of 2020 due to the pandemic, we will be investing in the digital transformation initiative to improve our internal operations as Jeff mentioned earlier.

Now, let's turn to the balance sheet. The cash balance at March 31 remained strong at $55.6 million. Cash benefited from the strong free cash flow during the quarter but is lower than December 31st due primarily to the repayment of $23 million in debt in our January refinancing. Accounts receivable was down $19.8 million sequentially due to collections of seasonally high billings from the fourth quarter of 2020. Net inventory was up $1 million sequentially but down $5 million year-over-year due to improvement in operating efficiencies and forecasting that drove reductions in hardware inventory levels.

Accounts payable was down $2.6 million sequentially and $15.8 million year-over-year consistent with our plan to reduce accounts payable would spend in inventory reduction. With the lower AP balance we are seeing improved pricing from our vendors that we expect will allow for continued improvement in profitability. As discussed during our fourth quarter earnings call on March 9, we refinanced our bank debt in January to decrease our total debt outstanding significantly reducing our cost of debt, extending our maturities and providing additional financial flexibility and liquidity. Total debt was down $23.4 million to $184.3 million at the end of the first quarter due to the refinancing. Net debt was at $128.7 million at the end of the first quarter.

Now, let's move to our credit metrics. Our strong free cash flow and year-over-year growth in adjusted EBITDA continue to improve our metrics. The January refinancing further reduced our total leverage in interest expense. At the end of the first quarter, our total leverage was 2.6 times down from total leverage of 3.5 times at the end of the fourth quarter of 2020 and 3.2 times as of the end of the fourth quarter pro forma for the refinancing.

Additionally, at the end of the first quarter, our net leverage was 1.8 times down from 2.3 times at December 31, 2020 pro forma for the new facility. During the first quarter, our effective interest rate on the new facility was 3.25% and the interest spread will decrease other 25 basis points in the second quarter based on a reduced net leverage level, which should further reduce our interest expense.

Overall, we are pleased with the health of the balance sheet as the reductions to long term debt and improvements in leverage provide the company more flexibility to operate its business.

Let's now turn to guidance. As Jeff said earlier, we are confident in the underlying strength in our business as we progressed through 2021. And given this we are raising the guidance for full-year Subscription and Maintenance revenue and free cash flow that we issued on March 9th, 2021. Our total revenue guidance for the second quarter of 2021 is $88.5 million to $94.5 million, a range which represents a year-over-year revenue growth of 15% at the midpoint.

Subscription and maintenance revenue guidance for the second quarter of 2021 is $51 million to $55 million. We expect to see the same strong trends in subscriptions we have seen and seeing for the past year and expect to have a similar quarterly increase in net subscriptions during the second quarter.

Remember that Q2 2020 subscription revenue benefited from strong subscription adoption due to the pandemic and also included several hundred thousand of revenue related to our enterprise cloud solutions. The midpoint of the guidance for Subscription and Maintenance represents 13% year-over-year growth in Subscription and Maintenance revenue.

Non-GAAP net income per share guidance for the second quarter of 2021 is $0.19 to $0.27, assuming 46.7 million shares outstanding. Adjusted EBITDA guidance for the second quarter of 2021 is $13 million to $17 million, a range that would result in adjusted EBITDA at the end of the second quarter of $73.6 million at the midpoint.

Now, for a full-year 2021 guidance. For the full-year 2021, we are raising our guidance for Subscription and Maintenance revenue to $217 million to $225 million. We're raising our guidance for 2021 free cash flow to $47 million to $55 million. The free cash flow guidance includes the impact of the increased capital expenditures mentioned earlier. For 2021, we are providing revenue guidance of $382 million to $402 million. Non-GAAP net income per share guidance for 2021 is a $1.05 to a $1.27 assuming 46.6 million outstanding. Adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2021 is $69 million to $79 million.

Lastly, we'll be hosting a virtual Investor Day on Wednesday, May 19th. At the Investor Day, we expect to provide further detail on average business strategy in our long-term model.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back to Whit.

Thank you, Jeff and Ken. This concludes our prepared remarks. We are now happy to take your questions. Operator, please go ahead.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Josh Nichols with B. Riley FBR.

Yeah. Thanks for taking my question and great to see such strong results particularly from the subscription business. Anything you do to help frame kind of the subscription longer term opportunity as far as the subs that you could be going after on the pro-summer versus the enterprise market. And if we were to kind of break that down a little bit between audio subscription versus video editing subscription and how would you kind of frame the opportunity on both of those fronts?

Okay. Thanks. I appreciate the question and appreciate the time. So, this is Jeff. I'll start off and then we'll turn over to Ken to talk more what details he wants to share. Well, look, I think in general there's kind of as you kind of in your question I think you have that logged in there is, we have our creative individuals subscription business and now we have as Ken and I referred to before is kind of second leg of the growth engine with the enterprise side. We're continuing to see very strong creative individuals. So, this is everything from aspiring pros which you call pro-summers all the way up to independent people working in the music or the video space. We're continuing to see that market perform very well for us in that sector to perform well. I would say that our team is continuing to innovate around the product set that we have in that area to make those products more accessible and more desirable by a wider market opportunity. So that work continues as a company. Number two, our go-to-market efforts will continue to be very aggressive both from e-commerce and as I said in my comments around our digitally enabled channel and really going after more of that market.

And I talked about our digital transformation initiative which is an investment we're making to really everything around customer experience and everything around our digital acquisition and digital execution around these customers is all very important for us. So we see this as a continued strong growth engine for us. And so we continue to focus on there and keep going after that opportunity as you've seen from us for several quarters. And then on top of that is the creative and enterprise by say the creative tools and the platform tools that we sell to Enterprise customers on subscription. So it was kind of two pieces of our growth there.

Does that answer your question? As far as percentages, Ken, how much we're giving or explaining right now.

Yeah. So I would say in terms of the opportunity Josh to your question as well. We see tens of millions of users on the creative side and in kind of the audio area as a potential market opportunity and tens of millions in video especially as we go more to the middle market. When you look at the creative individuals we're pleased with the performance we've had with 300,000 plus subs. But we still think we're in the early stages and we still feel like there's a lot of room to move on the creative subscription product offerings that we have. And as Jeff pointed out we're going to continue to drive functionality in the products to gain more users. And in certain areas in the video look at areas to expand our TAM.

And then on the enterprises, we've talked about early growth last year we're pleased with the performance. It is our second stage of growth which you see in their numbers. But again we believe we're very early. We're actually probably at home plate at this point. And we're kind of in the position where we see a lot of opportunity as there's thousands of enterprise customers that our sales team is targeting to drive. And it's – they're obviously in media enterprise but we're also getting interest from industries outside of media and enterprise. And our sales team is very incentivized to drive those types of those transactions. So, again. we have a lot of opportunity to move. We're going to be speaking a lot of this about this in our Investor Day. And we hope that will help provide additional clarity on the points.

Yeah. Thanks for the additional detail around that and look forward to attending the Investor Day in the coming weeks. Also I believe the company has had a pretty good track record over the last couple of years right for rolling out some of the new products whether it's software or Integrated Solutions. Anything coming up in the pipeline that could be a potential needle mover and then thoughts on pricing the ability to flex pricing or improve margins on that front. I believe there have been some price increases historically that the company has taken up occasionally?

That's a good question John. So I'd say this I mean yes I'm not ready to – we're not ready to announce any specific products on this call, but I would say we'll probably talk more about this as each of our business leaders will talk about their strategy. But there'll be a continuous innovation all year long every year for the years ahead around software obviously areas how we're going to expand our software and quite frankly not just create functionality or features that are important to monetize our markets, but also to look at how we attract greater users and greater customers in that space.

As I mentioned and Ken just mentioned about obviously we're trying to go through into the broader markets both on audio and music and video, and also for more of the enterprise type customers. There's a lot of opportunities outside of the M&E space that are more recent offerings with Adobe integration and with the SaaS offering and Edit On-Demand has started to show our teams that there's a lot of opportunity to get Avid let's say outside of some of the core markets into some other adjacent markets. So we see a lot of opportunity for the company in that space. You'll see us not just innovate in our core markets around M&E, what we will be innovating the ways to attract new users and new customers. So I say expect a continuous train of innovation in that regard.

Thanks. And then last question for me and then I'll pass the torch here. I mean the business clearly doing quite well. I mean the one piece of the business is you know Integrated Solutions which is still at pre-pandemic levels. I don't expect any specific answer. But if you could kind of maybe opine on it for a little bit for how long it may take before you get back to some proximity of pre-pandemic levels at least adjusted for some of this the emphasis of this integrated hardware lower margin offerings?

Yeah. That's a good point you made in the second part is. And we will definitely share more of what we're doing precisely when we get to Investor Day. But I think if you – and remember, the things that were deemphasizing and we've already been deemphasizing them so they are going to be a bit of a headwind on the year-on-year compares. But something we're deemphasizing is very low margin and/or no margin products that really don't generate really much at all from an earnings or cash flow perspective. So we've really done kind of a pivot in the last several months to make sure that we deemphasizing those products. Because we also want the dollars we're investing to go towards things that are going to give us a better growth and the better profitability.

I think largely what's the live sound because that is a part of our integrates sort of put life sound aside for a moment. Most of the other products are really around what music we've already seen as Ken said in more detail in his remarks, the music space or [indiscernible] (00:35:06) is already back to growth. So we're seeing that already showing some real good signs. The audio and video postproduction markets are definitely improving. And we saw improvement last quarter. We think that will continue to that gradual recovery trend that we talked about, that will go into the second half. I think we'll see that continue. And we are seeing some improvement from the broadcast sector too. I would say that though there's a lot of – one of the nice things is that even if the Integrated Solutions which is more of a hardware based business is still a bit of a pressure year-on-year. If you look at the software numbers we've seen really not just subscription but the overall software numbers have grew substantially in the quarter.

So, the good thing is we are seeing the enterprise customers spend dollars with us. They are just right now maybe putting more those dollars in software investments and not as much in the hardware investments. But we do see that will continue to get better on the hardware side. Again as people get back into their facilities, get back into full production and can really start doing those kind of investments. But, I'd say, my answer will be the same as it was probably last quarter. The trend that Ken and I talked about which is a gradual recovery going through the first half and probably by the second half we believe we'll be in a place that I would maybe call it pre-pandemic levels.

Yeah.

Yeah. And I think the other point that talks about the mix that we're that Jeff talked about earlier in terms of driving the right revenue streams obviously more investing in software. We are pivoting around some of the products Integrated Solutions. You can see the improvements in the gross margin line which are clear proof points of that. And although we had a decline on Integrated Solutions just because of the better mix and audio products gross margin on Integrated Solutions is up 460 basis points year-on-year despite lower volumes. So we're pleased with the decisions we're making on that. We still have more room to go. And as the market gradually recovers, we're going to continue to see further gross profit improvement on Integrated Solutions and top line.

Thanks, guys. That's all from me.

Thanks, Josh.

Thanks, Josh.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from Jack Vander Aarde with Maxim Group.

Great. Congrats on solid results, guys. Nice to see you...

Thanks, Jack.

..turned to positive year-over-year revenue growth.

Yeah. It's nice.

We're probably pushing dates. So, thanks for taking questions. A lot of them actually have been addressed. But typically I want to get back to the question that I asked last call. Just I think it'd be interesting for an update maybe for Jeff. Just regarding the overall change of tone and sentiment from your end customer discussions in some of those non-recurring product categories or that have been most impacted from COVID. Now, I think you just touched on a lot of those things and I don't want to be redundant here, but I do recall I think video services from what Ken was saying were up year-over-year and storage graphics have been kind of flattish, but that's not down anymore. So that's good. And live events is still under pressure. But just anything you're hearing I guess like in overall discussions and the amount of discussions you're having the visibility of the timing of new things that are being talked about and maybe they're getting creative of how they are thinking about putting out festivals might be events and planning for that? And I font know I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on that.

Yeah. It's a good question and I kind of Jack, I just talked about a little bit in my opening remarks about our customer – our Avid Customer Association, we do annual voice of the customer session. This year we did it virtual obviously because of the pandemic. And we had about 70 customers end users that we really we go through under NDA all of our roadmaps, all of our strategic plans. We talked to them a lot about what they're doing and what their priorities are. So we gather a lot – and it is a sample, but it's a pretty reliable sample. We've been – we've gotten quite good at sampling the customer base precisely.

And the feedback we're getting is as I said first of all there is a lot of focus around moving to more subscription based models from a software perspective moving to SaaS in many cases. In fact that's accelerating the talk around cloud and SaaS based environments. But in general I would say that the mood is definitely getting better. I mean I think that the people are seeing, we're seeing a lot of projects get green lit again now. We're seeing investments flow obviously much better than they were just a few months ago. And so we are seeing a good pattern there. Again, I wouldn't call it all the way back to "pre-pandemic levels" quite yet but it is heading in that direction. And I'd say as I said in my remarks and I admit is that even Q1 was a bit better than we thought. It did go a little better than we had originally expected from the customer take up an investment cycle. So I'd say look I think it's performing as we expected maybe a little bit better and we think that will continue.

But I think it will be I think Q2's environment will be a little better than Q1 and Q3 will be better than Q2. And they'll keep progressively I think getting warmer. We got to remember the US market, UK market those markets are coming back a little faster now. Other markets I mean Europe is still in a bit of coming out of the pandemic and so really on a global scale, it will take a little more time for every major market that we're in to come back as we're seeing already the UK and US markets are coming back. Hope that answers.

Terrific. That's very helpful color. Yeah, absolutely. Everything I wanted there, that's great. And then maybe just a question for Ken, just regarding the annual paid upfront subscription – subscription business as a whole remains very strong very bright spot here. But the annual paid upfront subscriptions, it seems like those just continue to climb, is this I'm reading in the presentation I believe 28% of total subscription now. Where is this mix heading and what is this – how does this impact the next couple of quarters from – I don't know from a revenue growth trajectory and then also from a maybe a margin trajectory as well?

Yeah. No. We're obviously pleased with the move that we're making in annual paid upfront subscriptions. Our last Investor Day probably 18 months ago was probably 12% it's now 28%. I see this becoming 50% of the business in the next probably 18 months just given the trajectory that we're on. We believe those are better quality obviously customers for us than a monthly subscription. And we're going to continue to drive that. So I think that's going to be a big part of the revenue streams – where the growth will be. It does help with cash flow obviously. And it's a better quality customer and there's an opportunity to actually up-sell them as we lock them in versus a monthly customer. So we feel like that's the direction that the business will continue to head. And that provides us sort of an ability to raise to go drive ARPU and as we do up-sells, and then drive more growth on that subscription line with bigger LTV lifetime value for that subscriber.

Yeah. That's helpful. And then, maybe just one last question and maybe it's more of a sneak-peak question before your Investor Day. Just in terms of the level of the content and the granularity of what you are going to unveil. Is it similar to how in-depth and how I guess granular your last Investor Day was with like a three year operating model and on all sorts of line items and key metrics and I'm just wondering if it's going to be something similar to that kind of granular level?

Yeah. You know we're – you should expect something similar. And what I'm excited about is you're going to see more pieces of our business areas. And then our CTO will also provide some commentary as well as our commercial leaders. So, we're excited for the Investor Day and there'll be a long-term model that backs up. The strategy that we're driving and obviously, we think it's positive to put out that model as we think it's important for us as a company and for our shareholders to see the direction of our business.

Okay. Great. Fantastic. Well, I look forward to that. Excellent results again guys. That's it for me.

Thanks, Jack.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Nehal Chokshi with Northland Capital Markets.

Yeah. Thank you. Nice strong beat and nice raise here especially with the free cash flow. Very happy to see that. We do want to...

Thanks, Nehal.

...drill in on that a little bit here. So, I would argue that subscription and maintenance is the key that's your care, I think you guys agree with that as well and I think all of us just agree with that as well. But you beat that – you beat your midpoint guidance by $3 million and a raise for the full-year I think is about $3.5 million at that point. So I guess basically are we talking about no change in the year-over-year trajectory for the business for a balance of the year relative to what you were thinking 90 days ago?

Yeah. We see an improvement in the business obviously and especially in the Subscription and Maintenance line with the, I would say, the strong growth that we're seeing on the enterprise subscription and in the core growth that we're seeing in the creatives, we're definitely in a second stage of growth. We believe our maintenance business is very stable. Sure, our software maintenance as we move customers to subscription, there'll be some – there'll be a slight headwind, but we're seeing higher renewal rates on the maintenance from a hardware perspective and we believe we'll have improving product sales. We believe our guidance is appropriate, but it is conservative and our goal is to drive past that as a team, but we feel good about the direction of our business at this point.

Okay. That's great. And I'm sorry, you may have said this at the very beginning of the call. Did you guys provide explicit detail on the interface subscription revenue within the quarter?

And – yeah, we did in our earlier remarks. It was a few million dollars for the quarter and continues to be an important piece of the business as our second stage of growth. So I think that we see that as part of our growth drivers moving forward, that piece of the customer position and moving to subscription.

If I recall correctly last quarter you qualitatively describe Enterprise subscription as a few million as well. So does that mean that was basically flat Q-o-Q?

It actually was down slightly because of the strong growth that we're seeing on the creative side. Q4 was slightly more revenue than Q1. And if you think about it, Nehal, we have more customers that renew maintenance in Q4 so that, there's more opportunity to move them to subscription in Q1, although it's a good quarter for renewing maintenance, it was down slightly versus Q4.

Okay. Just run us through real quickly the accounting on subscription bookings to how that flows through to revenue in the given quarter of the bookings happens and then subsequent quarters on how that plays out from a balance sheet?

Yeah. So obviously if it's annual, we recognize that over the term under ASC 6060 though there is some if it's – it's not a SaaS subscription, there is some upfront recognition. We are moving if we have a multiyear to have the revenue be recognized annually based on certain terms we're putting in the agreements. So we don't have – we have kind of a consistent predictable enterprise subscription revenue that's we believe is best for our shareholders. That said in the first quarter there was both in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter there was probably about a $1.5 million of I would say revenue that was – I would say, accelerated under ASC 606. Just the way that the revenue treatment works from that – from those enterprise deals. But we are as I said before putting terms in the contract that we have annual recognition on a multiyear deal going forward.

Okay. And I see that there is a divergence between the subscription year-over-year growth for the March quarter relative to the number of subscriptions. That makes sense given the enterprise subscription starting to become materially here. But explain to me why we didn't see that the divergence in the December quarter?

We had very strong growth in our creatives. And obviously that helped drive the overall sequential improvement. I would say we outperformed our initial expectation. I would say in the second quarter, enterprise subscription can be a little lumpier, enterprise deals can be different sizes. So there could be in our guidance we – as we're being conservative, there could be a slight decline. So that's what you're seeing in the guidance. But we do believe that the core creative market will continue to be strong.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Nehal.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from Samad Samana with Jefferies.

Hi. Good evening. Thanks for taking my questions. And good to see that strong subscription revenue growth continue. Maybe, Jeff, I'll ask it slightly differently. You've given the mix in the past of Pro Tools versus Media Composer and Sibelius and the kind of contribution to subscription. Any noticeable differences in 1Q versus past quarters are you seeing more interest in one versus the other and then I have a couple of follow ups.

No, I don't think there was a really – and by the way, so the – there's not been a real big change I think the trajectory has been about the same on the mix. You do get a little bit of difference when we get into education season where students and stuff are bringing their subscriptions on and still get – like we'll get a nice burst of Pro Tools and Sibelius during those periods. But generally I would say the mix have been holding up quite well. The year-over-year growth we've seen on all three products as Ken noted in his remarks had been rather strong. And again each quarter is a little bit different the playing on the seasonality of a given market segment that we are going after. But I think we're continuing – we're happy what we've seen and we're continuing to see the pattern that we want to see in all three products.

Great. And then maybe is I think about just, just to go forward.

Ken when you're looking at the cohort of customers that were signing up for subscriptions in the kind of quarters of 2020 as we start to come up for renewals, are you seeing any changes in the renewal trends on those cohorts versus historical cohorts?

No, I would say, in general, we've been very pleased with the renewal trends in terms of the retention. I would say that we had some really strong new ads last year as those come up for renewal, I think in general they're in line – generally in line with our prior renewal rates. So we feel really good about that. Additionally, we are adding more, I would say talent to the customer experience area to help with the renewal rates. So, we feel good we're adding the right investment in the right areas to continue to drive that. And well the other important thing is we move people to annual paid annual subscriptions besides I think in general there's just a higher quality customer base and there's a big improvement in the renewal rate for that piece. So as the whole pie moves we were 12% annual paid up fronts 18 months ago, we're now 28% and that it gets to 50% that becomes – it's a game changer for our renewal base. And as our Chief Revenue Officer, Tom Cordiner, is driving this huge enterprise subscription transitions those are very, very high quality customers. So the retention rate should all improve. So we feel like we're moving in the right direction on those areas.

And, I think also I'd say Ken, Samad, if you look at Q1, remember, Q1 last year was the really big quarter for creative licenses because in the second half of March we had a really big uptake because it was when COVID hit. We've gone through Q1 and we've seen basically the pattern has held from a renewable standpoint. So, so far, what we're seeing is encouraging obviously.

Great. And maybe one last one for me and I'm going to go ahead and apologize if this is a dumb question. But we've gotten it from investors and we weren't sure of the answer. But with COVID and with a lot of people working from home and especially with kind of a big part of the base being this individual creative professional, have you guys – has that benefited subscriptions whereas somebody let's say is either working on a studio project and has access to a subscription there? Would they still have to pay for their own individual one as well? Maybe how does that work in terms of access log-ins? Was there any type of uplift to subscriptions over the last call at 12 months to 24 months from that?

Well, I think – look I obviously there was uplift in COVID from let's call it March all the way through probably the summertime because I think we saw in probably one of the fall a little bit. But we obviously saw additional subscribers, one, you meet people who make music, people were at home. They had a lot more time on their hands. So they went and subscribed to more music tools. So I think really for us what the benefit was a customer acquisition right. We were able to acquire customers and bring them attract them to our tools during that environment. I think for the people who are professionals that work for organizations, whether they work for them independently or they work for them as an employee we did obviously see some benefit both on the enterprise customer side. But on the individual side where they probably got an additional license to make sure they had another seat to work on from home.

But as I said earlier, we didn't see any real change in churn or In real rates in this first because they are already in the competitive periods versus last year as well as we talked about in Q1 things held really very well. So I think we'll see how it goes long term there was some benefit. But I think the COVID benefits ended a long time ago. And I think as you've seen in the last couple of quarters now or last three quarters now we still have the 27,000, 28,000 kind of number. I mean this is our third quarter now. We've been hovering around 27,000, 28,000 net subscription adds. And that's all happened probably post the COVID benefits.

Understood. Thanks again for taking my questions and good it's great to see the start of the year and see at the end of day.

Yeah. Great.

Thank you, Samad.

See you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And with no further questions and I'll turn it back to the company for closing remarks.

Great. Thank you, operator. So in closing I want to say we look forward to engaging with you again during Avid's 2021 Investor Day which we'll be hosting virtually on May 19. Today we only touch briefly on the widening horizon of Avid's total market opportunity that we see. We will continue to explore this in detail during that event. So I hope you can join us. Details on the registration are available on the Events and Presentations page of our Investor Relations website at ir.avid.com. If you need additional information you can also reach out to Whit directly. So on behalf of everyone here at Avid I extend our best wishes for the continued safety and health of everyone who follows and collaborate with us. We are deeply grateful for your continued support. So thanks and goodbye for now. We'll see you all hopefully on the 19.

Thank you ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. And you may now disconnect.