Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Whit Rappole — Vice President-Corporate Development and Investor Relations, Avid Technology, Inc.
Jeff Rosica — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Avid Technology, Inc.
Kenneth Gayron — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Avid Technology, Inc.
Samad Samana — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Nehal Sushil Chokshi — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Steven Frankel — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Hamed Khorsand — Founder, President & Chief Compliance Officer, BWS Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to today's Avid Technology Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Call. I'd like to remind everyone that this program is being recorded. And at this time, I'll turn the floor over to Whit Rappole, Vice President of Investor Relations.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today for Avid Technology's second quarter 2019 earnings call. My name is Whit Rappole, Avid Technology's Vice President Corporate Development and Investor Relations.

With me this afternoon are Jeff Rosica, our Chief Executive Officer and President and Ken Gayron, our Chief Financial Officer and EVP. In their prepared remarks, Jeff will provide a strategic overview of our business, and then Ken will provide a detailed review of our financial and operating results, followed by time for your questions.

We issued our earnings release earlier this afternoon and we have prepared a slide presentation that we will refer to on this call. The press release and presentation are currently available on our website at ir.avid.com, and a replay of this call will be available on our website for a limited time.

During today's call, management will reference certain non-GAAP financial metrics and operational metrics. In accordance with Regulation G, both the appendix to our earnings release today and our Investor website contain a reconciliation of the most closely associated GAAP financial information to the non-GAAP measures and also definitions for the operational measures used on this call and in the presentation. Unless otherwise noted, all figures noted by management during the call are non-GAAP figures.

In addition, certain statements made during today's presentation contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our comments and answers to your questions on this call, as well as the accompanying slide deck, may include statements that are forward-looking and that pertain to future results or outcomes.

Actual future results or occurrences may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. For more information including a discussion of some of the key risks and uncertainties associated with these forward-looking statements, please see our press release issued today and our 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as filed with the SEC.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO and President, Jeff Rosica for his remarks.

Well, thanks, Whit and thanks everyone for joining us today. Avid's Q2 results show that we did face slight revenue headwinds due to some constraints from our supply chain transition. They were taken into account in our cautious Q2 outlook noted in our Q1 earnings call, which did bring our results in at the lower end of our guidance. That said, in spite of these challenges, we are exiting the first half fully in line with our own internal planning and I'm pleased that Avid is entering the second half better positioned than we have been in many years.

Today along with CFO, Ken Gayron, we'll discuss the factors and our performance and the consistent indications of average strategic plans and business execution have us on a good trajectory for the second half and the full year. We'll also review progress on our major operational initiatives, success in new product introductions and momentum with customers and partners.

So let's start with my Q2 observations. The slight revenue headwinds that we encountered during the quarter impacted our results, yet we're confident these factors don't change what we see as the company is improving longer-term trajectory nor our view of the full year 2019. In fact, we're continuing to see significant year-over-year growth in average key financial metrics including adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and net income per share.

In Q2, both revenue and gross margin were up year-over-year, but only fractionally. Toward the end of Q2, as I just mentioned, because of our supply chain transition, we did face some constraints due to order timing and product mix, which kept us from fulfilling orders for certain audio and video hardware products.

Our continued strong growth in software subscriptions and the addition of new and extended long-term agreements during Q2 give us confidence in our performance trajectory. We also continued to realize additional benefits from our Smart Savings initiatives and have achieved $13 million in OpEx savings on an annualized basis as of the Q2 close. We're looking forward to achieving the remaining $7 million in COGS savings in 2019 as we realize the benefits of our supply chain transition.

Avid has now completed the exit from our former supply chain partner in Asia and we're presently ramping up production at our new partner in the Americas. Inventory on-hand will bridge to the new supplier and we are prioritizing bringing up the production lines according to forecasted demand. We'll have to carefully manage this process as we're seeing strong demand in certain audio products that could create some constraints as we ramp up.

While we have encountered issues that can be typical when undertaking such an extensive transition, we're starting to achieve our targeted cost savings and reduction in inventory and don't anticipate that any short-term disruptions, if any, are encountered in the near-term would change our outlook on a full year basis.

We've also continued to make significant progress in our work with large media companies and studios to support their own efficiency initiatives bringing their crucial workflows into the cloud including a remote editing, backup of work in progress, archiving and disaster recovery.

As discussed last quarter, the solutions for these major reference customers include our cloud-based Media Central platform and NEXIS cloud storage which are running on the Microsoft Azure cloud. While the revenue from these projects was small in Q2, we're looking forward to the revenue to ramp up in the second half of the year and beyond as we continue to bring more of these to many media workflows into the cloud for these and other clients.

Additionally, Avid has recently secured additional long-term agreements with major customers and partners. Among these is the renewal in early July of our multi-year agreement with the organization that produces the live television and radio and digital coverage of the most watch international sporting events. Disagreement continues as a successful relationship between our organizations which started back in 2012 and it last until the summer of 2022 to provision production capability and services to support their international summer and winter sports events that are broadcast globally. Separately also Avid also signed a new strategic purchase agreement in Q2 with one of the largest U.S. retailers of Avid music and pro audio products.

Turning into Q2 performance, we believe Avid continues to demonstrate overall that our improvement plans and strategic changes are making a meaningful impact on our profitability and cash flow. Revenue was basically flat year-over-year in Q2. It benefited from continued growth of our software subscription business which was up 17% year-over-year in the quarter and from certain hardware products including live sound and storage.

However as discussed earlier, revenue was slightly impacted by supply chain constraints. E-commerce and software subscriptions also continued to make major contributions in Q2. Revenue from e-commerce activities grew nicely and was up 19% year-over-year in the quarter. Software subscriptions continue their strong trend and paid subscriptions surpassed $147,000 at the end of Q2 which is up 40% year-over-year. Gross margin improved only slightly year-over-year.

During Q2 gross margin was negatively impacted from an adverse mix as the large high margin storage deal which was discussed in our Q1 call did not repeat during Q2 as we had expected. While certain lower margin audio and video hardware products were stronger in the quarter, we're happy with the overall positive trajectory of gross margins and expect to see additional improvement in margins during the second half from shipping new higher margin products, normalization of the product mix and realization of savings from our supply chain transition.

Avid delivered improve profitability in Q2 as our operating expenses were down significantly due to the success with our Smart Savings initiatives. We realized strong year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth of 78% and had a positive net income per share in the quarter.

Finally, thanks to the improved cost structure and strong execution overall, we delivered improved free cash flow generation during the quarter versus the prior year. Although to remind you, Q2 cash flow was seasonally weak and included the normal 2018 bonus payment as well as expenses for our NAB Show and Connect events.

Overall, we're on a good performance trajectory with consistent improvement in the key financial metrics of revenue, adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow and net income per share. Additionally, on last 12 months basis, we're showing significant improvement in all of these metrics. We're encouraged that we're exiting the first half of the year on a trajectory to achieve our full-year guidance as we enter the seasonally stronger second half coupled with an improving sales pipeline and a more efficient cost structure.

Looking forward, we remain optimistic for H2 as we begin to realize the benefit of new products that we expect to drive growth later in the second half and beyond. We also anticipate completing our Smart Savings initiatives and fully realizing the benefit in the second half. The entire OpEx portion is essentially complete. And now, we're well-positioned to realize the benefits in COGS from ramping up a lien-based supply chain over the next several months.

Also, Avid is intensifying the focus on delivering a consistently profitable and predictable financial model built on growing recurring revenue driven by our growing subscription offerings and our long-term agreement strategy.

Importantly, Avid's product innovation is on a strong accelerating pace with several recent strategic introductions in video software and integrated solutions for pro audio and music. Our all new Media Composer 2019 dramatically strengthens our category leadership and better positions us to capture the emerging generation of film and TV editors and video creators.

Our next-generation cloud-enabled platform, MediaCentral 2019 addresses the needs of small to medium-sized media organizations that have been seeking multi-site collaboration and greater connectivity for their news, sports and post operations. Both of these software products started delivery in late June.

In the second half, Avid will begin shipping new audio mixing products, the Avid S1 and Avid S4 which bring the power of our category-leading higher end systems within the reach of smaller studios and independent creators. Our latest introductions have all been very well received by media creators globally and we're already experiencing pipeline improvement for the second half based on the new product momentum.

In summary, Avid continue to focus heavily on optimizing our operations and driving technology and product innovation in order to support more profitable and sustainable growth and thus deliver greater shareholder value. But we're really just getting started.

So with that, let me turn the call over to Ken to provide details on our financial performance for Q2. Go ahead, Ken.

Thank you, Jeff and good afternoon everyone. As noted above, Jeff and I are referring to non-GAAP figures unless noted. For those new to Avid, seasonality impact sequential comparisons, so it is important to look at our year-over-year comparisons to assess the performance of our business.

As Jeff outlined earlier, we are making substantial progress on our initiatives to improve our financial performance. While we continue to see year-over-year improvements in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, we face certain revenue headwinds during Q2 related to our supply chain transition that brought our Q2 results at the lower end of our guidance.

With that said, our first half results for 2019 were in line with our plans and we enter our second half with a strong foundation to achieve our 2019 annual guidance.

Let's now get into the details. Turning to the income statement, GAAP revenue of $98.7 million for the quarter was fractionally up $100,000 year-over-year. We continued to see good growth in our e-commerce and subscriptions business for Pro Tools, Media Composer and Sibelius and had a strong quarter in our MediaCentral perpetual software business.

Additionally, we saw favorable growth in our audio business related to our live sound product lines, but we had lower maintenance revenue in the quarter with our continued shift in our business model from perpetual to subscription. Gross margin was 59.4% for the quarter, up 20 basis points year-over-year. The Q2 increase is due to 140 basis point improvement in our software license and maintenance margin offset by 170 basis point decline in our hardware and integrated software gross margin from adverse product mix during the quarter. We expect to see more favorable gross margins moving forward from our supply chain transition in a more normalized products mix in the second half.

Operating expenses for the quarter were $51.8 million, down $4.2 million from Q2, 2018. The improvement in operating expenses resulted primarily from the realization of $3.2 million from our Smart Savings initiatives that we began in the third quarter of 2018. Through June 30, we have realized $13 million of annual operating expenses savings year-over-year and have largely accomplished the expected operating savings targets we set last year. We expect these lower levels of operating expenses to continue throughout 2019.

Net income per share increased to $0.02 in Q2, 2019 up $0.12 from a loss of $0.10 in Q2 2018 primarily due to the improvement in operating expenses. Adjusted EBITDA of $9.4 million for the quarter was up $4.1 million or 78% year-over-year primarily from lower operating expenses. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.5% was up 410 basis points year-over-year.

Free cash flow was negative $4.5 million in the second quarter of 2019 compared to negative $8.7 million in the second quarter of 2018. Excluding the impact of cash bonus payments of $6.4 million in Q2 2019 and $8.3 million in Q2 2018, free cash flow would have been $1.9 million in Q2 2019 up $2.3 million year-over-year.

Now moving to Annual Contract Value and Recurring Revenue, the percentage of revenue that is recurring has steadily increased, providing us more confidence in the predictability of our business. For the 12 months ending June 30, 2019 58% of total revenue was recurring, up from 51% in the 12 months ending June 30, 2018. We expect Recurring Revenue to continue increasing over time given the growth we are seeing in subscriptions and our focus on adding new long-term agreements. We reaffirm our goal of reaching 70% LTM Recurring Revenue in the next two to three years.

ACV was $246 million at the end of the second quarter, up slightly year-over-year driven from our strategy to focus on higher margin software subscriptions and long-term agreements, offset by lower maintenance revenue. We expect to see continued growth in ACV over time given our strategy towards signing more long-term agreements and growing our subscription business, plus stabilization of the maintenance revenue.

The decline in maintenance was related to the ongoing transition from perpetual to subscription for our creative software products, as well as the impact of lower maintenance from certain customers as they upgraded their storage systems. We expect maintenance to stabilize during the remaining quarters of 2019 as stronger hardware and integrated software revenues that started in the second half of 2018 should provide a catalyst to our maintenance business, as these maintenance contracts start renewing.

Now, moving to the composition of our revenue. In the second quarter of 2019 revenue from high margin software licenses and maintenance, which includes both subscriptions and perpetual licenses, was $50 million, down $1.4 million year-over-year due to the decline in maintenance, partly offset by the increase in subscription and perpetual. Software license and maintenance was 51% of our revenue during the second quarter. The gross margin for software licenses and maintenance was 85.2% during the second quarter, up 140 basis points over Q2 2018, driven by the growth in subscriptions. We expect this category to grow modestly and continue to produce software gross margins of 85% plus.

Moving to the next revenue line hardware and integrated software, which we also call integrated solutions had revenue of $41.7 million in the second quarter, up 6% year-over-year on the strength of our live sound product. Hardware and integrated software contributed 42% of total revenue in the quarter. These solutions, which combine hardware with high-value, high-margin software generate attractive margins. In Q2 gross margins from hardware and integrated solutions was 36.5%, down a 170 basis points from Q2 2018 due to adverse product mix in the quarter with a higher mix of lower margin audio and video hardware sold in Q2 2019 versus the prior period.

Although gross margins in hardware and integrated software were lower in Q2 2019 versus Q1 2019, we expect to see gross margin improvement in this area in the remainder of 2019 as a result of; one, a more normalized product mix; second, introduction of new products in audio and video in 2019, that have stronger margins; third, expected benefits [indiscernible] (00:18:14) transition to our new supply chain vendor that will result in cost reductions in freight and overhead.

The balance of our revenue comes from professional services, which is a small portion of our business. Professional services revenue was $7 million in the second quarter, down 10% year-over-year, as we are more strategic and selective in the professional services business we take on. With that said, gross margin in professional services of 11% in Q2, up 810 basis points.

At June 30, 2019, we had cash of $51 million, down $9.2 million from June 30, 2018 primarily from the use of cash to repurchase our convertible notes. Our cash balance at June 30 excludes $9 million of restricted cash, including the $8.5 million of cash that was used to collateralize a letter of credit issued in favor of our former supply chain vendor.

As we discussed above, we completed the exit from this vendor during Q2 and we received $8.5 million of cash back as unrestricted cash in July 2019. This will be reflected in our Q3 balance sheet. Cash balance is down $4.3 million from March 31, the negative free cash flow in the quarter, which was expected as this is our seasonal low point in free cash flow for Avid. We ended the second quarter with $58.6 million of accounts receivable, up $10.9 million from June 30, 2018 signifying the growth in the business. Our DSO was 54 days at June 30, 2019 due to the timing of billings later in the quarter. We expect our DSO to normalize back to the mid-40s as we move further into 2019.

Inventory was $34.1 million at the end of the second quarter up $2.3 million over June 30, 2018. Inventory levels remains elevated as we are completing the supply chain transition and are expected to decline in the second half of 2019 as we burn off the remaining inventory from the prior supplier.

Contract assets totaled $18.5 million at the end of the second quarter, up from $15.5 million at June 30, 2018 as a result of growth in our subscription business.

Deferred revenue was $93.5 million at June 30, 2019 down $4.2 million from June 30, 2018 due to the amortization of $5 million in non-cash revenue. Contractually committed backlog was $351 million at the end of Q2, up $1 million year-over-year on increased long-term agreements. Contractually committed backlog was down $7 million from the end of Q1 as our billings from backlog exceeded new agreements. We expect that the strong pipeline of new long-term agreements, including the ones Jeff mentioned earlier, which have already been signed during the third quarter will contribute to increased contractually committed backlog going forward.

At the end of the second quarter long-term debt was $200.2 million down $30.5 million June 30, 2018 due to the repurchase of convertible notes from the additional term loan proceeds from the May 2019 refinancing. Additionally long-term debt was further reduced by $29 million as the convertible notes due 2020 were classified as current liability as of June 30, 2019.

As we have [indiscernible] (00:21:40) disclosed during the second quarter, we completed a tender offer to repurchase $74 million of principal value of our convertible notes due 2020 through the addition of additional term loans that mature in May 2023. These refinancing transactions resulted in a small increase in our total debt principal of about $5 million, while reducing the term loan interest rate.

At the end of the quarter, we were compliant with our leverage covenant ratio and have significant cushion with our required covenants. We expect to retire the remaining $29 million in convertible notes due June 2020 when they mature and we have sufficient cash on hand plus $22.5 million of undrawn revolver capacity and additional free cash flow that's expected, so we are comfortable with that level of maturity.

As we finished the second quarter of 2019, we are pleased with the progress we are making. With that said, we are completing the supply chain transition and that transition contains inherent risks to remain a properly conservative in our third quarter guidance. In the third quarter, we expect GAAP revenue to be between $101 million to $109 million, showing year-over-year growth at the midpoint. In the third quarter of 2019, we expect adjusted EBITDA to be between $13.5 million to $18.5 million. We're also reaffirming our 2019 annual guidance. Our 2019 revenue guidance remains $420 million to $430 million. Our 2019 adjusted EBITDA guidance remains $60 million to $65 million. Our 2019 free cash flow guidance remains $12 million to $17 million.

Also as our business strategy is showing clear signs of improved profitability, we are adding guidance for full year 2019 non-GAAP net income per share of $0.60 to $0.72, assuming 43 million shares outstanding.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back to Jeff for closing commentary. [indiscernible]

(00:23:46) we turn it back to the operator, right.

Thank you. Actually, that concludes our prepared remarks. We are now happy to take your questions. Operator, please go ahead.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] All right. And first from Jefferies, we'll hear from Samad Samana.

Hi. Good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions. Maybe...

Hi. Good morning.

...I'll start off – thanks. I'll start off with – thanks for all the color on the supply chain transition and I think it's really helpful for us to understand and you guys did caution us last quarter that there could be some risks around it. But maybe if we can double click on that a little bit more and just understand, so there's no more risk related to the legacy partner. But as you think about what could – what the risks are as you ramp up your new partner, could you maybe just highlight that a little bit more for us? And maybe what parts of the product portfolio might have risks associated with that as well, that would be helpful as we think about back half of the year?

Yeah. I'll take this one. So I think when we look at the back half of the year, I don't think we see overall risk in the back half. Obviously, there could be some timing characteristics between Q3 and Q4 as we bring up new production lines. But there's – we don't foresee any risks today that would risk our second half in totality. That's why we made the comments we made. And really what we're talking about is we did as we've said before, built up inventory to handle the transition of one supplier to another. The risks are really only that, it's pretty normal to have some production in supply chain, I don't call them issues, but as you keep bringing the new product lines up, we can encounter things that we have to deal with.

But more importantly we forecasted our audio products strength and to be honest audio is performing better than actually we expected. So it will ultimately put pressure on inventories, because we are selling such good clip on the audio products. But it's being managed and we'll manage through it and it will be – we don't see any issue in the second half that's why we've still got good confidence in our trajectory to delivering on our full year guidance. And the products that are affected are basically audio, not all audio products but certain audio products, that's the only lines, we were moving over between June, July and August.

Okay, great. And then Ken maybe a financial question for you or more numbers related, but as I think about the – you noted that there was a couple of things that were headwinds to make the transition to subscription and then some customers taking lower maintenance. Could you maybe help us understand the magnitude of those two? And then just as we think about the transition to subscription, should we see the benefit of that in the contractually committed backlog number or where should we start to see that in the metrics that company is reporting?

Yeah, so in maintenance, maintenance revenue was down approximately $4 million Q2 2019 versus Q2 2018. The shift to the business model from perpetual to subscription is one of the leading drivers of that, plus as we move from ISIS to NEXIS, that said we still believe that, that maintenance is going to be a better performer for us in the second half. And the reason is we've had stronger product sales. The integrated solutions business has performed well for us over the last year. And as that maintenance comes up, the first year is free as those products come up for renewal with those stronger volumes that will be a tailwind to our maintenance business. And also we're starting to see stronger renewal rates overall and in certain areas. So those two will be tailwinds to our business and it will help us, I would say, have better revenue from maintenance in the second half of the year.

Right. And then if I could squeeze in maybe another one. How should we think about the strength of the product refresh cycle from the new products? Should we think about that as a 6 month type of product cycle, 12 month or longer duration? And maybe could you help us understand what the kind of percentage uplift is in moving over to the new storage product and the newer products that you've released?

Well, so I'll try to answer, Samad. When you say product cycle, you mean the cycle between announcement and launch and when we see revenue or what do you mean on the second question I mean first clarify that?

Yeah, from release to when we start to see the impact to the business?

So on the software products, it depends on where it is. On the enterprise product like MediaCentral that does have a few months kind of germination before it becomes revenue one because when we get the orders we've got to actually deliver on the system and then we've got to obviously turn that to revenue, which can take you know some time. So I'd say things can happen as fast as two or three months and some things can take as long as a year on big projects. So it depends. Though there has been a lot of project work going on even though the product wasn't released yet. So I think it gradually starts delivering results, it will – I mean MediaCentral will deliver results in the second half, the new MediaCentral. On the, new Media Composer, as an example that will start having results right away in the second half.

On the hardware products, it converts to revenues fairly quickly because that's heavily channeled. So as soon as the products start shipping, we start delivering the channel and they start taking delivery and delivering them to their customers. So the churn there can start within the quarter, it really is about how fast we can ramp up production on the new products.

Right. And then last one and I'll hop out, but just today it was clearly – there's a lot of noise going on from a macro perspective, software earnings have been a little bit mixed at least as far as what we've seen. I'm just curious, if there is any change in behavior at your customers from a high level or if there's any increased side of caution or if it's business as usual just as from a macro view that you've gotten in terms of feedback from customers?

I wouldn't say there's any different. I think we – it's pretty much like we've said all along. I think the video creative, the content creation businesses is really doing quite well and people are really adopting those tools pretty quickly. The enterprise customers, as we said before, is a bit lumpy quarter-to-quarter. So I don't think there was any change in trajectory on that, it's about the same. We actually benefited from having a couple of dozen customers in our facility last week who was on the strategic summit with us and talking about market dynamics and they looked into our product plans and I can't talk about this because we're very public with this on social media. So it's not like people wouldn't see that we are promoting it. So our feedback from at least a sample of our customers is pretty fresh. And I think we've got a pretty good view. So, I wouldn't say anything significantly has changed in our views from what we talked about last couple of quarters.

Our software business is very healthy Samad and you can see that in the user base, continues to be up over 40% on the growth. And we're obviously seeing a lot of demand and that's one of the reasons why we actually took an action to increase prices that will also benefit us in the second half.

Yes. Good point. Thanks a lot for your questions. [indiscernible]

(00:31:51) questions.

And next from Maxim Group we have Nehal Chokshi.

Yeah. Thank you. So I think [indiscernible] (00:32:05) typically September quarter seasonality and that seems what you're guiding to, can you just remind us what are drivers of that seasonality?

I mean you've got both good and bad. I mean you've got on the tailwind side a lot of our products, not all of them, but a lot of our products are announced in the first half. So Q3 benefits from those products. And the same token, it's summer in Europe, so there's a headwind obviously. We're managing through summer in Europe. And then finally we have our big European convention, at IBC in September, which actually does help us, because it allows us to bring a lot of stuff we've unveiled in the first half including at NAB and Connect, it allows us to put it in front of a lot of the media enterprise customers in Europe in the month of September. So again there is seasonality that goes both ways. But we pretty much know our seasonality of the business and obviously Q4 is a very big quarter for Avid, it's always going to be that way. It's never going to change [indiscernible] (00:33:00) going forward.

Okay. So the reason why I ask is that, I think that the guidance embeds a typical level seasonality that you see from June quarter to September quarter. And given that the supply chain transition is now over, I would have expected that the little bit softness that you saw in the June quarter due to the supply chain transition, would produce an above seasonal September quarter guidance. So that's what I'm really trying to drive at here. So any color on that potential concern there?

No. Just other than that what I want to clarify one point there is that the transition out of the partner in Asia is complete and in fact I know Ken mentioned that we've actually even returned our the letter of credit has been released, so that $8.5 million has been put back will be back on our balance sheet in Q3. We already received it in July, but it will be in our Q3 balance when we report Q3. So that's done. But the ramp up of the production and the move to a lean supply chain is a several month activity. So there's still activity, we'll be doing bringing up new production, as I mentioned before, supply chain in Q3. We're just going to be – we're going to continue to be as we were before cautious on the current quarter, but as we all said we still are – feel good about our full year guidance and we're on the right trajectory to deliver on them.

Got it. Clearly understood. And then Ken you already pointed out once that you saw a very good software license revenue growth up 20% year-over-year, that is a significant acceleration relative to the March quarter where, it was flat in the prior year quarter, is there a narrative behind that acceleration?

Yeah, just on the subscription side – more growth in the subscription side across all areas Pro Tools, Sibelius and the new Media Composer and Media Composer, which was announced at NAB had a nice uplift in in June. So we're excited about that as we look at the second half. And also we had a very good growth in the perpetual side related to MediaCentral with that new release. So those are really – that's the really the color behind the better growth in Q2 versus Q1.

Okay. Got it. And then you guys talked about you have a very nice pipeline for your long-term agreements. It sounds like though that in the current quarter there wasn't significant progress in terms of new long-term agreements being signed. A, is that correct? And B, can you give us some color as far as how big is that pipeline perhaps maybe relative to what's already in your contractually committed backlog?

Well, I don't know if I can share with you kind of a ratio off the top my head, but I mean the pipeline is a bit better than – we track the pipeline every quarter year-on-year. So the pipeline is better. It's quite, I would say, comfortably better. We like what we're seeing from a trend. We did not get all of – I noticed, I commented about one of the renewals of agreements that we did in July.

As we've said before, we're really not focused on bookings, we're focused on really the deliveries and the revenue and the other metrics around the company. We do look at the bookings in standpoint of the business we need for a quarter and we also obviously look at the booking when it's time to renew an agreement. In the case of the agreement I mentioned on the call about that was signed in early July we didn't push for it to be signed in June because I think as I've shared before on the call we want good behavior from the sales team. And so we're not incentivizing them to get stuff in early. We're making sure they [indiscernible] (00:36:49) on time. But we're not using critical boundaries for contract negotiations. That's a bad place to be putting ourselves as a company. But we are making the progress we wanted to see. We saw a slight uptick in the ACV and Recurring Revenue this quarter. Remember last quarter it was a little bit down. We saw a little bit of an uptick this quarter. We're happy with. We'll keep focusing on hopefully delivering an uptick in the second half.

Yeah. I would say we feel good about the forward-looking metrics. First our LTM results through June 30 show we're really close to the low end of our annual guidance, so the trajectory of the business. But when we look at the new product releases both at NAB in April I talked about Media Composer having a nice benefit in June, that's moving forward. We have new products that were just introduced at the Summer NAMM conference. We have price increases. We have an improving pipeline that Jeff mentioned, which I'm very optimistic [indiscernible] (00:37:50). It's not in contractual revenue, but pipelines are growing. So we feel very good about the second half and the annual guidance that we reaffirmed.

Okay. Couple more questions just follow on here. One is that the pipeline, does that consist of largely existing customers or is new customers a significant portion of the pipeline?

No, it's both. I mean, we're running about the same percentage we have been from a new customer standpoint. The pipeline is all the above. It's upgrades of existing customers, it's new project of existing customers, it's new customers, it's also new products that we're unveiling which give us any additional pipeline. And a lot of our channel business is new customers, not all of it. There is a lot of recurring customers there. But a lot of our channel business does deliver a lot of the new customers of the company.

Okay. And then, Ken you've mentioned a couple of times on the call raise prices, which products does this refer to?

These are our creative cloud products...

Creative software products.

...creative software.

This is Pro Tools...

Okay.

...Media Composer and Sibelius.

Yeah.

Is basically in response to Adobe having raised prices for Creative Cloud?

Was no – was not really response to them. Obviously, they did something similar a couple of months before us. But it wasn't responses looking at the business model as we move forward. We are trying to also make it very attractive for people to get on subscription and are perpetual and just general some adjustments that we made based on lessons learned on the business. But those price adjustments that we made – since they were all increases some actually, there are some neutral. There are a couple that went down or a few that went down. We basically adjusted. But we will see a tailwind in our software revenues for the creative tools because of those price adjustments.

Got you. Thank you.

Yeah.

Thank you.

Next from Dougherty, we have Stephen Frankel.

Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm trying to connect a couple of dots. So you've seen this maintenance revenue decline and you're hoping it bottoms and you talk about the source products that were bought last year coming into a year or two in helping to turn that around. And I look at the gross margin that you talked about was a mix issue in Q2. Does that say that the new storage cycle has quieted down for the moment?

No...

And that's why we didn't see a lot of high margin storage in Q2? And what's the outlook for storage between now and the end of the year?

Yeah. So let me take that. So in the first quarter, we specifically called out, there was a large storage deal that was high margin that occurred in the first quarter of 2019 that was multi-million dollars and that likely wouldn't reoccur. So as a result, our margin was slightly higher in Q1. In Q2, with that storage deal not recurring, the margin declined, but we're still optimistic on storage. It's just a mix issue. Some quarters, you sell more higher margin products like we did in Q1. In Q2, the mix was less higher margin storage and more live sound audio which typically has lower margin. And as you know, the live sound business is related to that the concerts and that's very – that's related to the summer. So Q2 tends to be a higher, a bigger quarter for that so. But we are optimistic on the storage business and we're optimistic in the second half on storage, but also on a lot of other elements of the business.

If I can just take...

Was storage up year-on-year in the second quarter?

Storage year-on-year was up about, yeah, it was up actually Q2 year-on-year was slightly down, but for the first half, we're up double digits.

Right. And then, there was a comment earlier in the call about maintenance being impacted by the shift to subscription, I understand that in the Tier 3 side, but could you give us a flavor for kind of where is the Tier 1 core long-term Avid customer on shifting from perpetual to subscription?

Hey, Steve, this is Jeff. So on the Tier 1 level, let me say, Tier 3, obviously is doing lots of subscription. Tier 2, it's growing in subscription in that space too that's more of the small-to-medium size enterprises could be production companies or post production companies, that is also growing pretty well. We are launching a new team offering which we've announced, which will be delivered in the second half which will make team subscriptions, will help be more attractiveness in the kind of the Tier 2 market.

In the really big media enterprise in Tier 1; that has started as we've said before, there is a few customers that have gone to subscription. We've only taken a few customers into subscription in that area mainly because our back office systems aren't ready for it, but we have taken a few big customers there and we will probably continue to take a few more, but we haven't really launched aggressively into that space as of yet.

Okay. And Ken, in the past you've given out a subscription software number and I did see it on the datasheet this quarter.

In terms of the user base? I just want to make sure.

No, revenue number.

So we have it in the earnings slide, we do break out subscription. Actually on the earnings side, this was software license and maintenance. On the earnings, on the IR datasheet, it should be there. We'll make sure it's posted for you, Steve.

I didn't see it. It could be there and I didn't see it.

Yeah. Within the 10-Q, that will be coming out, I think, in the next 15 minutes as well.

Okay. And then, in terms of the ACV is kind of stalled out. Is it your proposition that when you get the consol cycle running in back half of the year we should start to see ACV growing again?

I think we'll see ACV growing for a couple of reasons, hopefully. ACV is heavily driven by subscription growth. And the second half is, first of all, seasonally strong. The second point is that – of course, the holiday season is important for us to grow that – the other, because a lot of our music customer, that's a heavy time for music in – with the holidays. We also as we're working to sign long-term agreements at the high-end in Tier 1 and of course, renewal of [ph] SBA (45:03) agreements near the end of the year that will also [ph] help – with that (45:09) that's what our anticipation is.

Okay. And then, what's the biggest risk factor to your free cash flow forecast for the full year?

I feel very good about the free cash flow forecasts. On the last 12 months basis through June, we're at $10.7 million in free cash flow. The guidance is $12 million to $17 million. Given the new products that we have, given the improved cost structure and given the fact that with the supply chain conversion, we're going to be able to reduce inventory, I feel like our free cash flow is – will be better positioned in the second half than in the prior year. So I think there's a lot of clear visibility to improve free cash flow for the full year and achieving the guidance if not beating the guidance.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Steve.

Thanks, Steve. [Operator Instructions]

Next from BWS Financial, we have Hamed Khorsand.

Hi. So first off, on the hardware side of the business, the last few years, it's usually been – the first half of the year has been seasonally weak and then you get this ramp in the second half this year. The first half is much stronger than prior year, so is there a change in the seasonality or is this going to be a steady kind of performance and what are you expecting from hardware in the second half [ph] of it? Will you (46:51) continue this kind of trend that you're seeing this year?

As we've said before, I think Hamed and hi, by the way, we had talked about back in Investor Day and we'll continue to talk about it is we've been expanding a lot of our portfolio around the solutions, the integrated solutions that we are selling around the creative process. And as we expand that portfolio, as we did with – you remember the original S6L Live Sound expansion which we had unveiled last year, that really was a big benefit in the first half of this year, because we would put a lot more live sound products out into concerts and festivals and in fixed facilities.

And as we continue to expand those, also storage has been performing quite well. And then, the second half we have more of those solutions with the expansion with the S1 and S4. So I think as I foresee it, we're going to see – even if there may be very near-term headwinds from supply chain transition, what we look at the second half and we look at the full-year and even in the next year we're encouraged by how those products are going to contribute. We're really getting more of the economic relationship from those customers now than we were before.

And then, could you just talk about the some – maintenance revenue as it declines? What's the customer mix like when you go into subscription and how much of your enterprise customers have switched over from maintenance to subscription?

Yes. So again, we're – on the enterprise side, I would say, as Jeff pointed out, we're kind of in the earlier days to move people on to subscription. That said, we have some big opportunities that we're working through that that we'll be able to talk about as we think about the second half of the year. Those are things that we're working on today.

In terms of the actual maintenance decline, the two things that we talked about was, we are still moving on the other side of the business, on the creative side from perpetual to subscription. So that's been a headwind. As well as on the storage as we move from ISIS to NEXIS, that's also a headwind. So that resulted in a decline year-on-year on maintenance. That said, when we look forward, Hamed on maintenance, our product revenue we had – and as you pointed out, we are starting to have very strong product sales. Our product sales over the last year have been fairly strong. And as a result as those products sales come up for maintenance renewal, because the first year we provide maintenance freight that will be a tailwind for us to drive more maintenance revenue as we look forward. So we did decline and we talked about the reasons for that. But with the strong product sales that will help us moving forward and also we're starting to see a tick up on some of the renewal rates that we're looking at carefully here across the tiers.

So are you seeing a decline in enterprise customers that because now you're seeing more subscriptions coming in from individual professionals?

No. Our subscription today is mainly the creative professionals. We are working or in the early innings of moving enterprises to subscription. We have some big opportunities, so that will become more part of the company's revenue streams as we move forward.

Maybe I can add, there may be a confusion, Hamed. So...

Yeah.

...maintenance doesn't just – didn't just come or doesn't just come from media enterprises. Individual creative have a maintenance stream, because when they had a perpetual license, we had an annual support program and software maintenance program. So when they – if somebody comes on subscription and goes off of perpetual, the revenue moves from maintenance over to subscription, right. So and it's not just big enterprises. We're not losing big enterprises, but we don't – I don't know of any significant or major or even sizable of any kind big enterprises moving off of maintenance on our product or off of Avid. It really is just about that part of the maintenance headwind is all about the move to perpetual subscription.

Okay. And last question is, how do you plan to pay off the remaining convertible debt that's now short-term?

Well, we had $51 million of cash in the balance sheet where – we just got back $8.5 million that was restricted. So we've got close to $60 million of freely available cash. We expect to have strong cash flow in the second half of the year, plus we have $20 million – $22 million of undrawn revolver. So I have multiple sources to pay it off. I'm just going to use cash on the balance sheet. I feel very comfortable doing that and reducing that liability.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks.

And at this time, it looks like we don't have any further questions from the audience. I'd like to turn things back to Jeff Rosica for any additional or closing remarks.

All right. Thank you, operator and thanks everybody for attending the questions. So as you've heard, Avid has exited the first half of 2019 on a positive performance trajectory, and is entering the second half with some confidence. We're encouraged by the progress we've made in our operational improvements and Smart Savings initiatives to-date. We're also excited about our recent new product releases and deliveries which we anticipate will make an important contribution to our performance in the second half, as we work to deliver the results laid out in our full-year guidance.

Thanks again, everyone, for joining us today and we look forward to our next call in the fall when we report our Q3 2019 results. Until then have a great rest of your day or evening and enjoy the rest of summer. Thanks everyone.

Once again, ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call for today. Thanks for joining us. You may now disconnect.