corrected transcript


Avid Technology Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Avid Technology First Quarter Earnings Results


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would


like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Dean Ridlon. Please go ahead,


sir.


Dean Ridlon, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. I'm Dean Ridlon, Avid Technology Inc.’s Investor


Relations Director. In a minute, I’ll turn the call over to David Krall, Avid’s President and CEO.


However, before we begin, please note that this call will include forward-looking statements as


defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about the


status of Avid’s proposed acquisition of Pinnacle Systems Inc., new product releases and


functionality and anticipated results of operations during 2005. There are number of factors that


could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such statements,


such as the possibility that the Pinnacle acquisition will not close or that the closing it will be


delayed. Competitive factors, including pricing pressures, fluctuating currency exchange rates,


adverse changes in general economic or market conditions, particularly in the content creation


industry; delays in product shipments, market acceptance of Avid's existing and new products, and


other important events and factors disclosed previously and from time to time in Avid's filings with


the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including with respect to the transaction with


Pinnacle Systems, the joint proxy statement prospectus to be filed by Avid and Pinnacle with the


SEC. In addition, our forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today, April


28, 2005, and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.


Avid undertakes no obligation to review or update these forward-looking statements.


During this call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP measures


are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The most directly


comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation of these


GAAP measures to these non-GAAP measures are contained in the press release announcing this


quarter's results and available in the investor's section of our website, www.avid.com.


And now, I would like to introduce David Krall, President and CEO of Avid.


David Krall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dean. I'm David Krall and I’d like to welcome you to our first quarter 2005 results


conference call. In a moment I'll hand the call over to Paul Milbury, our CFO, who will provide a


detailed review of this quarter's financial results. Then I'll discuss some of the highlights from this


year’s National Association of Broadcasters convention and provide an update on our proposed


acquisition of Pinnacle Systems. Finally, Paul will come back and update our financial outlook for


2005. Following our prepared remarks, Paul and I will be happy to take your questions.


Now, let's look at our results. Today, we reported our best ever first quarter revenue and net


income. Revenue in Q1 was $166 million, up 30% from Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP net income for


the first quarter was $22.2 million, up 48% from the first quarter of 2004. Both our video and audio


businesses posted good results with continuing strength across all areas of our business. I will talk


about NAB and the proposed Pinnacle acquisition in a few minutes. But first I would like to hand it


over to Paul to review the numbers in more detail. Paul?.
corrected transcript


Avid Technology Inc.
 
AVID
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Paul Milbury, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Thank you, David, and good afternoon everyone. Before I get into the results, I would like to


remind everyone that our earnings press release, which is posted on our website, includes both


GAAP and non-GAAP financial statements and tables reconciling the two sets of numbers. During


my remarks I will be referring primarily to the non-GAAP numbers, so I encourage you to refer to


the financial statements to reconcile back to the GAAP numbers.


Our Q1 results get us off to a good start for 2005, with revenue of $166 million and year-over-year


revenue growth of 30%. Pro forma operating profits grew by over 50% year-over-year and our


operating profit margin increased by 180 basis points to 13.8% of revenue. Both our video and


audio segments had solid double-digit revenue growth and both achieved double-digit operating


profitability.


Video revenues were $104.5 million, up 14% year-over-year with both our broadcast and post


production businesses posting good results. And audio revenues were $61.5 million, up 74%


reflecting solid performance from Digidesign and from M-Audio following its addition to our audio


business in the third quarter of 2004. Excluding the M-Audio acquisition, audio revenues still


increased more than 15%.


Geographically, our Q1 Americas business grew 17% year-over-year. Our International business


grew 47% with Europe particularly strong. For the quarter, the business was split roughly 50:50


between Americas and International.


Gross margins for the quarter were 57.2%. As you can see in the financial statements attached to


our press release, non-GAAP operating expenses were $72.1 million or 43.4% of revenue in Q1,


excluding amortization and stock-based compensation related to the acquisition of M-Audio. The


sequential decrease from Q4 primarily represents lower accruals for various variable compensation


programs.


Non-GAAP operating income, excluding amortization and stock-based compensation related to the


M-Audio acquisition, was $23 million or 13.8% of revenue. Non-GAAP operating profit for our video


segment was $15.1 million or 14.5% of revenue, and operating profit for our audio segment was 7.9


million or 12.8% of revenue.


Interest and other income was $837,000 for the quarter. Our pro forma provision for income taxes,


which excludes $173,000 of tax benefit related to amortization, was $1.6 million. Excluding the


amortization-related tax benefit and stock-based compensation related to the M-Audio acquisition


and acquisition-related amortization, pro forma net income for Q1 was $22.2 million or $0.60 per


diluted share on 37.3 million shares outstanding. GAAP earnings per share were $0.53.


Cash increased during the quarter by approximately $21 million to 176 million. During the quarter


net cash provided by operational activities was approximately $15 million. Accrued liabilities


declined significantly in the quarter, primarily as a result of the payout of 2004 bonuses and sales


commissions. Cash from the exercise of stock options was approximately $6 million. Day sales


outstanding at the end of the quarter increased to 53 and our inventory turnover was 5.2 times.


I’ll be back to you shortly to update our guidance for the balance of 2005, but now I’d like to turn the


call back to David for a discussion of the business highlights from this past quarter.


David Krall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Paul. Since we just returned from last week’s NAB convention in Las Vegas, I’d like to


provide an overview of our various market segments by discussing the innovations we introduced