Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steven Gottlieb — Vice President-Marketing, BSQUARE Corp.
Ralph C. Derrickson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, BSQUARE Corp.
Christopher Wheaton — Chief Financial Officer, BSQUARE Corp.
Richard A. Karp — Chief Executive Officer, Tictran Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the BSQUARE Corporation Third Quarter 2020 Financial Results Call. This conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Steven Gottlieb, Vice President, Corporate Affairs. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Before we begin, we'd like to remind you that this call is being webcast and that a recording of the call and the text of our prepared remarks will be available on BSQUARE's website. During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

During this call, management will also refer to GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the cautionary text regarding forward-looking statements, as well as the non-GAAP reconciliation to comparable GAAP financial measures contained in BSQUARE's earnings release issued today on our website at www.bsquare.com under Investors. All per share amounts discussed today are fully diluted numbers where applicable.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Ralph Derrickson, BSQUARE President and CEO.

Thank you, Steven. Good afternoon, and welcome to the BSQUARE Q3 2020 earnings call. Thank you for taking the time to participate in today's review of BSQUARE's Q3 financial results. Joining me on today's call is Chris Wheaton, fellow entrepreneur and BSQUARE's Chief Financial Officer. The plan as usual is to take you through the Q3 2020 financial results, provide our perspectives on the business, and answer any questions you may have for us today. For those who would like to arrange a follow-up conversation, please contact Steven Gottlieb, VP of Corporate Affairs, who is responsible for Investor Relations and lead off our call today. You can reach Steven via email at steveng@bsquare.com.

Let's turn our attention to BSQUARE's Q3 results. Starting with revenue, we saw healthy increases over Q2 2020 in both the Partner Solutions and Edge-to-Cloud business segments. Total revenue was up 17% over last quarter. It is not clear if this is the beginning of a sustained recovery. We have over 600 active Partner Solutions customers, who in turn sell their products into a diverse set of markets. Clearly, some of our customers and markets have thrived in the current environment while others have faltered.

We continue to work closely with all our customers as they seek to adapt to the changing market conditions. Edge-to-Cloud revenue improved as well during the quarter. The heavy investments we made to address issues with prior deliveries to our large customers are easy. And as a result, billable activity has increased.

In addition to improving our customer relationships, this work is helping us improve our product offering. I'm confident these investments in our large customers will pay dividends as we look to grow the business in 2021. In both business segments, we benefited from our renewed commitment to partnership. I firmly believe that we win by serving our customers. Their success is our success. And I'm proud of the progress we made restoring our customers' confidence in BSQUARE.

Turning next to operation, I'm pleased to share that we saw continued improvement this quarter. As you know, I have been laser-focused on managing costs and shifting the company to a more appropriate expense structure. That effort played a significant role in delivering the smallest net quarterly loss since I joined the company and in keeping our cash utilization to break even.

While I realize there's more to making BSQUARE successful than managing expense. Without careful and deliberate attention to it, we would not have created the breathing room we needed to pursue new opportunities for financial upside. That is why I have placed such a heavy premium or heavy emphasis rather on it especially during this early phases of our business rebuilding.

Let me turn things over to Chris now to take us through the quarter's financial results in detail.

Thank you, Ralph and good afternoon, investors. As Ralph noted, our third quarter results contain relatively good news and I'm eager to share the highlights with you. I believe these financial results represent both great progress and a stable basis from which we could turn our attention to profitable growth.

Perhaps most importantly, our cash and cash equivalents including restricted cash totaled $12.6 million on September 30, 2020. An amount virtually unchanged from June 30, 2020. Ongoing cash management and now well established discipline throughout the company has allowed us to migrate our operations to a more sustainable balance between cash inflows and outflows. Importantly, our more sustainable stance gives us room to maneuver the degree of – the degree freedom to invest that has not been present at BSQUARE for quite some time.

Turning to revenue performance, we recognized $10.4 million in revenue in Q3 2020, an amount up $1.5 million or 17% over the second quarter of 2020. What's notable is that this overall revenue increase was driven by higher sales in both the Partner Solutions segment and the Edge-to-Cloud segment.

Partners Solutions revenue in Q3 was $9.1 million compared to $8.1 million in Q2. While it's not clear that the shock delivered by the initial days of the COVID-19 pandemic has fully dissipated, we are noticing generally more stable ordering patterns.

Furthermore, Partner Solutions gross margins in Q3 2020 were 19%, up from 14% in second quarter. An unusually favorable mix of product SKUs, combined with changes in key rebate programs that have always been present in our Microsoft partnership, reduced our cost of revenue significantly. We're not counting on the rebates to continue at Q3 levels. The ongoing value we deliver to our customers in this segment is reflected in the relatively stable gross margins we have enjoyed in 2020.

In Edge-to-Cloud, the customer investments we made throughout 2020 are now winding down and providing a return. Segment revenue in Q3 was $1.3 million, an increase of more than 57% compared to last quarter. Gross margins for Q3 turned positive, a result we have not posted since the fourth quarter of last year. We'll continue to seek and drive growth in this segment, using the positive outcomes we have delivered for our customers as a springboard for deeper and even more valuable relationships.

Net loss for the current quarter was only $100,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $1.1 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2020. As Ralph said, the last time BSQUARE delivered such a small net loss was well before his time at the company. In fact, it was the first quarter of 2017, nearly four years ago, when the company delivered better net income results than those we've provided today.

Finally, adjusted EBITDAS, a key measure of performance that we believe represents the core operations of the company was approximately $300,000, a $1.1 million improvement over the negative $800,000 result in the second quarter of 2020. We're finding ways to make each segment more profitable even as we reduce and right-size our operational expenses. In future quarters, we will actively seek methods to continue the trend by pursuing greater convergence between our two business segments. Ralph will provide more detail on that in a moment.

In preparing today's remarks, I found myself frequently looking back on the four quarters of hard work that have passed since I first spoke with you. I hope that the quality of today's results also gives you the same sense of accomplishment that I know I feel. I'm proud of how far BSQUARE has come both financially and operationally. The team we've assembled is built for an exciting futures and we'll be operating from a position stability created by the quality of our business fundamentals.

A year ago, we reported cash burn of approximately $1 million compared to a cash flow breakeven today. A year ago, we had $3.8 million in operating expenses compared to $2 million today. Simply put BSQUARE is a different company than it was 12 months ago. We've come a long way over this past year and have done so in a business environment unlike any other. The confidence I have in our ability to create and manage opportunities for profitable growth has been bolstered rather than diminished by the pandemic induced challenges of these last two quarters. Ralph and I are here to use entrepreneurial muscle to find opportunities through innovation and COVID has not slowed that intent or reduced our confidence.

Nonetheless, our fortunes are of course tied to those of our customers. The uncertainty surrounding the speed and slope of economic recovery remains present and meaningful. So, the disruptions caused by the pandemic have fully receded. We cannot accurately predict our customers' buying behaviors. Predicting revenue and other key performance indicators is difficult at best. As a result, we're not providing guidance at this time.

With that, let me turn call back to Ralph.

Thank you for those remarks, Chris. Since my arrival at BSQUARE, we have pursued a series of initiatives designed to rebuild the business. Of those initiatives operating excellence has dominated the last five quarters and much of our reporting to you. As Chris described that foundation of operational excellence is now in place. So, I'd like to focus on some of the other critical business rebuilding activities that are well underway.

As you recall, the other initiatives I announced back in May of last year included revising our go-to market strategy, strengthening our strategic partnerships, and offering customers an Edge-to-Cloud software and services solutions. I am pleased with the progress we've made on all fronts. By its nature, some of that progress is faster and more visible, while other progress has been more deliberate and for now behind the scenes.

Let's start with the first initiative: revising our go-to market strategy. You have no doubt seen substantial changes to our strategy, messaging, and even our look on our website. On prior calls, you've heard me describe a growing synergy between the needs of our Partner Solution and our Edge-to-Cloud customers. Customers in both segments are encountering a common complication at the heart of IoT, specifically the challenge of deploying and operating devices securely in a widely heterogeneous, persistently connected system.

As we've seen working with our large IoT customers, this isn't a software-only problem. It's equally a service and operation problem. For these customers, we built large components of their system and we are now playing a key role in operating it. Our partner solutions customers encountered the same challenge but arrive at it from the individual device. For these customers, we're helping them design and prepare their products to operate as part of the system. Once again, this is as much an operation and service challenge as it is a software problem.

This commonality in our customer base is what inspired this statement on our website and that is what we use to frame every customer conversation – our technology is powering the next generation of intelligent devices and systems.

Turning next to the initiative to improve our partnerships, that work has been twofold, our technology partnerships and our customer partnerships. First, we have doubled down on our Microsoft Technology partnership. Why? Because today the bulk of our revenue comes from licensing Microsoft OS technology to purpose-built device makers, this generates cash for us and provides an on-ramp for our legacy customers to the intelligent device and system business I just described. That partnership isn't limited to just OS software. We support Azure and other technologies that are part of Microsoft IoT solutions. We also continue to operate some of our largest customers on the AWS platform, and that relationship is critical to us and to our customers.

Turning to our customer partnerships, a highlight from market research work this quarter with BSQUARE has a reputation for consistently creative technical support and service. In the Partner Solutions segment, we have helped customers get their products to market faster and reduce their unit costs. In the Edge-to-Cloud segment, we invested aggressively to address issues with prior commitments. In both segments, we are forging strong relationships that are improving our product and now helping our customers meet their goals.

The last initiative I'd like to touch on today is improving our product and service offering. This work takes more time because it can only happen as a result of collaboration between our customers and our engineering and operations service teams. We've made great strides in harvesting software components and operations expertise that we can deploy and operate at scale.

What you have not yet heard from me – pardon, what you have not yet heard me talk a lot about is new customers or new products. In this area, I have intentionally chosen to wait to be certain that what we're doing is something that we can sell, deliver, and operate at scale. We don't want to be just another company hyping some future technology. We wanted to be able to speak to what we are already doing successfully and repeatedly. And when we do speak, we want our customers to speak alongside us. Until then, we will continue to work methodically to refine our offering in collaboration with our customers and our technology partners to prepare BSQUARE for accelerated growth.

I will close my remarks with this. We have the potential to be an important company in the rapidly evolving world of intelligent devices and systems. And I look forward to sharing more as we transition from rebuilding to growth. Thank you very much.

Moderator, please open the line for questions now.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] At this time, no one has signaled. [Operator Instructions] At this time, no one has signaled to ask a question.

Thank you, moderator. I think we can close the line now. Thank you, everyone for joining us today. For those individuals who would like a follow up call, please contact Steven Gottlieb, VP of Corporate Affairs, to arrange that.

We did actually get a question now, would you like to take it?

Yes.

Thank you. And we'll hear that question from Richard Karp with Tictran Corp.

Hi, guys. I apologize if you hear any background noise since my landlord picked today to decide to power wash the building, unfortunately.

No problem, Richard. Good to hear from you.

Yeah. Thanks. Comparing Q3 balance sheet to September 30, Q3 sales increased over the last quarter, I would have expected accounts receivable to increase. But in fact, they went down by a considerable amount. And current assets are down by a noticeable amount from the last quarter as well. So, would it be a fair assessment to state that the main reason why you didn't burn much cash this quarter was that you were more aggressive in collecting?

Let me turn that question, Richard, over to Chris to field for you.

Hi, Richard. It is – I don't think it is quite right to characterize it as more aggressive. I think it's just a matter of normal timing. We were not particularly aggressive this quarter or unaggressive last quarter. I just think it is a or actually I know it is a combination of when the sales came in in Q1 and were paid in Q2 relative when the sales came in Q3 and were not yet paid in Q3. We do have customers that have longer than 30-day terms. So, sometimes those receivables can linger for a while on the balance sheet.

Okay. Yeah. That's all I had. Thank you.

Great. Thanks for the question.

Thanks, Richard.

And no further questions, everyone.

Thank you.

Thank you, moderator. I think we can close the call now.

Thank you.

Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. We would like to thank you all for your participation today. You may now disconnect.