corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter 2010


Results. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will


conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded Friday, August 6, 2010.


I will now turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go


ahead sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking time to call in to our second quarter conference


call. Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation, I’d like to ask Terry Trovato as always


to make a few comments. Terry?


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements.


It should be pointed out that as of January 1, 2010, the SEC changed its rules to permit oil and gas


companies in their filings with them, to disclose not only proved reserves, but also probable


reserves and possible reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas


which by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty


to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under existing


economic conditions. These reserves are produced using operating methods and government


regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire.


Probable reserves include those additional reserves that the company believes are as likely as not


to be recovered. And possible reserves include those additional reserves that are lesser to be


recovered than probable reserves.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2010 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our second quarter 2010 results news release, and can be referenced there on our


website at www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Terry. Callon continues to demonstrate strong results both for the current quarter and the


first six months of 2010 as we focused on the execution of the company’s onshore strategic plan,


emphasizing long-term growth through the acquisition and development of lower risk, high impact,


onshore assets, and funding these development of these assets with a high margin stable cash


flow from our deepwater Gulf of Mexico properties. With no debt maturities until 2016 and good


liquidity, we’re well positioned to both continue funding our 2010 Permian Wolfberry development


drilling program and our North Louisiana Haynesville Shale program as well as continuing to look


for new acquisition opportunities.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I’d like to begin this morning by asking Steve Hinchman, our Chief Operating Officer, to discuss our


operations, development status of our Permian Basin assets, and then our Haynesville Shale play,


as well as review our operations for the second quarter of 2010. Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial


Officer, will then review our financial results for the same period including a discussion of second


quarter highlights related to our improving balance sheet and liquidity. Steve?


Steven B. Hinchman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred, and good morning. I’ll begin with a brief operations review for the second quarter


of 2010. During the first half of 2010, Callon has not incurred any recordable safety instances.


We’re committed to a strong safety culture and we believe that a good safety performance


translates to a strong operating performance.


Late in the first quarter, Callon initiated its Wolfberry development program in the Permian Basin.


We acquired our Permian Basin properties in October of 2009 and have a drilling inventory of over


300 wells. To date, eight wells have been drilled and we’re currently drilling the ninth. Seven wells


have been fracture-stimulated using seven to 10 stages. Each stage is completed using limited


entry perforating, which assures that a fracture is initiated and placed in the desired intervals. Our


stimulations are designed to typically pump 130,000 gallons of fluid and 120,000 pounds of profit at


a rate of 70 barrels per minute for each stage. Our fracture modeling and our tracer analysis


confirms that we are executing effective fracture placement and getting good vertical coverage.


Now, our initial expectations for a typical Wolfberry well on our property, was that a well would


begin to produce oil after you’ve recovered about 30 to 40% of the fluid that was pumped during the


stimulation. The oil rate would continue to increase for another month or two and peak at around


100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and ultimately recover 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent.


Now, our first two wells, drilling our Kayleigh development area, which is located in Ector County


where we own 100% working interest in a 640-acre section. The two wells have performed very


similar, beginning to produce oil after recovering 35 to 40% of the stimulation fluid and peaking at


150 barrels of oil equivalent per day growth after about a month and a half.


We also drilled and completed one well in our Carpe Diem development area that’s located in


Midland County, where we have an 85% working interest in four sections. This well started to


produce oil after 38% of the fracture fluid was produced and is currently producing 80 barrels of oil


equivalent per day gross and is still showing incremental improvement after two months.


And in our Bloxum development area in Upton County, where we have an average working interest


of 92% in six sections, we have drilled and completed four wells. One well is waiting to be


completed, and one well is currently being drilled. Two of the completed wells are producing oil with


current rates of 140 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 80 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross


and have not yet stabilized. They are still inclining. The two remaining wells have just recently been


completed and are still recovering the stimulation fluid.


Since initiating our Permian Wolfberry program, our net production has increased from about 300


barrels of oil equivalent per day to nearly 500. And our total gross well costs are coming in around


1.5 million, which is in line with our expectations. Although it’s still very early in the program, our


initial results are meeting or indeed in most cases exceeding our expectations. And overall, I’m


quite pleased with our execution.


Now, turning our attention to the Haynesville Shale. In 2009, we acquired a 70% working interest


and operatorship in a Haynesville Shale gas unit located just south of the Elm Grove field in Bossier


Parish, Louisiana. This unit is in a great neighborhood, and is surrounded by 20 million a day initial