raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Callon Petroleum


Company’s Third Quarter Results Conference Call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn


the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thanks for taking the time to call in for our third quarter conference call. We’ll


begin this morning as usual with a few comments by Terry Trovato who heads our Investor


Relations.


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this


teleconference will be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of


the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These comments, which include discussion of the


Company’s financial position, reserve estimates and business strategy, reflect management’s views


as of this date. No assurance can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will


be attained. There are a variety of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the


Company’s expectation. Many of these factors are identified under Risk Management or Risk


Factors in Callon’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company are expressly


qualified by these factors.


Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. As everyone knows, our third quarter results were dramatically affected by the


one-two punch inflicted by Katrina and Rita. Although our major production facilities came through


these two horrific events with relatively modest damage, the downstream pipelines and processing


facilities which handle the vast majority of our crude oil and natural gas suffered extensive damage.


This forced us to defer over 20 MMcfe of production per day during the third quarter and this is why


our actual production during the third quarter totaled only 41.3 MMcfe/d. Had we not been affected


by these two weather-related catastrophic events, overall production would have fallen well within


our third quarter guidance of 58 – 64 MMcfe/d.


According to the Mineral Management Service, as of Monday of this week, 51.5% of oil production


and 45% of natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico was still offline. We are currently


producing approximately 13 MMcfe/d from our shallow Miocene – primarily from our shallow


Miocene gas in the Mobile area. However, over the next 30 – 60 days, we estimate our situation


will return to pre-Katrina rates as we bring our fields back online and start ramping up production.


Let’s go through the major properties. At Medusa, we’re currently producing only 1,000 barrels a


day. We’re using about 700 MMcf of gas for fuel there. We expect the Medusa Field to be brought


back online by the end of this month. It’ll come on at a somewhat reduced rate – we’re estimating


50% – and that should increase during the month of December so that we’re back to pre-Katrina


rates by the end of the month. Prior to the hurricanes, production from Medusa Field was


averaging 34,000 barrels of oil and 35 MMcf of gas a day.
raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


At our Habanero Field, we expect to begin producing again within the next two weeks, produce at


approximately 65% of capacity, increasing to 100% by the end of December. Prior to the


hurricanes, production from Habanero was averaging 13,700 barrels of oil and 22.2 MMcf of natural


gas a day.


Our Highland 119 Field currently is shut in but is scheduled to come back online during early


December at some curtail rate for the first 30 days, returning to full production by the end of the


month. Prior to the hurricanes, this field was producing 19.5 MMcf of natural gas and 350 barrels of


oil a day.


And at our two discoveries, North Padre Island Block 913 and East Cameron 90 Field, at North


Padre 913, production should commence by the middle of next month and, at East Cameron, we


expect production to begin in the next two to three weeks. The North Padre Island 913 we expect


initial production to be 15 MMcf of gas a day and, at East Cameron 90, about 7.5 MM a day. We


own a 50% interest at North Padre Island 913 and 61.7% in the East Cameron 90 Field.


Our recent discovery at West Cameron Block 295 should commence production in early December.


We expect an initial production rate of 31 MMcf gas a day and we have a 20.5% working interest


there.


Also, our Highland 73 Prospect is being completed as a discovery but because of weather-related


damage to downstream processing facilities, production is not expected to commence until early in


the second quarter of next year. Initial flow rates are expected to be 21 MMcf/d and we own a


28.7% working interest.


The Company’s Northwest Bayou Cruckshane[ph] Exploratory Prospect was unsuccessful here in


the third quarter. We owned a 25% working interest in the well.


We are currently drilling two wells. We suspended drilling operations at our West Cameron 295 #3


Well prior to each hurricane; however, drilling resumed during the last week of September.


Currently, the well is being sidetracked at 13,433 feet and has a proposed total depth of 16,175


feet. It should reach its objective during the next 30 days. Reserve potential here is 26 Bcf.


Semerex[ph] is the operator and we own a 20.5% working interest.


Our Highland 165 #1 Exploratory Well has spud and should reach total depth during January.


Estimated reserves here are 21 Bcf and we own a 23.3% working interest.


In addition to these two wells, we plan to spud five more prospects before the end of the year.


We’re moving a rig today at our Highland Prospect in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. Highland is a


lower Biocene[ph] planoline[ph] prospect with a 28 Bcf most likely reserve target. The initial


exploratory well will be drilled to 12,000 feet. We’re drilling a well-defined four-way closure with


three stacked objectives, one of which is up-depth[ph] to a show[ph]. Callon is operating and we


own a 30% working interest.


At Highland Block 8540, we’ll be drilling a well to 9,300 feet, testing a Pleistocene bright spot with


about 9.7 Bcf of reserve potential. We’ve got a 60% working interest and Walter[ph] Oil & Gas is


the operator.


In our North Bob Prospect at Mississippi Canyon 860 is scheduled to spud in just a few weeks with


Chevron/Texaco as the operator. Our latest information indicates a spud date around November


24. The well will be drilled a total depth of 27,100 feet and should reach that depth during the


second quarter of next year. The well will be drilled by the Discover Deep Seas which is currently


drilling Chevron’s Jack Prospect at Walker Ridge 758. Estimated reserves, as we’ve told you


before, are 4 – 800 MMBls and we own a 3.3% working interest.