raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Company
 
CPE
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to Callon Petroleum


Company's First Quarter Results Conference Call [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this


conference is being recorded Tuesday, May 10th, 2005. Your speakers for today are Fred Callon


and John Weatherly, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead sir.


Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thanks for taking time to join our first quarter conference call. Before we begin as


usual with Terry Trovato, Head of Investor Relations to make a few comments.


Terry Trovato, Head of Investor Relations


Thank you Fred. We'd like to remind everyone that some of the comments made in this


teleconference will be considered forward-looking statements, within the meaning of 21E of the


Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. These comments which include discussion of the company's


financial position, result estimates and business strategy, reflect the management's' views at this


date. No assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be


attained. There are a variety of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the


company's expectations. Many of these factors are identified under risk management or risk


factors in Callon's annual report on 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. All forward-looking statements attributable to the company are expressly qualified by


these factors. Fred?


Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Okay, thank you Terry. Again we appreciate everyone calling in. We will begin as usual with a


review of our first quarter results. John Weatherly our Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial


Officer.


John Weatherly, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Fred. First quarter results established new records for revenues, pre-tax earnings and


discretionary cash flow and exceeded analyst estimates for both earnings and cash flow. For the


first quarter 2005 we recorded net income of $9.5 million or 46 cents per share on a diluted basis.


For the same quarter last year we reported net income of $2.1 million or 12 cents per share on a


diluted basis. The improvement in the first quarter this year versus last is even greater than is


implied in this comparison. You may remember at year end 2003 we were acquired by SFAS 109


to impair the value of book value of our per tax asset even though we fully expected to utilize the


underlying carry forwards in the following years.


The offsetting impact was that earnings reported 2004 were not reduced by normal tax provision.


Our average year in 2004 the remaining value of the deferred tax asset was reinstated and as a


result quarterly earnings for this year are reduced by normal tax provisions. Pre-tax earnings


provide a more comfortable gauge of improvement seen in the first quarter of 2005. Pre-tax


earnings for the first quarter 2005 were 69 cents per diluted share.
raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Company
 
CPE
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Oil and gas sales for the first quarter of 2005 totaled $43 million, up by 35% from $32 million in the


first quarter of last year. this increase was as a result of a 15% increase in production volumes,


compounded by a 17% increase in realized prices. The first quarter 2005 production totaled


641,000 barrels of oil and 2.75 billion cubic feet of natural gas. Average daily production of 73.3


million cubic feet equivalent per day was slightly above the mid-point range of previously-issued


guidance.


Average realized oil prices were $37.47 per barrel during the most recent quarter representing a


substantial improvement over both the proceeding quarter and the same quarter of last year.


Benchmark oil price measured by the average closing price of NYMEX contract for delivery of West


Texas Intermediate averaged $49.85 per barrel. During the first quarter of this year, 64% of our oil


production was from Medusa which is sold as marshland. First quarter prices for marshland


averaged $42.80 per barrel a $7.05 per barrel discount to West Texas Intermediate. And 29% of


our production was from Habanero which is sold as Benita Sour. First quarter prices for Benita


Sour were averaged $46.08 per barrel a $3.77 per barrel discount from West Texas Intermediate.


In addition to these quality adjustments, previous crude oil hedging positions reduced our average


realized oil price by $4.75 per barrel.


On the other hand natural gas price realizations averaged $6.92 per mcf equivalent in the first


quarter this year. That's almost a full dollar ahead of the same quarter of last year. This is also just


a bit ahead of the closing NYMEX contract prices for Henry Hub gas deliveries. Previously


established natural gas hedging positions increased our average realized price by 8 cents per mcf.


In addition our first quarter production mix for each thousand cubic feet which is the basis upon


which we report production averaged 1.07 million BTUs which is the basis for NYMEX contract


prices. In the current market the BTU content is boosting our realized prices by 45 cents per mcf.


With the exception of lease operating expenses all other income expense items fell within the


ranges previously set in the guidance.


G&A expenses for the first quarter of 2005 were at the low end of the guidance range. Interest


expense was at the upper end of the guidance range as it included a one-time charge for interest


on those price sensitive Medusa royalties that were suspended. Regardless total interest expense


was down versus last year by $1.3 million dollars, more than 20% due to reduced debt and lower


effective rates. Lease operating expenses for the first quarter totaled %6.5 million dollars or 99


cents per equivalent mcf of production. This is a reduction from $1.10 per equivalent mcf seen in


the preceding quarter however; it was above the guidance range. We expect operating costs for


mcf equivalent for the year to be about the same as what we saw in the first quarter.


Discretionary cash flow as a non-GAAP and we provided a reconciliation of same in our earnings


release. Discretionary cash flow for the first quarter totaled $31.4 million dollars or a $1.52 per


diluted share. Total discretionary cash flow increased by 75% from the same quarter last year and


in addition with more than 20% higher than in the previous record level of cash flow in the second


quarter of last year. Liquidity continued to improve during the first quarter. Cash flow was sufficient


to not only fund capital expenditures but also pay off the $5 million that was outstanding on our


bank line at year end.


At the end of the first quarter our unused revolving borrowing base was $60 million dollars and


based on the banks review of year end reserves the borrowing base was increased to $70 million


dollars last week. With that I'll turn it over to Fred to discuss recent and upcoming operations.


Fred Callon, Chairman of the Board, President, CEO Trading Activity


Thank you John. As John mentioned first quarter production averaged 73.3 million cubic feet


equivalent a day. Current production from the Medusa field including North Medusa is 37,700


barrels a day and 39.2 million cubic feet equivalent – cubic feet equivalent of gas from 6 of the 7