corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Callon Petroleum


Company Third Quarter 2009 Results Conference Call. During the presentation all partcipants will


be in a listen only mode. Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today, Friday November 6, 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer at Callon Petroleum Company. Please go ahead.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you for taking time to call into our third quarter conference call. Before we


begin the formal portion of the presentation, I’d like to ask Terry Trovato, who heads our Investor


Relations, to make a few comments. Terry?


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements. It is also important to note


that the SEC permits us, in our filings with them, to disclose only proved reserves that we have


demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally


producible under existing economic and operating conditions.


During today’s discussion we may use terms like reserve potential and probable reserves, that the


SEC’s guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in our filings with them. These estimates are by their


nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to a


substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2009 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our third quarter 2009 results news release and can be referenced there on our website at


www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. Again we appreciate you joining us this morning. I’d like to begin by asking Steve


Hinchman, our Chief Operating Officer, to discuss our transitional operation strategy including our


recently announced acquisition in the Permian Basin, as well as to review our operations for the


third quarter.


Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will then review our financial results for the third quarter


and the first nine months of this year, as well as discuss our recently announced exchange offer for


our senior notes due December 2010. Completing this exchange offer will be a significant positive


development for our shareholders and a catalyst we believe for future growth opportunities. So let’s


start with Steve.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Steven B. Hinchman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred and good morning. As we have previously discussed the primary focus for Callon


is to acquire producing assets that initiate a transition with Callon’s resources from solely offshore


to a more diverse and lower-risk resource base located both onshore and offshore.


Our transition strategy is to use cash flow from our strong base production anchored by two


deepwater properties, Medusa and Habanero, which have both strong current cash flow and growth


opportunities to fund our growth onshore in the Permian Basin, which would be focused on oil and


on shale gas plays.


During the third quarter we executed an initial step in this transition by entering into a purchase sale


agreement with ExL for Wolfberry production and development potential in the Permian Basin


located in West Texas. The transaction was successfully closed on October 28 for $16.25 million


with an effective date of the sale of September 1.This acquisition, which entails four producing and


development areas located in Crockett, Ector, Midland and Upton Counties provides an initial


footprint in the basin and a foundation to build on.


The properties have 1.6 million barrels of oil equivalent for proven reserves, 23 producing wells, 14


proven undeveloped locations and over 140 non-proven locations, assuming a 40-acre


development. And many more if the play is ultimately down spaced 20 acres. Callon will operate


substantially all of the production and development with a working interest between 85 and 100%.


The Wolfberry development is a statistical play where the Sprayberry and Wolfcamp formations are


commingled and stimulated using hydraulic fracture technology.


Wells typically come on production at 20 barrels of oil per day and clean-up after a couple of


months to about 80 barrels of oil per day, and then decline over a 20 to 25 year period. We


estimate that individual well ultimate recovery in our area will range from 85 to 100,000 gross


barrels of oil equivalent. 90% of that is oil and natural gas liquid.


Operations are in transition over the next month with a Callon business manager and production


superintendent on the ground. We will initiate an 11 well drilling program beginning in the first


quarter of 2010 and we are currently pursuing additional acquisition opportunities that would further


complement these assets.


Now turning our attention to the performance of our base assets, beginning with our safety


performance. Safety is a top priority and reflects the character of an organization and I’m proud of


Callon’s safety performance having had no employee or contractor OSHA reportable incidents so


far in 2009.


Also in the third quarter Callon received MMS approval to reclassify our temporary abandonment


status for two Entrada exploration wells to now a permanent abandoned status. This entailed a


detailed review of the well bores and had a good collaborative effort working with the MMS. This


reclassification removes between seven million to $18 million of net abandonment costs that would


have otherwise occurred in 2010.


Now turning to production. Our base production averaged 27.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day


in the third quarter of 2009, in line with our guidance of 25 to 28 million. The third quarter 2009


production was comprised of 1.34 Bcf of natural gas and 197,000 barrels of oil. This compares to


the third quarter of 2008 of 1.15 Bcf of gas and 205,000 barrels of oil or 25.9 million cubic feet


equivalent per day.


This positive variance is due to the significant production impact of hurricanes Gustav and Ike in the


third quarter of 2008, along with the start-up of production from East Cameron 2, well, Number One


in October of 2008 and the High Island A-494 well A3 and Mobile Bay 864 well A2 in July of 2009.