corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Callon Petroleum


Second Quarter 2008 Results conference call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the


conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you for taking time to call in for our second quarter conference call. Before


we begin the formal portion of our presentation I’d like to ask Terry Trovato who heads our Investor


Relations to make a few comments.


Terry Trovato, Head of Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such, no assurances can be given that these


events will occur, or that these projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release, and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements. It is also important to note


that the SEC permits us in our filings with them to disclose only proved reserves that we have


demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally


producible under existing economic and operating conditions.


During today’s discussion we may use terms like reserve potential and probable reserves that the


SEC’s guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in our filings with them. These estimates are by


their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves, and accordingly are subject to a


substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2008 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules, for the non-GAAP financial measures, were


stated in our second quarter 2008 results news release, and can be referenced there on our


website at www.callon.com for subsequent review.


Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. I’ll begin this morning with an update on our operations and then Bob Weatherly,


our Chief Financial Officer, will discuss the results of operations for the second quarter in the six


month period ended June 30, and conclude with guidance for the third quarter in the remainder of


the year.


As most of you know, the company’s focus for the last year has been on developing our Entrada


Field. We’re extremely excited about the progress we have made to date, and anticipate the arrival


of Diamond Offshore’s semi-submersible rig, the Ocean Victory on site at Entrada next week.


For any that are not familiar with this project, its importance to Callon; I’ll give you a quick thumbnail


summary of Entrada. When Entrada comes online in March of next year it has the potential to


more than double the company’s current production and cash flow. In March of last year after


several years of trying, we acquired our partner, British Petroleum’s 80% working interest in


Entrada, which brought our interest to 100%.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We took over as operators and quickly focused on the engineering required to finalize the


development plan for the field, while at the same time managing our company’s liquidity to assure


adequate capital to bring on-first production online in a timely manner. As a result of this strategy,


beginning in early 2007 we decided to reduce our capital expenditure program essentially to


committed projects only. This reduction in investment impacted our reserve ads for ‘07 and so far


in ‘08, and is currently having a short-term impact on our daily production numbers. However, it


was the right move, thus preserving our ability to execute our Entrada development plan and


increasing the long-term shareholder value.


Tanya?


Operator: Yes?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Is the call okay? We keep getting a beep here.


Operator: It’s on your side, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Okay. It’s going okay. All right. Excuse me. We were getting a beep sounding on our end.


Continuing as we discussed in the first quarter conference call on April 8, we completed the sale of


a 50% working interest in the Entrada Field to CIECO Energy, a subsidiary of Tokyo based


ITOCHU Corporation for $175 million with 155 million paid at closing. Additionally CIECO agreed


to finance on a non-recourse basis $150 million of Callon’s development cost in Entrada. We’ve


been working very closely with our partner CIECO since then as we’ve moved steadily toward first


production.


I’ll say we’re very impressed with the high level of technical expertise with CIECO and World Wide


ITOCHU Corporation has provided and continues to contribute to the success of the project. Each


milestone we step for taking over as operator in April of 2007 has been accomplished on time.


We’re currently on track for initiating first production from Entrada in the first quarter of 2009 as


planned.


Here’s a quick update on Entrada operations. The 13 miles of gas and oil flow lines have been laid


to within approximately 1500 feet from the Magnolia TLP. The operation was completed on July


31, in 12 days as planned by Technip’s vessel the Deep Blue. Steel risers, which connect the oil


and gas flow lines to Conoco Phillips Magnolia Tield TLP are scheduled to be installed in January.


On August 1, the vessel, Joshua Schwest, completed setting all 12 required anchors to moor the


semisubmersible drilling rig on first well site. All long lead items for both wells are in hand down


Diamond Offshore’s rig, the Ocean Victory will be under towed to Entrada approximately August 15


and we expect the Buck to spud the first of the two development wells a few days later, as we


projected.


Conoco Phillips has begun the necessary equipment additions and modifications to the top sides at


the Magnolia Field TLP. We continue to monitor the cost of Entrada development. We’re working


everyday to control costs, but we are experiencing some increases in order to comply with more


stringent MMS regulations related to rig mooring during our drilling operations as well as increases


from modifications at the Conoco Magnolia TLP as well as for fuel costs. We currently expect total


project costs to be between $360 and $380 million.