Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Fred L. Callon — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Terry Trovato — Manager-Public Relations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Gary A. Newberry — Senior Vice President-Operations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Bobby F. Weatherly — Chief Financial Officer, Director & Executive VP, Callon Petroleum Co.
Joseph E. Bachmann — Research Analyst, Howard Weil, Inc.
Dan J. Morrison — Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Callon Petroleum Second Quarter 2011 Results of Operations Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, August 09, 2011.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. You may proceed sir.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking time to call into our second quarter conference call.

Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation this morning I'd like to ask Terry Trovato, who is Heads our Investor Relations to make a few comments.

Thank you, Fred. We'd like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements, which may include statements regarding our reserves, as well as statements including the words believe, expect, plans, and words of similar meaning. These projections and statements reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. Some of these factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K available on our website or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

We may also discuss the non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10 value. We believe PV-10 value to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties because it excludes income taxes, which may vary materially among companies. PV-10 is not, however, a substitute for standardize measure.

Finally, today we will be discussing cash flow for the second quarter and first six months of 2011, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were stated in our second quarter 2011 results news release and can be referenced there on our website at www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?

Thank you, Terry. We're excited to report to you today Callon's second quarter results, which we believe continue to demonstrate our success in executing the company's strategic growth plan, reinvesting the cash flow generated from our deep water offshore fields in the Gulf of Mexico and to our low risk onshore Wolfberry oil play in the Permian Basin. I'd like to highlight a few of our key accomplishments during the first quarter. Oil production increased 28% during the second quarter compared to the same quarter in 2010 as a result of the progress we've made, increasing our onshore production in the Permian Basin.

In addition to this production growth, favorable pricing contributed to an increase in oil revenues of 83% or $13.2 million to $29.1 million for the quarter as compared to last year. Gas revenues of $7.7 million for the three months ended June 30, increased 37% or $2 million compared to gas revenues of $5.7 million for the same period in 2010, primarily due to a 28% growth in production.

Also during the second quarter the company executed a final wind down agreement in connection with the company's former Entrada project. This agreement provided for the extinguishment of all the existing agreements and resulted in Callon owning a 100% of the remaining equipment and engineering information, which we estimate to have a fair value of about $11.4 million. This also resulted in a $3.7 million gain related to the assets acquired through the agreement and a $4 million income tax benefit as we utilized a portion of our fully reserved deferred tax asset to offset tax consequences of the wind down agreement.

Our balance sheet remains strong, thanks to $97 million of liquidity including $52 million of cash on hand and a fully available $45 million borrowing base under our credit facility with Regions Bank. With this liquidity and our strong cash flows from operations including our legacy deepwater properties, we remain well positioned to fund the continued development of our Permian Basin properties and to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities to expand our acreage position in our core areas of operations.

I'd now like to ask Gary Newberry, our Senior Vice President of Operations, to discuss our operations including [indiscernible] (4:58) development status and our Permian Basin assets. Following Gary's operations update, Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will review our financial results for the same period. Gary?

Thank you, Fred, and good morning. I will begin with an operations review for the first half 2011 beginning with our ongoing activities in the Permian Basin. We drilled and fracture stimulated 16 wells in the first half of the year. Production from recently completed wells is beginning to ramp up as expected. Total production from the Permian has increased from 600 net barrels oil equivalent per day at the end of the first quarter to the current rate of 1,200 net barrels oil equivalent per day.

We have now completed two wells to the deeper Strawn and Atoka formations and are encouraged with the results. The wells were only completed in the deeper zones with average IPs of 11 barrels oil per day and 100 Mcf per day, or 27 gross barrels oil equivalent per day. We will continue to monitor performance over the next several months to assess incremental reserves.

We continue to experience increasing cost pressures in the Permian Basin due to increased industry activity. Drilling rigs – drilling rig rates have increased 12% due to increased labor cost to maintain crew continuity and fracture stimulation services and associated wireline services have increased 10% during the first half of the year. Our average well costs have increased to $2 million for a typical Wolfberry well and $2.3 million for the deeper Atoka wells.

We are mobilizing a drilling rig this week to replace one of our existing rigs. We plan to operate three drilling rigs in the Permian Basin for the remainder of the year drilling on average four wells per month, targeting 35 to 36 drill wells and 38 completions for 2011.

Turning to the Gulf of Mexico, the Medusa A6 well continues to produce approximately 5,000 gross barrels oil per day and 7 million cubic feet per day of gas since the recompletion in late March. We expect this well to exhibit a shallow decline beginning late third quarter as the flowing tubing pressure declines to the Medusa Spar facility operating pressure.

The deepwater assets continue to deliver strong cash flow to Callon with Medusa and Habanero currently producing 2,200 net barrels oil equivalent per day and 530 net barrels oil equivalent per day respectively. The Gulf of Mexico shelf is producing 10 million cubic feet of day – of gas net to Callon.

Now turning to our quarterly comparisons, our net production averaged 5,564 barrels oil equivalent per day in the second quarter of 2011 comprised of 1.4 Bcf of natural gas and 275,000 barrels of oil exceeding second quarter guidance of 5,100 to 5,500 barrels oil equivalent per day.

Production in the first quarter of 2011 averaged 4,713 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 1.3 Bcf of natural gas and 201,000 barrels of oil. The positive variance in the second quarter 2011 is due to the Medusa A6 recompletion and the realized growth in the Permian.

Production in the second quarter of 2010 was 4,350 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 1.1 Bcf of gas and 215,000 barrels of oil. The positive variance in the second quarter of 2011 is due to the addition of the Haynesville, growth in the Permian, the Medusa A6 recompletion and restart of production at East Cam 2.

Production during the first six months of 2011 averaged 5,141 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 2.7 Bcf of natural gas and 476,000 barrels of oil. This compares to the first half of 2010 which averaged 4,494 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 2.3 Bcf of natural gas and 438,000 barrels of oil. A positive variance in 2011 is again due to the addition of the Haynesville, growth in the Permian, the Medusa A6 recompletion and the restart of production from East Cam 2.

On the expense side, LOE including severance taxes for the second quarter of 2011 was $5.3 million or $10.47 per Boe. LOE for the first quarter of 2011 was $5 million or $11.89 per Boe. The higher expense in the second quarter 2011 is the result of increased processing fees at Medusa associated with increased production and added wells in the Permian Basin.

The reduced per unit cost is attributable to production growth. LOE for the second quarter 2010 was $4 million or $10.18 per Boe. The higher expense in the second quarter of 2011 was a result of added wells in the Permian and Haynesville, increased maintenance costs for the Medusa Spar facility, increased processing fees at Medusa associated with increased production, and restart of production at East Cam 2. The higher per unit cost in the second quarter 2011 is attributable to added wells in the Permian Basin.

LOE, again, including severance taxes, for the first half of 2011 was $10.3 million or $11.12 per Boe. This compares to the first half of 2010 of $8.7 million or $10.67 per Boe. The higher expense in the first half of 2011 is attributed to added wells in the Permian and Haynesville, increased maintenance costs for the Medusa Spar facility, increased processing fees at Medusa associated with increased production, and restart of production at East Cam 2. The higher per unit cost in the first half 2011 is attributable to increased maintenance costs and processing fees at Medusa, and added wells in the Permian Basin.

Turning now to our 2011 guidance; we're estimating third quarter production to range between 5,400 and 5,800 barrels oil equivalent per day. The third quarter production is positively impacted by expected growth in the Permian, offset by planned shut-in of Habanero during September to perform inspections and maintenance on Shell's Auger facility. Our estimate of full-year production from our current properties is expected to range between 5,100 and 5,600 net barrels oil equivalent per day, with oil comprising approximately 55% of full-year production.

Second half 2011 production is positively impacted by expected growth in the Permian, offset by a planned 60-day shut-in of Habanero during September and October to perform inspections and maintenance on Shell's Auger facility. Our estimate of LOE remains unchanged and is expected to range between $21 million to $24 million for the full year, reflecting an increase associated with continued maintenance on the Medusa Spar, increased processing fees at Medusa, and the additional wells coming on-line in the Permian basin.

I will now turn the call over to Bob Weatherly, our Executive Vice President and CFO.

Thank you, Gary. Before I review our second quarter 2011 results of operations and provide guidance for the third quarter, I'd like to highlight several meaningful accomplishments we've achieved thus far in 2011. Collectively, these events have significantly improved our liquidity and strengthened our balance sheet.

As Fred mentioned earlier, our cash on hand has increased $52 million at June 30, which combined with the company's $45 million borrowing base under its secured credit facility with Regions Bank provides liquidity approaching $100 million. Cash on hand benefits from the public offering of common shares in February of 10.1 million shares of common stock, through which we raised $73.8 million of new capital net of offering cost. We used a portion of the equity offering proceeds to redeem $31 million principal amount of our notes due in 2016.

This redemption reduced principal outstanding of our long-term debt to $107 million, which is now due in September 2016. Additionally, this redemption reduces the company's cash interest expense on a full-year basis by just over $4 million through the note's maturity date. The remaining equity offering proceeds, combined with our cash flow from operations, will be used to fund our 2011 CapEx budget and for general corporate purposes including possible acquisitions.

We believe we've the financial resources, liquidity, prospective assets and technical team to continue pursuing our business strategy of reinvesting significant cash flow generated from our Gulf of Mexico properties, and to lower risk, longer life onshore assets in a key oil basin. We also remain actively engaged in our efforts to identify attractive acquisition opportunities that align with our strategic growth objectives.

As we reported in our June 30, 2010 10-Q and our earnings release, during the second quarter we executed a final wind down agreement for the Entrada project. This agreement provided for the extinguishment of all existing agreements as it related to the Entrada project.

A formal extinguishment of a non-recourse credit agreement and the assignment of ownership rights to the remaining tangible assets, and all technical and engineering data, related to the Entrada project, giving the company full ownership of all remaining assets. The accounting rules governing this type of transaction require that we establish a fair value for the assets acquired, which we set at $11.4 million. The only liability assumed was a $4 million deferred tax liability.

The assets acquired net of this deferred tax liability or $7.4 million, resulted in a $3.7 million gain and a $3.7 million adjustment through our full cost accounting pool. The $3.7 million gain increased our fully diluted earnings per share by $0.09 and $0.10 for the three and six month periods ended June 30.

For additional information regarding the methodology we used to arrive at the reported values, please refer to footnote VI in our most recent 10-Q, which was filed yesterday with the SEC.

With respect to the deferred tax liability assumed, we utilized a portion of an existing deferred tax asset and accordingly recognized an income tax benefit equal to $4 million. The tax benefit which flow through our income statement represented $0.10 and $0.11 per fully diluted share of reported earnings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 respectively.

Since the effective date of this agreement, which was April 29, 2011, through June 30, we sold certain of the acquired assets and realized $3.7 million, the remaining 7.7 million of unsold assets are recorded on our balance sheet at June 30, and we're actively marketing these assets.

As Gary discussed earlier, we're making progress expanding the development of our Permian Basin assets. Our investment in these assets represents 71% of our total 2011 capital expenditures budget. Our current year CapEx budget plans for up to 36 Permian wells, 32 net. The remaining 26% of our $107 million capital expenditures budget includes expenditures for leasehold acquisitions, asset retirement and maintenance of our legacy Gulf of Mexico properties and capitalized interest in G&A under full cost accounting rules.

Now let me discuss the second quarter results as we reported in our earnings release. For the quarter ended June 30, 2011, oil and gas revenue totaled approximately $36.8 million with net income of 19.9 million or $0.50 per diluted share, which compared to the second quarter 2010 revenue net income and diluted earnings per share of 21.6 million, 2.1 million and $0.07 respectively.

The realized average price per barrel of oil received during the second quarter of 2011 increased 43% to $105.75 compared to $74.03 for the same period 2010. In the second quarter our realized price for crude oil benefited from the higher prices being paid for Gulf of Mexico crude oil production.

Crude prices for production from our two deep water fields are adjusted based on Platts MARS/WTI Differential for Medusa production and Argus Bonita WTI Differential for Habanero production. Both of these differentials were higher in the second quarter of 2011 than in the first quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2010.

Similarly the average price per 1,000 cubic feet of natural gas realized during the second quarter of 2011 increased 7% to $5.58 compared to $5.22 for the same period 2010. Combined on a Boe basis, the average price realized increased 34% period-over-period. Higher pricing contributed approximately 60% of the $15.3 million increase in period-over-period revenue with higher production contributing the remaining 40%.

Other highlights for the period are as follows. Our second quarter of 2011 results include payment of 364,000 to our hedge counter party as NYMEX pricing fell slightly outside the price range of our existing collars. Based upon NYMEX pricing at June 30, 2011, we have recorded a net hedge-related asset of approximately 2.4 million related to future production that is hedged. For the remainder of 2011, we have approximately 41% of our estimated oil production hedge with the weighted average ceiling and floor of approximately $107.59 and $81.25 respectively.

Additionally we have hedged approximately 40% of our 2012 oil production with the weighted average ceiling and floor of approximately $123.50 and $92.50 respectively. Presently, we have no natural gas hedges in place for either 2011 or 2012. We continue to monitor available hedging positions and it has been our practice in the past, we have a target of hedging approximately 50% of our anticipated proven production.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization or DD&A was $13 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $7.1 million in the second quarter of 2010. Higher DD&A rates primarily to a rate increase which is driven by the costs associated with the company's strategic shift towards developing lower risk, onshore reserves which on a per unit basis have higher development costs than those of offshore reserves. G&A expense decreased 14% period over period to $3.8 million from $4.4 million for the second quarter of 2011 and 2010 respectively, but the current quarter benefiting from the lower personnel-related costs and decreased legal costs.

Interest expense also fell 16% period-over-period to $2.7 million compared to $3.2 million for the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of reduced debt principal outstanding following the previously discussed $31 million redemption of our 13% senior notes during the first quarter of 2011. Additionally, the second quarter of 2010 included interest expense related to $16.1 million of old 9.75% notes outstanding which we redeemed on April 30, 2010. Please review our earnings release for further results of operations detail for the second quarter of 2011.

Now let me take a minute to discuss guidance for the third quarter and full year 2011. Gary has already covered production and LOE, so I'll cover the remaining categories. As previously discussed, we have in place hedges for approximately 41% of our crude production for 2011, though we did not yet have any hedges in place for natural gas. We'll continue to monitor the markets and hedge at appropriate times. Please refer to our press release for more detail on our hedges.

We're projecting general and administrative expenses to be in a range of $3.5 million to $4.5 million for the third quarter of 2011and $15.2 million to $16.7 million for the full year. Interest expense is forecasted to be $2.6 million to $2.8 million for the third quarter and $11 million to $12 million for the full year. Amortization of the deferred credit which is recorded as a reduction to interest expense is expected to approximate $775,000 and $3.2 million for the third quarter and full year 2011, respectively.

We're projecting a DD&A rate of $25.50 to $27 per Boe for the third quarter of 2011 while the full-year rate is expected to be in the range of $24.50 to $27 per Boe. Please refer to our guidance press release which provides additional details regarding guidance for the full-year 2011.

Now I'll turn the call back to Fred for any final comments.

Thank you, Bob. I think with that, we will open the call to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question, from the line of Jeb Bachmann from Howard Weil. You may proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeb.

Gary, I had a few questions for you on the Permian. Are we at the, five well completion with Halliburton, that you guys had talked about previously or are we still at four?

Jeb, we actually had – looking back at July, we were only able to get three. Halliburton fell back behind in their industry work for a number of different reasons. And in August, we're only going to do four. Our target is still five. Halliburton is still working to get to five, and we're now in the process of looking for another company to ensure that we get to five. So we're not there yet. We hope to secure that soon.

And is that a reason or the driver behind maybe a slightly lower well count for this year? I think before it was around 40 net and I think you said somewhere around 37, 38 for this year now. Is that correct?

Yeah. That's not really driving our pace of drilling, but – and I think we targeted 38 completions. So that assumes four per month for the rest of the year. So hopefully, I'll exceed that number of completions, because I have enough wells in inventory to do better, but what's driving the pace of the drilling are two things.

One, we are going deeper, and going deeper through the Atoka has added another three to four days per well onto our drilling cycle. And unfortunately for everybody in the industry, as this basin has gotten busier, it's become less efficient.

We seem to be encountering more and more delays on any single well associated with waiting on services, whether it be cementing services, wireline services, fracture stimulation. It's just adding an hour here, an hour there, a half a day here and even trucks associated with moving rigs.

This basin has become – as it's become more busy, has become less efficient. So our cycle time, what we had expected to be a cycle time of around 20 to 21 days spud to spud has now extended to about 24 to 25 days, and that's really what's driving the fewer wells.

Okay. And then, I guess in terms of your exit rate in the Permian and going into next year, I think you guys have talked about somewhere in the 2,000-barrel a day range, is that still the target?

Yeah, we still target that if we can achieve those completions. And if we don't get to five, we may be just shy of that. But at the end of the day, we're still targeting that rate.

Okay, and then last one on the Permian. Do you guys think you'll have enough data from the deeper Strawn and Atoka wells to be able to comfortably book – potentially book incremental reserves this year or is that more of a next year event?

No. We should have enough data by the end of the year as we get to our third-party review of our reserves to actually do a good assessment of the two wells that are currently on production. We intend to actually do several more before year-end to get more of a statistical view of what that deeper zone will do, but we'll certainly – should have a good assessment by year-end.

Okay. And last one from me, Bob, can you just talk about, are you guys planning on taking out those 13% senior notes next year when they're callable or what's the plan right now with those notes?

I think, Jeb, mid-September next year the no call on the 16 notes drops off and I think that we will continue to monitor where we are in the market and certainly our goal would be to – all else being equal our goal would be to do something with the notes sometime in the fourth quarter next year.

Great. I appreciate the color, guys.

Our next question is from the line of Dan Morrison from Global Hunter. You may proceed.

Good morning. Sorry I may have you rehashing something that you may actually have covered, I kind of got in a little bit late, but the completion count being off a little bit...

Excuse me, Dan, we can't quite hear you.

Sorry about that.

No problem.

I'm having all kinds of technical problems today. Is there a – I missed your revised budget number, if there was one that reflects kind of the current completion schedule?

Is there a revised budget?

No. No. I think – my current CapEx budget has not changed from the first of the year. We're still at $107 million and the allocation of the capital budget remains the same.

Yeah, Dan, if you're equating that question to capital in the Permian and our fewer wells, then I can go ahead and answer that anticipated question because that's really associated with the additional cost increases that we're seeing as well as going deeper to the Atoka that we had not originally planned for in our original budget. So, we have not changed our forecast of capital for the Permian even though we'll drill fewer wells.

Okay. And on the deepenings, is that – are you planning on going ahead and doing that with all the wells going forward based on what you've seen so far or is that still to be determined?

We're continuing at least at this point, Dan, to deepen all the wells until we actually get to the point of getting a good assessment, a good statistical view of what the Atoka will do. I would expect it will vary from well to well just as many of the Wolfberry wells do. There will be some sweet spots and there will be some spots that don't work. So, we just need to get a few more wells to assess whether or not we build that incremental cost into our future capital with the associated reserves.

Okay. And when we're thinking about [ph] this kind of rig (33:57) schedule – the schedule rolls out on completions for the remainder at three in July, and four in August and then five thereafter if we get Halliburton back on board?

Yeah. What I've said to you about the 38 completions – it assumes four for the rest of the year per month, Dan. So, I hope to exceed that.

Okay. So, the five beyond August would be incremental?

That's correct. Yes.

Okay, great. And did I – you were switching out one of the rigs? Could you kind of rehash what you said there? I apologize for making...

Yeah, Dan, we just started looking at just the efficiency of our rig fleet and at the end of the day we thought we had the opportunity to improve upon our overall cycle time. So we elected to change out one of our rigs for another Precision Drilling Company rig, and we'll be picking that rig up actually this week. They're mobilizing it to location actually today. So we'll have three rigs running full time for the rest of the year. It will be two Precision rigs and one Viking drilling rig.

That was a Trinidad that you let go?

Yes, sir, it was.

All right. Okay, thanks. Great quarter.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Back to you, gentlemen. There are no further questions at this time. You may resume with your presentation or closing remarks.

Thank you. Once again, we appreciate everyone taking the time to call in. I know it's a busy time, and I know there were several other calls going on. So, again, if anyone has any questions in the meantime, please don't hesitate to give us a call, and we look forward to updating you again in a few months. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you all for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have a great day, everyone.