corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Callon Petroleum


Second Quarter 2009 Results Conference Call. During the presentation all participants will be in a


listen-only mode. Afterwards we will conduct a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded, Friday, August 7, 2009.


It is now my please to introduce Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. You may go


ahead, sir?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking time to call into our second quarter conference


call. Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation this morning, I’d like to ask Terry


Trovato, who Heads our Investor Relations, to make a few comments. Terry?


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such, no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements.


It is also important to note that the SEC permits us in our filings with them to disclose only proved


reserves that we have demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be


economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions.


During today’s discussion, we may use terms like reserve, potential, and probable reserves that the


SEC’s guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in our filings with them. These estimates are by their


nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to a


substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the company.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2009 cash flow which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our second quarter 2009 results news release and can be referenced there on our website


at www.callon.com for a subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. This morning we’re pleased to have Steve Hinchman, our new Chief Operating


Officer joining us on the call, he will review operations; and Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial


Officer, will review our financial results for the second quarter and for the first six months of 2009.


So before they begin, I’d like to make a few general comments. First on the financial side, we


continue to evaluate financial alternatives to address Callon’s current leverage position which we


intend to improve over time in connection with our strategic initiatives. While we have not executed


any definitive transactions, we hope to report progress on this one in the coming months. We and


our Board recognize that it is critical to address the December 2010 senior note maturity in a timely


and proactive manner.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are actively evaluating several options for restructuring of our balance sheet and are hopeful to


achieve a resolution before our senior notes become a current liability for the company in


December this year. We believe completing such a transaction will provide a solid foundation for


the future and greatly increase the spectrum of strategic path for us to pursue.


In the meantime, during the second quarter, the company completed staff reductions, cutting


approximately 21% of its workforce. The workforce reduction is expected to result in annual savings


of approximately $2.6 million. This was brought about [inaudible] current economic climate and the


decline in workload as a result of the disappointing suspension of our Entrada project and the


company’s decision to put its offshore exploration program on hold until such time the natural gas


prices improve and also the service costs decline.


On the operation side, as I mentioned in previous conference calls and in our presentations at


investment conferences, one of our near-term strategic objective for 2009 is the acquisition of


producing properties. While we’ve not yet completed the transaction this year, our technical and


financial teams have been very busy generating opportunities and evaluating potential property


acquisitions. As we move through the second half of this year, we will continue to explore the


acquisition of properties which meet our technical criteria.


As has been reported, while the second quarter 2009 saw an increase in the E&P acquisition and


divestitures market for upspring assets, the activity is still at a 10-year low. One of the factors that


was predicted to bring significant properties to the market was to be the impact of significant


borrowing base redeterminations by the commercial banks and resulting distressed financial


situation. With a few exceptions, this has not materialized as commercial banks have been willing


to accommodate borrowers rather than seek liquidity from the sale of assets in a challenging


divestiture market. While quality assets may still come to the market from this source as


advantageous hedges continue to roll off for 2009, however, we are actively pursuing other


avenues to proactively seek out assets that fit our criteria and form a catalyst for future growth in


addition to the organic development and exploration drilling activities.


Our acquisition criteria contains an onshore [inaduble] but we will continue to evaluate offshore


opportunities with compelling reserve acquisition metrics where we have considerable operating


expertise and the seasoned technical staff to operate effectively and economically. We are


increasing our focus on depending on operator of any acquired properties, we’re also evaluating


entry into new basins complementary with our existing expertise and institutional knowledge.


Any acquisition we make will include a meaningful crude develop producing component to facilitate


bank financing coupled with a credit accretive transaction profile. By prudently using our liquidity


and pursuing acquisitions that are largely bank financeable, we plan to add quality reserves as a


catalyst for growth over the next several years.


So in the near term, we intend to maintain our focus on liquidity and building production and


reserves through bank financeable property acquisitions. In the medium term, as economics


improve we intend to pursue identified and development exploration drilling within our current


portfolio as well as identified drilling opportunities on newly acquired properties.


In longer term, as we have stated on several occasions, it is our goal to refocus our asset base to


include additional onshore exposure where we have a long history of successful operations and


senior management experience as does our new Chief Operating Officer, Steve Hinchman. And at


the same time we’ll continue to evaluate corporate merger and acquisition initiatives in order to


accelerate these initiatives.


Now I’ll turn the call over to Steve to give you an overview of operations followed by Bob to report


on the results of our operations for the second quarter and first half of 2009 along with guidance for


the remainder of the year. Steve?