raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Company
 
CPE
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and


Year-end 2004 Results Conference Call. [operator instructions] I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred Callon, Chairman and CEO


Good morning. Thank you for calling in this morning. Before we begin, we'd like to start with Terry


Trovato, who heads our Investor Relations, to make his comments.


Terry Trovato, Head of Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We'd like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this


teleconference will be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21-E of


the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These comments, which include discussions of the


company's financial position, reserve estimates, and business strategy reflect management's views


as of this date. No assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will


be attained. There are a variety of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the


company's expectations. Many of these factors are identified under Risk Management or Risk


Factors and Callon's annual report of Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements attributable to the companies are expressly


qualified by these factors. Fred.


Fred Callon, Chairman and CEO


Okay, thank you, Terry. We'll begin this morning as we usually do with John Weatherly reviewing


the fourth-quarter results and year-end results and then I will kind of run through the operations


review and talk about our plans for this year and then John will follow it up with guidance numbers,


so John.


John Weatherly, CFO, Senior VP


Okay, thanks, Fred. For fourth quarter of 2004, we reported earnings of $9.1 million or 45 cents per


fully diluted share. These amounts include an income tax benefit of $6.7 million or 33 cents per


fully diluted share. As you may remember in the fourth quarter of last year, we recorded an


impairment of the carrying value of our tax loss carry forward. This impairment was required based


on losses incurred over the three prior years without regard of outlook for the year ahead and as a


result, to the profitable operations in 2004, the impairment reserve was reversed in the fourth


quarter of 2004.


Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is a non-GAAP measure and we have


included an reconciliation of this amount in our earnings release. For the fourth quarter, cash flow


from operations before changes in working capital totaled $14.6 million or 70 cents per fully diluted


share. For fiscal year 2004, we reported earnings of $21.5 million or $1.22 per fully diluted share.


However, results for the year included a mix of nonrecurring items. First, reinstatement of the value


to tax loss carry forward increased earnings for the year by $6.7 million or 38 cents per fully diluted


share. Costs associated with retirements in the first half of 2004 resulted in a charge against


earnings of $2.9 million or 16 cents per fully diluted share and finally, losses on the early
raw transcript


Callon Petroleum Company
 
CPE
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


extinguishment of debt, primarily in the first and third quarters, reduced earnings by $3 million or 17


cents per fully diluted share. So net-net, the nonrecurring items were basically a wash and


earnings were $1.22 for the year.


Focusing back on the fourth quarter, we produced 382,000 barrels of oil and 2.5 billion cubic feet of


gas. Average daily production of 42 million cubic feet equivalent was at the center of the


previously-issued guidance for the quarter. Fourth-quarter production was up slightly from the


preceding quarter. However, both quarters suffered equally from the effects of Hurricane Ivan and


the now-corrected mechanical problems at Habanero. Despite the dampening effects in the


second half of the year, the commencement of production from both Medusa and Habanero


increased total production for 2004 by 57% from prior year levels. Current production levels are


equal to the record rates that we set in the second quarter of 2004.


Turning quickly to costs and expenses, lease operating expenses of $4.2 million were at the upper


end of the guidance range. These include costs, primarily insurance deductables for repairs


following Hurricane Ivan. General and administrative expenses were $1.9 million and that was 10%


above the guidance range. In this case, we underestimated the total cost of compliance with


Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. DD&A charges, freeshon [ph] for future development, I mean


abandonment cost and interest expense all fell within their expected ranges.


Fourth-quarter earnings from recurring operations did fall short of AMS estimates and this was


primarily a result of frugal price realizations. Hedges, which are on the basis of West Texas Center


Media [ph], reduced our average realized price in the fourth quarter by $13,88 per barrel. The


hedges that had this level of impact were put in place in the first quarter of 2004 and now are, in


general, gone. In addition, the market price for heavier blends of crude did not keep pace with


West Texas Center Media [ph] or South Louisiana Suite [ph]. Crude from Medusa and certain


other deep-water falasses [ph] comingled into what is referred to as the Mars Blend.


In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Mars Blend differential, or the discount for WPI [ph] averaged


$3.16 per barrel. In the fourth quarter of 2004, this differential averaged in excess of $9 per barrel.


This discount applies only to our Medusa crude, but with more than 75% of our fourth-quarter oil


production coming from the Medusa, the overall impact on prices was significant. Our overall price


realization will improve in the current quarter, as Medusa accounts for a smaller portion of our


current oil production, and the Mars differential sets the beginning of the year, its average less than


$7 per barrel is currently $6.80 per barrel.


Year-end crude reserves totaled 72.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas, and 19.7 billion barrels of oil,


or 191 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. The estimated present value of these reserves,


excluding income taxes, using SEC pricing guidelines for year-end 2004, and discounted at 10% is


$613 million. Using the SEC guidelines price realizations in this valuation averaged $6.51 per


thousand cubic feet of natural gas, and $36.72 per barrel of oil, and those are our net realizations


recognized in basis differentials.


Year-end reserves included downward revision of approximately 8 billion cubic feet, this is


associated with a price sensitive roll to relief at Medusa. The 2004 year-end oil pricing scenario


exceeds the threshold price, which triggers royalty payments to the MMS, and reserve estimates for


Medusa were reduced under the assumption that such royalties will apply to all future periods. And


with that, I'm going to turn it back over to Fred to talk about operations, and then I'll come back to


guidance.


Fred Callon, Chairman of the Board, President and CEO


Okay thank you, John. Let's first go through briefly fourth-quarter drilling and development activity.


First at Medusa, during the fourth quarter, we re-completed the A1 well, and production with A1