corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the First Quarter 2009


Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded


Tuesday, May 12, 2009. I would now like to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and


CEO. Please go ahead.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, and good morning. We appreciate you taking time to call into our first quarter


conference call. Before we begin the formal portion of the presentation, I’d like to ask Terry Trovato,


who heads our Investor Relations, to make a few comments.


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such, no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements.


It is also important to note that the SEC permits us in our filings with them to disclose only proved


reserves that we have demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be


economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. During


today’s discussion we may use terms like reserve potential and probable reserves that the SEC’s


guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in our filings with them. These estimates are by their nature


more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to a substantially


greater risk of being actually realized by the company.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2009 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our first quarter 2009 results news release and could be referenced there on our website


at www.callon.com for subsequent review.


Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. Let me begin by taking a few minutes to summarize Callon’s operations and


business focus so far in 2009. As we pointed out in our year end conference call, we believe our


company is in good financial condition with no major financial hurdles to address in 2009. Although


our revenue and profits were below the comparable quarter last year due to lower commodity


prices and production, we did exceed the analysts’ expectations for this quarter, and unlike some of


our peers we did not have any negative charges to earnings due to full cost ceiling write-downs.


In addition our production for the first quarter was above previously provided guidance. During the


first quarter, we have continued to explore the possibility of acquiring producing properties with


future development upside. As we have noted in the past we believe there are periods when it’s


best use of the company’s capital to acquire producing properties rather than to explore. As service


calls come down and commodity prices improve, we will consider increasing our drilling activity.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Until we reach that point we believe the best use for our technical personnel’s time and our


company’s capital is to seek quality acquisition opportunities.


Potential asset and corporate acquisition targets are primarily on shore and selective opportunistic


offshore opportunities where we feel we have considerable operating experience and the technical


staff to operate effectively and economically. Any significant strategic acquisition will fit our criteria


of having a significant component of current production and a multi-year development opportunities.


By prudently using our liquidity and pursuing acquisitions that are largely bank financeable, we plan


to add quality reserves as a catalyst for growth over the next several years.


Though we were not successful in closing a transaction the first quarter, our technical and financial


team has dedicated a significant amount time to analyzing several opportunities. We’ll continue to


focus on this initiative and hope later this year to complete a transaction that will increase our daily


production rate and our oil and gas reserve base.


When the proper balance of commodity prices and service costs is achieved in the future, we will


once again return to a more active drilling program to continue to build shareholder value.


Regarding Entrada as reported in our last call, we’ve begun the process of de-mobilizing the field


operations, concluding our service contract commitments and selling tangible equipment that had


been acquired for the project. We’ve made significant progress related to this final phase of Entrada


project. Our project team continues to market the tangibles and essentially all of the vendor and


service contracts have been concluded. The leases for the Entrada Field blocks expire on June 1.


We continue to discuss the two unresolved financial issues with our partner in the project.


Now on a more positive note, on April 30, we announced a significant addition to our leadership


team. Effective June 1, Steve Hinchman will join the company as Executive Vice President and


Chief Operating Officer. Steve is joining us after a successful 29-year career with Marathon Oil


Corporation where he most recently served as Executive Vice President and a member of


Marathon’s executive committee.


Steve’s broad operational experience and comprehensive technical knowledge of the [inaudible]


U.S. oil and gas basins will be a tremendous asset as we grow the company and diversify our


reserve base. His exceptional qualifications and successful track record make him ideally suited for


this position at this point in time, and we’re very excited to welcome him to our organization.


Now I want to take a few minutes to review the status of our ongoing operations. First, at Medusa


our eight wells are currently producing 12,500 barrels of oil and 12 million cubic feet of gas a day.


The program of workovers and the drilling of an additional well has been deferred until 2010, due to


current commodity prices. As you’ll recall we own a 15% working interest in Medusa Field and


Murphy Oil operates.


At Habanero, the field is producing 6,500 barrels of oil and 9.8 million cubic feet of natural gas per


day from two wells, both producing from Hab 52 oil reservoir. We own an 11.25% working interest


in the number two well and a 25% interest in the number one well. Shell is the operator.


At West Cameron, 295 Field is producing 19 million cubic feet of natural gas a day and 120 barrels


of oil. An additional well may be drilled on the block during 2010, depending on well performance.


Number two and number four wells are operated by Mariner, while the number three well is


operated by Cimarex. We own a 20.5% working interest in these wells.


Our East Cameron Two, that’s our North Pronghorn field, is producing seven million cubic feet of


gas and 130 barrels of oil per day. Apache operates, and we own a 42.5% working interest. The


East Cameron 257 field is producing five million cubic feet of natural gas, and SPN Resources is


the operator. We own a 50% working interest.