Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Fred L. Callon — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Eric Williams — Manager of Financial Reporting, Callon Petroleum Co.
Gary A. Newberry — Senior Vice President-Operations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Joseph C. Gatto — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Ryan Oatman — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Phillips Johnston — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Andrew M. Smith — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Jeb E. Bachmann — Analyst, Howard Weil, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and welcome to the Callon Petroleum Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and good afternoon. Thank you for taking time to join our third quarter results conference call. Before we begin, I'd like to ask Eric Williams, our Manager of Finance, to make a few comments.

Thanks, Fred. At this point, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements which may include statements regarding our reserves as well as statements including the words believe, expect, plan and words of similar meaning. These projections and statements reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. Some of these factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K available on our website or the SEC's website.

We may also discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as discretionary cash flow, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for such non-GAAP financial measures are available in our third quarter 2014 results news release and in our filings with the SEC both of which are available on our website.

Thank you, Eric. It's been a very eventful three months since our last quarterly call, both for Callon as well as broader commodity markets. Although the markets have been volatile, we've remained focused on delivering our organic growth plans in our core fields, integrating our Central Midland Basin acquisition of approximately 4,000 net acres that closed in early October.

After entering 2014 producing approximately 3,600 barrels of oil a day, we're currently on pace to produce 7,400 barrels of oil per day in the fourth quarter of this year. Underlying majority of that growth is our drill bit success from three distinct horizontal zones of the Wolfcamp shale that we have developed from multi-zone pads. We're also expanding the development of our portfolio of derisked zones and are currently in the process of drilling and completing three Lower Spraberry wells, in both the Central and Southern Midland Basin.

With the production growth visibility that's probing development of multiple zones per pad, combined with the recent acquisition that increased our production in an attractive area of the basin, we have raised over $425 million in long-term capital to solidify our balance sheet position. In addition to this long-term capital base, we've bolstered our current liquidity position to approximately $235 million, which is over 100% of our 2014 claimed capital expenditures.

Like many of our peers, we are approaching 2015 capital plans on a measured basis. Fortunately, our asset position provides us with a great amount of flexibility since almost all of our drilling activity is operated by us and our land position is nearly all filled by production. As an example of this flexibility, we've already made changes within our pre-rig program for 2015 by shifting activity to our highest return areas and targeting approximately 50% of our planned completions in 2015 to be in our recently acquired fields. In addition, we have no current plans to drill any of our co-obligation wells next year such we're not under any pressure to hold acreage.

At this point, we're not planning to accelerate activity beyond the current three-rig program in 2015 and we'll continue to monitor the need for reduction in our base plan to preserve the strength of our current liquidity position as we await some stability in the commodity markets. Since our three-rig program is comprised of a vertical rig setting intermediate casing in preparation for subsequent lateral drilling by the two horizontal rigs, we are positioned to efficiently reduce the pace of our activity to two horizontal rigs by removing the vertical rig. This would defer our drilling schedule but not resolve the complete reworking of our operational plants and locations.

I will now ask Gary Newberry, Senior Vice President of Operations, to discuss our operational results for the third quarter and our integration of the Casselman and Bohannon fields. Gary?

Thanks, Fred, and good afternoon to everybody. I will start with a few highlights from the quarter and then I'll talk a bit about our ongoing activity.

We delivered another quarter of solid production growth, producing an average of 5,641 barrels oil equivalent per day, with an oil content of 82%. We completed six horizontal wells in the quarter, with three of those wells going online in the last week of September. These recent horizontal wells include four Lower Wolfcamp B and two Upper Wolfcamp B wells all of which were located in the Southern Midland Basin.

I'll start with the East Bloxom field in Upton County. The Neal 658 LH with 7,099 feet of completed lateral length targeted the Lower Wolfcamp B zone from a three-well pad. The Neal 658 LH produced at a peak 24-hour rate of 1,027 barrels oil equivalent per day at 80% oil, after being placed on submersible pump, following the cumulative production of 36,000 barrels of oil equivalent under natural flowing pressure over the first 71 days of production.

The other two wells on the pad, The Neal 611 and 612, each with approximately 7,055 feet of completed lateral length, targeted the Upper Wolfcamp B zone, and are currently being optimized using gas lift and are both producing in line with our type curves.

The remaining three wells completed in the quarter were completed in the Lower Wolfcamp B zone at our Taylor Draw field in Reagan County. These are the wells that came on in late September and are currently being optimized under gas lift.

In addition, we completed two-well pad at Garrison Draw field in Reagan County, late in the second quarter of 2014. The University 26-35 #15 AH had 7,472 feet of completed lateral length and targeted the Wolfcamp A zone. The well produced at a peak 24-hour rate of 1,449 barrels oil equivalent per day and an average 60-day rate of approximately 595 barrels oil equivalent per day with 75% oil on submersible pump.

The other well on the pad, the University 26-35 #8H had 7,432 feet of completed lateral length and targeted the Upper Wolfcamp B zone. This well has now established three levels of performance at Garrison Draw and is in line with our type curve expectations.

Beyond some strong initial production rates, I want to note a few additional points. First, I would emphasize, as I previously stated, we are very disciplined in our approach to flowing back our wells and continue to limit the amount of total fluid produced to 2,400 barrels in any given day. Although we may be losing some amount of early time peak rate, we believe that we are more than compensated in longer-term performance.

Second, we continue to make meaningful strides on the multi-zone development fronts, with an increasing amount of pads completed in two zones. I will also highlight that we had been utilizing gas lift on several recent wells and comparing the results to offsetting submersible pump results, including wells using both artificial lift designs on the same pad.

While gas lift does not, typically, resolve in 24-hour and 30-day rates as high as sub pumps, there are several benefits to using gas lift in certain areas including: improved production uptime by eliminating the need to install a sub pump and subsequent rod pump in the early life of a well; more efficient de-watering of offset horizontal wells when fracture stimulating adjacent pads in the same zone; and the opportunity for controlled drawdown during the critical early time performance of the well, which we believe results in shallower production declines.

On this last point, we've been monitoring on East Bloxom pad with both the sub pump and gas lift well, with adjacent completions in the Upper Wolfcamp B. The gas lift well crossed over the sub pump curve approximately four months after initial production and its cumulative performance continues to increase over the sub pump curve. While we don't expect any meaningful increase in ultimate recoveries, we do believe that increased uptime and reduced workovers using gas lift in program development mode will provide a positive economic impact. As a result, we plan to incorporate gas lift in an increasing number of wells as we move forward, especially at our East Bloxom, Garrison Draw and Carpe Diem fields.

Keeping with the topics of plans to improve our LOE rates and predictability, I want to specifically address the increased lease operating expense realized in the third quarter, which was approximately $2 per BOE above the previous two-quarter average. We experienced a higher level of well failures in our existing vertical wells after experiencing water interference from our horizontal completions in East Bloxom and Carpe Diem fields which include the majority of our legacy vertical wells.

The primary cause is related to corrosion and increased rod loading during dewatering vertical wells. We believe this exposure will be reduced by raising the rod pumps to reduce rod loading and increasing our chemical treatment programs. We also see some impact on producing horizontal wells for a period of time during offsetting completions which has contributed to workover expense as well. The transitioning future horizontal production to gas lift systems should significantly reduce exposure to well failures through the rod and tubing layer.

Looking forward, we plan to complete six gross horizontal wells at Carpe Diem and Garrison Draw fields in the fourth quarter, as well as two gross wells at our newly acquired Casselman and Bohannon fields, two horizontal Upper Wolfcamp B wells have been placed on production in these fields since we announced the transaction in early September. Those are the wells that demonstrated strong reservoir energy and continued to flow under their natural pressures.

We should have additional production information on these wells in the coming weeks, as we put them on sub pump and see longer term production declines. We're also looking forward to three Lower Spraberry wells being progressed at this quarter, one each at Casselman, Carpe Diem and East Bloxom fields.

While we have not adopted a final capital plan for 2015, we have been proactive in our efforts to further increase capital efficiency in the interim. As Fred noted, we have shifted an increased portion of our drilling activity to the Casselman and Bohannon fields for 2015. These fields carry a lower working interest than our legacy fields and we currently expect to spend $10 million to $15 million less than the previous operational capital estimate of $270 million due to this shift, while still providing for approximately 50% annual growth over our forecasted 2014 midpoint of 5,675 barrels oil equivalent per day.

As a comparison, if we ultimately decide to reduce our operational plans to two horizontal rigs, we estimate an operational capital level of $175 million, while delivering 35% annual growth in 2015. Despite some recent commodity price challenges, we remain optimistic for Callon's prospects going forward. We've demonstrated the ability to consistently grow production with contribution from a growing number of benches, and we're continuing to make improvements to our completion designs and cost structure. We're certainly excited about the potential that we see at the Casselman and Bohannon fields and have been pleased with the recent meetings we've had with our working interest partners for future program development, which will start in early 2015.

I will now turn the call over to Joe Gatto, our Senior Vice President and CFO.

Thanks, Gary. Our reported net income for the quarter on GAAP presentation was $10.2 million, or $0.23 per diluted share. These figures included the impact of the following items on a pre-tax basis: a non-cash [ph] unsettled (14:00) gain of $10.4 million related to a mark-to-market of our hedging portfolio, and a non-cash gain of $1.5 million related to the mark-to-market valuation of performance-based incentive compensation awards.

Excluding these items and the related statutory income tax rate of 35% for the quarter, our adjusted net income was $2.6 million or $0.06 per diluted share based on our average diluted share count of 44.2 million shares following our common equity offering that was completed in mid-September.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $26.9 million and equates to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 68%. Pro forma for recent acquisition, our adjusted EBITDA would have been approximately $33.2 million in the third quarter, with an estimated margin of approximately 70%.

Discretionary cash flow for the three months ended September 30, 2014 totaled $23 million or $0.52 per diluted share. This number includes $1.8 million of payments related to an asset retirement obligation, those related to offshore oil and gas properties sold in late 2013. Excluding these payments related to discontinued operations, our discretionary cash flow from continuing operations was $24.8 million or $0.56 per diluted share.

In terms of income statement detail, operating revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2014 includes oil and natural gas sales of $39.7 million from an average two-stream production of 5,641 BOE per day, representing a sequential increase of 30% over our first quarter production. Oil production in the quarter represented 82% of our total production on a volume basis and contributed to 92% of our total revenues. We expect that our oil contribution will be slightly lower for the next few quarters due to the mix of vertical production from the acquired properties, and we expect this percentage to increase throughout 2015 as horizontal development plans are advanced on those properties.

Our average realized commodity prices for the third quarter, excluding hedge impacts, were $85.52 per barrel oil and $5.86 per Mcf natural gas, including BTU adjustments for NGLs. On a barrel oil equivalent basis, this equates to $76.41 per BOE produced in the quarter. We did experience a continuation of inflated Midlands oil basis differentials of approximately $8.85 per barrel on average in the quarter, but we are seeing steady improvement in this metric as long-haul pipelines and associated gathered infrastructure enter into service. To this point, we've seen Midland prices trade at a discount of approximately $4.10 a barrel over the last five days.

Also included in our realized oil prices is approximately $2.70 per barrel for transportation in the quarter. We expect to see a reduction in this figure over the next few quarters, as we put more of our oil production on gathering pipelines, including the Ca-Bo acquisition, which is already on a system.

Moving to expenses, our total LOE including workovers was $12.08 per BOE for the quarter, which was above [indiscernible] (17:22) expectations. As Gary discussed, we continue to focus on reducing the workover component of this number, which is difficult to forecast. However, with the progress made today in the integration of the Casselman and Bohannon fields, we expect our LOE to be below $10 per BOE in the fourth quarter.

Our adjusted G&A expense which excludes the impact of mark-to-market valuation items was $4.7 million in the third quarter of 2014, a modest decrease compared to the $4.9 million of adjusted expense in the second quarter of 2014. The cash component of this adjusted G&A was $4 million for the quarter compared to $3.9 million in the previous quarter.

DD&A expense for the quarter was $31.05 per BOE, which was an increase over the second quarter and our longer-term trends. The increase was primary related to catch-up adjustments for future estimated development capital and to the second quarter estimates after the end of the quarter, as well as the impact of adding Northern Midland properties to the full cost pool. Given the impact of these items in the quarter, we believe the year-to-date DD&A rate of approximately $28 per BOE is more representative of the current depletion rate for our asset base.

I'll now discuss CapEx and our outlook for the remainder of the year. Our total operational capital expenditures, including facilities and excluding capitalized expenses for the third quarter were $57.3 million on a cash basis. Third quarter cash expenditures included the drilling of seven gross horizontal wells with an average working interest of 86% and the completion of six gross horizontal wells with an average working interest of 88%, as well as a small amount of vertical drilling activity.

Looking out at the remainder of the year, we expect our total operational capital budgets to approximate $47 million in the fourth quarter, inclusive of eight gross and 6.5 net drill wells, nine gross and 7.4 net completions, which includes 1.3 net completions at the acquired Casselman and Bohannon fields and $5 million of facilities and infrastructure costs.

As discussed earlier, we're in the final stages of our operational and capital planning process for 2015 and are well-positioned to address the broad range of scenarios from a financial perspective. Following the turn debt offering completed in early October, our total liquidity position currently stands at approximately $235 million as of November 1. From a leverage and long-term capital perspective, total debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA was an estimated 2.4 times, which is pro forma from the Central Midland Basin acquisition at the end of the third quarter.

The industry is currently facing a fair amount of uncertainty on the commodity front. We are comfortable that the company's solid liquidity position and strong cash flow margins and hedging position will prove to be an asset in coming quarters. From a cash flow margin perspective, our operating margin was $60 per BOE produced for the quarter and our discretionary cash flow from continuing operations with approximately $48 per BOE both of which compared very favorably to our peers.

On the hedging topic, we currently have 68% of our forecasted oil production and 64% of our forecasted natural gas production hedged under swap agreements tied to NYMEX prices for the fourth quarter of 2014. Our oil hedge agreements provide for weighted average spot prices of $93.58 per barrel and our natural gas hedge swap agreements provide for a weighted price of $4.10 per MMbtu for the balance of the year. For next year, we have an average of over 3,000 barrels of oil per day under hedge agreements that include a swap for price protection at approximately $91 per barrel.

As part of the press release issued yesterday, we also increased fourth guidance from our estimate provided at the time of the acquisition announcement in early September. We included a production in the range of 7,300 barrels of oil equivalent per day to 7,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day, with an estimated oil contribution of 76% to 78% oil. LOE including workovers is expected to normalize to a range of $9 to $10 per BOE after the elevated level of workovers in the third quarter.

Adjusted G&A is expected to be in a range of $7.50 to $8.50 per BOE, which is a reduction of almost $1.50 per BOE, as we lever an increased pro forma asset base across a largely unchanged G&A cost structure. Approximately 85% of this adjusted G&A amount is forecast to be cash.

Now, I'll turn the call back over to Fred for final comments.

Thank you, Joe, Gary. We'll now open the call to questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Will Green of Stephens. Please go ahead.

Afternoon, guys.

Hi, Will.

I appreciate you guys kind of laying out those different scenarios given that it's a little bit of an uncertain time. I know it's difficult to talk in definitives, but I wanted to touch on the two horizontal case, if you guys did decide to drop that, kind of, pilot hole rig that you guys are using. Those two horizontal rigs that are running currently. What do those contracts look like? If you needed the flexibility to drop another one for whatever reason, how do those contracts look? And then what's kind of the pressure point on the balance sheet that would push you to do that if there is one?

Contracts.

Yeah, Will. The contracts on horizontal rigs, I think that we mentioned before that we've got contracts through April of 2016, and both those contracts provide early termination provisions. And the early termination provisions suggest that what happens is that if we release the rig and somebody else doesn't pick it up, we'll pay the day rate fee for the rest of the term, or somebody picks it up, that provision goes away.

And of course there's going to be, even in a market like today, these rigs are highly sought after. So I see minimal exposure for a rig of that type and capability and nature, if I chose to lay one of those rigs down. I'll let Joe talk about the pressure point, because I guess I'm not feeling it.

Hey, Will. If you certainly looked at the case that we've outlined here in the most detail, with the producing – the pace of activity, by taking the vertical rig out of the equation, there is not necessarily a magic pressure point that we look at. We like to operate as we talked about, at max we're at a 2.5 times debt to an annualized core EBITDA number, around 2.5 times and we might go over that for a period of time, but on our longer-term planning cycle, we'd like to get back to that measure in a few quarters if we do exceed it.

So with the program of laying down the vertical rig, we see us operating comfortably in that metric for the planning period. So we haven't really looked at dropping another rig at this point. I think that things would have to change substantially from where we are now to even contemplate that.

But it's something we'll keep an eye on for right now. We do have the base three-rig program. We think with the balance sheet liquidity we have in the commodity price environment we live in today, we feel comfortable that our funding is well secured into 2016 and maybe a little bit longer than that. If things move down from there, we'll look at these other scenarios similar to what we laid out on the call.

Okay. So do you feel comfortable on that kind of 2.5 times annualized debt to EBITDA give or take a little bit here or there on the base three level or the two – or base level two-rig or three-rig?

We think that while we'll get over that metric a little bit as we ramp up the three-rig program in next year that we'll trend down to that range and we like to operate by the end of the year.

Got you. And then how are you guys on leasehold obligations? How should we think about that kind of in that core position you guys have?

Yeah. We're sitting really nicely, Will. Even in our new assets, we've got the majority of our position is already held by production with no obligations. We had just a couple areas – one's in our University land area down in Garrison Draw, we may have a couple of well requirements and one's in our new Opal development in our new area in South Upton County where we just drilled a well with Apache that may have a one well requirement. But other than that, we're sitting quite nicely for any required wells to meet an ongoing continuous drilling commitment.

Got you. I appreciate the color, guys.

No problem, Will. Thanks.

The next question will come from Ryan Oatman of SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning or good afternoon I should say.

Sure.

Can you speak to the service cost environment? You mentioned a $900 per lateral foot cost of these latest wells. Can you describe where that metric was previously and how you see the service cost trending recently?

Yeah. I think the $900 per lateral foot is...

The last 10 wells.

The last 10 wells B and C cost, and so that's very competitive in today's world. And service costs themselves, we talked to our providers again, the rig rates that we're paying now on our donor rigs are significantly lower than the rig rates that have been coming out for the last year. We know that for a fact, because we were pricing some additional rigs before we committed to this vertical rig for sending the intermediate casings and accelerating the use of our horizontal rigs. So we're sitting pretty good on rig rates today. And again, those contracts are through April of 2016 and there's still significant demand for those types of rigs.

Public Services is another story. We've recently gone through a significant increase in sand costs for fracking wells, and we know what caused that. It's really associated – there's not an issue on supply, and there's really not an issue on logistics, it's all an issue of the transportation costs to get it from the mine to the Midland Basin significantly ramped up. And that's all associated with the railroads and I think getting more sand to that basin.

I talked to ProPetro Services, I talked to them at length about how quickly we roll back what costs we do control, as we see this oil price market start to stabilize. And so, we're talking on a regular basis, but I understand that it is a partnership and they'll roll them back just as quickly as we can.

Okay. That's helpful. I'll hop back in the queue. Thanks.

Our next question will come from Phillips Johnston of Capital One. Please go ahead.

Yes, thanks. Joe, you've mentioned the oil mix should eventually improve throughout 2015. Can you give us a sense of what the progression might look like throughout the year with the backup, around that sort of 80% range?

Yeah. We've laid out here we're in the high 70s% for the fourth quarter; about 67% of our production on the acquired properties was oil. So there's a little bit of contribution that [ph] more active (30:36) to work against on day one, but we should get close to 80% by second quarter or third quarter next year. It's going to move pretty quickly back into that range after we get horizontal development well, and so it's a couple of quarters at most after you get back to that 80% range.

Okay. Thanks. And just a follow-up on the pressure point on letting go that vertical rig. If we assume $70 NYMEX for the whole of 2015, it looks like your net debt to EBITDA ratio runs a little bit above 3 times by the end of next year. Is that too far out of your comfort zone? I mean is that a level at which you think you might drop that rig? Or I mean is it somewhere between $70 and $80, is that kind of the way to think about it?

Yeah, put that into the mix, the Midland Basin differential as well, let's assume that that continues to improve. And we think it probably settles in the $3 to $4 range for next year, so if we normalize for that, I'd say that we've seen sustained $75 [ph] TI (31:47) pricing, we're probably going to be thinking real hard about letting that vertical rig go; and we can make that decision very quickly, Gary can talk to – I mean that's an exercise that can be done in a matter of days rather than weeks I think if we make that decision.

Exactly. We would finish the well we would be on and then we'd be done with it, I mean be very quickly. And we see that thing stabilize in the mid-$70s like Joe referenced, that's a decision that we've made.

Yeah, I've said we want to see why we should trend down and we started getting down to those types of prices on a sustained basis, operating at an elevated three-plus times and not seeing it come down, and that's a point where we're uncomfortable.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Sure.

And next question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Just a clarification, I want to make sure that you haven't made the decision to drop that vertical rig, that's just something that is possible if commodity prices kind of remain in this mid-$70 level, correct?

That is correct, Ron. We still plan to use that rig and still plan to actually start using it here in the next month and watch this commodity price level go. And again, the value that we have, the flexibility we have is fairly clear where we can pick it up and we can let it down as quickly as we decide, but we haven't made that decision yet. We're still on track, as we've stated, to go forward with a three-rig program today.

Okay. And then Gary, you also mentioned even if you remain status quo with that vertical rig and two horizontals, you talked about maybe shifting some activity to the recently acquired acreage which has a little lower interest. Is that what – one way to manage a little bit lower CapEx and you – I think you said 50% growth versus I think you had been talking about 55% or 60%, is that the right – is that just because moving to some lower working interest areas?

That's correct, Ron. Again, we purchased that acreage because it's highly prospective acreage. It's in a great spot in the basin. Some of the best wells we'll drill, and similar to what our Carpe Diem wells are, they're exceptional wells. And we do have a lower working interest there, so we'll be focused on an area that has good capital efficiency, good capital utilization, some of the best returns we have, but still a lower working interest with the same amount of rig fleet to just get you to a fewer number of net wells. So ultimately, our lower capital prospective, yeah, maybe it might be in total a little bit less growth, but it's much more profitable growth.

And is that something you would do even if commodity prices moved back up here in the short-term?

We would, simply because of how prospective it is, Ron.

Okay. And then from a third quarter production standpoint coming in ahead of plan, your fourth quarter guidance moving higher. Is that purely a function of continued well performance above your type curves?

Yes. It is. It's that as well as recognizing we're now integrating in the fourth quarter the full impact of Casselman and Bohannon, even though we don't have a full month of October, because we closed on the 8th, but that's still what we believe to be coming from these new wells even at Casselman and Bohannon that are coming online.

Okay. And then just from a news release standpoint, you have a number of wells that are either flowing back or about to be flowing back including the Spraberry wells. What is the expected timeframe in terms of coming to market with those results? Is it something later this year? Would it really be kind of early next year, maybe in January or February?

Well, I'll talk a little bit about that and Gary can jump in with his expectations around what wells we might have data on. But I think from a high level view and communication between the third quarter and fourth quarter, we always have, obviously, a lot of time there with not a lot of updates going on, so typically, what we would like to do is get out in January. And especially in this environment, well, I would focus on what we will set our capital budget at formally for 2015. So we're going to give things a couple months to settle out, see some additional data points from these new wells at the Ca-Bo area and come out with a capital budget sometime in January.

With that, it is a natural time I think to come out with some other well data over the next couple of months and Gary could probably talk about what we would expect. And again, we never know the timing of getting some of these [ph] on pumps and optimized (37:10), but I think there's probably a decent body of work, Gary, that we probably have some time in January to talk about.

Yeah. That's right, Joe. Again, Ron, I'll just reiterate, that 658 LH well at Neal, that's a Lower B well. That's the first Lower B well there and that's one of the best wells that we see in the field. It's a really good well, so that's again another area that's just kind of proved up even deeper B works, where we have another even Upper B above it. the A well at Garrison Draw is a phenomenal well. That's just spectacular. So we're happy with that. We're really, really making some very good wells.

And as far as physical timing of the Lower Spraberry results, it'll be January before you see any material numbers. Here's where we are it is physically. We just tried to stimulate at the Lower Spraberry and Carpe Diem and finished up that three-well pad a week ago. We're just rigging up the drill out plugs. So we have a couple of weeks to drill out three plugs. We'll start the flow back on those wells shortly thereafter and you know how this works. We'll flow them back for 30 days, 60 days before we get any real sense of what they're going to do.

We're just now this week fracture stimulating the Lower Spraberry to Casselman. We're already on our fourth or fifth stage. That's going quite well and we're just drilling the Lower Spraberry and Bloxom. So it'll be – there may be some information, but I'm going to suggest it's going to be January easing before we get real definitive data that we see there that we'll see early indications of pressure and flow rates and sustainability, but it'll be a little while.

Okay. Great. Thank you all so much.

The next question will come from Andrew Smith of Seaport Global. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon, guys. Just a question about the east blocks in the Neal well. You all talked about flowing it back under natural pressure and you mentioned that you like to keep the liquids at 2,400 barrels a day or less. Is it just in the east block area or is this kind of across your acreage and how should we think about that going forward?

No. That's something that we believe really helps us actually and I know other companies have suggested that we need to really up let them flow harder but we're seeing some positive results. When we compare the two, we think it's better to control that flow and you got to think about that across our position. That's one of the reasons I think, ultimately, we'll transition to gas lift in most of our legacy assets and that will really allow us to draw down those wells at a very controlled pace as we step down to each gas lift valve in that well and it's a very controlled flow back. And I think that protects that new well bore and somewhere a few inches into the reservoir fracture stimulation more so than pulling them harder. So I would think about that across the basis.

Okay. Thanks. And then you talked about an increase in your oil production that is flowing through pipelines, and that reducing transportation costs. What percent of your oil production is currently flowing through pipeline and where do you see that going?

Yeah. We've been focused on getting our legacy assets on pipeline for some time and we are working with primarily Plains Pipeline Company to get that done in the Southern Midland Basin. So a majority of our legacy assets are on trucking today. The Casselman and Bohannon assets that we just integrated into our operation, today, is about 1,400 net barrels or equivalent per day, is all on pipeline today. It's all on enterprise pipeline. So we've got a good bit to go, to get our Southern Midland Basin as well as our Carpe Diem field on pipeline. So the majority of the output is on truck today, Andrew.

Okay. Thanks.

Yeah.

The next question will come from Jeb Bachmann of Howard Weil.

Good afternoon, guys.

Hey, Jeb.

Couple quick ones for me, just to follow on that last question. How much of your production is still being flared on the gas side?

We've taken care of all of that, Jeb. We don't have any production being flared today. We've increased capacity at various different pipeline gathering systems and we've got everything going into a pipe.

So everything, I guess in that northwestern portion of Midland County, there's no issue that you can guys probably drilling actively there and putting that gas in the pipe?

No. No. There may be a temporary timeframe here or there, but not that we can see right now. And again, in that Central Midland Basin, Coronado pipeline company's connecting to both Pecan Acres as well as to Carpe Diem which is where we've had most of our flaring and they're already connected to Casselman and Bohannon. So they seem to have capacity at their plant and so far we have no restrictions.

Okay. And last one for me. I think during 3Q you guys talked about possibly adding a third horizontal sometime in the second half of next year. I understand that you haven't committed to that rig at this point. Just wondering when is the drop-dead date for deciding that before Cactus goes out and looks for somebody else for that rig?

Cactus is, and that is a good point, but what we have told Cactus is that we just can't make that decision today given the volatility in prices. So they're not looking for another company to get that rig and I think they'll find it.

But the other thing is that if we can firm up what we believe to be the outlook, Cactus has always said hey, we'll be there to partner, just give us a quarter or two and we'll likely maybe build you another one. But I would suggest that Cactus will have lots of success in putting that thing to work, and they're probably already marketing it.

Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.

Yeah. Thanks, Jeb.

Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Fred Callon for any closing remarks.

Again, we would like to thank everyone for taking time to call in this afternoon. We realize there are a lot of volatility, a lot of uncertainty, and just want to be sure that we're continuing to focus on the business and continue to keep you up to date. So thank you for taking time to call in.

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.