corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et


E


1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and


Full Year 2010 Results Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-


only mode. Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, March 15, 2011.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.


Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking time to call into our year-end 2010 results


conference call. Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation, I’d like to ask Terry


Trovato, who heads our Investor Relations, to make a few comments.


Terry Trovato, Manager-Public Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking


statements, which include statements regarding our reserves, as well as statements including the


words believe, expect, plan, and words of similar meaning. These projections and statements


reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual


results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. Some of these


factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our


annual reports on Form 10-K available on our website or on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.


We may also discuss the non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10 value. We believe PV-10 value to be


an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties because


it...


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, please stand by. Your conference will resume momentarily. Once


again, ladies and gentlemen, we ask for your patience and please stand by. Ladies and gentlemen,


thank you for your patience. Your conference call will now resume. Mr. Callon, you may proceed.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, and again we apologize. We’re having some technical difficulty, and so please bear


with us. Terry, if you’ll please continue.


Terry Trovato, Manager-Public Relations


Yes, I will continue where I stopped. We may also discuss during the conference call a non-GAAP


financial measure, PV-10 value. We believe PV-10 value to be an important measure for evaluating


the relative significance of our oil and gas properties, because it excludes income taxes, which may


vary materially among companies. PV-10 value is not, however, a substitute for standardized


measure.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2010 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our fourth quarter 2010 results news release and can be referenced there on our website


at www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. During 2010, Callon Petroleum Company continued to demonstrate success in


executing the company’s strategic growth plan, which is designed to build long-term visible growth


potential and reinvesting the stable cash flow generated from our deepwater offshore fields in the


Gulf of Mexico into low risk onshore oil and shale gas assets.


Some of the notable highlights from the past year. As a result of our successful development


programs, we have converted approximately 5.6 million barrels of oil equivalent from probable to


proved reserve category. Our 2010 Permian Basin and Haynesville Shale development program


resulted in a 41% increase in our total proved reserves to 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent at


December 31, 2010, and increased our onshore reserves to 50% of that amount.


During 2010, we drilled 20 gross wells in the Permian Basin, 11 of which were producing by year


end with nine awaiting fracture stimulation. This activity increased total Permian production to


approximately 550 net barrels of oil equivalent a day. And thanks to a new agreement into which


we entered earlier this year, we have secured fracture stimulation services for minimum of three


well stimulations per month throughout 2011.


During September 2010, we placed on production our first Haynesville gas well. Our acreage is


now held by production and we have no short-term plan to grow additional wells until gas prices


improve.


Our balance sheet is strong and so is our liquidity, particularly in light of our February successful


equity offering of 10.1 million shares, for which we received approximately $74 million in net


proceeds. The company has no debt maturities until 2016 and no borrowings under its expanded


credit facility that Bob will discuss in more detail.


As a result, we’re well positioned to fund an ambitious 2011 drilling program with the equity offering


proceeds and internally generated cash flow. We also continue to look for additional acquisition


opportunities in our core onshore areas of operation.


I’d like to ask Gary Newberry, our Senior Vice President of Operations, to discuss our operations,


including the ongoing development status of our Permian Basin assets, then the Haynesville Shale


play. Following Gary’s operations update, Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will review


our financial results for the same period. Gary?


Gary A. Newberry, Senior Vice President of Operations


Thank you, Fred, and good morning to everybody. I will begin by highlighting our 2010 major


operating accomplishments beginning with safety. Safety is a top priority and reflects the character


of an organization, and I believe provides a strong foundation upon which to strive for operational


excellence.


I am proud of Callon’s safety performance having had only one OSHA reportable incident in 2010


on Callon operated and controlled work sites. We’ve established a strong safety culture based on a


fully engaged workforce at all levels of the organization. I’m especially proud of this achievement


considering the increased risk and accelerated pace of work activities involved with an onshore


development program.


Callon set a new course and began its transformation with the acquisition of new onshore assets in


2009. I am pleased to say today that we are well on our way to executing our onshore strategy.