corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Callon Petroleum First


Quarter 2011 Results of Operations Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will


be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, May 10th, 2011.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you for taking time to call into our first quarter 2011 results conference call.


Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation, I’d like to ask Terry Trovato, who heads our


Investor Relations, to make few comments.


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking


statements, which may include statements regarding our reserves, as well as statements including


the words believe, expect, plans, and words of similar meaning. These projections and statements


reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual


results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. Some of these


factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our


Annual Reports on Form 10-K available on our website or the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.


We may also discuss the non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10 value. We believe PV-10 value to be


an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties because


it excludes income taxes, which may vary materially among companies. PV-10 is not, however, a


substitute for standardize measure.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2011 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our first quarter 2011 results news release and can be referenced there on our website at


www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. During the first quarter, Callon continued to demonstrate success in executing


our strategic growth plan, reinvesting the cash flow generated from our deepwater offshore fields


into our low risk onshore Wolfberry oil play in the Permian Basin.


Here are some of the highlights of the first quarter. We completed an equity offering, which resulted


in net proceeds to the company of $73.8 million. The proceeds will be used to fund a portion of our


expanded onshore drilling program in the Wolfberry area of the Permian Basin and a portion will be


used to redeem $31 million of our senior notes due 2016. This redemption will reduce our annual


interest expense in future years by over $4 million a year.


We’ve recently received an increase in our borrowing base and our credit facility with Regions Bank


to $45 million, which represents a 50% increase over the previous $30 million borrowing base.


In our Wolfberry development program, we’ve fractured stimulated six wells in the first quarter


under our Halliburton pumping service agreement we’ve completed two thus far in the second


quarter with plans to complete eight additional wells during the remainder of the second quarter.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


And finally and most important, we were fortunate to have Vince Borrello joined the company as


Vice President and General Manager of our Permian Basin operations in Midland. Vince has been


active in the Permian Basin oil and gas industry for many years and is well known and highly


respected in the Midland business community.


With strong cash flow from our deepwater properties, our new $45 million unused borrowing base


and currently approximately $55 million in cash, we have the financial flexibility to fund our


accelerated Permian development program as well as pursue attractive acquisition opportunities in


our core onshore areas of operations.


I’d like to ask Gary Newberry, our Senior Vice President of Operations, to discuss our operations,


including the ongoing development status of our Permian Basin assets. Following Gary’s


operations update, Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will review our financial results for


the same period. Gary?


Gary A. Newberry, Senior Vice President, Operations


Thank you, Fred, and good morning. I’m pleased to say that we have zero recordable entries year-


to-date, significant accomplishment given the increased pace of activities in the Permian Basin.


Turning to Medusa in the Gulf of Mexico, Murphy recompleted the A-6 well from the T4C Sand up


hole to the T4B Sand. Prior to the recompletion, the T4C Sand was producing approximately 500


gross barrels of oil equivalent per day, before watering out and sanding off the well bore. Since the


well head is accessible from the Spar facility, wireline was utilized to isolate the lower zone with a


tubing plug and then the upper zone was opened by sliding a sleeve in an existing frac pack


selective completion across the T4B.


The well continues to produce 5,000 gross barrels of oil per day and 7 million cubic feet per day


since the recompletion in late March. Callon has a 15% interest in Medusa, resulting in a production


increase of over 800 net barrels of oil equivalent per day. The plan is to produce the well at these


controlled rates and monitor bottom hole flowing pressure to predict future performance of the T4B


reservoir. We are encouraged with the early results. Several Medusa well have penetrated multiple


sands and have up hole recompletion potential.


The Number 5 subsea well is currently scheduled for recompletion late this year or early next year.


The deepwater assets continued to deliver strong cash flow to Callon with Medusa and Habanero


currently producing 2,200 net barrels of oil equivalent per day and 620 net barrels of oil equivalent


per day, respectively. The Gulf of Mexico Shelf is currently producing 10 million cubic feet per day


net to Callon.


In the Permian, I am pleased to say that we were not materially impacted by the West Texas


wildfires. As a precaution, we shut-in the Kayleigh lease for 24 hours as the fire moved through the


surrounding area, but our lease was not impacted. We fracture-stimulated three wells in late


February, three additional wells in March and two wells in April, bringing the total wells stimulated


under our pumping services agreement to eight wells year to-date. Four wells are scheduled to be


completed later this month.


Production from the recently completed wells is beginning to ramp up as expected. Production from


the three wells completed in late February is 47, 39 and 91 gross barrels of oil equivalent per day


and continuing to improve.


Total production from the Permian is 600 net barrels of oil equivalent per day, showing an


increasing trend with contributions from new wells. We continued to operate two rigs in the Permian


Basin, drilling three wells per month. We have now drilled two wells to the deeper Atoka zone and


are encouraged with the porosity development indicated by logs as well as gas shows while drilling.