corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the Callon


Petroleum Company’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 Results Conference Call. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on Wednesday, March 11, 2009. It is


now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


at Callon Petroleum Company. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for taking time to call in for our fourth quarter and year-


end results call. Before we begin the formal portion of our presentation, I would like as always to


ask Terry Trovato, who heads our Investor Relations, to make his comments.


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such, no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings.


We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements. It is also


important to note that the SEC permits us in our filings with them to disclose only proved reserves


that we have demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically


and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions.


During today’s discussion we may use terms like reserve potential and probable reserves that the


SEC’s guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in our filings with them. These estimates are by their


nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to a


substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the economy.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2008 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our fourth quarter and full year 2008 results news release and can be referenced there on


our website at www.callon.com for subsequent review.


Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. Before I begin my discussion of the company’s current operations and our plans


for 2009, I’d like to take a minute to share with you my current view of economic conditions and


how I think Callon can navigate successfully through these challenging times for our industry.


As most of you know, Callon has been around since 1950, operating almost 60 years from our base


here in Natchez, Mississippi. Our team has weathered many storms together and we’re ready to


face this current economic climate. All of us at Callon have seen the industry in worse shape than


what we’re experiencing today. We’ve operated successfully when oil and natural gas prices were


much lower. During the 1980s when oil prices collapsed, we were hit hard along with the rest of the


industry, but we found ways to succeed by focusing on liquidity and building long-term value.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Today, we at Callon are approaching this current down-cycle with our perspective that we have


gained through prior crises, by focusing on liquidity and making tough decisions we need to


succeed. I believe we have the financial strength, technical expertise and focus to thrive during this


downturn and emerge stronger. We’ve seen some dark days in the past and survived them. We’ll


survive this period and be better for it.


As I said, one of the keys to success in this environment for us and for our peers would be having


adequate liquidity. At Callon, managing liquidity has been the most important element of our


financial strategy in the past two years and I think that strategy has served us well. Beginning in


mid-2007 and throughout 2008 we carefully managed our liquidity position. In the summer of 2008


we put in place hedges for our legacy oil production that covers approximately 45% of our expected


production for 2009 using collars with a floor of $110. These hedges provide a significant downside


price protection in the current environment and had a value in excess of $21 million at year-end.


As a result, despite our challenges and the turmoil in the financial markets, we find ourselves with a


strong liquidity position and the financial resources to be opportunistic during this economic


downturn. We do not have any significant required capital expenditures for 2009 so we have the


flexibility to use our cash flow and credit facility to fund producing property acquisitions to help grow


the company’s reserves and production over the next several years.


Turning now to operations. Let me give you an update beginning first with a recap of our Entrada


Field project. At the time of our last conference call, we reported that after dealing with delays


brought on by the failure of the VLA anchor system that we were required to use by the MMS and


two back-to-back hurricanes, resulting in the evacuation of our drilling rig on both occasions, we


were drilling at that time at 18,240 feet on the Number 3 well. We subsequently drilled the well that


totaled out 21,100 feet, and after a review of the drilling results, we determined this well needed to


be sidetracked back toward the original discovery well in the block.


However, after discussions with our partner, CIECO Energy, concerning significantly higher than


expected drilling and development costs incurred on the project to date that resulted from extra cost


of the failed VLA anchor system, down hole mechanical problems, delays brought about by the


back-to-back hurricanes, coupled with significant and rapid decline in commodity prices, a decision


was reached to suspend operations at Entrada. As regrettable as the decision was, the fact


remained that the underlying economics of the project had deteriorated dramatically with the


declining commodity prices and the significantly increasing cost estimated for the final project.


After the suspension, we explored other possibilities to extend the leases or find another solution to


avoid abandoning the project altogether, but to date no viable alternative has been found. With the


final lease expiration currently anticipated to be in June of 2009, it is unlikely that we will be able to


resume commercial operations. As a result, we’ve been working to wind down the project and


negotiate outstanding contractual commitments and dispose of the tangible equipment that we


acquired for the project. These operations are ongoing, which should be largely resolved by early in


the second quarter.


Now let’s review our ongoing operations. First, after hurricanes Gustav and Ike, all of our major Gulf


of Mexico producing properties were back on line by mid-December. However, we did defer


production of approximately 18 million cubic feet of gas a day from the fourth quarter because of


hurricane-related downtime. At Medusa, where we have eight wells, currently producing 13,200


barrels of oil and 12 million cubic feet of gas a day, a program of work overs and the drilling of an


additional well has been deferred from 2009 to 2010 because of current commodity prices. As you’ll


recall, we have a 15% interest at Medusa and Murphy is the operator.


At Habanero, the Field is producing 6,000 barrels of oil and 9 million cubic feet of gas a day from


the two wells, both producing from the Hab 52 oil reservoir. We have 11.25% interest in the


Number 2 well and a 25% interest in the Number 1 well. At West Cameron 295, the field is