Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Eric Williams — Manager of Finance, Callon Petroleum Co.
Fred L. Callon — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Joseph C. Gatto — Jr., Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Gary A. Newberry — Senior Vice President-Operations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Joseph C. Gatto, Jr. — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Phillips Johnston — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Neal D. Dingmann — Analyst, Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Jeb E. Bachmann — Analyst, Scotia Howard Weil
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Mostafa Dahhane — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Callon Petroleum First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Eric Williams, Manager of Finance. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking time to join our first quarter 2015 results conference call. With me this morning are Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Newberry, Senior Vice President of Operations, and Joe Gatto, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer.

During our prepared remarks, we'll be referencing the earnings results presentation we posted yesterday afternoon to our website. So I encourage you to download the presentation if you haven't already done so. You can find the slides on our website at www.callon.com. To locate the slide simply click on the PDF icon located on the Events and Presentation page for today's conference call or, alternatively, click on the Current Presentations link at the bottom of any page on our website.

Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone joining in this call that our comments today include forward-looking statements. A variety of factors could cause Callon's actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectation expressed in these forward-looking statement. For a complete discussion of these risks, we encourage you to read our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K available on our website or the SEC's website.

Today's call will also contain discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our earning press release we issued yesterday afternoon for important disclosures regarding these measures and the related reconciliations to U.S. GAAP. You can obtain a copy of our press release in the News section of our website. Following our prepared remarks, we'll be happy to take your questions.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Fred Callon. Fred?

Thank you, Eric. Again, thank you everyone for joining us this morning on the call. Callon reported another quarter of strong sequential production growth driven by new wells brought on line in the Southern Midland Basin as well as sustained performance of our initial Lower Spraberry wells.

Our growth is important, we recognize that delivering production gains in the most capital efficient manner is what most drives value creation for our shareholders. To this end, we've been on the leading edge of well cost reductions. We've already achieved 20% well cost reductions and we're on pace to drive those cost down another 10%.

We anticipate that we will be drilling 7,500 foot lateral wells for just over $5 million in the next couple of months, which is down over 30% from last year's levels. We've also worked hard on our cost structure with a 20% decrease for BOE and LOE from last quarter and our recent corporate cost initiative that is expected to save $5 million a year in total G&A.

We continue to see strong performance from our Wolfcamp B and Lower Spraberry wells in Central and Southern Midland Basin. As you know, we've been measured in the pace of our type curve upgrades over time in order to capture well return performance data from our own wells and then use offsetting well results to provide additional support for our EURs.

When we began a horizontal development over three years ago the majority of our early drilling was focused at East Bloxom and Taylor Draw in Southern Midland Basin. We've taken the opportunity to increase our EUR estimates in the Southern Basin a couple of times over that period with an increasing set of wells and production data. Over last year, we ramped up activity at our Garrison Draw in Reagan County and kicked off development in our Central Midland Basin fields.

Based on the scrolling body of work, our average Central Midland Basin type curve are now 640,000 barrels of oil equivalent for the Wolfcamp B and that we're 900,000 for the Lower Spraberry. We also upgraded our average Southern Midland Basin Wolfcamp B type curves to 575,000 barrels of oil equivalent for both the upper and Lower Wolfcamp B.

Putting these increased EUR assumptions together with the capital and operating cost reductions, we expect returns across our asset base of 30% to 35% for the Wolfcamp B and 55% for the Lower Spraberry in a $55 per barrel oil. The associated payouts are roughly two to two and half years.

As we and other operators have discussed, Lower Spraberry is delivering exceptional results in the Midland Basin and we intend to allocate an increasing portion of our capital program to Lower Spraberry development in the second half of 2015. Given the flexibility provided by our largely HBP footprint, we were able to modify our plans relatively quickly and leverage this opportunity in the near term.

Based on our revised operational plan that Gary will discuss in a few minutes, we now expect to have production growth of 30% from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the fourth quarter of 2015 under our two rig program.

Looking out to 2016, we expect additional growth of 10% compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. Using this forecast and current commodity price levels, we expect to achieve a cash flow breakeven position by mid-2016, which provides us with additional financial flexibility that complement our strong capital and liquidity position to pursue drilling and acquisition opportunities in the future.

I'll now ask Joe Gatto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to discuss our financial results for the quarter.

Thanks Fred. I'll pick up on Page 4 with an overview of the key components of revenue in the quarter. As Fred discussed, we achieved a sequential daily production volume increase of 18% over the fourth quarter of 2014 to an increase of 97% BOE per day overall production level one year ago. Total revenues in the quarter excluding settled hedges were $30.4 million or approximate $39.42 realize per BOE of production relative to $57.44 per BOE last quarter.

Given our production profile is heavily weighted to oil, the approximate 40% decrease in NYMEX WTI prices from fourth quarter 2014 weighed on our realized pricing before settled hedges. Offsetting this decline to some degree was an improvement in Midland basis differentials, which averaged approximately $2 per barrel versus approximately $5.80 per barrel last quarter. In total, our unhedged oil price realizations were approximately 90% of average NYMEX prices during the quarter relative to 89% in the fourth quarter.

Going forward, we are in the process of connecting our Southern Basin fields to crude transport lines in the third quarter which should benefit realized pricing similar to what we see at our Central Midland fields that are already on takeaway pipe.

In addition, our realized natural gas prices per Mcf also experienced a notable decline as NGL prices were under pressure in line with oil prices and also reflected the impacts of ongoing ethane rejection by big gas processors. As a result, our combined natural gas stream including the BTU uplift from NGL content received only a premium of $0.20 or 7% per Mcf relative to NYMEX Henry Hub prices this quarter. Since the end of the quarter, we have seen some improvement in realizations but expect that NGL pricing will continue to face headwinds in the coming quarters.

Our hedge position added support to our revenue stream with cash settlements related to our hedging program totaling $13.41 per BOE in the quarter. We've continued to add to our oil hedges over the past few weeks to provide cash flow protection in an uncertain environment and now have an average of almost 5,000 barrels of oil per day under swap contracts for the remainder of 2015 and an additional 2,000 barrels of oil per day hedged in 2016.

On page five, we have provided an overview of our key operating expenses and trends over the last 12 months. While we can't do much about the direction of commodity prices, we have made significant strides in reducing the cost portion of our cash margins. LOE, including workovers, was $9.03 per BOE for the quarter, representing a quarterly decrease of 20%. This reduction reflects both increased leverage of our fixed cost components across a growing production profile and a lower overall workover expense.

Adjusted G&A expense, which excludes the impact of mark-to-market valuation items and non-recurring items, was $4.7 million in the first quarter of 2015, which was slightly higher than the fourth quarter of 2014 but in line on a BOE basis at $6.15. Of this amount 87%, or $5.37 per BOE, was cash excluding stock based compensation and corporate depreciation.

During the first quarter, we initiated a cost reduction program which reduced our employee base by approximately 20% and resulted in early retirement expenses of $4.7 million in the quarter.

This reduction is expected to result in a total G&A savings of approximately $5 million per year relative to a onetime cash cost of $7.1 million in the quarter, which included the cash payout of equity incentive awards. As a result, our expectations of both G&A expense and capitalized G&A are forecast to decrease going forward on an absolute basis and somewhat more on a BOE basis with growing production.

Moving to DD&A on the lower left corner of the page, we reported a 13% decrease on an BOE basis reflective of lower forecasted future development cost as well as continued reserve additions during the quarter from both net revisions and drill bit adds.

Slide six summarizes our bottom line results for the quarter with reported net loss on a GAAP presentation of $12.2 million or $0.21 per diluted share. This figure included the impact of the following items on a after-tax basis: non-cash unsettled losses of $5.1 million related to a mark-to-market of our hedging portfolio; a non-cash loss of $1.7 million related to the mark-to-market valuation of performance-based incentive compensation awards; a loss $2.4 million for the earlier recognition of drilling rig payments that are anticipatedly made over the next 8 months for the release of a rig in late March, if that rig is not recontract by another party; and a loss of $3 million for the earlier retirements described earlier.

Excluding these items and the related statutory income tax rate of 35% for the quarter, our adjusted net income was $100,000 or $0.00 per diluted share based on an average diluted share account of 57.5 million shares.

Looking at the EBITDA line, we generated $26.7 million of Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter after adjustments for the items I just mentioned as well as other customary items.

Moving to Page 7, and review of operational CapEx in the quarter, one can see that this is a busy quarter for us on the operations side under a three rig program with 7.8 net drilled wells and 8.1 net completed well primarily in the Southern portion of the basin. This level of operational CapEx was a little higher than expected due to reduced drilling and completion cycles times from operational efficiencies we gained in our three rig program development as the quarter progressed.

Importantly, we did begin to see the impact of the capital cost reductions we've been discussing in the right hand chart. Comparing the fourth quarter of 2014 to this past quarter, we both drilled and completed a higher number of wells at a lower overall cost relative to the fourth quarter of 2014. Gary will discuss this more but I will note that we are forecasting a significant decrease in operational capital levels into the third quarter following the release of a drilling rig in late March and continued progress on well cost reductions

Turning to Slide 8, you will see that from a leverage and long term capital prospective, total debt to Adjusted EBITDA stood at 2.8 times. This adjusted EBITDA figure annualized the results for last two quarters similar to our credit agreements and captures the impact of our Central Basin acquisition that was closed early in the fourth quarter of 2014.

From a liquidity perspective, our position remains strong, following our recent volume based redetermination at an unchanged level of $250 million leaving us with $215 million of cash and credit availability to complemental our internal cash flow generation shown on the right hand chart. As we monitor our drilling plans in this environment, we continue to focus on our cash margins including the impact of corporate G&A expense of an additional data point beyond just well level economics.

While revenues per BOE including hedges have decreased by just over 35% since the first quarter of 2014 with the decline in commodity prices, our cash operating cost per BOE produced has decreased 33% over that period as well resulting in an adjusted EBITDA margin of over $35 per BOE in a quarter that saw average NYMEX oil prices of just under $50 per barrel.

With our revised cost guidance for the year, we estimate that this adjusted EBITDA margin would be in excess of $40 per BOE of production for the remainder of the year based on recent script pricing.

Gary Newberry will pick up on Slide 9 with an operational update.

Thank you, Joe, and good morning to everybody. With 10 gross wells drilled and 11 gross wells completed in the quarter, it was an active quarter for our team, while running three rigs. Our pace was a bit higher than expected as efficiencies were increasingly realized from the addition of the third rig in the fourth quarter as well as the opportunity to participate in a non-operated Lower Spraberry well in Midland County, which now brings to our Lower Spraberry well count to five in the basin.

Outside of this well and our first two wells at Pecan Acres, most of our activity was focused in the Southern Midland Basin where we began our horizontal operations three years ago and continue to see strong results. We've done a mix of six upper and lower Wolfcamp B wells online. These zones have been well established over the last three years, but we continue to optimize our completions and evaluate additional de-risked zones.

We are currently progressing three initiatives in the southern area on this front. We are pumping higher proppant volumes with recent test of 1500 pounds per lateral foot and 1900 pounds per lateral foot. We're evaluating the Lower Spraberry in Upton County and we are extending the delineation of the Wolfcamp A further east in Reagan County.

We are encouraged with the early time performance of the Lower Spraberry at Bloxom and the Wolfcamp A at Garrison Draw. Furthermore, the wells will increase profit at Bloxom and Garrison Draw are exhibiting higher flowback pressures and rates early time which is encouraging us to increase proppant volumes across the Midland Basin.

The exception seems to be Taylor Draw where the increased volumes have not performed any better than previous wells. In the Central Midland, we began horizontal development at our Pecan Acres area with a stack test of the Lower Spraberry and Wolfcamp B. Again, we are still early time with these wells, but we are seeing strong performance in line with neighboring wells in the area. Overall, we continue to be focused on efficient development of derisked zones albeit at a slower pace for the time being.

For now, we are producing over 60 – from 60 operated horizontal wells which has given us another opportunity to revisit our type curves with a larger pool of production data. Before I get to that update, I want to discuss our progress on the well cost.

Page 10 shows our achieved cost reductions and further targeted reductions as we continue to work directly with our preferred service providers. We are riding AFEs for $6 million for 7,500 foot drilled wells which is a decrease of 20% relative to the fourth quarter of 2014. We started our discussion on this front with our key service providers on the drilling rig and pressure pumping side and have now expanded this dialog with other components of the well.

With the progress we've made in recent weeks, we believe we will be riding AFEs in the low $5 million range for 7,500 foot lateral in the second half of 2015. This will be a decrease of 30% from last year's levels and a testament to the relationships we have built with our service partners in the Midland Basin.

Moving to Page 11, the cost reductions are critical to our near-term economics, but I also want to highlight the resource potential of our asset base that will provide the opportunity for longer term value added growth. The left hand chart shows our range of type curves for the Central Midland Basins with an average of 639,000 barrels of oil equivalent for the Wolfcamp B and over 900,000 barrels of oil equivalent for the Lower Spraberry for normalized 7,500 foot wells. This shouldn't be much of a surprise given the strong offsetting operated results, but it was important for us to see the results in our own wells over the past 12 months. We can also see that we are still showing ranges for these zones and expect to see these converge to a tighter band with additional wells and expanded well performance.

The chart to the right shows our EUR ranges for the Southern Midland Basin, which continue to increase with time and have converged within a fairly tight band, based on repeatable results. A key driver to this uptick has been the performance at our Garrison Draw field in Reagan County and has also been helped by our increasing use of gas lift at our well-established East Bloxom development in Upton County.

We've also laid out the economics of our drilling program and actual drill bit lengths, assuming our targeted D&C and flat $55 per barrel pricing. Average IRRs are strong in the range of 30% to 55%, but equally as important our NPV per dollar of investment is 60% to 100% and payback periods are between 2 years and 2.5 years on average. Our Lower Spraberry results are clearly at the higher end of the economic ranges and with this type of performance, we will be shifting additional capital to this part of the portfolio in the coming months as we focus on adding to our asset value and growing our reserve base at a relatively low F&D cost per well.

The next slide compares our current type curves to some of our Midland Basin peers that publicly disclose comparable EUR data. The chart is a summary of oil only EURs on a barrel of oil per drilled lateral foot basis. This presentation adjusts for two key differences between Callon and some of our peers. One, we are a two stream reporting company which generally understates volumes buy approximately 15% relative to Q3 three stream reporters, and two, IP data can be misleading even on a 30-day basis depending on the method and timing of artificial lift.

We've been moving to gas lift on more established areas, which typically has lower early time rates but longer term shallower declines. Based on this data, both of Callon central and southern positions compare favorably to the peer group. Again, this shouldn't be much of a surprise given our Central Midland position, but this chart does a good job of highlighting the quality of our Southern position as well. It further illustrates the increased potential of the Lower Spraberry which is driving our development realignment and focus for the remainder or 2015 and 2016.

Page 13 provides an update on operational plans for 2015 and some early insight into our capital allocation for 2016. With a very flexible drilling plan that isn't driven by obligations wells, we are able to react quickly to opportunities that arise.

Clearly the Lower Spraberry is one of those opportunities and we are now planning to drill 14 gross Lower Spraberry wells in 2015 relative to five wells in our original plan. Our plans now also include the drilling of 27 net wells versus a previous 24 net wells including non operated activity. Part of this increase is attributable to Callon stepping into the interest of small non consenting working interest partners in new horizontal wells as well as a slightly quicker pace of development due to efficiencies we are realizing on both drilling and completion. In total, we now plan for operational capital, which includes drilling and completion and facilities of $160 million to $165 million which is in with the range of previous guidance despite the addition of three net wells.

This capital range is based on well cost reduction that we have achieved to-date where we are targeting additional reductions by the second half. After decreasing activity for the first quarter's three week activity levels, we expect our normalized operational capital spend to be $30 million to $35 million per quarter in the second half of the year based on current cost. On the lower right hand charts you can see that we will be drilling an increasing proportion of Lower Spraberry wells as the year progresses, which will continue into our 2016 plans as we reallocate capital within the portfolio.

Finally, I will turn to Slide 14 which summarizes our updated production and cost guidance for the year and introduces similar guidance for the second quarter. Based largely on our tight curve increases, we now see total production for 2015 at just over 9,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the midpoint. We also expect our second quarter production to increase approximately 500 barrels oil equivalent per day over the first quarter and we are targeting an exit rate of around 9,500 barrels oil equivalent per day this year.

In addition to these improvements in capital efficiency and resulting production growth, we forecast continued reductions in our per unit production cost both at the field and corporate levels. I will now turn the call back to Fred for some final comments.

Thank you. Thank you Gary and Joe. And again, we appreciate everyone taking time to call in this morning, so we'll now open the call to questions.

[Operators Instructions]. The first question comes from Will Green of Stephens. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Will.

Hi, Will.

Just looking at the slides obviously some big numbers for Spraberry EURs and returns even at these levels, looks like at this stage you guys are planning on drilling more of those wells, it looks like at the expense of some of the Wolfcamp B and Wolfcamp A, I wonder if you could just talk about how the Wolfcamp A stacks up versus the Wolfcamp B, is it a situation where the returns just don't compete with the Spraberry, is it a situation where you don't feel like you can stack those as well, I wonder if you could just elaborate on how you guys feel about the Wolfcamp A and how that develops longer term.

Yes, well, again we're very excited with the Lower Spraberry. It's obvious, the results are pretty stellar. We've done most of our work on the Wolfcamp A in the Southern part of the basin and as we compare the A to the B, it's slightly less than the B at Bloxom, but we're pretty encouraged with the A at Garrison Draw, so it's a little different.

The Garrsion Draw well is a lot stronger than the well that we have at Bloxom. And we're pretty excited about it, but it's only one well, so we're still a little slow, I guess, in trying to think of how we move that forward, but the results we're seeing at Garrison Draw in the B and the A are pretty spectacular results. It's helping us drive and achieve some of the significant production growth we've achieved quarter-on-quarter because a lot of the wells that we've actually gone on were all in the southern part of the basin. And so we're real excited about the A there, but at this point in time we just don't have enough data to jump in there and say we're just going to go ahead and rank it differently or much better than the B or even suggest it's as good as the Lower Spraberry yet. We just don't have enough data.

Got you and at this point, do you guys have any – do you feel like that Callon is thick enough to potentially at some point in the future have still a stack with Spraberry Wolfcamp A, Wolfcamp B, a number of those pretty tightly close in there together?

We do and again it's kind of our philosophy especially in the central part of the basin. We watch all that development quite closely and we believe that potential exists and in this price environment we're really focused on just a little bit of de-risking in some of the fields, but primarily focused on things we know will work, can drive production, can be developed at low F&D cost and really add value. So we still be watching our partners intently as they further delineate those zones for us, it's kind of a nice position to be in to be surrounded by some great partners.

Great, very well put, thank you guys.

Thanks Will.

The next question is from Phillips Johnston of Capital One. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys, thank you. Just a couple questions for Gary, on the increase in the type curves, would the new figures apply to all of the drilling locations in your total inventory or would they just apply to the locations that you expect to drill this year and next so we should consider that more sort of a high graded type curve?

Again, this type curve has moved up over time primarily because of the way we've got-confirmed or confident in the assets and we improved upon some of the completion techniques and we feel confident that certainly in the Southern Midland Basin on the B certainly that type curve works pretty well. And Central Midland Basin, there is still a pretty wide range there especially on the Lower Spraberry, we hope to continue to move that average up to the upper end of that range. But what we're showing you are results from the wells we have, those type curves are wells we have delivered and wells we intend to deliver going forward, so I wouldn't suggest it covers all of our inventory, but certainly the inventory that we have focused on those specific zones in those basins, those parts of the basin.

Okay, that makes sense and then just the – I guess you talked about the three important wells that you had sort in progress in the South, the Lower Spraberry at East Bloxom, the Wolfcamp A test and the Wolfcamp B, I think it was testing a design of 1,900 pounds I think of sand per lateral foot, is it too early to talk about IP rates or 30-day rates on any of those wells at this point?

Yes, it's probably too early to talk about the specific performance of those wells. We're very encouraged with certainly the Lower Spraberry at Bloxom, that well is doing quite well, very steady, it's just like we're being gentle with it. We have a small subpump in that well pulling it pretty easy and rates are very steady, pressures are good, water rates are still dropping, while oil rates are still increasing.

And on the A at Garrison Draw, that's a pretty strong well as well and we're encouraged with that and those wells were pumped with a little bit more sand, okay. Now you ask about the 1,900 pounds per foot of sand and we actually did that at Taylor Draw and that was a bit of a disappointment, I'll just admit that that didn't work. Maybe it didn't work because Taylor Draw is a littler shallower, it's a little bit lower pressure, but that didn't work any better than what we've been previously pumping closer to around 1,300 pounds per foot. So, with two well test there and both are producing similar to the previous wells.

Okay, great, thanks very much.

The next question is from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Good morning guys. Gary, just wondering are you limited on the lease lines by how long laterals you can do and it doesn't appear to me that you are and if not just your thoughts on even taking these laterals out even further.

Neal, we're certainly optimizing lateral lengths where we can. Again, at – Garrison Draw is a good example. We kind of – we got three strong Wolfcamp B wells there, five strong Wolfcamp B well there that flown back to a long period of time. We've got three 7,500 foot laterals that have been flown back for nearly five months now and we just keep opening up the choke and under natural flow back they are performing phenomenally well. The two wells we recently brought on in this footer were 10,000 foot laterals at Garrison Draw.

So we saw the opportunity to extend the lateral lengths, again minimize our cost to access the resource and those wells are flowing back at even high pressures and higher rates early time than the 7,500 foot wells. So we're doing where we can extending our lateral lengths. But honestly, in places we're limited. Even though we're very excited about the Lower Spraberry results at Pecan Acres and Casselman and Bohannon, those wells, the lateral lengths for the two wells we have in that area are close to around 4,400 completed lateral lengths.

So, because of geography we are a bit limited on lateral lengths where we can. Fortunately, the wells going forward at Casselman and Bohannon we have, off lease surface locations secured now. So those lateral lengths will be extended by about 10% to get up to about 5,000 completed lateral length, which we're encouraged with that opportunity. And then at Carpe Diem we're certainly on the east side of Carp Diem we have three sections north, south. We've optimized our lateral lengths by putting the surface locations in the center so on average 7,500 feet north-south. So, we work hard on every asset that we have to maximize our lateral lengths and minimize our cost of development and the capital necessary to access the resource the best that we know how.

All right, thank you guys.

The next question is from Gabe Daoud of JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Hello, Gabe of JPMorgan, your line is open.

The next question is from Jeb Bachmann of Scotia Howard Weil. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Joe, just a question for you on the IRRs, are those fully loaded IRR's or they are just at the well?

They are all well head economics, Jeb.

If you would have full load those, what would those look like?

Sorry, I have to discuss what kind of frame you want to run that on in terms of G& A or overall corporate cost [indiscernible] (35:24) beyond that?

Yes. So just mostly with back infrastructure that kind of stuff associated with the....

With infrastructure, we do per well we spend about $150,000 to $200,000 per well, but outside that we've spent a lot on infrastructure already, we are in program development for three years, so there's a not a lot of incremental infrastructure going into to support those well economics certainly for the fields outside of CaBo. We are spending a little bit more to upgrade the infrastructure we bought with tha5 acquisition for horizontal development but overall our infrastructure spend on the assets that are shown there is going to be pretty limited, Gary, you want to address that any different?

No, again, it's just really getting hooked up to our existing facilities so it would be little limited for now. CaBo, as we drill out those sections, we will upgrade the facilities that are there because the facilities there are just meant for the vertical development, that's already existing, so we will have to expand that as we go, but that will be measured over time.

Okay and I guess just to follow on that, Gary, with the cost reductions, you guys have a breakout between efficiencies and just the service vendors bringing down cost in this environment?

No, again, efficiencies are coming little by little, little chunks. I mean, our team is focused on every aspect of the well from drilling it to moving rigs to efficiently setting up the site to minimizing the length of time necessary to get it fracture stimulated, so there is – those are just little small parts that we know we were gaining on over time. Drill curves are slightly moving to the left on depth versus days curves, so I don't know the breakdown of that in comparison to what we actually achieved on service providers.

Most of it is service providers have stepped up big time for us. As you know early time the drilling rigs came down, the frac services came down. There is tremendous competition in the basin now especially around frac services, pumping services. We are getting calls on a weekly basis from vendors saying they've built tremendous capacity and they want to put it to work, so there is still opportunity in every aspect of what we do to construct and complete and produce a well that is allowing us to anticipate and drive for additional cost reductions over what we've already achieved.

Okay. And then last one from me, maybe this is for Fred, on M&A and some announcement this morning, just wondering kind of if you guys are still in that market in this size, I guess, the size of deal you guys will be comfortable with it at this point?

Yes, Jeb, the answer is, yes, we certainly are – we are in the market, but same time we certainly not competing in that size range as we've talked before. I think part of the reason we did additional equity here earlier this year is to provide some additional capital to be opportunistic with acquisitions during the year. As you know, I mean, we're focused we think in the kind of core or the Midland Basin, so we recognize things we are not going to achieve but we continue to think we get – there are opportunities out there that are smaller but we think we'll be successful that we are continuing to add to our acreage position sort of with the bolt-on acquisitions that we've talked about.

Great, I appreciate it, guys.

Thanks, Jeb. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi Ron.

A couple of questions left, when you look at the increased proportion of Lower Spraberry, Gary, did you say in terms of gross wells that that well count on Spraberry this year is going from 5 to 14?

Yes, sir I did. And we, when we started seeing those results on our wells up in the central part of the basin, we got a well at Pecan Acreage, we got a well at Casselman and Bohannon, we've now got two wells there at Carpe Diem given our own well and the non-operated well. And so we're very excited about those results, we're seeing it and we're seeing the steady nature of how those wells are performing.

And so what we have heard and what we now see in the Lower Spraberry is real and we're quickly adjusting our planned Wolfcamp B wells to Lower Spraberry wells in those same fields. So, that was a very easy adjustment for us, because we already had planned pads, we already had planned wells, we'd already worked out facility plans that were already in our scope, so if we just can just drill little bit shallower this year and get significantly better performance that's what we're doing.

And so, and maybe I can get this from Joe offline, the five gross, the 9.1 net is up from how many net wells and then when you look at 2016 at least preliminarily you show 15.6 net wells out of your 21.8 being Lower Spraberry, so almost three quarters, similar questions on gross to net there.

Yes, from our original plan, Ron if that's the question, I think we had three net Lower Spraberry wells.

Okay great.

In the play. And now we're going to nine.

To nine. And then when I look at 2016 you have three quarters of your wells at least in your preliminary plan here being towards the Lower Spraberry. Is your average working interest relatively constant 2015 to 2016?

The answer would be yes, for the wells that are targeted this year and next year because most of those wells are targeted in our Central Midland area. We'll have both rigs operating out there in the Lower Spraberry, so it's comparable.

It will be little bit lower in 2016, Ron, just because the first quarter of this year with the activity in Southern Basin directionally we're going to have a higher working interest there versus the 2016 plan we will have probably a little bit more Central Basin activity which is a lower working interest.

Yes my reference was just to the Lower Spraberry.

Lower Spraberry would be comparable.

Yes, yes.

Okay and then when I look at your Lower Spraberry at least as of last update you had about 170, 175 Lower Spraberry wells in inventory given the results you've had and increased industry activity to that zone, any opportunity for more of your acreage to have Lower Spraberry or are you still comfortable with that inventory count?

All right, again we've been paying attention to what certainly [indiscernible] (43:04) has been saying about that zone. We've got eight wells per section in our inventory and so it's when you get to those numbers, we got about 120 locations in the Central and closer to 40 or 50 locations in the Southern. We're very focused on the Central this time until we see more data and get more encouraged with the well that we just brought on at Bloxom, so, yes, that inventory count could go up based on down spacing. We've got companies out there talking about 10, 12 wells per section. We're not quite there yet, but it could go up.

That 10 wells to 12 wells compares to eight for you?

That's correct.

And then Joe, on the 10% growth in terms of – I'm assuming that's fourth quarter to fourth quarter 2016 versus 2015, is that assuming that two-rig program, does that mean that you're thinking about a CapEx run rate of $30 million to $35 million throughout 2016 as well?

That's correct, Ron.

And just one clarification for Gary. On Page 11 where you have your EUR ranges, what's the difference between the yellow portion of the curves and the red portion? Because I'm just curious what the delta is. It looks like you've had some recent wells there in terms of normalized EURs over 1.2 million barrels, 1.3 million barrels. What's going on in – what's causing that wide range?

The wide range is clearly, what that did represent is the real range of wells that we've delivered from the lower part to the best part and then the range of course is driven by small data set, it's just a few number of wells, so it's a fairly wide range. As we get more data, we would expect it as – at least I expect that the average will go up and we'll be moving closer towards the upper side. But I can't narrow that range yet until I get a bigger data set.

Yes, Ron the colors are just, the top end just being high bottom being low and the midpoint so we just – there is no meaning to the colors other than showing you the top end of the range...

The range versus the average?

Yes.

Perfect, I'll let someone else jump. Thanks.

The next question is from Mo Dahhane of Northland Securities. Please go ahead.

Yes, morning. Congrats on a good quarter and impressive EUR uplift. Just a quick question, just curious did you guys had any plans to test the Middle Spraberry in the Central Midland and maybe sometimes in 2016?

It's not in our plans yet, but we can always squeeze a well in. We sometimes think about that as we start seeing more and more data from our offset operator's RSPs done most of the work in the Middle Spraberry. They're pretty excited about it, I think a fourth of their activity level has been in the Middle Spraberry. And so we'll keep looking at that data, but at the present time. It's an exciting part of our inventory.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no other questions at this time. The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.