corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Callon Petroleum First Quarter 2010 Results Conference Call. During


the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will come back to


question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded Friday, May 7, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer. Please go ahead, sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for taking time to call in to our 2010 First quarter Results Conference


Call. Before we begin this morning the formal portion of our presentation I’d like to ask Terry


Trovato who heads our investor relations to make his comments.


Terry Trovato, Investor Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements.


It should be pointed out that as of January 1, 2010, the SEC changed its rules to permit oil and gas


companies in their filings with them, to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable


reserves and possible reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas


which by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty


to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs and from under end


existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at


which contracts provide the right to operate expire.


Probable reserves include those additional reserves that the company believes are as likely as not


to be recovered. And possible reserves include those additional reserves that are lesser to be


recovered then probable reserves.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2010 cash flow, which is considered non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our first quarter 2010 result news release, and can be referenced there on our Web site at


www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. And, again, we appreciate you taking time to call in. Callon entered 2010 with


both renewed excitement and the capital necessary to continue to execute the company’s new


strategic vision, looking to emphasize long-term growth through the acquisition and development of


lower risk, high impact onshore assets and funding the development of these assets with the stable


cash flow from our deepwater Gulf Mexico properties. With no debt maturities for 6 years and good


liquidity we are well positioned to fund our 2010 Permian Wolfberry development drilling program


and our North Louisiana Haynesville shale program as well as continue to look for new acquisition


opportunities.
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I’d like to begin this morning by asking Steve Hinchman, our Chief Operating Officer, to discuss our


operations including our increased drilling activity, the development status of our Permian Basin


assets and the Haynesville shale play and review our operations for the first quarter of 2010. Bob


Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will then review our financial results for the same period


including a discussion of first quarter highlights related to our further improved balance sheet and


liquidity positions. Steve?


Steven B. Hinchman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Fred, and good morning. I’ll begin with a brief operations review for the first quarter


2010. As always, I’ll begin with safety. Year to date Callon has not incurred any recordable safety


instances. We’re committed to a strong safety culture and I believe that good safety performance


translates to a strong operating performance.


In mid-February Callon began its Wolfberry development program in the Permian Basin. We


required our Permian Basin properties in October of 2009 and have a drilling inventory of over 300


wells. We have drilled 4 wells and are currently drilling the 5th. Our last well was drilled in 14 days


and we expect that will take on average 12 to 15 days to drill and set the production casing. We


have completed and fracture stimulated three wells using 6 to 8 stages. Each stage is completed


using limited entry perforating, which assures that a fracture is initiated and placed in the desired


intervals. Our fracture modeling and tracer analysis confirm that we are executing effective fracture


placement and getting good vertical coverage. In fact, our flow back rates have been twice as high


as existing offset wells indicating improved productivity.


The three wells which have been completed are continuing to clean up. You typically begin to see


oil cut after you’ve recovered about 30% of the fluid pump in the stimulation, and oil rate continues


to increase for a month or two. Our first well was placed on production in mid-March and is


currently producing 120 barrels of oil per day and 100 Mcf per day of gas, while still continuing to


clean up. This has exceeded our initial expectation of peaking at around 100 barrels of oil per day,


three months after its hookup. Our total well cost are coming in between 1.3 and $1.5 million in line


with our expectation. Although it is still early in the program, our initial results are certainly


encouraging and overall we’re executing well.


Turning our attention to the Haynesville shale, in 2009 we acquired a 70% working interest and


operator share in a Haynesville shale gas unit located just south of the Elm Grove field in Bossier


Parish, Louisiana. This unit is surrounded by 20 million a day initial rate wells, with an expected


recovery of 7.5 Bcf per well. We have contracted a drilling rig, which has been drilling Haynesville


shale horizontal wells and is currently completing in lateral section. After it completes this well it will


be available to Callon. We are building our drilling pad and will be ready to receive the rig in 3


weeks. We have all the necessary contracts, permits and most importantly the personnel to


execute on this well.


Callon’s Gulf of Mexico operations have not and we do not expect that they will be impacted in any


way by the release of oil from Mississippi Canyon 252. Medusa and Mobile Bay 864 are the only 2


facilities even close to the release. Medusa is over 70 miles south and west of the release and


current NOA projections do not place any oil in this area. We’re in contact with the operator who


also expects no impact. Mobile 864 is 100 miles north of the release and current NOA projections


do not place any oil in this area at least over the next 72 hours. Callon operates this facility and if


the slick would move into the vicinity we would closely monitor for VOCs and shut in only if


necessary.


We have been in contact with operators in the Main Pass area, which have had oil move through


and there have been minimal vapors measured and it did not impact their operations. Of course we