corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Callon Petroleum


Third Quarter 2010 Results Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a


listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, November 16, 2010.


It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Fred Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer with Callon Petroleum Company. Please go ahead sir.


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Thank you for taking time to call into our 2010 third quarter results conference call.


Before we begin, the formal portion of our presentation this morning, I’d like to ask Terry Trovato,


who heads our Investor Relations to make a few comments.


Terry Trovato, Manager, Public Relations


Thank you, Fred. We’d like to remind everyone that some of the comments made during this call


will be considered forward-looking statements. As such, no assurances can be given that these


events will occur or that the projections will be attained. Please refer to the cautionary language


included in our news release and in the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise such forward-looking statements.


It should be pointed out that as of January 1, 2010, the SEC changed its rules to permit oil and gas


companies in their filings with them, to disclose not only proved reserves, but also probable


reserves and possible reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas


which by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty


to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing


economic conditions. These reserves are produced using operated methods and government


regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire. Probable


reserves include those additional reserves that the company believes are as likely as not to be


recovered, and possible reserves include those additional reserves that are less certain to be


recovered than probable reserves.


Finally, today we will be discussing 2010 cash flow, which is considered a non-GAAP financial


measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were


stated in our third quarter 2010 results news release, and can be referenced there on our website


at www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?


Fred L. Callon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Terry. In the third quarter, Callon continued to demonstrate success in executing the


company’s strategic growth plan, which is designed to build long-term visible growth potential by


reinvesting our stable cash flow generated from our deepwater offshore fields into low risk onshore


oil and shale gas assets.


Some of the highlights from the third quarter, production from onshore plays at this time last year


was zero and at the end of the third quarter, we were producing approximately 500 barrels of oil


equivalent per day net to Callon from the Permian Basin. In addition, we had no shale gas


production this time last year and by the end of third quarter, our first Haynesville well was
corrected transcript


Callon Petroleum Co.
 
CPE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


connected to sales and producing approximately 10.5 million cubic feet of natural gas a day on a


restricted flow rate.


Year-to-date, we’ve drilled 15 wells in the Wolfberry oil play of the Permian Basin at a 100%


success rate, nine of which were producing as of September 30, and as a result of our successful


drilling program, we’ve converted approximately 4.4 million barrels of oil equivalent from probable


to proved reserve category, which increased our reserves by 34% from year-end to 13 million


barrels of oil equivalent at September 30, 2010, growing shareholder value with additional visible


growth potential remaining.


Our balance sheet is strong and so is our liquidity, with the company having no debt maturities until


2016 and no borrowings under its expanded credit facility that Bob will discuss in more detail later.


As a result, we’re well positioned to continue funding our 2010 drilling program with internally


generated cash flow as well as look for additional acquisition opportunities in our core onshore


areas of operation.


I’d like to ask Gary Newberry, our Senior Vice President of Operations to discuss the development


status of our Permian Basin assets, the Haynesville Shale play and review our operations. As many


of you may remember from the operations update we issued in late September, Gary was


promoted to Senior Vice President of Operations following Steve Hinchman’s departure to become


Chief Executive Officer of another E&P company.


Gary joined Callon earlier this year and brings with him 33 years of industry experience working for


Marathon Oil, where he held management positions over production and drilling operations in the


mid-continent, Rockies, Alaska and the Permian Basin, including the role of worldwide operations


manager.


Following Gary’s operations update, Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer will review our


financial results for the same period. Gary.


Gary A. Newberry, Senior Vice President, Operations


Thank you, Fred, and good morning to everybody. I’m pleased to be participating in this call for the


first time since joining Callon on April the 1st. I’m excited about the strategy to develop a portfolio


that would be reasonably balanced between oil and gas, and diversify the portfolio by repositioning


Callon from offshore to onshore. Our current line of sight resource base provides the opportunity to


profitably grow Callon’s production and create shareholder value.


Beginning with third quarter operating highlights, we successfully completed our Haynesville Shale


well in late August with first production on September 3. The well has been produced under


drawdown control with restricted flow rates to maximize recovery. The well flowed at a maximum


rate of 11.6 million cubic feet per day during initial cleanup and was further restricted to 10.5 million


cubic feet per day after we released the flow back equipment and turned the well into our own


production facilities.


The production declined to 9 million cubic feet per day at a flowing casing pressure of 5,500 pounds


prior to shutting the well in to run production tubing. The well has been returned to production and


is currently producing at a restricted rate of 9.6 million cubic feet per day with 4,850 PSI tubing


pressure on a 22/64-inch choke. We will produce over 900,000 Mcf of gas prior to year-end.


I’m very pleased with the overall performance of our shale team in delivering first production from


this asset within one year of acquisition of our Haynesville lease. This clearly demonstrates Callon’s


ability to fully execute on our stated strategy.