Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Fred L. Callon — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Callon Petroleum Co.
Terry Trovato — Manager-Public Relations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Gary A. Newberry — Senior Vice President-Operations, Callon Petroleum Co.
Bobby F. Weatherly — Chief Financial Officer, Director & Executive VP, Callon Petroleum Co.
Donald P. Crist — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Joseph E. Bachmann — Analyst, Howard Weil, Inc.
Neal Dingmann — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Bill C. Harrison — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Callon Petroleum Third Quarter 2011 Results and Operations Conference Call. During today's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. And afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Thursday, November 3, 2011.

And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Fred Callon, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead, Mr. Callon.

Thank you, and good morning. We appreciate you taking time to call into our third quarter results conference call. Before we begin the formal portion of the presentation, I'd like to ask Terry Trovato who heads our Investor Relations to make a few comments.

Thank you, Fred. We'd like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements, which may include statements regarding our reserves, as well as statements including the words believe, expect, plan, and words of similar meaning. These projections and statements reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. Some of these factors are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K available on our website or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

We may also discuss the non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10 value. We believe PV-10 value to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties because it excludes income taxes, which may vary materially among companies. PV-10 is not, however, a substitute for standardized measure.

Finally, today, we will be discussing cash flow for the third quarter and first nine months of 2011, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Reconciliation and calculation schedules for the non-GAAP financial measure were stated in our third quarter 2011 results news release and can be referenced there on our website at www.callon.com for subsequent review. Fred?

Thank you, Terry. We're excited to report to you today that Callon's third quarter results continued to demonstrate our success in executing the company's strategic growth plan, reinvesting our cash flow generated from our deepwater, offshore fields in the Gulf of Mexico into our low-risk onshore Wolfberry oil play in the Permian Basin. Like to highlight a few of the key accomplishments during the first quarter. Oil production increased 29% during the third quarter compared to the same quarter in 2010, primarily as a result of the progress we've made increasing our onshore production in the Permian Basin and as a result of the successful second quarter recomplete at our Medusa A6 well, which Gary will discuss later.

In addition to this production growth, favorable pricing contributed to an increase in oil revenues of 75% or $11.4 million to $26.5 million for the quarter as compared to last year. Gas revenues of $7 million for the three months ended September 30 increased 31% or $1.6 million compared to gas revenues of $5.4 million for the same period in 2010, due to both a 16% growth in production and a 13% increase in average realized sales price.

Our balance sheet remained strong with $93 million of liquidity, including $48 million of cash on hand and a fully available $45 million borrowing base under our credit facility with Regions Bank. With this liquidity and our strong cash flows from operations including our legacy deepwater properties, we remain well positioned to fund the continued development of our Permian Basin properties and to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities in our core areas.

I'd like to ask Gary Newberry, our Senior Vice President of Operations, to discuss our operations including ongoing development of our own Permian Basin assets. Following Gary's remarks, Bob Weatherly, our Chief Financial Officer, will review our financial results for the same period. Gary?

Thank you, Fred, and good morning. I will begin with a recap of our activities in the Gulf of Mexico. The Medusa A6 well produced approximately 5,000 gross barrels oil per day and 7,000 Mcf per day from the date of the recompletion in late March through the month of August. In September, the well precipitously declined to approximately 2,800 gross barrels oil per day and 3,000 Mcf per day. We believe that the mechanical plug which isolated the lower T4-C zone unset, and is acting as a downhole choke, partially restricting flow from the T4-B zone. The well seems to have stabilized at the current rate, so we plan to continue to produce the well and monitor performance as we work with the operator of Medusa to identify options to enter the well to reset the downhole plug.

During the third quarter, our deepwater assets, Medusa and Habanero, experienced downtime related to tropical storm Lee, resulting in deferred production of approximately 13,000 net barrels oil equivalent.

In addition to the downtime associated with tropical storm Lee, production from Medusa was restricted due to out-of-spec pipeline quality gas in the Medusa pipeline system. The out-of-spec condition was caused by operations from a facility delivering gas into the Medusa pipeline system downstream of the Medusa facility. The production rate from Medusa was restricted until the out-of-spec condition was cleared from the Medusa pipeline system, resulting in deferred production of approximately 12,000 net barrels oil equivalent. Without these two events, our third quarter production would have been near the midpoint of our guidance for the quarter.

The deepwater assets continued to deliver strong cash flow to Callon with Medusa and Habanero currently producing approximately 1,700 net barrels oil equivalent per day and 550 net barrels oil equivalent per day, respectively. The Gulf of Mexico shelf is producing 10.3 million cubic feet per day net.

Turning to the Permian, through September 30th we've drilled 25 wells and fracture-stimulated 29 wells. Total production from the Permian has increased from 550 net barrels oil equivalent per day at the beginning of the year to the current rate of 1,300 net barrels oil equivalent per day. Updating results from Permian wells drilled deeper to assess potential from the Atoka and Strawn formations, production from the Atoka completion declined to a point that we are no longer drilling through the Atoka formation. We are encouraged with the early results from the Strawn, and most new completions now include a fracture-stimulation in the Strawn.

We continue to experience increasing cost pressures in the Permian Basin due to increased activity. We have changed out and upgraded our drilling rigs and have moved from doubles to triples to improve overall efficiency. We are beginning to see positive indications of improved cycle time with upgraded rigs and improved crew continuity. Our average well costs are $2.2 million for a Wolfberry well.

This week, we spud our first well in our recently acquired Pecan Acres field in Midland County. This area has estimated EURs of 150,000 barrels oil equivalent. We look forward to sharing the results of these wells in the second quarter 2012.

We currently operate three drilling rigs in the Permian Basin and are drilling on average four wells per month. We are targeting 36 total drilled wells and 40 fracture stimulations for 2011.

Now turning to our quarterly comparison, our net production averaged 5,261 barrels oil equivalent per day in the third quarter of 2011 comprised of 1.3 Bcf of natural gas and 270,000 barrels of oil, which was approximately 2.5% short of our third quarter guidance of 5,400 to 5,800 barrels oil equivalent per day, due primarily to the deferred production associated with Tropical Storm Lee and the restricted production from Medusa due to the out-of-spec gas in the Medusa pipeline system as mentioned previously.

Production in second quarter of 2011 averaged 5,564 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 1.4 Bcf of natural gas and 274,000 barrels of oil. The negative variance in the third quarter 2011 is due to the deferred production from the Gulf of Mexico deepwater assets. Production in the third quarter of 2010 was 4,274 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 1.1 Bcf of gas and 209,000 barrels of oil. The increase in 2011 production was due to our planned growth in the Permian, the Medusa A6 recompletion and the restart of production from East Cam 2.

Production during the first nine months of 2011 averaged 5,182 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 4 Bcf of natural gas and 746,000 barrels of oil. This compares to the first nine months of 2010, which averaged 4,417 barrels oil equivalent per day comprised of 3.4 Bcf of natural gas and 646,000 barrels of oil. The positive variance in 2011 is again due to the growth in the Permian, the Medusa A6 recompletion and the restart of production from East Cam 2.

On the expense side, LOE, including severance taxes, for the third quarter of 2011 was $6 million or $12.35 per Boe. LOE for the second quarter of 2011 was $5.3 million or $10.47 per Boe. The higher expense in the third quarter 2011 is the result of added wells in the Permian Basin and the increased workover and maintenance cost on the Gulf of Mexico shelf assets. LOE for the third quarter 2010 was $4.3 million or $11 per Boe. The higher expense in the third quarter of 2011 was the result of added wells in the Permian and restart of production at East Cam 2.

LOE, including severance taxes, for the first nine months of 2011 was $16.3 million or $11.54 per BOE. This compares to the first nine months of 2010 of $13 million or $10.79 per BOE. The higher expense in the first nine months of 2011 is attributed to added wells in the Permian and Haynesville, increased maintenance cost for the Medusa Spar facility, increased processing fees at Medusa associated with increased production and the restart of production at East Cam 2.

Now, turning to our 2011 guidance; our estimate of full-year production from our current properties is expected to range between 5,100 and 5,400 net barrels oil equivalent per day, with oil comprising approximately 55% of full-year production. Our estimate for LOE is expected to range between $21 million to $23 million for the full year.

I will now turn the call over to Bob Weatherly, our Executive Vice President and CFO.

Thank you, Gary. Before I review our third quarter 2011 results of operations and provide guidance for the full year, I'd like to mention a couple of points. As Fred noted earlier, as of September 30, our cash on hand of approximately $48 million combined with the company's $45 million borrowing base under its secured credit facility with Regions Bank provides us total liquidity of approximately $93 million This strong liquidity position gives us meaningful flexibility as we continue our expansion and development of our Permian Basin assets. Of course our cash on hand benefit from the successful public offering of common shares earlier this year.

This offering of 10.1 million shares of common stock raised a net $73.8 million of new capital. This allowed us to redeem $31 million principal amount of our 2016 notes and reduces our full-year cash basis interest expense by over $4 million. Principal outstanding of our long-term debt is now $107 million and is not due until September 2016.

The remaining equity offering proceeds, combined with our cash flow from operations, will be used primarily to fund our remaining 2011 CapEx budget and a portion of our 2012 CapEx budget as we continue to develop our onshore Permian assets.

In summary, we believe we have the financial resources, liquidity, prospective assets and technical team to continue to pursue our business strategy of reinvesting the significant cash flow generated from our Gulf of Mexico properties into lower risk, longer life, onshore assets in a key oil basin.

As Gary discussed earlier, we are making profits in expanding the development of our Permian Basin assets. Our investment in these assets represents approximately 80% of our total 2011 capital expenditures budget.

Our current year CapEx budget plans for up to 36 Permian oil wells, 32 wells net, the remaining 20% of our $107 million capital expenditure budget includes funding for leasehold acquisitions, asset retirement, maintenance of our legacy Gulf of Mexico properties and capitalized interest and G&A under full-cost accounting rules.

Now, let me discuss third quarter results of operations as we reported in our earnings release. For the quarter ended September 30, 2011, oil and gas revenue totaled approximately $33.6 million with net income of $8.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share. This compares to the third quarter 2010 revenue, net income and diluted earnings per share of $20.5 million, $1.6 million and $0.05 respectively.

The realized average price per barrel of oil received during the third quarter of 2011 increased 36% to $98.27 compared to $72.47 for the same period of 2010. Our pricing contributed approximately 60% of the $13.1 million increase in period-over-period revenue with higher production contributing the remaining 40%.

Crude prices for production from our two deep water fields are adjusted based upon Mars/WTI differential for Medusa production and [ph] Argus Bonita/ (17:27) WTI differential for Habanero production. Both of these differentials were higher in the second and third quarters of 2011 than in the first quarter of 2011 and the third quarter of 2010.

Similarly, the average price per 1,000 cubic feet of natural gas realized during the third quarter of 2011 increased 13% to $5.46 compared to $4.84 for the same period 2010. Combined, and on a BOE basis, the average price realized increased 33% over period to period.

Other highlights for the period are as follows: Our third quarter 2011 results include the net receipt of approximately $92,000 from our hedging counterparty as NYMEX pricing fell largely within the price range of our established collars. Based on NYMEX pricing at September 30, 2011, we have recorded a net hedge-related asset of approximately $10.8 million related to future production that is hedged. For the remainder of 2011, we have approximately 45% of our estimated oil production hedged with a weighted average ceiling and floor of approximately $107.60 and $81.25 respectively.

Additionally, we have hedged approximately 55% of our 2012 oil production with a weighted average ceiling and floor of approximately $123.50 and $92.50 respectively. Presently, we have no natural gas hedges in place for either 2011 or 2012. We continue to monitor available hedging positions, and as has been our practice in the past, we have a target of hedging approximately 50% to 60% of our anticipated proven production.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization, or DD&A, was $13 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $7.4 million in the third quarter 2010. As we began developing our onshore properties and in line with our expectations, per-unit DD&A rate has begun to normalize itself and increase in comparison to prior-period DD&A rates, which were effectively reduced by the impact of a $486 million 2008 impairment charge following the annual ceiling test. This significant impairment charge resulted in a lower prospected DD&A rate for the then existing reserves. Also contributing to the current rate increase, as previously discussed that our Permian Basin asset has continued to experience cost pressures.

Regarding G&A expense, which you may recall declined by 17% last quarter as compared to the second quarter of 2010 due to lower personnel-related and legal costs. For the third quarter 2011, G&A expense remained relatively flat at approximately $3.4 million compared to the third quarter 2010.

Interest expense also fell 13% period-over-period to $2.7 million compared to $3.1 million in the third quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of reduced debt principal outstanding following the previously discussed $31 million redemption of our 13% senior notes during the first quarter of 2011. Please review our earnings release for further results of operations details for the third quarter of 2011.

Now I'll take a minute to discuss guidance for the full-year 2011. Gary has already covered production and LOE, so I'll cover the remaining categories. As previously discussed, we have in place hedges for approximately 45% of our crude production for 2011. We do not yet have any hedges in place for anticipated natural gas production. Please refer to our press release for more detail.

We are projecting general and administrative expenses to be in a range of $15.2 million to $16.7 million for the full year. Interest expense is forecast to be approximately $11 million to $12 million for the full year. Amortization of the deferred credit, which is recorded as a reduction of interest expense, is expected to be approximately $3.2 million for the full-year 2011.

We are projecting the full-year DD&A rate to fall within the range of $24.50 to $27 per Boe. Please refer to our guidance press release which provides additional details regarding guidance for the full-year 2011.

Now I'll turn the call back over to Fred for any final comments he may have.

Thank you, Bob. With that, I think we'll open the call to questions.

Absolutely, thank you. [Operator Instructions] . And we have our first question from the line of Don Chris with Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. How are you?

Good morning.

Hi, Don.

Starting with the Gulf, the Medusa well, the packer that came loose or whatever, is there a schedule for actually going in there and cleaning that up? And is that just acting as a choke? I mean it's not really – it's curtailing production, but it's not really a problem as in well damage or anything like that?

Yeah, Don, this is Gary Newberry. But we're in conversations with Murphy, who is the operator of Medusa, talking about some low-risk ways to go in and repair that well. We're pretty confident the plug just came loose. And it is acting as a choke, a downhole choke. We don't believe there's any risk to the well, any risk to the reserves. And, but the good thing is, it seems like it's stabilized, seems like it's still a very good well right now. So, we're saying do we risk it, do we don't? But we're working on some plans to actually see what we can do to repair it. But we don't have a schedule set right now. We don't have agreement amongst the parties to go in and fix it yet, but we're just continuing to monitor it.

Okay. And moving over to the Permian, can you talk about the Strawn and what you're seeing there? I know you've gone away from the Atoka on your new wells now, but can you talk about the Strawn and what kind of uplift and what you're seeing there? And is that going to ultimately affect your EURs going forward?

Yeah. Don, the Strawn well that we have completed by itself, because we had one of our fracture stimulations just in the Strawn so we could assess that zone by itself, actually IP'd about 15 barrels oil equivalent per day, declined to 10 and held in there. So, it's still producing 10 barrels a day. So, we're confident that that would probably add over the life of the well around up to 10,000 gross barrels oil equivalent EUR. But at the end of the day, we'd like to have more time. We'd like to see at least some uplift to our other wells that we're completing the Strawn in, before we actually upgrade our overall EUR outlook for our assets.

Okay. And can you just remind me how much of your acreage position out there you think is prospective for the Strawn as well as the other formations?

Yeah. All of Carpe Diem, which is four contiguous sections and all of Bloxom, which is six contiguous sections. It's not prospective at Kayleigh, which is only one section. And we believe it will be present at Pecan Acres.

Okay. So, 90 plus percent give or take?

Yes sir.

80% to 90%? Okay. And one for Bob real quick, on the LLS differential right now in the Gulf of Mexico, looking forward, are you going to hedge any of your production towards Brent like a lot of other companies are doing, or is this hedge just a regular WTI hedge that you put in place?

Yeah, it's a regular WTI hedge. We're considering looking at additional hedges, but we've executed nothing so far.

Okay. And then one for Fred, can you talk just broadly about the acquisition market? I know you've picked up a couple 320 acres in Pecan Acres. What does the overall market look like right now out there?

Yeah, a couple of comments at the risk of sounding like a broken record from last call. We are continuing to be very active evaluating both some of the producing property packages that come through as well as continue to look for some acreage opportunities. I mean as far as the overall market, I mean clearly, opportunities to lease acreage in the primary areas of the Wolfberry is certainly, for the most part, leased up. As you point out, we have had some success in some smaller blocks where we've been able to pick up a section here and there. I think we'll continue to be able to do that.

Those are sort of one-off opportunities, but if we can get several of those done, it certainly can be material to us, like Pecan Acres which is also in a very good area. We continue to look for those opportunities. There are a smaller number of, if you will, hold-outs in terms of acreage out in the Permian Wolfberry that we continue to focus on, with hopes of being able to build, pick up a more significant block of acreage. And until there are some of those, in addition obviously, with the horizontal activity going on out in the Permian and in the Midland Basin, and in the Wolfcamp. I think, present some additional opportunities, if you will, to perhaps put together some acreage that is prospective for the horizontal Wolfcamp.

Okay, thanks. I'll turn it back.

Our next question is from the line of Jeb Bachmann with Howard Weil. Please go ahead, Mr. Bachmann.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Just to add a few questions. First, looking at the exit rate for this year, what kind of number are you guys thinking about at this point in time?

I don't think I have that number in my head. But it's – do you remember?

I think we are 30 now, and obviously will continue to drill and complete.

Is it exit rate for the whole company or for the Permian, Jeb?

For the whole company, sorry.

Yeah, – our current capacity is around 5400 gross – 5400 net barrels oil equivalent per day, so we'll be around that rate. That's an exit rate for the company. That's just not a number I had in my head, but sorry about that.

No, no, just in terms of product mix, I'm assuming that you guys are getting oilier as you drill up the Permian, although, I guess, with that Medusa well coming in a little bit, is that affecting that mix?

Well, the Medusa well was pretty oily of course, but we're projecting that we'll be 55% to 60% oil, certainly, in our current mix and going forward into 2012.

Okay. And just sticking with Medusa, would the BOE consider that a safety issue with the plug or do you guys – and force you guys to kind of recomplete that well or fix that issue or is it something that you don't think you'll have a problem with the BOE on?

We don't anticipate a problem with the BOE. It's not a safety issue in itself. And what we like to do though is get good isolation from a zone that's been relatively depleted before we opened up an upper zone. But that zone by itself, it would be probably more risk to reserves and to the well to go in and do a significant workover on the well today. At the request of the BOEs and the [indiscernible] (31:52) continue to produce as is. So, I don't anticipate a risk at all associated with having to shut that in and do anything from a BOE perspective because it's just not a safety issue.

Okay. And then switching to the Permian, on the well completions per month, have you guys hit the targeted 5, are you still on the four range at this point?

We did four – on average, four per month in the third quarter. We did a total of 12 with – we are disappointed I think with August because we only had three, but we got 5 in September. We're significantly disappointed again in October. What happened in October was our client rep from Halliburton got moved to a – got promoted, actually, to a higher level job. And our new client rep really didn't get in and fight for us for frac dates, and in October, we only did two. We have scheduled, we have firm schedules for the month of November of 5. So, I think it's going to us a while, just to be honest, to get this thing leveled out at where we want to be to catch up on our current inventory of eight wells waiting on completion. But it will be four to five wells a month over the next several months, just trying to get that whole relationship leveled out over the next several months.

Okay. And then in terms of the well costs, you had mentioned the $2.2 million, and just wondering if that includes drilling to the Strawn formation.

It does. I think I told you when we went to the Strawn, we were going down an additional 500 feet. And since we 'e stopped – when we went to the Atoka, we were going down an additional 500 feet. We've now cut that in half. So, we've cut a little bit of cost off, but the $2.2 billion does include the Strawn completion, the additional completion as well as the additional 250 feet we've got to drill to get through the Strawn.

Okay. And are you guys telling people how much that additional cost is related to a regular Wolfberry well?

It's about $150,000.

Okay. And last one from me, just trying to get a total acreage position in the Permian as of today?

I think we're right around 9,300 net acres which includes all our Permian position, legacy position as well as, I think, it was 480 net acres in the Pecan Acres that we got with the new acquisition, about 9,300 net acres.

All right, great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Neal Dingmann with SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Good morning, fellows.

Good morning, Neal.

Gary, what did you say on the Pecan and the Midland Basin? What sort of the plans that – you drilled the one, and how many wells will you likely drill next year or how many rigs will you run on that area?

Yeah, we just started the Pecan Acres this week. Just moved the rig to it. And so we're actually drilling on our first well. We have plans to drill up to 10 back-to-back wells in that area throughout those two contiguous sections, and then we'll likely move back to Bloxom, but right now, we'll drill 10 wells in a row.

Okay. And any – I would assume not – but any takeaway issues there or as you the ramp up the rest of your Perm?

No, I don't think so. We've been told we've got plenty of capacity to move our product out of the basin, and we got pipeline systems right next to Pecan Acres. In fact, they go right across the northern part of the lease. We've already worked with the pipeline company for a hook up to that line. So I don't see any takeaway issues.

Okay. And last question maybe for Fred or Bob, just wondering, you're saying sort of now that oil is back up on hedges and then I know you haven't put out the budget for next year, but just wondering on spending is it likely to stay within cash flow or what's kind of the plans as you look for next year on the hedges and the capital spending?

Yeah, I think the hedges was, as Bob mentioned earlier, we continue to look at that, plus we've already got small hedges in place for 2012. And that, combined with our current cash position, hopefully will help us with our 2012 budget. But actually we've got board meeting coming up next month, and we'll be taking a look at that and coming out with a budget some time, I guess, into the year or early January.

Okay. And then lastly, you might have hit this, just on, Gary, for you, you mentioned with the HAL with the new rep, cost-wise I know you've already locked in a lot of things. As you see that play out next year, any thought? I mean is it easier now for rigs in completion or what's your thought just as you see the environment out there?

Well, I guess the sense I have is that we're getting calls now and we're having very positive discussions with other pumping services companies now saying that they'd be interested in at least having part of our business. So, I guess it seems like either they anticipate some companies slowing down because of the cost issue or they're looking to actually utilize the capacity they've already built or about to get into the basin.

So with that I'm getting a sense that perhaps cost pressures may diminish a little bit. But I guess I got to tell you, I think they'll still be there some, I just don't know to what extent. And again when we look at a drill curve, at least the rig rates or the rig activity level in and around Midland, I don't see that tipping over quite yet either. So it's difficult to say. We're seeing positive indications that perhaps there might be some softening, but difficult to say at this point.

Perfect, perfect. Thanks, guys. Great color.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Bill Harrison with Robert W. Baird. Please go ahead, Mr. Harrison.

Hi, good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Just had a question on the Medusa. I guess with the issues here in the third quarter, looking out into 2012, I know you guys were planning on Medusa Number 5 recomplete, I guess are you still planning on doing this, has there been any disruption there in terms of, I'm just thinking planning?

An update on --

Yeah, I guess any disruption this quarter, has that changed any thinking going into 2012?

It doesn't really, but just to give an update on the timing for the Number 5, Bill, we're actually going to go ahead and try to put some gas lift in the riser for that well, which will probably stabilize it at a bit higher rate. So, I think we were kind of telling you that, that well might be in the middle of the year, but that will probably push that well toward the end of the year. And depending on how good that works, we can get significantly more reserves out of the zone that it's in and a little bit higher production from it. But that Number 5 recompletion may be delayed a few months.

Okay. All right, that's all I had. Thanks, guys.

And, Mr. Callon, we have no more questions on the phone lines at the moment.

Once again, thank you for taking time to call in. And as always, if you have any questions in the meantime, do not hesitate to give any of us a call. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference call for today. We thank you all for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have a great day, everyone.