Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — President, Chief Executive Officer, COO & Director, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And thank you for standing by. Welcome to Carrols Restaurant Group Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference being recorded today, May 7, 2013.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Flanders. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone. By now, you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which can also be found on our website at www.carrols.com, under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements which may include comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

Please note that during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available in our earnings release.

I'll now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone.

I will begin today with a discussion of our first quarter results, update you on our progress with the restaurants that we acquired last May from Burger King Corporation and provide an update on Burger King's ongoing brand initiatives. Paul will then cover our financial results in more detail and discuss our full-year outlook.

For the first quarter, comparable restaurant sales for our legacy restaurants increased 1% marking the seventh consecutive quarter of positive growth. You may recall that based upon sales trends early in the year, we had expected the first quarter to be down modestly because of pressures on consumer spending and heightened competitive activity.

However, as Burger King rebalanced its value messaging in late February, sales trends quickly improved in March and our comparable restaurant sales increased 5% for the month of March, ending up 1% for the quarter.

We were generally pleased with these results given the challenging 5.9% comparison from the prior year period and the more seasonable weather in 2013. This momentum continued in April and although we faced our toughest comparison in April with a 9.8% comparable sales increase last year, we were extremely pleased to post a 0.4% comparable sales increase for the month.

Burger King continues to take a balanced marketing approach highlighting premium items that build average check while balancing the use of value promotions to drive traffic. Premium items featured in the first quarter included White Meat Chicken Nuggets and Avocado Swiss WHOPPER, Cheesy Tots and a couple of dessert products. Late in the quarter, the brand introduced new premium limited time offer products including a Chipotle Whopper, a Turkey Burger, a Bacon Cheddar Stuffed Burger and a Piña Colada Smoothie.

We also launched our new Smooth Roast Coffee blended by Seattle's Best and expanded our specialty coffee menu to include two menu items including Latte's and a variety of flavored iced or hot coffees.

As you can see, product innovation continues to be robust and it is successfully broadening customer appeal of the Burger King brand while continuing to drive average check higher.

On the value side, promotions included a buy one get one chicken sandwich offer, $1.29 Whopper Jr. promotion and a two for $5 offer for either the Whopper, the original chicken sandwich or the premium Alaskan fish sandwich. We also had a short introductory promotion of our new lattes for $1. As I said, a rebalancing of the value messaging mid-quarter including offerings that address multiple value price points was effective in driving sales and traffic, and improving sales trends in both March and April.

Turning back to our first quarter performance. Restaurant-level operating profits, which excludes G&A expense improved at our legacy restaurants with restaurant-level operating margins increasing to 11.8% or by more than 70 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2012. This improvement reflected the effect of a higher average check from Burger King's marketing initiatives, along with favorable sales mix changes, and slightly lower commodity costs.

With respect to the 277 restaurants from last year's acquisition, we continued to gain traction from our ongoing integration efforts and further improved the financial performance of these restaurants in the first quarter. As we said in the last call, we expect that our efforts to improve restaurant operations and instill Carrols' control disciplines will continue to gain momentum and be more evident in the P&L as we progress through 2013.

Although our restaurant level operating margins were negatively impacted by the acquired restaurants when compared to the first quarter of last year, we were pleased to demonstrate meaningful headway in narrowing the performance gap between the acquired legacy restaurants on several fronts.

On the top line, the gap in average weekly sales narrowed considerably in the quarter. Average sales at the acquired restaurants were 12.1% lower than the legacy restaurants in the first quarter, as we narrowed the gap on a sequential basis from 15.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012. The sales gap progressively improved throughout the quarter and by March was actually down to about 10.5%.

The gap in overall restaurant level operating margins also improved in the fourth quarter, as the difference between the legacy and the acquired restaurants narrowed about 500 basis points in total for the quarter. While some of this was due to certain integration costs included last year, we clearly saw improvement across most all expense items.

Cost of sales at the acquired restaurants were 343 basis points above the legacy restaurants in the first quarter, but sequentially this difference narrowed from the fourth quarter of 2012. It is clear that we are improving cost of sales at more rapid rates than what we indicated on the last call. However, higher vendor rebates at the legacy restaurants in the first quarter masked some of the operating progress that we made at the acquired units.

The cost of sales difference excluding vendor rebates was reduced to 260 basis points compared to the legacy restaurants in the first quarter and narrowed 162 basis points sequentially. We also lowered the gap to the legacy restaurants across most other P&L line items compared to the fourth quarter; the difference in labor cost was 110 basis points lower, the difference on rent expense was 53 points lower and the difference in other operating expense was 272 basis points lower.

While these improvements are certainly noteworthy, there remains a considerable opportunity to further improve both sales and restaurant level margins at the acquired restaurants. We have improved operations, as evidenced by all operational metrics and based upon measured customer feedback. However, there are a few markets that we expect that it will simply take more time to get former customers to come back to the brand and we continue them – as we continue demonstrating improved and consistent operations.

We have made considerable progress in staffing and training and while our management vacancy rate is now at manageable levels, we do expect some additional turnover as we continue to intently focus on improving our operational and control compliance at the acquired restaurants.

As we indicated in the last call, we are also replacing the point-of-sale software in all of the acquired restaurants in order to enhance controls and to provide us with transactional level data to enable us to better detect and manage cash and inventory losses at these restaurants. We are well into this and expect this system rollout to be complete by mid-May.

Lastly in the first quarter, we completed the remodeling of 39 restaurants with 20/20 design image, and plan to finish between 90 and 120 remodels in total this year.

So to conclude. Our legacy restaurants had a solid first quarter considering the consumer pressures that we experienced early in the year. From a brand standpoint Burger King's product innovation and balanced marketing approach continues to drive our business in the right direction as both sales and profitability have improved. And finally our acquired restaurants are gaining meaningful traction and we expect to see continued margin improvement as we move through the year.

With that I'll turn the call over to Paul to continue our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. On a consolidated basis, restaurant sales grew 82.7% to $156.1 million which included $70.4 million in sales from the acquired restaurants, compared to total sales last year of $85.5 million.

Comparable restaurant sales in our legacy restaurants increased 1% against the 5.9% increase in the first quarter last year, due to an increase in average check of 4.4% including the effective price increase of 0.8%.

The increase in average check reflects the positive impact of the Burger King marketing and product initiatives over the past year including an effective balancing of both premium and value promotions.

Average weekly sales for the acquired restaurants was $19,746, about 12% lower than our legacy restaurants of $22,475. But as, Dan highlighted, the gap between the two narrowed meaningful – meaningfully during the quarter. And while the acquired restaurants were not included in our results for the first quarter of last year, average sales at those units decreased 2.8% for the quarter on a year-over-year basis. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, was $3.3 million in the first quarter, compared to $3.8 million in the prior year, and adjusted EBITDA margin was 2.1% compared to 4.5% in the prior year. The decline in adjusted EBITDA primarily reflected our increased G&A cost to support the acquired restaurants.

I will point out that our G&A costs are essentially fixed costs and that our sales are lowest during the winter months specifically during the first quarter. We would expect to see positive year-over-year EBITDA comparisons in the upcoming quarters as sales increase on a seasonal basis.

Restaurant level operating margins, which excludes G&A expense, were 11.8% in our legacy restaurants and increased more than 70 basis points compared to the first quarter last year. Cost of sales improved 97 basis points, reflecting favorable sales mix changes, the higher average customer check, and slightly lower commodity costs.

Restaurant labor costs were also favorably leveraged by 71 basis points in the quarter. These margin improvements were offset somewhat by an increase in our investment spending and local advertising. We've provided supplemental data on restaurant level operating expenses in today's earnings release, which will enable you to analyze the differences in operating margins between the legacy and acquired restaurants.

Restaurant level operating margin at the acquired restaurants improved sequentially by 376 basis points from the fourth quarter, while the difference compared to our legacy restaurants narrowed by about 500 basis points. Dan has already provided color on this, so I would just say that we are pleased with the progress that we've demonstrated, and we expect to continue to improve the acquired restaurant operating margins moving forward.

General and administrative expenses were $9.1 million for the first quarter of 2013 and increased $2.9 million from the first quarter last year, due mostly from the additional district and regional supervision and training costs supporting the acquired restaurants.

G&A as a percentage of sales was, however, favorably leveraged by approximately 144 basis points for the quarter. I will point out that we incurred $85,000 of final legal costs related to the EEOC litigation in the first quarter this year. Last year G&A include $95,000 for the EEOC legal costs along with $411,000 of expenses related to the acquisition.

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased from $4.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 to $8.1 million this year, due primarily to the addition of the acquired restaurants and our remodeling initiatives over the past year. Interest expense increased from $915,000 in the first quarter of last year to $4.7 million due to the increase in outstanding debt from our May 2012 financing used to fund the acquisition and to raise capital for funding our restaurant remodeling plant.

The net loss from continuing operations was $5.2 million or $0.23 per diluted share compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $2.9 million or $0.13 per share in the prior-year period. The loss will point out that our effective tax rate in the first quarter reflected a tax benefit of 50.5%, which is somewhat higher than our overall rate expected for the year. The tax rate in the first quarter of 2013 reflected a benefit of $1 million related to the 2012 WOTC credits, which were all recorded in the first quarter due to the legislative delays in extending those credits.

At the end of the first quarter, our cash balances were $46.7 million including $20 million of restricted cash held as collaterals for our revolving credit facility. Total outstanding debt was $161.2 million at quarter end, essentially unchanged from the end of 2012.

Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2013 totaled $13.5 million including $10.9 million for restaurant remodeling, 39 remodels were completed in the quarter.

And finally, we provide the following updated guidance for 2013. We expect sales for the year to still be between $670 million and $700 million, including comparable sales increases for the legacy restaurants of 2% to 4%.

Commodity costs are now expected to increase 2% to 3% for the year. General administrative expenses are expected to be approximately $34 million to $36 million, including the full-year effect of field and other G&A increases for the acquisition.

We plan to close six to eight restaurants this year. One of these was closed in the first quarter. The annual effective income tax rate is now expected to be between 45% and 47%, including the carryover benefit of the 2012 WOTC credits recognized in the first quarter. And lastly, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million to $50 million for the full-year, including $30 million to $40 million for remodeling a total of 90 to 120 restaurants.

And with that, we'll now open the line for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bryan Hunt from Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good morning.

Hey Bryan.

You all have remodeled about 120 restaurants so far since the third quarter of last year. I was wondering if you could just talk about in general the performance of those restaurants and how the remodeling process has evolved?

The overall sales lift, Bryan, has been between 8% and 10%, which is the incremental sales lift, which is what we have expected. And the speed and the efficiency at which we've done these have been everything that we had hoped for from the time that we have permitted all of the restaurants that for the balance of 2013 and somewhat 2014, so the plans are done and we already have building permits, and the costs are coming in slightly below what we had estimated at around $300,000.

Right. Now, you, if I'm not mistaken, you all are supposed to attack, probably the restaurants that needed the most attention early in the process, and so the remodel numbers were in the – if I recall correctly, closer to $350,000 range per store and now you're looking at closer to $300,000 is that the proper metrics?

Yes. We had modeled $300,000, and we did a mix between restaurants in 2012 that we could do for $120,000 or $130,000, because they weren't in that bad of shape and some that cost us over $400,000. But on a go-forward basis we're running between $280,000 and $310,000 for these.

Great. And then, on your same-store sales turnaround, are there any – if you look at the day parts and the geographies, are you seeing any one dramatic – dramatically different performance in between the day parts and/or the geographies within your system?

The day parts, we're not seeing a very significant difference between the day parts. I would submit that dinner sales were a tad weaker in the first quarter probably because it was more weather related. From a geographic standpoint, for the same reasons, the Carolinas did better in the first quarter by virtue of the fact that they didn't have such favorable weather in 2012 as the Northeast had.

Okay. And, then the last two questions, if I look at your commodity inflation forecast coming down and your raised closures number going – are your closures number going up. Can you just talk about the differences between your forecast a couple months ago and where it sits today?

Yes. We've seen beef costs actually down quarter-over-quarter, in the first quarter about 2%. Although they are up a little bit from where we were in the fourth quarter, I think the outlook is that beef, should – while it's going to go up a little bit, should be pretty tame the rest of the year. We've also seen favorable pricing adjustments on chicken and our paper cost is a little lower than we anticipated.

And then in the closures?

Yes. In terms of closures, I mean, we do – we adjusted that – just up slightly, I think the two restaurants is all.

Okay. I appreciate your time. I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you. And our next question – excuse me, pardon me [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Brian Vaccaro from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I just had a question on the acquired units and you had mentioned that the – that you saw some sequential sales improvement through the quarter. I think you said, 10.5% gap to the legacy in March. Was there a similar sequential improvement in profitability at those acquired units?

Yes, the flow through on those net sales GAAP would even be greater by virtue of the fact that the cost of sales metric has also shrunk pretty dramatically.

Okay. So it's in both on the sales leverage, which I would have thought, but also the comps were a little bit better as you move through the quarter as well?

Yes.

They were quite a bit better. And then if you look at the balance of the P&Ls as we said in the statement we've actually made good improvements in most all of the other operating expenses.

Okay. Great. Great. And two that I didn't pick up during the call, my line went a little static, but on the – can you reiterate what you said about the April comp trend and also what CapEx was in the first quarter?

Yes. Comps were actually positive about $0.4 in April which we thought was pretty good considering that last year was our toughest comp at 9.8%, so we are pretty pleased with that. In terms of CapEx, total CapEx was about $13.5 million in the quarter and $10.9 million of that was for remodeling.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Bryan Hunt, a follow-up from Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.

If I go back to your statements about when you think you can get the acquired stores from a sales perspective in line with legacy stores as well as from a merchant perspective, has that guidance changed or that timeline changed in your opinion considering the progress you've made in the last quarter?

The sales GAAP, Bryan, I think we will have below 10% in the second quarter. The COGS which I previously had said we were looking at a run rate by the end of 2013, we would be at a 200 basis point GAAP to the legacy stores, I think that we will be at least one quarter ahead of that, potentially two.

Fantastic. Great progress. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And I show no questions in the queue. I'd like to turn it back to management for any closing remarks.

No. We don't have any – really additional comments. We appreciate your time today, and look forward to the next quarter, and hopefully reporting some continued progress. Thanks for your attention today.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. We appreciate your participation and you may now disconnect.