corrected transcript


Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
 
TAST
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Carrols


Restaurant Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 Results Conference Call. As a reminder, today’s call


is being recorded. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation,


we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to


queue up for questions.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Paul Flanders for opening remarks. Please go ahead.


Paul R. Flanders, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2008 conference call. By


now, everyone should have access to the announcement released this afternoon, which you may


also find on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.


Before we begin the formal remarks, I need to remind everyone that our discussion today may


include forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance


and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the


SEC for more detailed discussions of the risks that could impact our business and financial results.


On the call with me today is Alan Vituli, our Chairman and CEO and Dan Accordino, our President


and Chief Operating Officer. Alan and Dan will provide some commentary on the business. I’ll walk


through our financial results for the quarter, review our ‘09 guidance, and then we’ll address any


questions that you might have.


I’d like now to turn the call over to Alan.


Alan Vituli, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Paul and good afternoon, everyone. I’d like to begin by reviewing some highlights 2008


and our fourth quarter, specifically of 2008.


For the full year, total revenues increased 3.4% to 816.3 million, while comp sales grew 3.5% at


Burger King, declined 1% at Pollo Tropical, and were flat at Taco Cabana. Similar to 2007, Burger


King held up the best of our three brands and continues to demonstrate its strength within the QSR


segment.


We opened a total of 21 new restaurants in 2008, including seven Pollo Tropicals, 10 Taco


Cabanas and four Burger King units and ended the year with 560 company-owned restaurants. In


the fourth quarter, we opened two new Pollo Tropical restaurants in the Northeast, three Taco


Cabana restaurants in Texas and two Burger King restaurants, one of which was a relocation of an


existing unit. We closed four Burger King restaurants, two related to relocations and we also closed


two Taco Cabana restaurants during 2008.


In the phase of the difficult consumer environment, our fourth quarter results were reasonably solid


at Burger King, where our comp sales were up 1.2% in that quarter, the fourth quarter, and at Taco


Cabana, where our comp sales increased 0.5%. We did experience some further weakening in


sales trends at Pollo Tropical; however, with same-store sales down 3.4 – 3.6% in the fourth


quarter.


We were able though to increase profitability and earnings in the fourth quarter as our heightened


focus on cost along with some moderation in commodity prices and lower interest rates enabled us
corrected transcript


Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
 
TAST
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


to increase fourth quarter 2008 earnings per share, excluding non-recurring items, to $0.22 from


$0.16 in the prior year. Net income and diluted earnings per share for the full year were 12.8 million


and $0.59, respectively, both down from 2007.


In the fourth quarter, we made substantial progress lowering our debt levels. We’re very cognizant


of the fact that the capital markets remains skiddish that highly levered company like ours are being


more carefully scrutinized by shareholders. We have and will continue doing what is necessary to


allay their concerns. We’ve placed the high priority on maximizing free cash flow so as to further


reduce our financial leverage in 2009, and we’ll do so in several ways. First, we’ve reduced G&A


expenditures as we scale back our openings of new restaurants. We look for about 3 million in total


G&A savings in 2009. This savings may be eaten into a little bit if our earnings improve and


executive bonuses are earned.


Second, we are containing operating costs at all three brands. Commodity prices rose in the fourth


quarter. We were encouraged by a moderating cost environment and foresee lower commodity


inflation in 2009 compared to what we experienced in 2008. We also improved labor margins


despite higher wage rates in many of our markets, as we took steps to reduce overtime hours and


improve labor productivity.


We have significantly scaled back new unit development with an outlook of between five and seven


total openings this year, plus two or three of Burger King relocations compared to the addition of 21


new units across the company in 2008. We will limit capital expenditures to about 60% of what we


spent in 2008. That’s roughly about 30 to 35 million as reflected in today’s press release. We


believe that acceptable financial leverage is being redefined by lenders and investors, and we try to


consider this as we developed our operating plans.


Given persistent weakness in consumer spending and the state of the economy in general, our


industry is in the throws of some difficult times. We are operating as if the economy is not likely to


turn around any time soon. Consequently, we’ll focus on effectively managing through these


challenging circumstances. Still we believe our brands continue to be well positioned and offer


outstanding and competitive value, especially to the highly price sensitive consumer. And we seem


to be holding up relatively well, all things being considered.


With that, I’d like to turn the discussion over – the presentation over to Dan to discuss each of the


brands in greater detail.


Daniel T. Accordino, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Alan. First, I’d like to discuss Pollo Tropical. Pollo with a substantial portion of its


restaurants in Florida is our greatest challenge right now. The Florida economy is worse off than


most states. With the slump in construction, thousands of workers have left the state and in addition


to the general pressure on consumer spending, their absence is negatively affecting our sales.


Pollo Tropical experienced its worst comparable sales results for 2008 during the fourth quarter and


while we expect these trends to continue near-term, we’re encouraged that we haven’t seen them


get any worse in the first quarter.


We have recently resumed television advertising in South and Central Florida after being off air for


several years. Our ads reflect brand building, focusing on food, quality, value and health, and this


effort is being combined with continued radio campaigns in all of our markets. We are also


distributing direct mail booklets and increasing visibility with billboards in select markets, particularly


on the West Coast and in Central Florida.


While our development of company-owned Pollo Tropical restaurants will appear modest this year,


we are moving forward with establishing greater presence in the Northeast and expanding outside