Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Jonathan Richard Evans — Founder & Chief Investment Officer, JWEST LLC
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answering session and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everybody that this conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday, May 5, 2015 at 8:30 AM, Eastern Time.

I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should all have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com, under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I'd like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and, therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation table to comparable GAAP measures is available in our earnings release.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. As you can see from our earnings release this morning, we're off to a very good start 2015, as positive sales trends continued to accelerate from last year. In the first quarter, our revenues grew by $41.7 million or 27.5% over the prior year period, which included $32.5 million from the restaurants we acquired in 2014. Comparable restaurant sales were very strong, balanced across all day parts and increased 8.4% over the first quarter of 2014.

No doubt some of this increase was driven by more favorable weather this past winter, particularly in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions. However, we believe that our 5.9% two-year comparable restaurant sales increase demonstrates that the primary driver was the effectiveness of Burger King's marketing and promotional tactics. And while not easily measured, our sense is that higher consumer confidence and lower gasoline prices may be helping our customers spend a bit more freely.

Burger King's marketing and menu strategy continues to focus on balancing value offerings and premium products that provide variety and new tastes, while minimizing operational complexity by leveraging the existing menu platforms. Our premium promotions during the first quarter included a Spicy BLT Whopper, the A.1. Ultimate Bacon Cheeseburger, and the Bacon Cheddar Tender Crisp.

The 2 for $5 platform included promotions of a Spicy Big Fish Sandwich, the YUMBO Ham & Cheese Sandwich and our Original Chicken Sandwich. And last, but certainly not least, our main value promotion was a return of the Chicken Nugget promotion featuring 10 nuggets for $1.49, which was again quite successful.

The brand also garnered considerable attention with the return of Chicken Fries very late in the first quarter. This product was promoted extensively on social and digital media and continues to be an effective traffic driver while also appealing to a younger demographic. The promotion of chicken fries continued in April and has now been added as a permanent menu item.

The strong sales results were also reflected in our overall financial performance. Restaurant-level EBITDA was $18.8 million in the first quarter of 2015 and increased $5.6 million or almost 43% over the same period last year, while restaurant-level EBITDA margin improved more than 100 basis points. The restaurants that we acquired in 2014 contributed $1.9 million to the increase in restaurant-level EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA, which is after administrative expenses, more than doubled to $5.7 million from $3.3 million in the first quarter of 2014.

Over the past year, comparable restaurant sales and restaurant EBITDA have increased at a notably higher rate at the restaurants that we acquired in 2012. This reflects the ongoing operating and control improvements we've made at these units over the past couple of years. Improved sales performance along with the favorable impact of closing 19 restaurants since the beginning of 2014 is favorably impacting both average sales volumes and our restaurant-level EBITDA margins at these restaurants.

Finally, although it's still early, we've made good progress with the restaurants that we acquired in 2014, as both operating and financial metrics at these units are improving. As we expected, restaurant operations and the operating culture at these restaurants was reasonably good to begin with, to the credit of the previous owners. And although restaurant-level EBITDA margins might not yet be at the optimal levels, we expect to demonstrate continued progress as we move through this year.

As you're probably aware, we recently completed a refinancing of our debt in which we sold $200 million of 8% senior secured second lien notes to replace our existing $150 million 11.25% notes and increased our borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility. This financing significantly reduces our cost of capital while increasing the funds that we have available for continued expansion and for our remodeling program. We are looking to opportunistically employ and allocate this additional capital in order to continue building shareholder value.

Early in the second quarter, we completed the acquisition of four restaurants in Northern Vermont. As we move forward, we intend to acquire additional Burger King restaurants, given our expected returns on such investment. We continue to see deal flow, we are looking for opportunities to make additional investments and we will update you on our progress in the future. In addition, we plan to moderately increase the pace of our remodeling and now expect to remodel at least 80 to 90 restaurants in 2015.

In summary, we are pleased with our strong start to 2015 and look forward to a productive year as we continue executing our business plan.

I will now turn the call over to Paul to continue our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales increased 27.5% to $193.2 million in the first quarter from $151.5 million in the prior year period, including $32.5 million of sales from the 123 restaurants that we acquired in 2014. Comparable restaurant sales grew 8.4%, with increases of 10.5% at the restaurants acquired in 2012 and 6.8% at our legacy restaurants. The overall increase reflected a solid 6.3% increase in customer traffic and a 2.1% increase in average check.

Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $7.7 million in the first quarter compared to $3.3 million in the prior year and adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 181 basis points to 4.0%. Restaurant-level EBITDA was $18.8 million in the first quarter of 2015 and increased $5.6 million or almost 43% over the same period last year. Restaurant level EBITDA margin was 9.7% and improved more than 100 basis points over the year ago period as we effectively leveraged higher sales across most expense line items.

At $2.42 per pound, average beef costs declined 9% sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2014 but were still 11% higher than the first quarter last year, negatively impacting costs to sales 77 basis points on year-over-year basis. In addition, restaurant level EBITDA margin was negatively impacted approximately 80 basis points from the effect of lower margins at the restaurants that we acquired in 2014. Despite these factors, our strong operating leverage enabled us to expand restaurant level EBITDA margin and to effectively leverage the higher sales.

General and administrative expenses were $11.6 million in the first quarter compared to $10.3 million in the first quarter last year. These expenses increased due primarily to additional costs related to the restaurants acquired in 2014 including district manager cost, travel and restaurant manager training. However, as a percentage of restaurant sales, general and administrative expenses decrease 78 basis points to 6%.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $10 million in the first quarter, an increase from $8.8 million in the prior year period, due primarily to remodeling initiatives and our acquisition activity over the past year.

Interest expense was $4.8 million compared to the $4.7 million in the first quarter of last year. Impairment and other lease charges totaled $1.6 million in the first quarter of 2015. Of this amount, impairment charges were approximately $450,000 and were primarily due to maintenance capital expenditures required at a number of restaurants that had been previously impaired.

We also recorded $1.2 million in other lease charges related to eight restaurants that were closed prior to the end of their lease and/or franchise term. Such charges represented accruals for ongoing rent applications and certain termination costs under the related franchise agreements.

With respect to income taxes, we do not anticipate recording any tax benefit in 2015 since we recorded a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in 2014. Accordingly, no such tax benefit was recognized in the first quarter. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $24.3 million with total outstanding debt of $159.6 million. Total capital expenditures during the first quarter were $12.1 million and included $8.8 million for remodeling 10 restaurants.

As Dan indicated, we completed a refinancing in April and, speaking for both of us, I want to say that we were quite pleased with the execution and ultimate outcome. We wanted to acknowledge the joint bookrunners, Well Fargo and Stephens; the co-managers, Rabobank and Raymond James; along with our external advisors and internal personnel, all of which assisted to make this happen.

We launched a tender for the existing $150 million of 11.25% senior secured second lien notes on April 15 and proceeded to complete the pricing and sale of $200 million of 8% senior secured second lien notes at the same day. On April 29, we closed these transactions. After the cost of the tender, the redemption of some bonds not tendered and all the related fees and expenses, we raised approximately $35 million of new capital.

We also amended and extended our existing revolving credit facility, increasing our borrowing capacity under this line to $30 million. We have significantly lowered the interest rate on our debt and lowered our total interest cost while raising a substantial amount of new capital. We now are looking for opportunities to put this capital to work.

Lastly, I will review our outlook for 2015 which, as a reminder, is a 53-week fiscal period. Total restaurant sales are now expected to be $815 million to $830 million compared to $810 million to $830 million previously estimated. Comparable restaurants sales on a comparable 52-week basis are expected to increase 3% to 5% compared to our previous estimate of 2% to 4%.

Commodity costs are now expected to increase 1% to 2% compared to 2% to 3% previously. Based on trends in the first quarter and our current expectations for the rest of the year, we expect the increase in beef cost to be somewhat lower than our initial projections.

General and administrative expenses are expected to be approximately $44 million to $46 million, excluding stock compensation costs, unchanged from our prior guidance. Adjusted EBITDA is now anticipated to be $48 million to $52 million, which has increased from our prior guidance of $44 million to $48 million.

Capital expenditures excluding acquisitions are now expected to be approximately $45 million to $50 million, including $37 million to $44 million to remodel a total of 80 to 90 restaurants and for final expenditures on certain 2014 remodels. Capital expenditures were previously estimated to be $37 million to $44 million. And lastly, we expect to close 20 to 25 restaurants, 15 of which were closed in the first quarter.

That concludes our prepared remarks. And with that, we will now open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] Our first question does come from Bryan Hunt from Wells Fargo.

Thank you and good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

First of all, it's been all over the headlines, avian influenza on CNBC this morning again. Can you talk about your breakfast day part and maybe just your egg cost as a percent of sales so we can understand what the potential risk may be here? I mean, it's great to hear your food costs are coming down on the beef side. I understand that's the biggest part of your mix but just to gauge a better understanding, that'd be great. Thanks.

Our breakfast as a percent of sales is 14.6%. Bryan, this is Dan. In terms of our cost of sales on eggs, I don't know what the cost of sales on eggs is. Paul may have that. I don't know.

I don't have that handy, no.

I guess it's not that material even if you were to see a substantial increase?

No, no.

Can you talk about maybe your pricing on the breakfast day part? Have you all taken pricing on those products in the last couple years and do you feel like there's opportunities to move prices up?

That is the day part that I have increased – this is Dan again. That is the day part that I've increased prices the least, Bryan. That is probably the most competitive day part that we have. And because it is habitual, people are very mindful of what they pay each time they go through the restaurant each morning through the drive thru of what they're paying for their breakfast products. So my guess would be that if our overall pricing is 2.5%, our breakfast pricing is probably half of that.

Okay, great. And then switching gears and looking at the 20 to 25 restaurants closures that you all are now announcing, can you give us an idea of whether those restaurants are at the end of the leasing period, as well as whether those restaurants were money losers at the end of the day and what they might add to EBITDA year-over-year?

Generally the restaurants that we're closing were at the end of their lease and the end of their franchise, the vast majority of them. Many of the ones that were already closed were part of the 2012 group that we purchased nearly three years ago. So, the anticipation was at the time of the acquisition that these restaurants would close at the balance of their lease.

In terms of EBITDA, they generally were not negative EBITDA and consequently, I don't think that they'll be much of a benefit to EBITDA. They will, however, be a benefit terms of average unit volume and it improves our cash position because their restaurants that we otherwise would have not wanted to remodel and extend.

Great. And then last one, I'll let someone else hop in here. You all had great same store sales momentum. Can you talk about how it played out over the quarter and may e how April looked as well? Thanks.

We actually got sequentially little bit better. We were up the largest amount in January. We're up about 9.5%. February was up 7.7% and then March, which was actually a more difficult comparison on a relative basis to January-February, was up 8%. So, we've seen, and then going into April, we've seen our comps go up to about 11.5%. So when I look at this – when we look at this on a two-year basis, our trends have actually continued to accelerate as we've gone little further into the year here.

And maybe one last question, when you look at this accelerating comp up 11% in April, is there anything you need going on with regards to mix? Are you seeing acceleration of value added in the mix or an acceleration of the premium product? Again is there any comments you can make with regards to mix?

No, it's pretty well balanced, Bryan. It's balanced across all day parts and it's reasonably well balanced between the value part of the menu and the core items. Many of the items that Burger King has added, which they're not new items, they're modifications to the existing platform in terms of the premium products, have done very well, so it's been a good balance and breakfast is still very strong as well.

Very good. As I said, I'll let someone else ask a question. Thank you for your time. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty & Co.

Good morning, congratulations, thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to ask a question first on the remodels. So you're increasing your CapEx range by $6 million to $8 million and 20 more stores that you're remodeling this year. I think that comes out to about $350,000 a store at the midpoint. Would that imply that you are remodels are maybe coming in at a slightly lower cost than you had initially anticipated for the year?

No, I think that what's causing that – to turn it a different way, if you look at our average cost in the first quarter was very, very high and part of what's happened is we get some expenditures related to 2014 remodels that rolled into the first quarter. And then conversely, we've spent a fair amount in the first quarter on remodels that didn't actually get completed until the second quarter. So, I think you need to look at this on a full year. I think our cost still is around $400,000 a remodel.

And then your performance on the 2012 acquired stores was pretty extraordinary that 355 basis point improvement year-over-year on the margins there. How close, given that they still have lower AUVs than your legacy stores, how close are those now to what you would consider standard given their level of AUVs? I mean, how much more of margin can you squeeze out of those moving forward?

Well, if you look at the margin, those stores last year was about 7.5% and I think when we look at the effect of the closings, the fact that the comps are running at a higher levels than the legacy at this point given some of the improvements we've made, we would expect a more normal level at those volumes, at their current volumes that they should probably be around 10%. We would anticipate that's probably where we're going to be this year.

Okay, great. And then just beef prices, what did they average in the first quarter?

We were at $2.42 a pound this year and that compared to $2.18 last year.

And what did they average thus far in Q2?

They've gone up a little bit. I mean, it did go to from about their low points were below $2.30. They've ticked up to about, currently, they're about $2.50 and we would anticipate in the second quarter that we're going to be right about that level on average.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Our next question comes from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.

Hey. Thanks, guys. And congrats again on another great quarter. Just want to take a little step back here and, kind of related to that last question, get a broad view of an update on the new store integration and maybe a little color on how much those new stores that have been acquired are contributing to that EBITDA growth and how much of that's actually coming from leverage of the legacy stores?

In terms of the stores we acquired in 2014, they contributed about $1.9 million in restaurant-level EBITDA. As I said, they did have about an 80 basis point negative impact on our overall restaurant margins just given that they're still a bit lower than where they should be.

Our legacy units, actually margins improved almost 50 basis points and that was despite of the impact to the beef costs, which was, as I said, probably close to 80 basis points as well. So we leveraged the sales increase on those pretty good. And then probably most significantly, given the strong comps that we saw in the units acquired in 2012, we had significant leverage in the P&L with about 360 basis point margin improvement.

Great. Thanks, guys. Congrats again.

Our next question comes from Jon Evans from JWEST.

Yes, two questions. You averaged $2.42 for beef last quarter. Can you give us any insight where April came out and what you're seeing so far in May? I think you buy on a weekly basis, right?

Yeah, as I said, we've start to tick up a little bit since the first quarter. The lows were around $2.30. That's ticked up to $2.40 or so, which is where I think we averaged in April. And then the current price is about $2.50.

Okay. And then the other question is just, when you look at the comp in the second quarter, you said you were running 11% in April. What month is the toughest comparison? Is it the June, or can you just help us, remind us of that?

The toughest comparison actually was April. We were about 3.5% negative in April so and, as I just said, we were up about 11.4% this year, so the two-year trend has gotten pretty strong.

Got it, okay. Hey, thank you so much.

Yep. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Brian Vaccaro from Raymond James.

Hey. Good morning, guys. And thanks for taking my question. Paul, I wanted to just clarify something you said that on the legacy stores, you mentioned beef up 80 bps. Was that an overall COGS de-leverage number on the legacy stores or was that just beef specifically?

It was about the same, frankly.

About the same.

And the, I think, beef was I remember 77 basis points and the de-leveraging on cost of sales at those restaurants was 81 basis points. So beef is the sole driver of this.

Okay. And staying on the legacy stores, can you give an update on what you're seeing in terms of the labor cost there as it relates specifically to wage inflation and any changes in turnover that you're seeing?

In terms of the wage inflation, as we've said on previous calls, is pretty much a function of minimum wage mandates primarily in New York State. That's where the majority of the inflation is coming. We have certain markets where we're seeing competitive wage inflation and happens to be in those markets where sales are the most robust as well. But overall, it's primarily New York State where we had a $0.75 increase in the minimum wage in 2015 and another $0.75 in 2015. So that's been primarily where it's been, Brian

Okay, okay. And then two nitpick items, Paul, did you say what cash flow from ops was? I might have missed it.

I didn't say that. I think we were around $12.5 million roughly.

Okay. And then last nitpick from me do you have the ending store count by class, the 659 broken out by legacy 2012 and 2014?

I do. We had the 659 broke out 284 legacy units, 252 from the 2012 acquisition and 123 from last year's acquisitions.

Thanks a lot. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our question-and-answering session. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Paul Flanders for closing remarks.

As Dan said, we thought it was pretty good quarter. We're looking forward to continuing these good results through the rest of the year and we certainly appreciate your time and attention today and we look forward to talk to you next quarter. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our conference. On behalf of Carrols Restaurant Group, we do appreciate your participation. Please have a good day.