Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Will E. Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
James Fronda — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Along the presentation, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday, May 6, 2014 at 8:30 AM Eastern Time.

I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now, you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

Please note that during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. And a reconciliation table to comparable GAAP measures is available in our earnings release.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. As we indicated on our last earnings call, first quarter sales trends were impacted by the severe and persistent winter weather affecting restaurants in virtually all of our markets. These conditions were not only worsened on a relative basis compared to 2013, but also far more widespread. However, due to improvements in our restaurant-level margins compared to the first quarter of 2013, overall adjusted EBITDA was relatively unchanged, and our restaurant-level EBITDA was actually 11.5% higher in the first quarter of this year compared to the prior year period.

Comparable restaurant sales were down 2.5% against a positive 1% comparison from the first quarter of last year. We had guided to a 1.5% to 2.5% comparable sales decrease, so we're within the guidance albeit on the lower end of our expectations. While April was still a little soft due to the Easter calendar shift and some timing differences in our promotional schedule, we expect sales trends to continue to improve in the second quarter and over the course of the year.

We are maintaining our full-year comparable restaurant sales guidance of an increase with 1.5% to 3.5% positive, but given our first quarter results, we could more likely be on the lower to mid end of that range.

In terms of our top line drivers, the Burger King menu strategy centers on launching fewer but more impactful products that offer customers fresh, new tastes without adding operational complexity. We think this balance of promotional activity combined with better operational efficiency is working well.

During the first quarter, four items were introduced including a Spicy Chicken Sandwich and an improved Big King Sandwich. The Spicy Chicken Sandwich provides a fresh bold take on the original Chicken Sandwich while the Big King Sandwich is now bigger than before. Both products have been successful additions and have rotated through our 2 For $5 promotion. We also unveiled two items as part of the King Deals Value Menu, the Rodeo Chicken Sandwich and a Rodeo Burger, both of which sell for $1 and feature our signature barbecue sauce and onion rings.

We have also expanded our value proposition into breakfast through the rollout of the King Deals Breakfast Value Menu. This provides us a platform to drive traffic during the morning day part where we believe there still is a significant opportunity to build sales. More broadly, we are addressing the competitive environment with a balanced marketing approach that encompasses refreshed value options within all layers of the menu.

In terms of profitability, restaurant-level EBITDA was actually higher in the first quarter this year despite our top line challenges. Restaurant-level EBITDA totaled $13.2 million compared to $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2013, and restaurant EBITDA margin increased 113 basis points versus the prior year period. These increases reflected a 330 basis point improvement in restaurant EBITDA margin at our restaurants acquired in 2012 from Burger King.

We continue to make progress narrowing the margin difference between these units and our legacy restaurants. In the first quarter, this difference was reduced by 400 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2013 and by another 170 basis points sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2013.

Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter was $3.2 million or essentially flat compared to $3.3 million in the prior year period. The increase in restaurant EBITDA was offset by a $1.3 million increase in G&A expense due to the elimination of payments from the Fiesta Restaurant Group for administrative services transitioned in late 2013, which was previously reflected in our guidance.

Less than two weeks ago, we completed an equity offering in which we sold 10 million shares of new common stock at $6.20 per share plus another 1.5 million shares following the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option. Net proceeds from the transaction which closed on April 30 were approximately $67.2 million after underwriting discounts and other expenses.

In the near term, we plan to use some of this new capital to accelerate our 2020 remodeling program. We intend to remodel approximately 105 to 115 restaurants, which is 40 more than the 65 to 75 originally planned to upgrade this year. By the end of 2014, we expect to have almost 60% of our restaurants updated to the new design. We are also positioned to use this new capital to opportunistically and selectively acquire additional Burger King restaurants as we move forward. We are reviewing certain existing opportunities and believe that there will be others over time, including those presented due to Burger King's assignment of its right of first refusal to us for a 20-state territory.

There are more than 2,000 Burger King restaurants that could be subject to our right of first refusal and we are preapproved by Burger King for expansion. We believe that combined with our operational and financial disciplines, along with our ability to leverage our infrastructure, we can accretively enhance shareholder value with this expansion strategy. Consistent with their strategy, on April 30, we completed the acquisition of four Burger King restaurants in Fort Wayne, Indiana for approximately $700,000 following our exercise of the right of first refusal on a proposed sale of those restaurants.

In closing, while we got off to a slower start this year than we would have liked given the effect of the adverse weather conditions, we continue to have confidence with Burger King's marketing approach and are benefiting from our ongoing remodeling activities. With additional capital now in place, we are also positioned to begin executing our longer term strategic growth plan.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Paul to continue our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales decreased 3% to $151.5 million in the first quarter of 2014 from $156.1 million in the prior year period. Our legacy restaurants generated $83.9 million in sales for the quarter, down 2.2% from $85.8 million in 2013, while the acquired restaurants generated $67.5 million in sales, down 4% compared to $70.4 million in 2013. Note that we had 11 fewer restaurants in operation as of the end of the quarter as we continue to close certain underperforming locations.

Comparable restaurant sales decreased 2.5% in the quarter on an overall basis compared to a 1% gain in the prior year period, including a decrease of 1.8% at our legacy restaurants and a 3.4% decrease at the 2012 acquired restaurants.

Average check was 4.2% higher, while customer traffic decreased 6.7% due to the effect that the weather had on both traffic and a reduction in our operating hours.

Adjusted EBITDA was $3.2 million in the first quarter 2014 compared to $3.3 million in the prior year, and adjusted EBITDA margin remained flat at 2.1% for both periods. Restaurant-level EBITDA was $13.2 million in the quarter and increased $1.4 million or 11.5% from the prior year despite the softness in sales. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin increased to 113 basis points on an overall basis, including an improvement of 330 basis points in our 2012 acquired restaurants, slightly offset by a 70 basis point deleveraging in our legacy restaurants.

Restaurant-level EBITDA at our acquired restaurants was $3.9 million, reflecting a $2.2 million improvement from the prior year period and a margin increase of 330 basis points due to a 420 basis point reduction in cost of sales. This reflects the operating and control improvements made at these restaurants over the past year, as well as higher vendor rebates.

Restaurant-level EBITDA on our legacy restaurants decreased $0.8 million to $9.3 million in the first quarter of 2014 with restaurant EBITDA margin of a 11.1%, which deleveraged 70 basis points from the prior year. Labor and other operating costs were higher as a percentage of sales due mostly to the lower sales. And despite higher commodity costs, this was offset somewhat by a 115 basis point improvement in cost of sales due to favorable mix shifts, reduced promotional activity and price increases over the past year.

General and administrative expenses were $10.3 million, or 6.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2014, and increased $1.2 million compared to the first quarter of 2013. This increase reflected the elimination of payments from Fiesta Restaurant Group that Dan just mentioned.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $8.8 million, an increase from $8.1 million in the first quarter 2013 due primarily to remodeling initiatives over the past year. Interest expense was flat at $4.7 million for the quarter. Our net loss was $7.4 million, or $0.32 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $5.2 million in the prior year period, or $0.23 per diluted share.

Although EBITDA was essentially flat in the quarter compared to the prior year period, our net loss increased due to a $0.7 million increase in depreciation, but mostly due to a lower tax benefit caused by timing differences related to our WOTC tax credits over the last three years from the Congress's delay in extending these hiring incentives.

In 2014, the tax benefit includes no WOTC credits since these incentives have not yet been extended since expiring at the end of 2013. Additionally, the first quarter last year not only included a benefit for 2013 WOTC credits, but also included all of the 2012 credits due to the delay extending the incentives in 2012. Effective tax benefit was 33.6% in the first quarter compared to 50.5% in the first quarter last year.

The net loss included impairment and other lease charges in both years and some minor EEOC litigation costs in 2013. Such charges totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2014 and 2013, respectively, or $0.02 per diluted share after tax in both periods.

At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $21.4 million including $20 million of restricted cash held as collateral for our revolving credit facility. Total outstanding debt was $161.0 million at quarter end relatively the same as last quarter. Our cash balances have, of course, increased considerably following the completion of the equity offering last week. Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2013 totaled $7 million, including $4 million for restaurant remodeling and $1.4 million for new or relocated restaurants. 13 remodels were either completed or near completion through the first quarter.

Lastly, let's discuss our guidance for 2014, which is unchanged except for our planned capital expenditures which have been updated to reflect our more aggressive remodeling effort due to the recent equity offering. Total restaurant sales for 2014 are expected to be $665 million to $680 million, including comparable restaurant sales increase of 1.5% to 3.5%. Commodity costs are expected to increase 2% to 3% for the year with inflation in ground beef costs largely responsible for the overall increase. G&A is expected to be approximately $39 million to $41 million excluding stock compensation costs.

Adjusted EBITDA is projected to be $38 million to $42 million. Our annual effective income tax benefit is estimated to be 33% to 35% but could increase if the Worker Opportunity Tax Credit is reinstated or extended. Capital expenditures are now projected to be $42 million to $47 million, up from $30 million to $35 million previously, including $30 million to $32 million for remodeling 105 to 115 restaurants and $4 million to $5 million for costs to scrape and rebuild three restaurants. We had previously projected that we would remodel 65 to 75 restaurants. And lastly, we also plan to close approximately 15 to 20 restaurants in 2014.

That concludes our prepared remarks. So with that, we'll now open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Bryan Hunt with Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.

Paul and Dan, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hi, Bryan.

First question, I was wondering, Paul, if you could give us what the total TSA payments received from Fiesta were last year as well as what they were in Q1 in 2013?

The total payments last year were about $3.5 million and they included about $1.3 million in the first quarter, first quarter of 2013.

And with regards to offsetting those payments with cost reductions, have you all already gone through that process and completed it or kind of where do you stand?

We have made some minor reductions and our corporate overhead is fairly fixed. So the real intention here is to leverage this G&A as we start acquiring more restaurants. We should not...

Got it.

...have to add hardly any corporate level...

And with regards to the acquisitions just made, you made kind of four-store acquisition. Can you talk about if $700,000 seems like a relatively low purchase price, the state of those stores, those stores in need of remodeling? Are there AUVs in line with maybe what's your core store basis?

I think the average unit buying for these core stores, the average is about $1.2 million. So it's right in line with in the averages. Maybe one unit is a little bit lower than the others. And there are at least three of those stores that are going to need to be remodeled. At some point, I wouldn't call them distressed but it's certainly the – this was – again, we exercised our right of first refusal so that was the negotiated purchase price by another buyer but obviously includes – reflects the fact there's some CapEx required.

Got you. Two last questions. One, when you look at the Virginia market, it's been a market that's been called out in the last couple of quarters. How did that market perform in the most recent quarter and are you starting to see any changes in terms of sales tempo as we move into Q2?

It's still – this is Dan. It's still our weaker market but again, Bryan, you had – they had unusually difficult winter as well. And we've got four or five restaurants under a remodel so it's difficult right now to determine how they're going to respond to the remodel if we're just now completing that in the quarter just to get a bit better. But it's still – it's going to be a while before that market responds to the level that some of the other markets are. I think, that's – there's certainly a laggard.

All right. And then my last question, I'll get back in the queue. In your assumptions, you called out pricing for Q1. Can you talk about how much pricing was taken in Q1 and maybe what the outlook from pricing is for the year in your assumptions? Thanks.

So we had about, let's say, 2% pricing as we came into the year in the acquired unit particularly, and then I think on an average, overall basis of about 1% to 1.5%. We did take a little bit of price in the first quarter due to an increase in the minimum wage in New York State. And I think, right now, we've got about 2% in total in the run rate.

Okay. And that's for the year?

Most of the year, yes.

All right. Great. I'll get back in the queue. Thanks.

Your next question comes from Will Slabaugh with Stephens. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Wanted to ask you about the acquisition as well. So, congrats on getting that done. And just wonder if you could give us an update on what that pipeline looks like in terms of future opportunities, and then also what your appetite is for the year post the recent offering?

Sure, Will, and this is Dan again. We've got one deal currently that is a 21-store transaction that our hope – our expectation is that we'll close that transaction sometime in June. And then we've got another 100 restaurants that are in some form of being – we're completing due diligence. Some of those certainly will be completed in 2014. We've got a pretty robust pipeline right now in terms of deal offerings and with the proceeds from this equity offering, we certainly will move forward with our expansion plans at a more accelerated rate.

Great. And then on the margin expansion front, that was still strong this quarter at the restaurant level as you mentioned despite this revenue softness from the weather. So as you've worked through a lot of the easier costs in your acquired stores or I guess a lot of the costs that came up front, can you update us on where you think you are in terms of improving the costs at the acquired restaurants and sort of where are you seeing that benefit come most recently and where you think it's coming this year?

Well, when we bought these restaurants two years ago, our cost of sales delta in these restaurants was close to 700 basis points. In the first quarter of this year, that number is down to 45 basis points. So, most of the improvement that we've made have been cost of sales improvements which is certainly – which is only efficiency that was generated within the four walls in the restaurant.

Every Burger King restaurant pays the same for input costs for food, and the menu prices have been relatively the same. So, consequently, the improvement has been made to operational improvements by virtue of us controlling our food slippage and waste within the restaurants, which is something that we have historically done with restaurants that we've purchased and that's exactly what we will be doing when we move forward with future acquisitions.

Got you. Lastly, on the mix that was up fairly substantially at 4.2%, can you talk about what was the composition of that mix? I know you mentioned the 2% pricing earlier that's in place. And then where you may be seeing the trade up, if you know, as far as driving that segment higher?

I think that – go ahead, Paul

We had a couple of things going on. I mean, in general, the level of promotions in the first quarter were a little bit lower than the first quarter of last year, which was pretty heavy, which helped drive that check. And as you said, there's obviously a little price in there. And then I think the – some of the margin benefit we got was from – although beef costs were fairly high, we had a favorable sales mix given some of the chicken promotions that have been going on for the last couple, three months.

Thanks, guys.

Okay, Will. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from James Fronda with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. How are you?

Good.

Just following Bryan's point, you used to give out same-store sales numbers by region. Do you have that offhand with you right now?

I think we have not historically given out regional comps. We may have called out certain markets that were out of the ordinary. But no, we're not prepared to give that out right now.

Okay. And I guess, could you just talk about other inflationary pressures that you're seeing in both healthcare and I guess the minimum wage?

The minimum wage effect is in our first quarter numbers. The state minimum wages are well ahead of anything that might happen in the federal government, and New York State raised their minimum wage to $8 in January of 2014 and it goes up again in 2015 and 2016. And Ohio and Michigan also have wages that are indexed to inflation. We took a 1.2% price increase in New York State in the January period, which to some degree compensated for the minimum wage increase. So I mean that's already embedded in these numbers. It's not going to be any worse. The healthcare effect, we don't think it's going to have much effect at all on our business. We have a very few people who will qualify for the healthcare.

Okay. Thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time. Please continue.

If there are no further questions, we appreciate your time and attention this morning and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter. Thank you for being on the call today.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference call for today. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect your lines.