Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Will E. Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
David Colgan — Home Mortgage Consultant, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
Ken P. Bann — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day, and welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, November 5, 2014 at 8:30 AM, Eastern Standard Time.

For opening remarks and introductions, I will turn the call over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is also available on our website at www.carrols.com, under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone, that our discussion will include forward-looking statements which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and a reconciliation table to comparable GAAP measures is available in our earnings release.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. We are pleased to report that our sales trends improved in the third quarter of 2014, as we posted a solid 3.3% increase in comparable restaurant sales, our best quarter in almost two years. And despite the headwind from more than a 30% increase in beef prices compared to the third quarter of 2013, we were able to increase restaurant-level EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and our overall restaurant and EBITDA margins, due largely to operational improvements that we've made over the past year at the restaurants acquired from Burger King Corporation back in 2012.

Total restaurant sales increased 6.8% from the third quarter of 2013, and the strength of our comparable sales increased, sales from the 29 BURGER KING restaurants that we had acquired through the end of the third quarter, offset somewhat by net closings of 14 restaurants over the past year.

BURGER KING's menu strategy continues to center on a balanced marketing approach, with refreshed value offerings across the menu. The 2 for $5 mix-and-match lineup continues to have traction, and during the third quarter featured the Extra Long BBQ Cheeseburger, a Mushroom & Swiss BIG KING and the Spicy Original Chicken Sandwich. Premium offerings included the BBQ Bacon WHOPPER, the A.1. Bacon Cheeseburger and the Mushroom & Swiss Bacon WHOPPER.

In August and September, we benefited from the short but successful return of Chicken Fries for a limited time promotion in response to a social media campaign. And most recently, BURGER KING began promoting its Chicken Nuggets at $1.49 in early October. This attractive value offering has been well received by customers and is driving strong sales trends as we start the fourth quarter.

Turning to profitability, restaurant-level EBITDA increased $1.9 million, or 10.2%, to $20.5 million in the third quarter of 2014. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin increased 34 basis points versus the prior year period. The increase in restaurant-level EBITDA included an $800,000 contribution from the restaurants that we have acquired in 2014. The year-over-year improvement also reflected higher EBITDA from our restaurants acquired in 2012, due to their strong sales performance in the third quarter of this year, improved management of food costs and the impact from the closing underperforming restaurants over the past year.

However, EBITDA at our legacy restaurants declined $665,000 and restaurant-level EBITDA margins decreased 109 basis points due mostly to pressures from significantly higher beef prices compared to the prior year quarter. Considering that the increase in beef costs negatively impacted margins by approximately 200 basis points, we were generally pleased with our overall results, given the significant headwind.

During the third quarter, we continued to put the $67 million of net proceeds from the equity offering completed earlier this year to work. We remodeled 25 restaurants during the third quarter, and we now expect to complete 100 to 110 remodels for the full year. We also accelerated our expansion strategy, and during 2014 have completed the acquisition of 123 BURGER KING restaurants in five separate transactions.

During the third quarter of 2014, we completed 2 acquisitions for a total of 25 restaurants, including 4 restaurants in the Pittsburgh market, and 21 restaurants in Western New York. In early October, we completed the acquisition of 30 restaurants in Eastern North Carolina. And as announced in this morning's release, we just yesterday completed our previously announced acquisition of 64 BURGER KING restaurants from Heartland Food. These restaurants are primarily located in or around the Nashville, Tennessee; Springfield, Illinois; Terre Haute, Indiana; and Evansville, Indiana markets. As of today, we are operating 675 BURGER KING restaurants across 15 states.

Generally, our near-term attention will turn to the integration of these recently acquired restaurants, as we implement our operating systems and focus on improving the operating and financial performance of these restaurants. We believe that there will be opportunities to selectively acquire additional restaurants in the future as we execute our long-term growth plan.

In short, sales improved in the third quarter and our results were better, despite the significant headwind from commodity inflation. We have made significant strides this year in executing our expansion strategy and building momentum as we position the company for future growth.

I'll now turn the call over to Paul, to continue our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurants sales increased 6.8% to $179.8 million in the third quarter of 2014 from $168.3 million in the prior year period as comparable restaurant sales increased 3.3% compared to a 0.4% gain in the prior year period. Comparable restaurant sales increased 2.7% at our legacy restaurants and increased 4% at the restaurants acquired in 2012. The 29 restaurants acquired through the end of the third quarter this year added $7.8 million in sales for the quarter.

Our average check was 8% higher compared to the third quarter of 2013, however, customer traffic decreased 4.7%. Guest traffic was lower, in part, due to fewer low-price deals such as the $0.50 ice cream cone that, in 2013, were aimed primarily at driving traffic.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $9.9%, $1 million, to $11.1 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $10.1 million in the prior year, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased modestly to 6.2% during the quarter. Restaurant-level EBITDA increased 10.2%, or $1.9 million, to $20.5 million, and restaurant-level EBITDA margins increased 34 basis points. Restaurant-level EBITDA margins decreased 109 basis points at our legacy restaurants due to commodity cost pressures and higher wage rates, offset somewhat by lower local advertising expenditures.

However, restaurant-level EBITDA margins at the restaurants acquired in 2012 improved 223 basis points due to a strong 4% comparable restaurant sales increase, more effective operational controls, and the favorable impact from closing underperforming restaurants over the past year.

On an overall basis, cost of sales increased 30 basis points as a percentage of sales. As Dan pointed out, ground beef prices were up 32% from the third quarter last year, negatively impacting cost of sales by approximately 200 basis points. The impact of this was largely offset by the improved controls of the 2012 acquired units, cost of sales as a percentage of sales for those restaurants actually decreased 28 basis points compared to our prior year period, and were within 59 basis points of our legacy restaurants. On an overall basis, cost of sales also benefited somewhat by an effective price increase of 2%, and by lower promotional discounting.

The effect of the restaurants acquired through the end of the third quarter of 2014 did not have a material impact in overall restaurant EBITDA margins, given their minor contribution in the third quarter. I will just say, that as we expected, there are clearly opportunities to make improvements as we move forward with the integration of these restaurants.

General and administrative expenses were $10 million or 5.6% of sales in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $8.7 million in the third quarter of 2013 or 5.2% of sales. Included in the third quarter of 2014, G&A expenses was $412,000 of acquisition and integration costs.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $9.3 million, an increase from $8.5 million in the third quarter of 2013, due primarily to remodeling initiatives over the trailing 12 months and due to our acquisition activity. Interest expense was flat at $4.7 million for the quarter.

Our net loss was $1.7 million or $0.05 per diluted share, on a diluted share base of 34.8 million shares, compared to a net loss of $2.8 million in the prior year period or $0.12 per diluted share on a diluted share base of 23 million shares.

The net loss in the third quarter of 2014 included acquisition and integration cost, along with impairment and other lease charges, which in total were $1.4 million or $0.02 per diluted share after tax. The net loss in the third quarter of 2013 included impairment and other lease charges of $1.1 million or $0.03 per diluted share after tax.

In 2014, the tax benefit includes no Work Opportunity Tax Credits for the year, since these incentives have not been extended since expiring at the end of 2013. The effective tax benefit was 60.5% in the third quarter compared to 38.6% in the third quarter last year. The tax benefit in the third quarter this year was impacted by $1.2 million, or $0.03 per share, for additional 2013 WOTC tax credits not approved until 2014 due to a lag in certifications by the respective state agencies.

At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $63.3 million, including $20 million of restricted cash held as collateral for our revolving credit facility. Total outstanding debt was $158.7 million at quarter end, which decreased about $0.3 million from last quarter. While our cash balances have increased considerably following the completion of the equity offering, we have closed two additional acquisitions since the end of the third quarter for a total outlay of $38.2 million, including approximately $13.5 million for the purchase of 12 fee-owned properties. We intend to enter into sale/leasebacks for most of this real estate and except to complete many of these before the end of the year.

Capital expenditures in the third quarter of 2014 totaled $14.1 million, including $10 million for restaurant remodeling. Cash expenditures for the acquisition of the 25 restaurants in the third quarter of 2014 were $12.3 million, including $1.1 million for real estate.

Lastly, we've updated our 2014 guidance as follows: Sales trends are expected to be better than our previous estimates and have also been updated for the recent acquisitions. Total restaurant sales are now expected to be $690 million to$700 million compared to our previous guidance of $665 million to $675 million. This includes the comparable restaurant sales increase for the year of 0% to 1% versus our previous estimate of negative 1% to 0%.

Commodity costs are now expected to increase to approximately 5% compared to our previous estimate of 3% to 4%. This change primarily reflects the persistently high beef costs that we are experiencing in the second half of 2014.

General and administrative expenses are still expected to be approximately $37 million to $39 million, excluding stock compensation costs. Adjusted EBITDA is projected to be $36 million to $38 million compared to $36 million to $40 million previously estimated.

Our annual effective income tax benefit is estimated to be 36% to 38%, excluding the non-recurring – the 2013 WOTC adjustments in the third quarter. This rate also excludes any WOTC credits for 2014 new hires since these hiring incentives have not been reinstated or extended by congress.

Capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, are expected to approximately $55 million to $58 million including $38 million to $40 million for remodeling a total of 100 to 110 restaurants in 2014 and $4 million for costs to scrape and rebuild three restaurants.

Cash expenditures are expected to be approximately $50.9 million, excluding inventory, for the purchase of 123 BURGER KING restaurants that have been completed through November 5, 2014. Such expenditures include approximately $14.6 million for the purchase of fee-owned real estate.

Proceeds from sale/leasebacks are anticipated to be approximately $16 million to $18 million, including $6.5 million completed through the third quarter. And lastly, we have closed 12 restaurants in 2014, excluding relocations, and we expect to close another 6 to 8 restaurants at the very start of fiscal 2015.

That concludes our prepared remarks. And with that, we will now open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question today from Will Slabaugh with Stephens.

Yeah. Good morning guys and congrats on the nice acceleration in comps. I wanted – if you could give us a little bit more color on how some of the markets you've recently acquired over the past year are progressing, both on a sales and profitability basis.

Yeah. Sure, Will. This is Dan. The initial acquisitions that we did in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Pittsburgh are coming along nicely. We've had those for a little bit longer. Each were four-store acquisitions, and they've been assimilated quite well. The 21 restaurants in Western New York, we knew would be a bit easier to acquire, because that we've known the operator and for quite some time, and the food cost has already been lowered by roughly 75 basis points in just the few months that we've owned them.

The last acquisition, [ph] one week (16:06), the Heartland deal, we just did yesterday. So, I have no comment in the Western Carolina acquisition, it's only three weeks old, so it's premature to determine at this point how far along it is.

Got you. I appreciate it [indiscernible] (16:20). As you look at your cash and debt levels, what are your future plans for acquisitions?

Well, as we said in the call, I mean, I think our focus in the short-term here, clearly, is to be integrating and improving the P&L metrics on the units we just acquired. In the last three weeks, we've acquired almost 100 stores. So, I think, our short-term focus clearly is going to be on that. [ph] And I take a look forward more (16:52), maybe we'll do some small deals between now and the refinancing, but I think you won't see us do anything large between now and then.

Got you. And last question from me, on quarter-to-date trends, you mentioned the new promotions in October. It helped to move comps up a little bit. I didn't know if you could comment on what that looked like relative to what we saw in 2Q – I'm sorry in 3Q?

The October trends are higher than our third quarter cash, we're around about 5% in October.

Great to hear. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Bryan Hunt with Wells Fargo.

Hi, it's David Colgan for Bryan. One question on the traffic, I noticed that it improved sequentially quarter-over-quarter, but still is down at 4.7%. Can you address that and how you're thinking about that going forward, is that just something that you will resolve with increased promotions or are there some other levers you can pull there?

I think – this is Dan, I think, the traffic certainly is going to be a function of the marketing calendar and we've seen a significant traffic improvement with the $1.49 Nugget promotion. And the fourth quarter marketing will continue to be aggressive and the first part of 2015 as far as the plan that we've seen so far, will be a good mix between traffic-generating tactics as well as a continuation of the 2 for $5 mix-and-match.

Okay, thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Ken Bann with Jefferies.

Good morning. I was just wondering, the lowering of the top end of guidance for EBITDA, is that primarily because of higher commodity cost or is there something else that's increasing costs in the year?

No, it's primarily being driven by these higher beef prices, when we hit the – at the time of the last call, which is obviously when we issued our last guidance, beef prices were running more – they were up from the prior year, but they were probably $0.20 to $0.25 lower a pound than where they are right now. They jumped up very shortly after the call, unfortunately. So, a lot of this – effectively what's happening in the guidance is we've obviously added a lot more stores for the fourth quarter, and the increased EBITDA effect from this has been offset by the higher beef prices.

Okay. And can you give us any idea what your outlook at this point is for next year for beef costs?

Well, we don't -

We don't – oh, go ahead, Paul.

Go ahead, go ahead.

We don't obviously purchase the beef; it's just purchased by the co-op, but based upon the intelligence that we're getting currently in terms of the forecast, we're looking at beef to be roughly the same as what it is currently at least for the first six months of next year, where it's going to be a pretty significant increase over the first six months of 2014.

Right, okay. And then, in the table that you gave on the average weekly sales, you gave the weekly sales for the restaurants acquired in 2014, I assume that doesn't include the ones you just acquired and – correct me if I'm wrong in that – and then could you comment on what are the – what's the AUV of the restaurants that you just acquired?

Yeah. What was in the table is the average – I think it was even a partial quarter – but it was for the 29 restaurants that we actually had closed either in the late second or in the third quarter. And as you can see in the table, those average sales are higher than either our legacy or the restaurants acquired in 2012, which is more a function of those particular transactions.

The restaurants in Fort Wayne, the four restaurants there, are, I would say, a sort of average restaurants – $1 million, $2 million kind of volumes. The four units we've picked up in Pittsburgh are – what's – partly what's driving that higher volume, because those restaurants average about $1.5 million. So, you will see that come down as we layer in these additional 94 restaurants, particularly because the Heartland units are a little bit – their lower volumes – probably between $1 million and $1.1 million on average.

Okay. And I would presume that, in that table below that, when you have the restaurant-level EBITDA margin, I would presume then that the Pittsburgh restaurants probably have pretty high margins and that's why that restaurant-level margin for those restaurants is pretty high?

Yeah. It's the Pittsburgh restaurants, as well as, I mean, the major acquisition was the Western New York; those are also higher, so the higher volume restaurants and higher margin units.

Okay.

And you'll – but you'll see that come down as well.

Right, okay. Okay, understood. Okay, thank you very much.

We'll go next to Brian Vaccaro with Raymond James.

Good morning guys. Just a couple of quick ones from me. I wanted to revisit your comments on menu pricing. Can you – I think you said you took 2% in the current quarter. Can you just talk about how much pricing was in the menu in the third quarter and what we should expect in the fourth quarter?

Yeah, the 2% was not taken – it's cumulative effect of some pricing we've taken over time. So, there was about 2% effective price in the third quarter and much of that's carrying into the fourth at this point.

Okay. All right. That's helpful. And then, on the acquisition cost you called out here in third quarter, how much are the acquisition costs expected to be and just confirm that those acquisition costs are in your G&A forecast for the year?

Those costs are not in the G&A forecast. I can't – at this point right now, I can't tell you what the projection is for those. But there is – some of the transaction costs, clearly for the units we just closed in the fourth quarter, are probably in the number already because legal fees and environmental work and so forth has already been paid for.

Sure. Okay. All right, and then just one -

I think the bigger effect in the fourth quarter is going to be from – we've got probably 150 people will be out in these restaurants over the next 7 days or 10 days as we put our systems in.

Okay. All right, and then just one quick last one. Paul, do you have the ending unit counts at the end of the quarter by class of stores, the legacy, and the class of 2012? I think they were 25 in 2014, but if you could just give us the legacy and 2012, that'd be helpful.

Yeah, there's – I mean, there were 581 stores at the end of the quarter; 289 were what we refer to as the legacy group, 263 were from the BURGER KING acquisition, and then we – of course, the 29 restaurants that we had acquired.

Yeah, okay. Great, thank you.

Gentlemen, there are no other questions at this time. I will turn it back to you for closing remarks.

All right. Well, I don't think we have anything material to add at this point, but we appreciate everyone joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again when we report year end. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's conference.