Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Travis A. Harbauer — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday, August 4, 2015 at 8:30 A.M. Eastern Time.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute, for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation table to comparable GAAP measures is available in our earnings release.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning everyone. We were extremely pleased with our performance in the second quarter, as we leveraged robust sales growth and to a very solid increase in operating profits. Our strong financial performance in the first half of 2015, combined with our expectations for the balance of the year, have caused us to meaningfully raise our guidance for the full year as we will discuss in a moment.

For the second quarter, revenues grew by $50.5 million, or 30%, over the prior-year period, including a $38 million increase from the 127 restaurants we acquired in 2014 and 2015. Comparable restaurant sales were very strong, and increased 10.3% in the second quarter. Of note, this was our best quarterly comparable sales performance in many years.

And as you can see by our sales trends, BURGER KING's marketing activities have been highly effective in driving sales and customer traffic. The marketing strategy continues to effectively balance value and premium offerings, while minimizing operational complexity by leveraging existing menu platforms for many of the promotional items. Premium promotions during the second quarter included a Bacon and Cheese WHOPPER, the Spicy BLT WHOPPER and the A1 Ultimate Bacon Cheeseburger.

The '2 for $5' platform continued to perform well, driven by the Extra Long Cheeseburger, the Extra Long Pulled Pork Sandwich and the Teriyaki Original Chicken Sandwich. Chicken Fries returned to the menu in late March with an extensive promotion through social and digital media, have been very effective in driving sales.

In June, we began a promotion of our 10-Piece Chicken Nuggets for $1.49, a promotion that has been a good sales and traffic driver. Lastly, the breakfast day part received increased attention with a national promotion focused on our anchor product, the CROISSAN'WICH, which helped boost our breakfast sales.

More broadly, we are experiencing solid sales performance in a number of markets that we entered with the 2012 acquisition, which we believe reflects our persistent focus on improved operations and the reengagement of customers in those markets.

Similarly, we believe that the cumulative effect and the extent of our remodeling initiatives over the past three years has improved overall brand perception across the board and is continuing to favorably impact sales.

As you can see by our financial results, we were able to very effectively leverage our sales – strong sales performance across the P&L and to substantially increase our overall profitability. The high operating leverage that we've instilled in our business because of our P&L disciplines is apparent across the board. It is particularly noticeable at the restaurants that we acquired in 2012 and it's becoming more evident at the restaurants that we've acquired over the past year.

Compared to the prior-year quarter, restaurant level EBITDA increased by more than 80% and adjusted EBITDA more than doubled. Restaurant level EBITDA margin increased by over 450 basis points to 16.2% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased by approximately 380 basis points to 10.6%.

These margin improvements occurred despite ground beef cost being about 4% higher in the second quarter, compared to the same period last year. However, ground beef costs have continued to be lower than the levels we experienced in the second half of last year. We now expect that such costs should remain around the levels experienced in the second quarter and, if so, it would be at least 10% lower on a year-over-year basis in the third and fourth quarters. That is of course, more favorable than our initial expectations.

I would also like to provide an update regarding our store remodeling initiatives. We have remodeled 38 restaurants in the first half of this year, including 28 remodels during the second quarter. We expect to remodel a total of 90 to 95 restaurants for the entire year and to also scrape and completely rebuild another four restaurants.

Based on this, we are obviously accelerating the pace of our remodeling in the second half of the year. We are also looking to continue to expand our business and build shareholder value by accretively acquiring additional restaurants.

Today, we will close a transaction for the acquisition of five restaurants in Rock Hill, South Carolina, which is just south of Charlotte. We have a number of other transactions that we are evaluating but it would be premature to discuss these today. We will continue to update you as we move these forward.

To conclude, we're very pleased with our strong performance in the first half of 2015 and excited with how the year is shaping up. The BURGER KING brand is performing well, sales have been strong and the brand has increased market share.

Our specific focus over the last few years, including the impact from our extensive restaurant remodeling and the operational and financial improvements we've made at the restaurants that we've acquired, are also evident in our results.

I will now turn the call over to Paul to further review our financial results.

Thanks, Dan. Our restaurant sales increased 30% to $219.1 million in the second quarter from $168.6 million in the prior year period, including $38.8 million of sales from the 127 restaurants that we acquired in 2014 and 2015.

Comparable restaurant sales grew by 10.3% with increases of 11.5% at the restaurants acquired in 2012 and 9.4% in our legacy restaurants. The overall sales increase reflected a solid 5.4% increase in customer traffic and 4.9% increase in average check.

We are pleased with the increasing momentum that we've seen in our sales trends over the past few quarters. On a two year stacked basis, comparable restaurant sales were up 8.3% in the second quarter, increasing sequentially from a 5.9% two-year comparable sales increase in the first quarter of this year.

More importantly, we are effectively leveraging these sales increases into strong increases in operating profits.

Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $23.3 million in the second quarter, compared to $11.5 million in the prior-year period and adjusted EBITDA margin increased approximately 380 basis points to 10.6%.

Restaurant level EBITDA margin was $35.6 million in the second quarter and increased $15.9 million, or over 80%, compared to the same period last year, including a $4.8 million contribution from restaurants acquired in 2014 and 2015.

Restaurant level EBITDA margin was 16.2% and improved 455 basis points over the year-ago period as we effectively and substantially leveraged higher sales across nearly all expense line items. Restaurant level EBITDA margins increased 366 basis points in our legacy restaurants and increased 743 basis points at the restaurants acquired in 2012.

Cost of sales as a percentage of sales were more than 200 basis points lower in the second quarter compared to the prior year period. This reflected improved operating performance at all of our restaurants; lower cost for certain commodities, most notably bacon and cheese; and the impact of the 3% effective price increase.

As Dan said, beef cost has been lower than we originally anticipated, but at $2.36 per pound they were still about 4% higher than in the second quarter of last year. More importantly, we now expect beef cost to be much lower in the second half of 2015 than what we experienced last year at the same time. This has been reflected in our revised guidance, which I will get to in a moment.

General and administrative expenses were $12.9 million in the second quarter, compared to $8.6 million in the second quarter last year. These expenses increased in part due to additional cost related to our restaurant acquisitions in 2014, including district manager cost, travel, and restaurant manager training. In addition, bonus expense was $2.3 million higher based on our performance compared to essentially no expense in the second quarter of 2014.

As a percentage of restaurant sales, general and administrative expenses increased 77 basis points to 5.9%, as the higher bonus expense offset the favorable leveraging and all other G&A costs.

Depreciation and amortization was $9.8 million in the second quarter, an increase from $9.0 million in the prior year period, due primarily to remodeling initiatives and our acquisition activity over the past year. As a percentage of restaurant sales, depreciation and amortization decreased 90 basis points to 4.5%.

Interest expense held steady at $4.7 million compared to the same period last year. Borrowing cost on the 8% senior secured second lien notes issued during the second quarter are 325 basis points lower than the old notes. This interest savings is being partially offset by the increased borrowings used to increase our available capital. Related to the refinancing, we recorded a $12.6 million charge for the tender and redemption premium to repurchase and redeem the old notes and to write-off unamortized deferred financing costs from the previous financing.

Income from operations, which is before the loss on extinguishment of debt, increased significantly from $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2014 to $12.4 million in the second quarter of this year.

Net loss for the second quarter was $5 million due to the $12.6 million charge related to the debt extinguishment. The net loss in the second quarter last year was $1.9 million, which included $1.2 million income tax benefit. No benefit from income taxes was recorded in 2015 since we have recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets.

At this time, we do not anticipate recording any income tax benefits or expense in 2015. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $61 million with total outstanding debt of $209.2 million. Total capital expenditures during the second quarter were $13.6 million and included $10.9 million for remodeling 28 restaurants.

Finally, based on our results for the first half, and our outlook for the remainder of the year, we are revising our guidance for 2015, which, as a reminder, is a 53-week fiscal period.

Total restaurant sales are expected to be $830 million to $845 million, compared to $815 million to $830 million previously estimated. Comparable restaurant sales on a comparable 52-week basis are expected to increase between 5% and 7%, compared to 3% to 5% previously estimated.

Commodity costs are now expected to decrease 1.5% to 2.5% compared to an increase of 1% to 2% previously estimated. As I just mentioned, we anticipate these costs to be lower than our prior expectations.

General and administrative expenses, excluding stock compensation costs, are expected to be $47 million to $49 million and have increased due to the higher bonus expense, given our improved financial performance.

We previously estimated these costs will be $44 million to $46 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to now be between $60 million and $65 million and increase from our prior guidance of $48 million to $52 million.

Capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, are expected to be approximately $50 million to $55 million, including $38 million to $42 million to remodel 90 to 95 restaurants and to scrape and rebuild another four restaurants. Capital expenditures were previously estimated to be $45 million to $50 million.

And lastly, we expect to close up to 25 restaurants, 20 of which were already closed in the first half of this year.

So, as Dan said, we had a very good quarter. Sales were robust and we're able to effectively leverage the strong top line increases to substantially higher operating income and adjusted EBITDA. We have also meaningfully increased our guidance for the full year based on these results, along with our revised outlook for the balance of the year. And that concludes our prepared remarks. So, we now open the line for questions. [Operator Instructions]

We will go first to Will Slabaugh from Stephens Inc.

Yeah, thanks guys and congrats on the great quarter. Wanted to ask you first about the improvement we're seeing in same-store sales and margins at the acquired restaurants, which continues to outpace the system. I know it may be a tough question to answer just given the multiple acquisitions baked into that group of stores. But can you talk just kind of broadly about where you are in that process of improving the margins and the sales in the acquired restaurants?

Yeah, the cap store numbers that I talked to were for the units that were acquired in 2012, which as we said are performing at a higher rate. The stores acquired last year are not in the comp base yet, with the exception of I think four restaurants. But obviously, it's clear that in the case of 2012 acquisitions, we're seeing improved sales trends in a number of the markets that we entered with that acquisition. As we said, I think, our sense is that it's – we've been at this for three years and steadily improved the operations. Certainly, we remodeled a lot of stores [indiscernible] (15:36) those are contributing.

In terms of their margins, I think they are pretty close to where they should be at their respective volume levels. There may be still be a few basis points of cost of sales, but I'd say we are mostly there. The restaurants we acquired over the last year, for starters, were in much better shape operationally. And certainly, we're making much progress there very quickly and, in fact, their cost of sales, as an example, are already within about 100 basis points of where they expect them to be. So, we're making good progress there.

Got it. That's helpful. And then could you talk a little bit more about the pipeline for potential acquisitions, what that looks like out there?

It's difficult to predict that. Will, this is Dan. We are working on – we have four deals currently that are in one form or another of moving along, in addition to the five restaurants that we'll close on this afternoon. So, it's reasonably robust. We're seeing deals. But it's difficult to predict what that flow will look like.

Fair enough. And then last question for me, can you talk just a little more about what your suppliers are telling you about the price of ground beef into the second half and 2016? We can see the futures and then the current spot prices look quite a bit better here in the past couple of months. But just curious on what the chatter is out there from the suppliers are saying.

Well, at this point, we really only seen visibility from our supplier, which is RSI which is the co-op, through this year. But essentially, where we had expected – initially we expected beef costs are going to be in the sort of the $2.60, $2.65 range originally when we came into the year. As you know, last quarter we've lowered that with a view towards sort of $2.50, $2.55 beef. We were at $2.36 now in the second quarter and we've actually come down below those levels. So, our sense is that we should probably at least be where we're in the third quarter – or the second quarter, I mean. So, our outlook is based on about $2.35 price.

Got it. Thanks guys.

We'll go next to Greg Badishkanian of Citi.

Good morning. This is Travis Harbauer in for Greg. Congrats on the quarter, guys. Just a few questions. Can you talk about how same-store sales played out through the quarter? And then can you remind us of the monthly cadence of 3Q that you saw last year in terms of same-store sales and then kind of what you're expecting this year? And then any early reads on trends so far into the quarter?

I would – the sales were pretty steady throughout the quarter. As we mentioned on the previous call, we had April was in the book, if you will, and we said that was about – April was about 11.5%. May and June were, obviously given the overall number, were in 9%, 10% range. And I would say neither one of those months sticks out as being particularly stronger than the other. July, pace has actually picked up a bit. We're a little under 12% comparable store increase in July. But we're starting – to your point, we're starting to come up against some of the higher monthly caps from last year, particularly, we were up 3%, 3.5% comp in the back-half of the year. So, we're starting to come up against some of those months.

Perfect. Thank you. And then can you just update us on the returns that you're seeing from the remodels?

I would say it's been pretty consistent with how we've most recently described these. The average costs on these remodels are running about $4.25, $4.30 on average. And we're still seeing about a 10% sales lift. And so the cash-on-cash return at the investment level is in the low to mid-teens kind of rate.

Thank you.

We'll go next to Brian Hunt of Wells Fargo.

Great. Just a few follow-ups. I mean, Dan, you talked about you're looking at there's four deals that are kind of in the pipeline at the moment. Do you care to put a number of restaurants potentially around those four deals?

I would hope, Brian, that by the end of this year, we will have purchased somewhere in the neighborhood of 20 to 25 restaurants.

Okay, great. I appreciate that. And then continuing on the remodel discussion, after the end of this year, how many remodels will you all still have to complete after the end of 2015?

About 70.

Okay. And after you finish these closures this year, the 20 to 25, does that mostly complete your closure schedule, or is there potentially more in that pipeline as well?

There will always be ongoing closures. I don't expect that they would be in the 20, 25 number. But I think somewhere in the neighborhood of five to eight closures per year is probably something that we'd be – I would be modeling that.

Okay, great. And just two more questions. One, when you look at day part, is there any way you could talk about breakfast, snack, lunch, dinner, and how those day parts kind of hashed out for the quarter from a same-store sales perspective?

Actually it was pretty even across all day parts. Breakfast is performing well. Our overall breakfast, as a percent of sales, is about 15% across the whole company. But the increase actually was pretty well balanced across all day parts, Brian.

That's encouraging. And then my last question is...

Yeah it is.

...if we look at the announcement in New York, a move to $15-an-hour minimum wage for fast-food workers, now granted that all doesn't take place in one year, but over multiple years, can you talk about your plans to manage that potential sizable increase in wages?

Well, right now, I'm only focused on 2016 because, frankly, we're not really certain how this is all going to play out over time. In 2016, the rate was supposed to already have gone to $9. The new proposal is to go to $9.75. We're already at $8.90 and the rate has been increasing $1 a year for the past three years. So, we will manage that in the same fashion that we have up to this point, where you can price for a bit of it and the rest of it you attempt to deal with through increased restaurant level productivity. But beyond that I think it would be premature to see where this is all going to go, because a lot going to happen between now and 2021.

And correct me if I'm wrong. It sounds like there's a lot of legal issues that have to be overcome before this even gets enacted. Is that what you understand as well?

That is exactly what I understand that this is not yet a completed deal.

Very good. I appreciate your time and best of luck in Q3.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty & Company.

Yeah, good morning. I'd add my congratulations on a really impressive performance. On the remodels, you're raising your CapEx guidance by about $5 million. And I think the midpoint of the number of stores you're looking to do is up seven or eight. Are the remodel costs still coming in right around $400,000? Are they getting a little bit more expensive? Can you just add a little color there?

I'd say it's been – well, it has gone up over time, but we've been at this sort of [ph] $425,000 (25:16) number for a while. I think what you're seeing in the average change in the guidance is the fact that four of the additional remodels that we're doing are not just remodels but they're complete scrapes of the building and rebuilds. So, those are much higher than the $400,000, which is probably affecting the average somewhat. Those are more in the neighborhood of about $1 million a piece. So, the average is still, of a regular remodel is about $400,000.

Right. Understood. Okay, great. And then I just want to come back to store acquisition in the pipeline. There was obviously recently a deal in Michigan of significance. And can you just talk me through the dynamics of – was it just given your capital constraints, was it the lack of participation and exercising the ROFR on that? Was it more the size of the deal or the cost that was being paid? Would you be able to give a little bit more color on that particular transaction that you didn't participate in?

We obviously looked at it because we have the ROFR in Michigan. Relative to size, no it's not too big; we've done more than that, as you know, in terms of integrating the acquisitions. I think the bigger issue is really one of timing. I mean, when their deal came through to us, it was probably around the March timeframe, which was before we did the refinancing. So, to your point, we didn't have capital at that point.

Okay. And would you have thought about doing it if you did have that capital in place? I mean, was the cost higher than what you would have normally paid by a significant factor, or is that more just the timing than anything else?

It was more the timing. It was more the timing. We're disciplined buyers, but we've got to seriously consider that acquisition.

Okay, terrific. And I'm sorry. Paul, did you say that you gave a ground beef price that you guys are currently seeing? I think you said $2.35 for the year. Would that mean you guys are currently seeing something closer to $2.25?

Yeah, we're below $2.30.

Yeah, last week it was $2.23 to be exact.

Great. Thanks so much for taking my questions. Best of luck, guys.

Thanks.

We'll go next to Brian Vaccaro of Raymond James.

All right. Good morning and thanks for taking my questions. Just two quick ones for me. On the G&A, I noticed the incentive comp was up to, I think you said $2 million this quarter, for obvious reasons. Can you give us a sense of how much you expect incentive comp to be up year-on-year in 2015? And most importantly, sort of how we should think about G&A growth in 2016, kind of on the current store base and on the current plan, if you will. Obviously, it'll move higher on additional acquisitions. But any help you could provide there would be helpful, Paul.

Yeah, I mean, the increase year-over-year, this year is more substantial than what we would anticipate going forward, primarily because the bonus increase was pretty significant. We essentially had no bonus expense last year, given the performance last year. So, implicit in this guidance is probably about $5 million or $6 million for bonus. As we talked about earlier in the year, we've had some other G&A additions as a consequence, in part from the field support for the acquisitions that we did over the last year. But going forward, other than incremental field cost that we need to lay in as we do acquisitions, generally this overhead should be relatively fixed.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And then, also just the ending store count, can you – do you have that by class of store at the end of Q2?

I do. At the end of the second quarter, we had 281 legacy restaurants, 249 restaurants that we acquired in 2012 and then the 127 that were acquired in either 2014 or 2015.

Great. Thank you very much.

Yeah.

At this time, we have no further questions. I would like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing comments.

Well, we don't have too many additional comments. We think it was a pretty good quarter and we hope everyone thinks so too, but other than that we appreciate your attendance on the call. We'll talk – and update you next quarter. Thanks.

That does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.