Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Vice President, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Frederick Wightman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group, Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only-mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. I'd like to remind everyone that the conference call is being recorded today, Wednesday, November 8, 2017 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, and will be made available for replay.

I would like now to turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should have the access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I'd like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions, guidance or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

When we refer to acquired restaurants today, we'll be discussing those restaurants acquired from 2015 through 2017. While our legacy restaurants include all of the company's other restaurants including the restaurants acquired before 2015.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to the president and CEO, Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. Overall we had a mixed performance during the third quarter. Although we achieved strong growth on the top line, our growth in adjusted EBITDA was more modest as we continue to experience margin pressures from the ongoing level of promotional activity as well as higher commodity and labor costs. Restaurant sales increased 19.4% in the third quarter, compared to the prior year period, reflecting sales contributions from our most recently acquired restaurants, along with a very strong 7.5% increase in comparable restaurant sales.

The gain in comparable restaurant sales consisted of a robust 4.8% increase in average check and a healthy 2.7% increase in customer traffic. Sales were strong across all day parts with notable contributions from both premium and value-oriented promotional offerings. Key drivers included the new 2 for $6 WHOPPER Mix and Match promotion, the premium Rodeo King and Mushroom and Swiss Kings sandwiches along with the Chicken Parmesan Sandwich and our Crispy Buffalo Chicken Melt. These also had a favorable impact on increasing our average check.

Our guests also enjoy BURGER KING's expanded milkshake line with offerings such as the OREO Shake, FRUIT LOOPS Shake and Lucky Charm Shake. Our breakfast day-part continued to perform well. Promotions included the 2 for $4 Mix and Match breakfast sandwiches, featuring our newly – new freshly baked biscuits along with CROISSAN'WICH, various breakfast BURRITO offerings and our three pancake deals for $0.89.

Lastly, our October sales trends remained strong, giving us a good start for the fourth quarter. In the third quarter, restaurant level EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA both increased on an absolute basis over the prior year period, enabling us to leverage a number of expenses given our strong sales performance.

As I said earlier, however, the growth in EBITDA was modest due to continued margin pressures, primarily from cost of sales and restaurant labor expense. As a result, adjusted EBITDA margin contracted 102 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2016. We expect sales trends to remain firm for the balance of the year and have raised our top-line guidance. However, as cost headwinds continue to pressure margins in the fourth quarter, we are lowering our adjusted EBITDA guidance to reflect these cost pressures and our operating results for the first nine months of the year. Paul will discuss our guidance in greater detail.

In terms of acquisitions, we have acquired 60 restaurants in 2017 and the integration of these locations is progressing well. We also anticipate completing the acquisition of four restaurants in Maine over the next couple of weeks and we have a number of other possible transactions that we are evaluating. As detailed in our press release this morning, we have provided some initial guidance for 2018. We expect BURGER KING's marketing and promotional strategy will continue to drive sales and that cost pressures and key inputs namely food costs and labor will begin to ease somewhat in the coming year.

We also expect that reductions in our non-discretionary capital expenditure should generate increased free cash flow available to fund growth initiatives, specifically restaurant acquisitions and new unit construction. We will further evaluate the allocation of these incremental funds and our available capital as we move forward and provide additional guidance in the future.

In closing, we are pleased to be experiencing positive momentum from BURGER KING's promotional offerings, which are enabling the brand to increase market share within QSR. At the same time, we believe that our acquisition growth strategy is integral to building shareholder value over the longer term and can able us to expand margins as we improve performance of acquired restaurants and further leverage our infrastructure.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Paul for our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales during the third quarter increased 19.4% to $285.2 million with restaurants acquired since the beginning of 2015 contributing $59.6 million of sales compared to $26 million in the third quarter of last year. Comparable restaurant sales increased 7.5% reflecting a 4.8% increase in average check, including 2.5% of menu pricing, along with a 2.7% increase in customer traffic. Comparable restaurant sales increased 7.5% in our legacy restaurants and 7.7% in our acquired restaurants.

In the year ago period, comparable restaurant sales were flat. Adjusted EBITDA was $24.2 million in the third quarter, compared to $22.7 million in the prior year period while adjusted EBITDA margin decreased to 102 basis points to 8.5% of restaurant sales due to the factors Dan mentioned earlier.

Restaurant level EBITDA was $37.7 million in the quarter compared to $34.8 million in the third quarter of 2016. Restaurant level EBITDA margin was 13.2% of restaurant sales and 136 basis points lower than the prior year period. Cost of sales as a percentage of restaurant sales was 197 basis points higher in the third quarter compared to the prior year.

This included the impact of commodity inflation, particularly higher ground beef prices, which lingered through much of the quarter. Beef cost in the third quarter was $2.21 per pound or more than 11% above the third quarter of 2016. Beef prices did however recede to $2.09 per pound in September and have remained at or below that level so far in the fourth quarter. Cost of sales were further impacted by higher promotional discounting compared to the prior year period, and by negative sales mix changes due to higher cost on certain new or limited time premium sandwiches. Effective menu pricing of 2.5% in the quarter offset some of this impact. Restaurant labor expense increased 41 basis points to 32.1% of restaurant sales compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a 7% increase in our average hourly rate, and some reduced labor efficiency due to the higher promotional levels. Due to strong sales gains we were however able to leverage our restaurant management costs.

General and administrative expenses were $14.7 million in the third quarter compared to $13 million in the prior year period, and decreased 30 basis points to 5.2%. Note that G&A expenses in the third quarter of 2017 included $0.5 million of acquisition cost and $0.7 million of stock compensation costs, which together were $0.3 million higher than in the previous year. Net income was $2.8 million in the third quarter of 2017 or $0.06 per diluted share compared to net income of $4.5 million or $0.10 per share in the prior year period.

Net income in the third quarter of 2017 included $1 million of impairment and other lease charges, $0.5 million of acquisition expenses and a $0.4 million insurance gain from a restaurant fire. For the same period last year net income included $0.7 million of impairment and other lease charges and $0.5 million of acquisition expenses.

Adjusted net income was $3.5 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to $5.7 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the prior year period. Because we have full valuation allowance on net deferred income tax assets until the fourth quarter of 2016, we did not record any income tax expense in the third quarter of 2016. For comparability to our 2017 results, adjusted net income for the third quarter is presented with a normalized tax provision as if the valuation allowance had been reversed prior to 2016.

Total capital expenditures were $17.9 million in the third quarter of 2017 and $44.7 million for the first nine months. At the end of the third quarter, our cash balances were $43.8 million, and total outstanding debt was $282.4 million.

I will now review our updated guidance for 2017. As a remainder, other than the restaurant acquisitions already completed through the first nine months of the year, our guidance does not include any impact from potential acquisitions that we might complete during the fourth quarter.

We expect total restaurant sales to be $1.07 billion to $1.08 billion, including an estimated 3.8% to 4.2% growth in comparable restaurant sales. Our previous estimates were for total sales of $1.05 billion to $1.07 billion with comparable restaurant sales up 2% to 3%.

Commodity costs are expected to increase 3% to 4% including a 9% to 10% increase in beef cost, previously 2% to 4% for commodity cost inflation including an 8% to 10% increase in beef costs.

General and administrative expenses are still expected to be $53 million to $55 million, excluding stock compensation expense and acquisition related costs. Adjusted EBITDA is now expected to be $85 million to $90 million, previously estimated at $90 million to $95 million.

Our effective income tax rate is estimated to be negative 6% to negative 8%. Previously, this was 18% to 20%. Capital expenditures are expected to be $75 million to $85 million, which includes remodeling a total of 30 to 35 restaurants, rebuilding 5 to 7 restaurants and the construction is 12 to 14 new units, including 2 to 3 relocations of existing restaurants. Capital expenditures should also include $10 million to $12 million for non-recurring investments in new kitchen production and product holding systems, new training systems and certain POS system upgrades. Previously, our total capital expenditure guidance was estimated to be $65 million to $85 million. Lastly, we plan to close 20 to 22 restaurants, of which 17 had been closed at the end of the third quarter. Our previous estimate was for the closing of 15 to 20 restaurants.

As Dan indicated, the press release includes some initial guidance for 2018, which I will quickly review. These estimates do not include any impact from the potential acquisitions. This outlook may be further refined and expanded when we release our fourth quarter financial results in late February. We expect total restaurant sales to be $1.12 billion to $1.15 billion including a comparable restaurant sales increase of 3% to 5%. Commodity cost increases are expected to be somewhat more benign in 2018 and although restaurant wage pressures are expected to continue, wage inflation is expected to be somewhat lower than in 2017. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $90 million to $100 million. And lastly capital expenditures before discretionary growth-related expenditures, namely new restaurant development and acquisitions are expected to be $45 million to $50 million.

And that concludes our prepared remarks. So, with that operator, let's go ahead and open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Bryan Hunt with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you for your time. First of all, I'd like to maybe touch on the same-store sales in October. Based on your guidance, at least for fourth quarter, I would put same-store sales at least at 4%. Is that a reasonable point? Is my math working correctly?

Yeah. I think so. I mean I think the implied guidance is consistent with your math, Bryan.

Okay. And can you just tell us how October is from a same-store sales perspective?

We're not going to disclose the actual number. We are in the high single-digits.

Great.

And in fact, the two-year trends have actually accelerated really since August. As you know our comps were relatively flat in the third quarter 2016 and we're up by I think about little over 3% in the fourth quarter. So the fact that we're comping at that level against more challenging comparisons I think makes us feel pretty good.

Great. My next question is you know beef has been a headwind and it sounds like at least that headwind is slowing. Is there anything you know mix-wise that's happening on the menu, either protein or promotional that'll cause wither one commodity cost inflation to decrease and/or mix to improve as we look forward?

Yeah. I'd say, we're really seeing a shift into two things. We're selling a lot more WHOPPERs obviously because of the 2 for $6 promotion. And then the volume of chicken has gone up because of the launch of new Crispy Chicken Sandwich and a whole product line really based around that. And that selling has been very successful, and I think our view is that the focus in next year will be concentrated increasingly on the chicken side of the menu.

Fantastic. And then labor costs up 7% on an hourly basis, very stiff headwind. Would you say you've achieved the peak here and you'd expect kind of labor costs to normalize maybe closer to the 3% range going forward?

No, I think we expect there to be some continued pressures. I think our view is not at the level that we've seen this year, but certainly still maybe in the 4% or 5% range next year is our outlook at this point.

And then, you gave us color on next year. Is there any closures worked into that guidance? And if so, can you give us an idea what the range is?

The answer is yes. There are some closures planned for next year. The number I would say is relatively comparable to what we're closing this year, 15 to 20 restaurants approximately. The impact of those are pretty nominal however, because they're obviously – they're not negative cash flow but they're very low EBITDA stores. I think that it's less than $0.5 million of EBITDA that's tied to the closures.

Fantastic. And then my last question is, how would you describe the pipeline of acquisitions? It sounds like you said, in your prepared remarks, there's like four or so, you have in Maine that you think you'd close at some point in this quarter. But based on the level of acquisitions you've made this year and you've required 60 restaurants, do you think that the pipeline is robust enough to match that number again in 2018?

Yes.

Okay. That's it from me. I'll hand it off. Best of luck.

Thanks, Bryan.

Thank you. And we can go next to Greg Badishkanian with Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. This is actually Fred Wightman on for Greg. I think, you said that pricing was 2.5% in the quarter. First of all, is that correct? And then could you just talk about how much more room you think there is to increase that given some of the margin pressure you're seeing?

Yes, that's correct. The effective pricing was 2.5% in the third quarter. We've maintained that level or maybe slightly above that in the fourth quarter. Right now, given the price increases we've taken, we think would be about 2% for next year and like we'd try to drive that little bit over that.

Okay. Great. And then I think this is sort of the second quarter or third quarter you've mentioned higher promotional costs just pressuring margins. How are you sort of thinking about the headwinds there moving forward?

Well I think certainly one of the reasons I think our lower guidance this year is that the promotional levels have stayed at somewhat higher levels than we anticipated. We actually increased the level of promotions sequentially between the second and third quarter. I think our view at this point is that the promotions will continue at comparable levels to where we are.

Okay. That makes sense. And just from an industry perspective, a lot of attention to delivery, have you seen anything from a competitive standpoint as far as that impacting markets, where you compete with some of the bigger QSR burger guys?

This is Dan. The answer is no.

Great. Thank you.

All right. We can go next to Will Slabaugh with Stephens, Inc. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thanks guys. I had a follow-up on the tax rate comment that you made that being negative this year and I think because of tax credits. So, I'm curious if you could give me a little bit more color there. And then what the cash flow impact is going to be from that for the year?

There's no impact on cash flows. As you know, we've got NOLs. And what's happening is, because we've lowered the guidance a little bit, the pre-tax number, the credits in relation to the pre-tax numbers are disproportionately high, which is creating an anomaly in the rate.

Got it. Got it. And then on the cost of goods impact from the promotions that you mentioned, I wanted to sort of parse out if I could the promotional cadence I guess or the degree of their promotion that you're seeing now versus what you've seen historically, pressuring your cost of goods versus simply we're focusing on some things that are a little bit more beef sensitive, i.e. you're selling more WHOPPERs et cetera. So, how would you characterize your COGS being impacted by these promotions being more because of beef or more because we're just simply promoting one?

It's a little bit of both to be honest. Now the good news is beef prices have receded, and so that's becoming less of a factor and actually sequentially for the third and fourth quarter, it should help cost of sales. But obviously the main driver is the promotions themselves and sequentially, we're a little bit higher in the third quarter than we were earlier in the year and certainly compared to last year. And I think we'll start lapping that once we get probably past the fourth quarter, but that's primarily what's driving it.

Got you. And then as far as the store closures that you've mentioned raising those just slightly. Are any of those cash flow positive in any significant way?

Not in a significant way. I mean, I would characterize similar to how I just described the 2018 closures. I mean, we're not closing restaurants, obviously. They're making a lot of cash, it's just they're just marginal units at this point, and that's severely negative, they're breakeven kind of range. And it's just they're in [indiscernible] (22:58) where it doesn't make sense to reinvest and do remodels and then invest additional capital.

Makes sense. And then last thing I had was on labor inflation. So you mentioned hopefully that's a little bit lower in 2018. Can you walk us through the thinking there in terms of why we're kind of peaking this year? Why that acceleration has occurred and it seems like even end of 3Q probably a little bit maybe worse than what we thought and then why that may come down a little bit for next year?

Yeah. This is Dan. There are two parts to the wage inflation. One is minimum wage increases and the other is the competitive environment. In New York State, where we have 130-some stores, the minimum wage went up 9.3% 2017 compared to 2016 and will go up another 9.3% 2018 compared to 2017. So that obviously has an embedded effect not only in terms of the hourly rates, but also in terms of putting a little pressure on management salaries, because we have some compression.

The reason that we think it will be a tick lower in 2018 compared to 2017 is we're not seeing as much competitive pressure in terms of wages in certain other markets. So that's going to somewhat offset the minimum wage increase in New York, and we don't have significant minimum wage adjustments in any other state in which we do business.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And we can go next to Brian Vaccaro with Raymond James. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you and good morning. On the fourth quarter comps I appreciate the disclosure on October. Can you remind me, did your year-over-year comparisons get more difficult as you moved through November and December, and/or were mostly comp trends basically stable in the fourth quarter last year?

They were stronger in October and November. The month that perhaps is lower would be December, so were actually lapped by – in October we'd lapped by one of the more significant months already. And we have already talked about how we performed against that number.

Okay. All right. Great. And back to the third quarter, you significantly outperformed the U.S. BURGER KING system with that gap widening out quite a bit here. What would you attribute the widening out performance to?

This is Dan, again. I think it's probably a function of a certain amount – it could be geographic, because our Northeast restaurants did very well. A certain amount is attributable to the fact that roughly 76% of our entire portfolio now is completely remodeled and re-imaged. And in the New York markets, primarily Upstate New York markets where we did very well, we own all of those markets, and consequently I think from a competitive standpoint we do very well there.

All right. That's great. And on the third quarter labor cost, sorry, if I missed it, Paul, what was the year-over-year wage inflation in the third quarter?

The increase in our hourly rate was 7%.

Okay. And it looks like your reported labor costs, if you look at it sort of on a per operating week basis, it was up closer to 10% year-on-year. Can you help us bridge the gap between the wage inflation that you're seeing and sort of your reported labor costs?

You tricked me into this question last quarter. As I said in my prepared comments, the other one factor that's driving wages. We've also have somewhat lower productivity because of the – I'm not saying it's material, but it's had some impact because of the promotional levels. Because we're obviously producing when you look at in terms of dollars, we're selling more product at the same sales dollars.

Yes, yes. No, that's understandable. And is there also a component to it where you're adding hours on some of the more recently acquired units, is that having an impact on that labor line as well?

Yes. Yes. These 60 restaurants that we have acquired in 2017, still have not met our labor formula and we expect that they will be on the formula by the end of fourth quarter.

Okay. Sorry. That's helpful.

The primary issue is it takes the same amount of labor to manufacture a WHOPPER that you sell at $4.69, as it does to sell two of them for $6.

Yeah. Yeah. All right. Understood. And then the last one for me, as I think about the 2018, EBITDA guidance, it would seem to imply a return to store margin expansion in 2018. Is that correct or is there perhaps maybe some incremental leverage that you expect to see perhaps on the G&A line as well?

I think we would expect both.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. And we can go next to Jeremy Hamblin with Dougherty & Company. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to just explore how you'd get out of this cycle of the discounts, and how you historically have seen it play out. Why you have a little bit more confidence? Because it really appears as though that the industry discounts, which is resulting in all three of the big burger chains, doing quite well on a same-store sales basis, but it doesn't really translate for the franchisees making a lot more money even when you have huge comps like up 7.5%. How do you kind of frame up next year in understanding how that cycle gets broken a little bit so that the combination of menu pricing and strong same-store sales actually translates to better margins? Do you sense that there is- is there discussion at corporate level for appreciating that, what they're doing is great for the franchisor, but it's hurting the franchisees?

This is Dan. I think I can only speak to BURGER KING as a franchisor. I can't certainly speak for the other two. I think the mindset with the franchisor certainly is that they're mindful of profitability at the franchisee level, at the restaurant level. They're not going to see expanded new store development or growth if franchisees aren't profitable.

In terms of – and I also think that the sense is that by the three major players continuing to have a balanced approach, which is certainly some level of discounting, but also new product development that their increase in market share relative to many of the more – the smaller and more regional competitors, and that's the mindset.

In terms of franchisee profitability, if we continued and certainly that comes from growth. If we continue to show good sales increases, and we have a more benign commodity cost pressure and we manage labor, and have less increase in wage rates, slower increase in wage rates then we would expect to see increased profitability.

Okay. That's helpful. Paul, if you could maybe clarify a bit, it looks like you're on track for cost of sales to be de-leveraging about 150 basis points this year. Could you quantify the split of that between commodity cost pressures that are unable to be offset by menu pricing versus the discounting, just to give us proportion of impact?

The answer is, yes, I can talk about. I don't have the year-to-date numbers right in front of me. I'll talk to it I think in the context of the quarter which may probably be helpful. The discounting is probably – the cost of sales have gone up about 200 basis points year-over-year, about 50 basis points of that's being driven by higher discounting relative to last year, which was also high, you'll recall. The commodity impact has been about 140 basis points, half of that due to the higher beef cost. The balance being maybe pork and pork chop this year, bacon and sausage. We've obviously improved the chicken sandwich this year which has had some impact. And then there has been some effect from the mix because of that as well. And those are the big components. I hope that was helpful.

Yeah, that's helpful. And then I wanted to just come to kind of the acquisition pipeline, first start out with your G&A guidance, which you kept flat. You mentioned you've got a small deal closing here in Q4. I think you've got $1.7 million of acquisition costs year-to-date, what G&A number for the full year is at? Is it kind of around to about $2 million even?

For acquisition costs?

Correct.

I don't have the number handy. I don't think acquisition costs are going to be significant in the fourth quarter at all. It is a small transaction, a lot of the work was done before we've got to the fourth quarter. I mean we're obviously handling most everything in house.

Okay. And then as a follow-up question on that. In terms of the acquisition pipeline you've done a bunch of deals this year, not closed as many in the second half of the year. What Dan, when you look at the franchisee landscape in the BK system out there and seeing a lot of people who are not making more money this year even when sales are good. Are you getting more phone calls? Is there a more active pipeline because there is some frustration on the margin front with franchisees? How should we be thinking about that as we inch closer to 2018 in terms of the opportunity?

First of all, we didn't do a bunch of deals this year, we only did two. We did a 43-store acquisition in Cincinnati and a 17-store acquisition in Maryland. So, in terms of, we did the number of restaurants that we had hoped to be able to acquire but we really did it in two reasonably good sized deals.

In terms of the pipeline, I would not characterize the pipeline as a function of franchisee frustration. I would characterize the pipeline as being similar to what we've experienced in the past, where you have second or third generation operators which perhaps think it's a good opportunity for them to move on and do something else. But yes, we are getting a number of calls and we have opportunities, both that we have reached out to and we have opportunities under our right of first refusal.

We've looked at more opportunities in 2017 than we closed on, simply because we didn't agree with the seller's valuation. The things that we're looking at for 2018 so far, the valuations are becoming a little more reasonable. What we saw in 2017 was sellers attempting to value their restaurants off 2015 and 2016 cash flows, which obviously we didn't agree to.

Right. We like that discipline. And in terms of historically when you've seen margin compression like this at the restaurant level, do you tend to benefit more when these deals happen, because I guess as you look forward to next year in theory you're maybe buying at depressed margin levels, versus a normalized basis considering that the heavy impact of both higher than normal labor inflation as well as commodity costs which are up pretty decently this year. Does it typically work out better for you guys in those following years when you acquire?

Yes.

Okay, great. Last one, Paul, since you've given us some helpful guidance here on 2018 on the CapEx front. How does the kind of initial view look next year to kind of in a similar range $75 million, $85 million in CapEx or what is in the plan as it stands today.

Well, the guidance that I've provided was focused on non-discretionary CapEx primarily. So, I mean the range was $45 million to $50 million and this excludes any growth capital i.e. new stores or acquisitions.

Okay.

I think the point of that is, if you breakout the same for 2017, you'll see that our CapEx, the non-discretionary CapEx is probably $15 million to $20 million lower next year, mainly because of the non-recurring CapEx we had this year, a little bit lower level on the remodeling and so forth. We haven't really provided – we won't provide any further guidance on new stores until we get into the February call, but I think you can get a sense for what the free cash flow.

But is it fair for me to assume, I mean I guess the way that I interpreted that was, based on the prior comments that you will have some new development, it sounds like for next year, and some additional remodels. So we should be assuming a higher number than the $45 million to $50 million overall.

Absolutely.

Okay. All right. Fair enough. Good luck, guys. Glad to see those trends remain strong.

Thanks.

Thank you. And it appears we have no further questions at this time. We can go ahead and turn it back over to our management team for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Great. I think we've said enough for the morning. We thank you for your time and we look forward to reporting back later in February again in the fourth quarter. Have a good day.

And this does conclude today's program. Thank you everyone for your participation. You may disconnect at any time and have a great day.