Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Vice President, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
William E. Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group First Quarter 2017 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, and will be available for replay.

I will now turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning. By now, you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions, guidance or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

When we refer to acquired restaurants, we're referring to those restaurants acquired from 2015 through 2017, while our legacy restaurants include all of the company's other restaurants, including restaurants acquired before 2015.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. Total restaurant sales increased 7.8% in the first quarter, reflecting our acquisition of almost 100 restaurants since the beginning of last year. As expected though, we had a modest decrease in comparable restaurant sales as we faced our toughest quarterly comparisons in the prior year. Comparable restaurant sales decreased 0.6% in the first quarter against a strong 5.7% increase in the prior year quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin were lower compared to the first quarter of 2016, reflecting continuing pressure on wage rates, modestly higher commodity costs, along with increased promotions and discounting which accelerated over the course of the past year.

Adjusted EBITDA margin was further impacted by lower margins at the restaurants we have acquired, fixed cost deleveraging from lower comparable restaurant sales, along with the seasonal impact of lower average sales volume.

In terms of marketing, we continued to feature premium products with a 2 for $5 mix-and-match promotion, the 2 for $10 Whopper meal deal, and the new Bacon King sandwich that was successfully introduced late last year. BURGER KING also ended its 5 for $4 promotion in January, and for a short time promoted a Whopper Junior meal deal for $3.99.

Our breakfast daypart continued to perform well during the quarter with a mid-single-digit comparable sales increase. Promotions included the 2 for $4 Croissan'wich deal and the Egg-normous Burrito offering as well as a strong marketing support of three large pancakes for $0.89 beginning very late in March.

Sales momentum improved in March with the launch of our new Crispy Chicken sandwich made with 100% white meat chicken filet on a potato bun and in late March with the introduction of a $3.29 bundle deal featuring two cheeseburgers, a small order of fries and a small drink. More recently, we've been featuring the new Steakhouse King sandwich and a Froot Loops shake, both of which are being well received.

Our comparable restaurant sales turned positive in March and are trending positive so far in the second quarter, with increases in the mid-single digits. We expect that these trends should continue to improve as comparisons ease for the balance of the year and as we gain traction from BURGER KING's recent product launches and promotions.

We have, however, modestly adjusted our 2017 outlook after considering our first quarter results and anticipated cost trends for the remainder of the year. Specifically, these costs have risen recently due mostly to higher prices on imported beef. Although we believe that these costs will gradually subside as we move to the second half of the year, these costs are now expected to be higher for the full year.

With that, I'll turn to our capital spending plans and our growth strategy. As we mentioned in our last call, we have considerably lowered our planned remodeling from the 100 restaurant annual pace we've been on for the past few years. This is intended to increase free cash flow available to opportunistically acquire additional restaurants and for the development of new restaurants.

Having said that, we have somewhat increased our guidance with respect to our 2017 capital spending. After reviewing BURGER KING's remodeling incentive plans, which will lower franchise fees and royalties for a time, we added another 8 to 10 restaurants for our 2017 remodeling plans. In addition, we've increased the number of new restaurants that we anticipate will be constructed and opened in 2017.

In terms of our growth strategy, we completed the acquisition of 43 BURGER KING restaurants in and around Cincinnati in late February, as we previously reported. Our acquisition pipeline for 2017 is also active and we expect to have additional deals to complete as we move through the year. In addition to acquisitions, we are also working on developing a number of new locations and believe that we will have 10 to 15 new restaurants later this year.

In closing, despite macro pressures affecting us and our industry, we continue to execute against our stated objectives and remain focused on building long-term shareholder value.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Paul for our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales during the first quarter increased 7.8% to $239.9 million from $222.5 million in the prior year period. Restaurants acquired since the beginning of 2015 contributed sales of $37.7 million compared to $18.7 million in the first quarter of last year. Comparable restaurant sales decreased 0.6% over a strong 5.7% increase in the first quarter of 2016. Comparable restaurant sales decreased 0.6% at our legacy restaurants and 0.8% at our comparable acquired restaurants. Overall, comparable restaurant sales reflected a 2.6% increase in average check and a 3.2% decrease in customer traffic.

Restaurant-level EBITDA was $27.9 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $30.7 million in the first quarter of 2016. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin was 11.6% of restaurant sales and decreased 219 basis points from the prior-year period. These decreases reflected a higher level of promotional activity since last year, continued pressure on labor costs and deleveraging of fixed costs due to the comparable sales decrease and seasonably lower average sales volumes.

Adjusted EBITDA was $13.9 million in the first quarter compared to $18.5 million in the prior year period, while adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 252 basis points to 5.8%.

Cost of sales as a percentage of restaurant sales was 26 basis points higher in the first quarter compared to the prior year period. This included the impact of increased ground beef prices, which at $1.92 per pound were 2.8% above the first quarter of 2016. Effective menu pricing was 1.8% in the quarter and helped to offset some of the impact from higher promotional discounting.

Restaurant labor expense increased 141 basis points to 33.8% of restaurant sales compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to more than a 6% increase in our average hourly rate and deleveraging our management costs.

General and administrative expenses were $15.6 million in the first quarter compared to $13.2 million in the prior year period and increased 56 basis points to 6.5% as a percentage of sales. The increase was largely due to incremental field management and training costs associated with restaurants acquired over the past year. G&A expenses in the first quarter of 2017 also included $718,000 of acquisition costs, $883,000 of stock compensation costs, which combined was $600,000 greater than the first quarter of 2016.

Our net loss was $5.6 million for the first quarter or $0.16 per diluted share compared to net income of $2.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share in the prior year period. Net loss in the first quarter included $0.5 million of impairment and other lease charges and $0.7 million of acquisition expenses. For the same period last year, net income included $0.2 million of impairment and other lease charges, $0.4 million of acquisition expenses and a $0.5 million gain from a partial condemnation.

Adjusted net loss was $4.8 million or $0.14 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $2.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share in the prior year period. Because we had a deferred income tax asset valuation allowance until the fourth quarter of 2016, we did not record any income tax expense in the first quarter of last year. For comparability to 2017 results, adjusted net income for the first quarter is presented with a normalized tax rate provision as if the valuation allowance had been reversed prior to 2016.

Total capital expenditures were $12.5 million in the quarter and expenditures for the acquisition of 43 BURGER KING restaurants totaled $20.4 million. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $2.7 million and total outstanding debt was $245.4 million including $37.5 million drawn under our revolver.

With that, let me review our guidance for 2017. As a reminder, other than the 43 restaurant acquisition completed during the first quarter, our guidance does not include any impact from other potential transactions that we might complete during the year. We expect total restaurant sales to $1.03 billion to $1.06 billion, which includes an estimated 2% to 3% growth in comparable restaurant sales. Our prior year guidance estimated restaurant sales of $1.02 billion to $1.07 billion with a 2% to 4% increase in comparable restaurant sales.

Commodity costs are expected to increase to approximately 1% to 3% including a 2% to 4% increase in beef costs compared to our previous estimate of a 0% to 2% increase in commodities with beef costs down modestly.

General and administrative expenditures are still expected to be $54 million to $56 million excluding stock compensation expense and acquisition-related costs.

Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $90 million to $95 million compared to $90 million to $100 million previously. Our effective income tax rate is anticipated to be 18% to 20% compared to 20% to 25% previously.

Capital expenditures are expected to be $65 million to $85 million, previously $55 million to $75 million, which includes remodeling a total of 28 to 32 restaurants, previously 20 to 25, the rebuilding of 6 to 8 restaurants, which was previously 5 to 7 and the construction of 10 to 15 new restaurants, previously 7 to 15 and that includes two or three relocations of existing restaurants.

Capital expenditures also include $10 million to $12 million for nonrecurring investments in new kitchen production and product holding systems, new training systems and certain POS system upgrades. We now plan to close 15 to 20 restaurants versus our previous estimate of 20 to 25 closing. At the end of the first quarter, we had opened one new restaurant and closed nine restaurants.

And that concludes our prepared remarks. So with that, operator, let's go ahead and open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Will Slabaugh with Stephens, Inc.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. First a question on the positive comps you mentioned in March and April. Can you talk about what you think has really been driving that, whether it's traffic improvement from some of these lower-priced promotions or bundles that you mentioned or maybe check growth from what seems like a pretty successful launch of the Steakhouse King here recently?

Well, we're seeing – Will, this is Paul – both positive movement in traffic and obviously check's gone up as similar to the first quarter. Well, I think a lot of this has to do with the launch of the new chicken sandwich which is helping to drive traffic, for one thing. Very late or sort of mid-March, we also added another, a value deal, $3.29 combo meal with two cheeseburgers, small order of fries and small drink, and I think that's also helped gain some traction here.

Great. And I want to follow up on your beef comment. You've mentioned that it kind of flipped for you and now we've seen the markets rise what 15%, 20% here in the last couple of weeks [ph] certainly (14:51). So I'm curious, you did mention the higher prices for imported beef. I'm wondering if there's any more color there. And then, what gives your buyers the confidence to say that those costs are going to come back down?

Yeah. We've seen – as I said, we were about $1.92 in the first quarter and it sort of ticked up from there. I think we expect at this point that beef is going to probably be – well it's going to be – it is over $2 now, so we think we'll probably be up 5% to 7% in the second quarter year-over-year and that the expectation is that it starts moving down from there based on various events that sort of caused the beef to run up in – or earlier in the year.

Got you. And last thing I wanted to follow up on the pipeline comment. Just to clarify, I think you said you planned on acquiring 10 to 15 additional stores by year end. So if I heard that wrong, please correct me there. And I was curious if there was anything very close to announcement or if this is a general comment around what you'd expect throughout the next few quarters?

The 10 to 15 comment was related to new construction.

Oh, got you.

Yes. We haven't really given any additional guidance on a number of acquisitions. However, as the years progress, we do have a number of deals that are in the pipeline [ph] that are currently (16:20) under evaluation. And I would say nothing's necessarily immediate to report at this point.

Great. Thanks, Paul.

Yeah.

We'll take our next question from Brian Vaccaro with Raymond James.

Thanks, and good morning. Just wanted to circle back to the comp reacceleration that you've seen quarter-to-date. I understand you're pleased with the traction you're seeing on the new product introductions, but Paul, can you also give us a sense of the two-year trend that you're seeing?

Yeah, sure. As you know, the comps softened up. We had a very strong first quarter as we said, and then comps softened up for the next six months, really. We were basically flat, up, I think, seven-tenths in the second quarter last year and basically at zero in the third quarter. So we're up against easier comparisons, certainly. But in terms of the two-year trends, I would say that we're running at this point sort of – again, we're up against softer numbers, so we're starting to run positive certainly on a two-year basis at this point. We're only one month into this at this point.

Right. So the monthly comparison started to ease in April?

Yeah, there was nothing unusual relative to variations month-to-month in the quarters – in the second quarter last year. We came out and we were slightly negative in April.

Okay. All right. Thank you. And then shifting gears to the CapEx budget, I think you mentioned some incentive programs from BURGER KING. Could you provide some more color on these incentives?

Dan, you want to take that one?

Go ahead, Paul.

No, I said do you want to – go ahead and take that one.

Yes, this is Dan. Depending upon whether it's a remodel or a scrape and rebuild, there is a multi-year reduction in both your royalty and advertising fee. So what we're doing is remodeling restaurants that – it's actually an early remodel incentive. So these are restaurants that we otherwise would be remodeling in the next three to five years. We're actually going to accelerate those remodels to take advantage of the reduction in advertising and royalties.

Okay. That's helpful. And then last one, Paul. Can you share what the ending unit counts were for your legacy and acquired unit basis?

Yes. As you know, we've rejiggered the groupings again, obviously. The acquisitions, as I said, represent the acquisitions from 2015, 2016 and now 2017. The total restaurants that are in that group of stores is 153. So the balance, which I think should be 636, are now considered legacy restaurants.

All right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Jeremy Hamblin with Dougherty & Company.

Good morning, guys. Wanted to ask some follow-up questions on the labor cost. You mentioned, I think, that the hourly rate is up 6% thus far. You also noted higher management costs. I'm assuming that's kind of assistant managers and GMs within stores, and I'm wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on both of those items. How much of the increase in labor costs is statutory versus just a tight and competitive labor market?

And then the second part of the question is, on the management costs, is that increase in the lower-end wage part of the reason why you're calling out management costs? Are you having to raise significantly the wages that you're paying for assistant managers and GMs because there's maybe not enough of a gap between the hourly workers and the managers?

Well, there's certainly also wage pressures on the management wages. But what we alluded to was that we had some deleveraging on the management labor. That's more a function of the seasonality in the sales numbers. First quarter, obviously, is our lowest average volume quarter just due to the winter and the – as a consequence, the fixed costs, which our management is basically fixed cost, we've got some negative leverage on that. We don't expect to see a lot of deleveraging on management during the year, but there are some, obviously, some underlying wage pressures there as well.

We said that the hourly rate is up about 6%. That's consistent I think with where we were running in the fourth quarter and I think what our expectation was when we talked on the last call. And so we are seeing some continued pressure there. It's certainly statutory in some places. New York is a good example. But a lot of it is being driven by the tightness in labor force in most markets.

And then, as a follow-up, when you guys do acquisitions, a lot of times you actually add labor into the stores to make sure they're running more effectively and presentable to your customers, the customer experience.

Is any of what we're seeing on the labor side, one, should we expect that in Q2 that even though you're comping much better that you still would expect a decent amount of deleverage on that labor line item because of that factor? And the presumption, I guess, in the second half of the year is we should be thinking about 50 basis points or more of deleverage in kind of all the quarters?

Yes. I think that's a fair way to think about it until perhaps we get to the very late part of the year when we start seeing these increases accelerate.

Which increases?

The wage increases. The rate of increase was accelerating later in the year.

Understood. Okay. And then just coming back to the acquisition pipeline, and I think what you had indicated before is we should not be expecting any additional deals to close until at least Q3. You did highlight that you've got a few deals in the pipeline with potential to be completed. Does the commentary still stand on that, that at least – nothing until at least Q3 and probably more likely Q4?

This is Dan, Jeremy. No, I would expect that we will see at least one transaction be concluded in Q2.

Okay. Great. And then, Paul, one last thing. Menu pricing, where does that stand today in terms of the Q2 run rate? And where do we – just in terms of what we think it will be the remainder of the year, are we looking at kind of 2% range?

Yes. I think we were at 1.8% in the first quarter. We had a price increase that dropped off [ph] that we lapped (24:42) from last year. We just took a little bit of price in early January and then a small price increase, I want to say, in late March. But we're at about 1.5% right now, 1.5% and there's room for some price changes on select items that we're in the process of making. I don't know what the effect of that is yet. So we're – I think we're hoping to push this to 2% in the near term and I think that's about where we're probably going to be running for a while.

Okay. So probably on a blended basis, not quite to – probably something like 1.7%, 1.8% in Q2 and then...

Yes, for the second quarter, yes.

Okay. And then I guess just based on that commentary around traffic trends, then on a stacked basis, it sounds like you've seen a pretty nice improvement then, or at least a little bit of improvement even on a stacked basis versus Q1.

Yes. We're certainly seeing that in the second quarter so far.

Okay. Good to hear. All right. Thanks, guys. Good luck.

Thanks.

And this does conclude our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.

We don't really have any additional comments. We certainly appreciate your time today, and we will certainly look forward to updating you in another three months or so. Thank you. Bye bye.

This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for your participation, and you may now disconnect.