Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Vice President, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
David Kuck — Analyst, Wells Fargo
Frederick Wightman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Currently, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. Today's event is being recorded, Thursday, March 2, 2017, at 8:30 AM Eastern Time, and will be available for replay.

Now I will turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Actually, I'm the Chief Financial Officer. Good morning. By now you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions, guidance, or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

As a reminder, acquired restaurants refer to those restaurants acquired from 2014 through 2016, while legacy restaurants include all of the company's other restaurants, including restaurants acquired prior to 2014.

With that said, I will turn the call over to our President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. 2016 was a productive year at Carrols, and we were pleased to have been generally in line with our outlook for restaurant sales, comparable restaurant sales and adjusted EBITDA. We also improved margins in both our legacy and acquired restaurants, made considerable progress with our remodeling program and continued to effectively execute our expansion and acquisition strategy.

In 2016, we grew restaurant sales by 9.8% to $243.6 (sic) [943.6 million] (02:22) including $243.1 million of sales from the 234 restaurants acquired from 2014 to 2016. One additional operating week in 2015 contributed approximately $16 million to restaurant sales in the prior-year period; excluding the extra week, restaurant sales increased to 11.9% in 2016.

The QSR competitive environment continues to be characterized by aggressive price point it offers and discounting to drive customer traffic. BURGER KING's marketing initiatives continued to effectively provide customers a variety of value and premium offers in this very competitive environment. On a comparable 52-week basis, comparable restaurant sales increased 2.3% for the year against a strong 7.4% comparison from 2015.

For the fourth quarter, comparable restaurant sales grew 3.2% over a 5.1% increase in the prior-year period on a comparable 13-week basis. The premium Bacon King Sandwich introduced in mid-October performed well throughout the quarter. This sandwich along with our two-for-$10 Whopper Meal deal resonated with customers and contributed to a solid increase in our average check. We also continued the two-for-$5 mix-and-match promotion featuring the Extra Long Cheeseburger and the Original Chicken Sandwich.

We posted another strong performance at breakfast with a double-digit comparable sales increase for that day part, driven in part by our promotional offering of three pancakes for $0.89 and addition a new Egg-Normous Burrito offering and the two-for-$4 Croissan'wich promotion, both contributed to our strong breakfast sales.

In terms of profitability, we increased adjusted EBITDA 16.6% to $89.5 million for the full year from $76.7 million in 2015. Adjusted EBITDA margin improved 55 basis points for the year, due primarily to lower commodity costs, namely ground beef and from ongoing improvements to margins at our acquired restaurants. Lastly, adjusted net income was also higher for the year increasing 33% from $13.4 million in 2015 to $17.9 million.

Although Paul will separately discuss fourth quarter results in greater detail in a moment, I want to point out that we did experience a decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter of 2016, when compared to the prior-year period. This largely reflected the deleveraging from one less operating week, compared to the prior-year quarter, along with a higher level of promotional activity, the impact of ongoing labor cost pressures and higher advertising expense.

As I said a minute ago, we also continue to make progress with our remodeling activities and in executing our expansion strategy. In 2016, we completed 85 remodels and rebuilt or relocated another eight restaurants. At the end of 2016, over 70% of our restaurants featured the 2020 design image.

Moving forward, we will continue remodeling restaurants in the normal course, however, we anticipate that the pace of such activities will generally slow from the aggressive remodeling program undertaken over the past few years. In 2017, we anticipate remodeling 20 to 25 restaurants and rebuilding another 5 to 7 restaurants.

We expect that with the lower level of ongoing capital expenditures that we should have free cash flow in 2017, which we anticipate will provide us with additional capital to fund our planned development of new restaurants and to selectively acquire additional restaurants. In 2016, we continue to expand our ownership of BURGER KING restaurants with the acquisition of 56 restaurants. On Tuesday of this week, we also completed the previously announced acquisition of 43 restaurants in the Cincinnati market, giving us a good start on our 2017 expansion.

In summary, we accomplished a great deal in 2016 in a challenging operating environment, and we look forward to continued enhancing long-term shareholder value in 2017 and beyond, through the strategies that we have already laid out.

With that, I will not turn the call over to Paul for our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. I will begin by covering our fourth quarter 2016 results, and then provide our annual guidance for 2017. Restaurant sales in the fourth quarter increased 5.1% to $240.8 million from $229.1 million in the prior-year period. Restaurants acquired since the beginning of 2014 contributed sales of $66.5 million compared to $46.7 million in the fourth quarter of last year.

Excluding the effect of the additional week in 2015, which contributed $16 million of sales, total restaurant sales in the fourth quarter increased 13% over the fourth quarter of 2015. Comparable restaurant sales increased 3.2% on a 13-week basis over a solid 5.1% increase in the fourth quarter of 2015. Comparable restaurant sales increased 3.1% in our legacy restaurants and 3.9% in our comparable acquired restaurants, and latter primarily consisting of the restaurants that we acquired in 2014. Overall, comparable restaurant sales reflected a 3% increase in average check and a 0.2% increase in customer traffic.

Restaurant-Level EBITDA was $33.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to Restaurant-Level EBITDA of $36.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The additional operating week in 2015 contributed an estimated $4.4 million to Restaurant-Level EBITDA. Restaurant-Level EBITDA margin was 14% of restaurant sales and decreased 210 basis points from the prior-year period, including 87 basis points from the deleveraging from one less operating week. Restaurant-Level EBITDA margins were also impacted by the higher level of promotional activity, continued pressure on labor cost and higher advertising expense.

Adjusted EBITDA was $20.4 million in the fourth quarter compared to $23.7 million in the prior-year period. Excluding the additional operating week in 2015, which we estimate contributed approximately $4 million in EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA would have increased approximately 3.4% over the prior-year quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 188 basis points to 8.5% of restaurant sales, including a 109 basis point impact from one less operating week.

Cost of sales as a percentage of restaurant sales was 15 basis points lower in the fourth quarter compared to the prior-year period. This included the impact from more favorable commodity cost, including ground beef, which is $1.85 per pound, was 3.6% below the fourth quarter of 2015.

Effective menu pricing was 1.6% in the fourth quarter and helped offset some of the impact from our higher promotional discounting. Restaurant labor expense increased 83 basis points to 31.7% of restaurant sales compared to the prior-year quarter, due primarily to a 6% increase in our average hourly rate.

The advertising expense increased to 4.4% of restaurant sales from 3.8% in the fourth quarter of 2015, due to increased spending and local advertising and in 2015, expiration of advertising credits that we've been receiving from BURGER KING, for 2012 restaurant equipment investments.

General and administrative expenses were $14.4 million in the fourth quarter compared to $14.3 million in the prior-year period and improved 24 basis points to 6% as a percentage of restaurant sales. General and administrative expense in the fourth quarter included quarter $426,000 stock compensation expense and $762,000 of acquisition-related costs.

Income from operations was $6.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $11.6 million in the prior-year period. This decrease primarily reflected one less operating week, and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense from the remodeling and acquisition of restaurants over the past two years.

Net income was $29.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, or $0.65 per diluted share, compared to net income of $7 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the prior-year period. This increase was primarily due to the $30.4 million reversal of the valuation allowance previously established against net deferred income tax assets.

Adjusted net income in the fourth quarter of 2016 was $2.0 million or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to adjusted net income of $6.5 million or $0.14 per diluted share in the prior-year period which included the additional operating week, which was $2.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share after taxes.

Excluding the $30.4 million of our tax benefit from the reversal of the valuation allowance, the provision for income taxes was $2.3 million for all of 2016. For comparability, adjusted net income is presented for 2016 and 2015 to reflect a normalized provision for income taxes as if the valuation allowance had been reversed prior to 2015.

Total capital expenditures for 2016 were $94.1 million, including $74 million for remodeling 85 restaurants, rebuilding four restaurants and relocating four restaurants. Total capital expenditures were $28.7 million in the fourth quarter and included $22.8 million for remodeling and relocating restaurants. We also acquired 56 restaurants in 2016, including 27 in the fourth quarter. Our total investment for the year of $48.1 million included approximately $19.4 million for fee on real estate.

We've completed the sale/leaseback of most of the fee properties that we acquired in late 2015 and in 2016. Proceeds from sale/leasebacks totaled $53.6 million for 2016, including $24.2 million in the fourth quarter. At the end of the year, total outstanding debt was $223.6 million, including $13.5 million drawn under our revolver. We also recently amended our revolving credit facility to increase maximum available borrowings to $73 million, which will provide additional capital for potential acquisitions.

With that, let me provide you the following guidance for 2017. I point out that other than the 43 restaurant acquisition completed Tuesday, our guidance does not include any impact from other potential transactions that we might complete during the year. We expect total restaurant sales to be $1.02 billion to $1.07 billion. This projection includes an estimated 2% to 4% growth in comparable restaurant sales.

Commodity costs are expected to increase approximately 0% to 2% including a modest decrease in beef costs. General and administrative expenses are expected to be $54 million to $56 million, excluding stock compensation costs and potential acquisition related costs. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $90 million to $100 million and our effective income tax rate is anticipated to be 20% to 25%.

Total capital expenditures excluding acquisitions are expected to be $55 million to $75 million. This includes the remodeling of approximately 20 to 25 restaurants, the rebuilding of five to seven restaurants, and construction of 7 to 15 new restaurants including relocations of two to three existing restaurants.

Capital expenditures also include $10 million to $12 million for non-recurring investments in new kitchen production and holding systems, new training systems, and certain POS system upgrades. And lastly, we anticipate opening 7 to 15 new restaurants, including two relocations and closing 20 to 25 existing restaurants. Although we don't provide specific quarterly guidance, I do want to provide some directional comments regarding the first quarter of 2017.

I pointed out that we experienced a strongest quarterly sales performance of 2016 in the first quarter. Comparable restaurant sales increased 5.7% in the first quarter last year, reflecting among other things the launch of grilled hot dogs and the introduction of our five-for-$4 meal promotion.

Based on trends early in the quarter, our guidance for 2017 takes into consideration the comparable restaurant sales for the first quarter unlikely to be flat-to-slightly negative.

And with that, that concludes our prepared remarks. So operator, we can go ahead and open the line for questions now.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Bryan Hunt of Wells Fargo.

Good morning. It's actually Dave Kuck on for Bryan. First, wanted to touch on your forward guidance. Just to clarify, you mentioned opening 7 to 15 restaurants. Is that net of the expected 20 to 25 closures?

No. No.

Okay. And what sort of wage inflation are you expecting in 2017?

Our plans are built around [ph] the assumption of about (17:12) 5% to 6% increase in wages. So, it continues to still run about the levels that we've seen in 2016.

Okay. And we've seen some headlines recently, some of your QSR competitors testing out some self-ordering kiosks. Is that – can you remind us, is that something you all offer today or are looking into?

Kuck, this is Dan. No, we are not looking into it and to the best of my knowledge, BURGER KING is not testing any kiosks. They are testing some ordering, mobile ordering and delivery protocols, but I don't know if any self-service kiosks that are being tested.

Okay. And then you alluded to the increased cash flow in 2017 given the lower CapEx, can you just give us an update on the M&A environment. Are there any more or less opportunities out there relative to recent years?

I would say that the deal flow was approximately the same, as what we've been experiencing in the past couple of years.

All right. That's all from me. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Greg Badishkanian of Citi.

Hey, guys. Good morning. This is actually Fred Wightman on for Greg. Just quickly within that 2% to 4% comp growth, how much pricing are you assuming for the full year?

Well, right now, I think we're working with a little under 1.5%, and we did anticipate, trying to work it up a little bit as we [indiscernible] (19:00). I think we would like to get it between 2% and 2.5%.

Okay, great. And then, you highlighted promotions and discounting a few times in the script. You're guiding for commodities to be flat to up for this year, obviously that's a little bit different than the tailwind we've seen past couple of years. Just how do you think the category is going to respond as we sort of pivot from a tailwind from commodities to may be a bit of a headwind?

This is Dan. My sense is, is that the competitive environment will continue to be just that, very competitive. And I think you're going to continue to see a level of balanced approach throughout the year of some new products, as well as a continued focus on value offerings.

Great. And then just one more, I mean any thoughts on the Popeyes acquisition from restaurant brands?

No.

Okay. Thanks.

We'll go next to Jeremy Hamblin, Dougherty & Company.

Yeah. Hey, guys. Congratulations on strong results last year, especially in tough environment. Want to just make sure that I understand that the EBITDA margin guide for this year implies about 8.8% to 9.35%, a 15 to 70 basis point decline year-over-year from what you just did in 2016. Is that almost exclusively coming from labor, I mean, it kind of sounds like you're expecting labor to deleverage maybe 75 basis points to 80 basis points or are there other line items where you're expecting potential deleverage year-over-year?

That's exactly what's driving, Jeremy. As I said, we expect wage rates to be up 5% to 6% at least that's our current thinking and obviously, our sales guide, doesn't quite cover that [ph] and there is always (20:58) some deleveraging [ph] I'd say always there (21:00), but no, there is nothing else really in the P&L that's really worthy of any note.

Okay. And then, not to get too granular on the Q1 commentary, but has there been any noticeable difference here in the last couple of weeks versus what you saw kind of we know that the five-for-$4 launch last year was pretty successful and we think January is pretty bigger. Are trends improving in the last couple of weeks versus where they stood earlier in the quarter?

Yeah. I mean certainly the weather has been outstanding at least in the Northeast for the last week. So yes, we've seen some improvements in those sales. But again we're lapping against some pretty big numbers last year, which is really the issue.

Okay. Great. And then just want to come to the acquisition pipeline and you just closed on a really nice large deal 43 units, what should we be thinking in terms of the potential opportunity for additional acquisitions. How does the pipeline look today, and then, when do you think it's feasible given that that's a pretty healthy acquisition to absorb for the year, is it something where we should be thinking nothing could really happen until the back half of year or how are you guys viewing that?

Yeah. Jeremy this is Dan. And yes, you are absolutely correct. I don't anticipate that we're going to lay in any meaningful acquisitions until at least the third quarter.

Okay. At least the third quarter. And then last thing, just regarding the closure of locations, in terms of thinking about those 20 to 25 existing restaurants, are those just leases that are coming up from 2014 or 2015 deals that now make sense to close? Or just in terms of that levels a little bit higher than what you've seen in terms of the last, I guess, last year certainly in closures, is that just kind of addition by subtraction or just making the groups of stores that you've acquired a little bit healthier by taking away some of the weaker ones?

Well, I mean as you're aware we didn't really close too many in 2016. So some of this is a a catch-up, I think to some degree. But generally, the units were closing that we've acquired recently, there may be a couple. There is a few from the 2014 acquisitions that we knew we would close when when the leases came up and we were approaching those. And then beyond that, there's still something from the legacy group which includes the 2012 acquisitions obviously at this point.

So there is a – it's a fair number of restaurants. I'll tell you the impact of these is probably about $20 million in sales and I think the EBITDA impact from the closures and this includes the ones we closed right at the end of 2016 is probably less than $600,000 or $700,000 plus. They are not having much of the impact.

Okay, great. Can I just... [ph]

That is why we had to close them (24:35).

Right. In terms of the new construction, what are the construction costs running on those new restaurants, the total?

We're running about $1.3 million, excluding land.

Great. Thanks, guys. Best of luck this year.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We will take our next question from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.

Yeah, thanks, guys. A question on trends. You guys showed a pretty nice acceleration this quarter on a one and two-year basis, while the rest of the industry was fairly benign. So within that, I was a little surprised to hear how much of that was ticket-driven with the success of the Bacon King, I assume, being the biggest piece of that. So, wondering if you can talk about what you think the consumer is responding to in this environment? It seems pretty value-driven where you guys are successful on the [ph] outset end (25:31) of that. And kind of what that tells you about the average ticket opportunity at BURGER KING and if you're expecting similar premium pushes in the coming quarters?

Well, I think – this is Dan. It's a combination of as we said in our commentary, the Bacon King has done very well, which has driven ticket, that's for sure. And two-for-$10 Whopper promotion, and as well as the continuation of two-for-$5 has still done very well in terms of driving incremental traffic. So, – and the breakfast, we had a significant increase in traffic in the breakfast day part, though I think that those three items have really contributed to the fourth quarter. For the balance of this year, I see a continued emphasis on both the value component, as well as premium products, some of which will be a variation of the Bacon King, and some will be a reinforcement or – re-advertising, re-promotion of our existing whole premium products.

Got it. And then I wonder if you could talk also about the comment you made around higher advertising expenses. Was this something planned by, by corporate, or is this more of your local advertising that you did on your own?

Yeah. Well, increase was two-fold. One was, we spent more local advertising, that's really driven by market-to-market decisions, and then another component was the fact that we were receiving some credits through the last three or four year, [ph] well (27:14), actually they stopped in 2015, when we were receiving credits from BURGER KING that that it effectively funded some equipment investments back in 2012.

Got you. And last thing I had was, any sort of color you could give us around the tax rate for 2017 or any taxes at all in 2017?

Yeah. As I said the, the effective tax rate is – our guidance was 20% to 25%. The reason it's well, it has to do with the impact of the worker opportunity tax credit, and the impact [ph] on the debt has (27:55) in terms of cash taxes. As you know, we have [ph] store of NOLs (28:01) which will run for some time. So we won't be in a position we have to pay cash taxes in 2017.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Okay.

We'll go next to Brian Vaccaro of Raymond James.

Thanks and good morning. Paul, I wanted to ask about the acquired unit margins. Are there certain investments in labor or repair and maintenance perhaps that might be impacting the margins there in the near-term. And can you just talk about the sales and margin profile of the 43 units you recently acquired?

Yeah. I think, clearly, when we bring these restaurants on board, the acquired restaurants, we certainly see a high level of R&Ms right out of the gate, and it's not surprising, given the sellers not necessarily replacing everything that they should, so that's not unusual, and I expect we'll see some of that in certain areas as well. In terms of the profile, those stores are, I think, averaging in terms of revenues between a $1 million, I'd say around [ph] a $1 million to $2.50 million (29:18), so a little bit lower than ones we bought in 2016, with margins commensurate with those sales levels.

Okay. But no change in your expectations for several hundred basis points of margin improvement going forward?

No. I would say that this group of stores is – they were run pretty well. So, I wouldn't – we certainly see that we believe we will make improvements to the P&L, 200 basis points and they might be at the high side.

Okay. [indiscernible] (29:59) for talking about there is others to come. Sure, sure.

Yeah. I think you know one way we've tried to quantify historically is that the improvements in the [ph] P&L (30:10) resulted in about a multiple improvement in – in terms of the purchase price multiple. I would say that this deal we're probably looking at about a half a ton improvement.

Okay. All right. That's helpful.

Yeah.

I want to ask about the margin outlook and understand your COGS outlook is [ph] for flat to up 2% (30:30), with ground beef down slightly. Can you provide some color on what are some of the offsets there where you're seeing a little bit of pressure?

There is a lot of other items in the basket. They're not huge increase, they're just – the middle of their guidance is well, 1%. I mean, so, generally, we're seeing small increases on a lot of different items. Pork [ph] is there (30:57), chicken, those are the big items.

Okay. Okay. And in terms of your advertising cost outlook, can you help us with that in 2017, are you expecting a continued deleverage there or should that flatten out?

We should actually get a little leverage there. I mean, we will – we'll back off the investment spending a little bit this year. So, I think – when you think about their line items, you should be able to think about 25, 30 basis points of leverage.

Okay. All right. And I appreciate the color on the impact of the closures. What's the cadence on those closures, should we spread those through the year or is that sort of a first half timing?

Well, the 2017 closures as I said 20 or 25 units. We also closed nine units right on last date of our fiscal year which was January 1. So we've got the impact of those as well. So those are already closed obviously. I would say that the bulk of these will be closed by the end of the second quarter.

Excellent. Thank you.

And Mr. Flanders, I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

My closing statements will make as we appreciate your attendance today and appreciate your ongoing support. We look forward to talking to you in a couple of months. Thank you.

That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.