Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Jake Rowland Bartlett — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Frederick Wightman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-answer-session, and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday, November 6, 2018 at 8:30 AM Eastern Time and will be available for replay.

I will now turn this conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now, you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions, guidance or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures which we believe can be useful in evaluating performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation of the comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. As you've likely seen by now, we reported solid results this morning for the third quarter of 2018. We consider our 1.6% increase in comparable restaurant sales during the third quarter respectable in view of the approximate 0.5% negative impact from Hurricane Florence, as well as the formidable 7.5% comparison from the prior year. Total sales increased 4.1% to $296.9 million, reflecting sales contributions from our comp base, the restaurants we've acquired, and new locations that we have opened over the past year.

Q3 product promotions included value offerings such as the $3.49 King's Meal deal, the $1.69 chicken nuggets, and $0.79 sausage biscuit. These were balanced with premium items that included the two for $6 mix and match promotion, the Brewhouse KING and the Sourdough sandwiches. In October, we launched our new crispy chicken tenders which are included as an option for our two for $6 mix and match, as well as our new two for $10 Meal deal. And lastly, we recently heightened our value proposition with the promotion of a 10-piece chicken nugget for $1. These offers have firmed customer traffic trends early in the fourth quarter.

Turning to third quarter profitability, restaurant-level EBITDA growth of over 10% from the prior-year quarter exceeded our restaurant sales growth and expanded margins as we benefited from a 10.2% reduction in beef costs. Adjusted EBITDA was $26.3 million and increased 8.7% over the prior-year quarter, while adjusted net income of $4 million grew 15%.

We have also been active on the acquisition front, recently adding 43 restaurants across five states to our portfolio through a series of three transactions. Recall that we had guided to acquiring 37 restaurants in our last conference call. So, we were pleased to have come in a little higher than that.

We also opened two new restaurants in the third quarter, bringing our new unit growth through the first three quarters to six restaurants. Our 2018 restaurant openings along with the 11 new restaurants opened last year are making a positive contribution to sales, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins. Similarly, the 64 restaurants acquired in 2017 favorably contributed to our results from operating improvements made since they were first acquired.

To conclude, we had solid results in the third quarter and are pleased to be continuing to grow our base of BURGER KING restaurants through acquisitions and new openings. Paul will now go into greater detail with our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales for the third quarter increased 4.1% over the prior year period to $296.9 million. Comparable restaurant sales increased 1.6%, including a 2.1% increase in average check, partially offset by a 0.5% decrease in customer traffic. The increase in average check included 2.1% of menu pricing.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 8.7% to $26.3 million and restaurant-level EBITDA increased 10.2% to $41.6 million compared to the third quarter of last year. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 38 basis points to 8.9%. Restaurant sales and restaurant-level EBITDA margin improved 78 basis points to 14% of restaurant sales.

The improvement in margins was due mostly to the favorable changes impacting cost of sales, which offset some deleveraging on restaurant operating expenses. As a percentage of restaurant sales, cost of sales decreased 105 basis points compared to the prior year period, reflecting menu pricing and lower commodity cost, namely lower ground beef prices, offset by higher promotional discounting. Ground beef prices averaged $1.98 per pound in the quarter or approximately 10.2% lower than the third quarter of 2017 and were more than 4% lower sequentially than the second quarter this year.

Restaurant labor expense was flat at 32.1% of restaurant sales compared to the prior year quarter, as the 5% higher hourly wage rate was offset somewhat by pricing and by lower workers' compensation, medical, and incentive costs. As a percentage of restaurant sales, other restaurant operating expense increased 28 basis points, while general and administrative expenses increased 71 basis points due to higher incentive compensation based on financial performance and higher acquisition-related costs compared to the prior year.

Net income in the third quarter of 2018 was $3.6 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to $2.8 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the prior year period. Net income included $164,000 in impairment and other lease charges, $0.8 million in acquisition cost and $0.4 million gain from insurance proceeds from a fire. For the same period last year, net income included $1 million of impairment and other lease charges, $0.5 million of acquisition expenses, and a $0.4 million gain from insurance.

Excluding these items, adjusted net income was $4.0 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $3.5 million or $0.08 per diluted share in the prior year period. A reconciliation of net income under GAAP to adjusted net income which is a non-GAAP measure is provided in the supplemental tables included with today's release.

Total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $21.8 million in the third quarter and $54.2 million through the first three quarters of the year. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $19.6 million and total outstanding debt was $280.6 million.

And with that, let me review our updated guidance for 2018. We now expect total restaurant sales of $1.17 billion to $1.18 billion, including an estimated 3.2% to 3.8% growth in comparable restaurant sales. This is based on an increase of 0% to 2% in the fourth quarter, as we lap 8.9% growth from the prior year period. Our previous estimates were for sales of $1.16 billion to $1.18 billion, with a 3% to 4% increase in comparable sales.

Commodity costs are now expected to be down approximately 1%, including a decrease in beef costs of 3% to 4%. Previously, commodities were expected to be flat with a 1% to 2% decrease in beef costs.

General and administrative expenses are still expected to be $58 million to $60 million, excluding stock compensation expense and any acquisition-related costs. Adjusted EBITDA is still expected to be $100 million to $105 million. Our effective income tax rate is still estimated to be 0% to 5%.

In capital expenditures, including acquisitions are now expected to be $80 million to $85 million, including $22 million to $25 million for construction of 12 to 13 new restaurants, and remaining costs from our 2017 construction late last year. Previously, capital expenditures were estimated to be $78 million to $87 million.

Expenditures for the acquisition of the 44 restaurants acquired through October are expected to total $39 million to $41 million. We now expect to complete $8 million to $10 million of sale leasebacks. This was previously estimated at $10 million to $15 million.

And lastly, we now expect to close 10 to 15 restaurants in 2018, previously 15 to 20 closures of, which nine restaurants have been closed at the end of the third quarter.

And that concludes our prepared remarks. And with that, operator, let's go ahead and open the line for questions.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Jeremy Hamblin, Dougherty & Company.

Great. Congrats on the strong results. And I wanted to get into your labor costs. I know one of the goals that you had focused on this year was reducing turnover rates, both for the hourly employees but also at the manager ranks, as a way to combat the kind of wage inflation. Can you give us an update on where that initiative stands? Have you been able to make some progress? I know it was a little bit slower in the first half of the year, but any comments you can provide on that?

Jeremy, this is Dan. Our team member turnover has decreased from where it was last year, as well as our management turnover. Both metrics have improved over where they were last year. Our wage rates are primarily driven by the competitive nature of the market. So, yes, we have accomplished our objective in terms of turnover but there's still a lot of wage pressure.

And is there additional opportunity on turnover given the tightness that you see in markets? Or as I look forward to the rest of this year and into 2019, should we still be assuming that there's going to be a fair amount of drag simply because of the tightness in wage rates as well as tightness at the labor markets themselves?

I would expect that our turnover will continue to improve, but I also would acknowledge the fact that wage rates will continue to be under pressure given where the labor market is right now.

Okay. Great. And then just coming back to the one item here, other restaurant operating expenses which delevered about 30 basis points year-over-year, I think I missed just the call-out on the reason for that. But, can you provide some more details on how we should be thinking about that particular line item going forward?

Yes. I think there was just a – in the writing, there's not really anything in particular to call out. We just had a number of items across the board which were -- we had a little loss, had a little deleveraging because of the 1.6% comp which is relatively softer than where we've been running. I think the utilities were up a little bit. And I think the other call maybe was, some of our insurance claims were a little bit skewed, favorable last year more so than there's increases this year.

Okay. So, given the guidance level for Q4, is that a line item we should assume is going to delever a little bit in Q4 as well?

No, that's not how we're doing it. I think it's some anomalies from the third quarter of last year that was causing that more than anything.

Okay. And then beef prices looks like they've come down a little bit. Where are those trending at this point in time?

We averaged about $1.98 in the third quarter, so it was a little bit better than we anticipated. And I would say just generally in the fourth quarter, those have been around $1.90 level or lower. So, a little bit lower – obviously lower than what we anticipated earlier in the year.

Okay. Great. Thanks for taking the questions. Good luck.

Thank you. Our next question will come from Jake Bartlett, SunTrust.

Great. Thanks for taking the question. Looking at the promotional environment, the value-oriented promotional environment, it seems to be getting – it seems like it got more competitive in the third quarter and then so far in the fourth quarter even more so. I'm just trying to gauge what you think the trend is going to be there? And is it something that concerns you that we're kind of moving back towards really kind of very heavy level of discounting?

This is Dan. It has gotten more intense. There's no question about that. And I would expect that as we look at 2019, there will be a balance between discounting and full-margin products. But I would expect that the level of promotional activity will still be high.

Okay. And just as you kind of think about – what you hear from other franchisees or I guess we're all trying to gauge what makes this environment change, what can swing it back to a more balanced approach? What do you think is going to drive that? Is it demand getting better, or is it potentially pushback from other franchisees that have less scale than you do to kind of accommodate this kind of environment?

I think it's a function of the environment. I don't know whether franchisees are comfortable with this or not. If your major competitors are going to continue to be very aggressive with promotional activity, then I would expect that the BURGER KING brand will be equally competitive.

Got it. Dan, that makes sense. And then switching to guidance, you maintained the EBITDA guidance. We have a little more deflation on food costs, you've raised your same-store sales up, or your total revenue up a little bit. So what was the drag? Is it because of the increased promotional activity that we're going to see a drag on the margins, also maybe the answer is the stock option expense? Maybe if you can kind of touch on both those two things that'd be great.

Stock option expense is not included – that's excluded from EBITDA, but...

Right, yes.

...no, I would say that it's a – we're lapping some big sales numbers and I think we're – October has started out pretty well. As Dan said, the promotional activity has elevated somewhat. And so, I think we're a little cautious about what the impact of that might be on margins, as we proceed through the quarter. But at least by October, the traffic and sales have both firmed up as a consequence of the higher promotional levels. And so, we're cautiously optimistic about sales trends and a little cautious about margins, I think simply said.

Got it. And then lastly, for acquisitions, typically the fourth quarter, I believe, historically has been fairly active for you. Anything you can share about how involved you are right now with further acquisitions, maybe whether we should expect a handful more in the fourth quarter here.

This is Dan. I would think that there may be another handful in the fourth quarter. And if it doesn't happen at the end of the fourth quarter, it would be the very beginning of the first quarter.

Got it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

Thank you. Our next question will come from Bryan Hunt, Wells Fargo Securities.

Thanks for your time. I was wondering if you could remind me how many of your current stores are in the 20/20 design and including the condition of the recently acquired base.

We've got probably 80% of our stores at this point, I would say, close to 700 have been remodeled in the last few years.

Okay. And BURGER KING announced their new Garden Grill design concept, and they're seeing nice lifts and expecting franchisees to move to this store format moving forward. I was wondering, one, do you have any of the Garden Grill designs in your system today? And based on what you've seen, layering in the double drive-thrus, automation, touchscreens, et cetera, what's the CapEx spend to remodel a store from a 20/20 to a Garden Grill?

This is Dan. It depends upon which of the elements you put in. If it's simply an interior delta between a 20/20 and a Garden Grill, the incremental cost is probably $20,000 or $30,000. The double drive-thru is a function of, if you don't have one today and you add it, then you would have to expand the drive-thru area and add another digital menu board, so that cost could be another $40,000 or $50,000.

So I mean, is there a range for you to move from 20/20 to the Garden Grill is going to run from $20,000 on the low-end and in the high end closer to $100,000?

Yes. But again, we don't have to move from the 20/20 to the Garden Grill for several years. This mandate is a function of when your franchise comes up for renewal or in some cases, at the 10-year level. So, we just remodeled most of these restaurants, so we will do this as we think appropriate, if we think that there is a reason for the sales lift, but other than that though, we really don't have too many restaurants that are affected by this mandate.

It was a concern. So, thank you for covering that. This new chicken promotion, I guess $1 for 10 chicken nuggets or as they're seeing advertised, 100 for $10. What type of – I haven't done that yet but I imagine my 22-year-old son has. But when you look at that promotion, how is that helping sales? I mean is that an add-on or are you seeing people come in and order the standalone? How is this affecting ticket?

It's primarily an ancillary. If you come in and order like 10 piece, it's going as an add-on. If you're around the college dorm like your son, we do have a fair number of orders for 50 of these things or 100 of these things. So it does happen, but it's primarily an ancillary.

When I look at the stores you acquired, the 43 restaurants in Q3, can you talk about what are the AUVs and average profitability here? Is it kind of typical of your historical acquisitions and the lift you're expecting over the next year?

I would say it's a little bit of a mixed bag to be honest. We've got restaurants, one of the deals there was a little below $1.3 million average volumes and the other two were – the smaller deals were $1.5 million, $1.7 million average volumes. So it's a mixture.

I would say that the multiples are sort of consistent with what we've historically paid, the larger transaction, for the 31 stores, because a number of those restaurants have already been remodeled. We paid a little bit more for those. But generally, when we look at its projections and our opportunities to improve margin, I think we would characterize them as typical to the deals we've done in the past.

Right. And then, my last question is, BURGER KING launched a mobile app in Q3. Over two million users have already signed up, and delivery options continue to proliferate. Can you talk about maybe how you all are set up to handle this? Does it go through a different prep line to manage this process and maybe what the penetration is in terms of mobile ordering and delivery options?

Yes. Bryan, this is Dan again. We actually are not doing either, mobile ordering or delivery yet, because we have a different software package than most of the BURGER KING operators and we're still working with the technology folks from the third-party vendors, so that we can have a fully-integrated system for both mobile ordering and delivery. So, we will probably be engaged in mobile ordering and delivery by the first part of 2019.

Very good. I will hand it up to somebody else. Thanks for your time. Best of luck.

Thank you very much. Our next question will come from Will Slabaugh, Stephens, Inc.

Yes. Thanks, guys. As you mentioned, you are lapping over some even tougher comps in 4Q, but it sounds like you have some things to help offset that and had some at least encouraging commentary earlier regarding traffic. I know you gave us a range from 0% to 2% for the fourth quarter. Could you give us any indication if you're at the high or low end of that now, and your confidence around these new promotions to continue driving that traffic?

Well, I would say that we're above that and they don't necessarily -- into October, we are above that range, but I don't want that to be reflective of our confidence in being able to hit the targets. I think the comps get a little bit tougher as we go further into the year. I think if you will recall, our comps were up 8.9% last year. And on a monthly basis, they got increasingly difficult from October to December. So, I think we're a little cautious. We still have those bigger numbers to lap and all we need is one or two storms in the northeast to sort of knock us off. So, hopefully we're conservative at the end, but that's where we are.

That's good to hear. And also I was curious around what you've been seeing in day part trends. I know you saw – rather if you saw different trends across any of the day parts throughout the quarter that stood out, or any that may have changed direction from prior quarters?

No. I don't think there's anything to call out. We were – in the third quarter, even though the comp was only 1.6%, we were positive in every single day part which has been the trend for some time. So, I would just say it was consistent.

Got it. And last thing just a follow-up on the 10 for $1 promotion that's going on now. Obviously, it was a $1.49 earlier this year and in prior years, and it dropped down. So I'm curious on the way it's acting this time versus the way it acted in the prior rounds of the $1.49 promotion, if you're seeing anything different at all there or if it's fairly similar?

This is Dan. I would say it's similar. We certainly are selling a lot of nuggets at the $1 price point. But as I said earlier, I think there's a mix between it being an ancillary add-on, and in some cases you have people who are buying a significant number of these.

Got it. Well, thanks, and congrats again.

Thanks.

Thank you very much. Our next question will come from Greg Badishkanian from Citi.

Hey, guys. It's actually Fred Wightman on for Greg. Just a quick question on price. I think you guys talked about taking a price increase back in April, just over 2% for this quarter. What is that expected to be into next quarter?

I think we've got about 1.7% pricing in the fourth quarter.

1.7%?

Yes.

Thanks. And then just quick questions on the two guidance items that changed. I think you're expecting a little bit less from sale leasebacks this year, also called out lower restaurant closures. Are those just due to timing or is there something else that led to the change there?

No, that's all timing. I would say our construction has slipped a little bit as we've gone through the year. And so, there are some sales leasebacks we thought we would get done earlier that won't get done at this point. And similarly the closures, some of those are just a matter of timing.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question will come from Brian Vaccaro, Raymond James. Brian from Raymond James, your line is open. If you are on mute, would you please unmute your line now?

Sorry. Still vetting up the curve on the yield tech curve, sorry about that. Just a couple of quick ones for me. Circling back on delivery, it sounds like that's rolling in early 2019. Is it reasonable to assume most, if not all units, will be offering delivery by mid-2019? And just curious on your general thoughts on the sales opportunity that's there and also how you're thinking about it from a margin perspective.

Brian, I don't know enough about it yet to – we've seen some data from BURGER KING but it has been all over the board in terms of whether it's a very urban market or a rural market. And because our restaurants are in totally different areas, I'm not certain yet what we could expect from delivery. So I would not be prepared to give you an assessment.

Okay. Fair enough. On the margin front, Paul, I wanted to circle back on the labor line. You called out I think lower workers – so in the third quarter, you called out lower workers' comp and some other items that offset the wage inflation. Could you quantify those? But then also, is that because those we were lapping unusually low trends last year in the third quarter, or was this year unusually low on some of those items?

I don't have it quantified today. We may provide some additional color in the 10-Q. But, no, I don't recall there being anomalies last year in the numbers. It's just I think that the – some of these things changed quarter-to-quarter from a timing perspective and just happened to be that – in this quarter, both workers' cap and bonuses were a little bit lower at the store levels.

Okay. And I guess, as you think what's imbedded in your guidance on the labor line, at least on the surface it appears that you'd expect for sort of a normal trend, if you will, sort of the mid-ish single-digit cost per operating week trend to sort of resume into the fourth quarter?

Yes. That's clearly the underlying trends for wage rates, clearly.

Okay. Okay. And also on the food cost line, I understand the decline in ground beef that you called out obviously. But, could you help us ballpark the impact of discounts and promos to that line in the third quarter, and how we should think about that dynamic into the fourth quarter?

Yes. I think, I mean, on a year-over-year basis, I would characterize the higher promotional activities is probably -- just trying to get to the right numbers --it's probably 60 basis points, 70 basis points year-over-year. So, [ph] it's not impact consequential (32:52).

Yes. Okay. That's helpful. And then just last one, what were – you say the sale leaseback proceeds year-to-date or what they were in the third quarter, unless [indiscernible] (33:05) in the third quarter?

Third quarter, I think it was about $1 million, $1.6 million I think in the fourth quarter. Plus we had to sale leaseback from the second quarter that was qualified and had not made to sale leaseback accounting in the second quarter, but qualified in the third quarter. So, about a couple million dollars in general.

Okay. Okay, great. All right. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we have no further questions in the queue. So I'd like to turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.

All right. We don't have anything further to add today, but we appreciate your time and we look forward to seeing you again after the fourth quarter. Have a good day.

Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, this now concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your phone lines and have a great rest of the week. Thank you.