Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group's First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday, May 10, 2016 at 8:30 AM Eastern Time and will be available for replay.

I will now turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier today, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I'd like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategies, intentions, guidance or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. Presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute, for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

I also want to quickly point out that we've modified how we're grouping our restaurants for reporting and analysis. Namely, we finally combine the restaurants that we acquired from BURGER KING back in 2012 with our legacy restaurants. We see no reason to continue to break these out moving forward. We will though continue to separately group and report in our more recent acquisitions namely those restaurants acquired between 2014 and 2016.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased to report strong operating results for our first quarter in 2016. Our revenues increased 15.2% over the prior-year period to $222.5 million. We posted a 5.7% increase in comparable restaurant sales, a solid performance on top of the 8.4% increase from the first quarter of last year. Total revenues also included $53.4 million of sales from the 190 restaurants acquired from 2014 to 2016. Coupled with favorable commodity costs, largely due to a 23% year-over-year decline in beef costs, we successfully leveraged our top line performance into a meaningful increased profitability.

Based on first quarter results and our current outlook for the remainder of the year, we're modestly raising our 2016 guidance, which Paul will discuss in a moment. Despite the increasingly competitive and promotional environment, BURGER KING's marketing and product initiatives proved effective in driving both positive traffic and increasing our average check. The brand is doing an effective job, promoting both value and premium products in a balanced way and continues to be creative with its marketing and innovative with its products.

During the quarter, we launched our 5-for-$4 offering, which includes a bacon cheeseburger, four-piece chicken nuggets, small fries, a small drink and a chocolate chip cookie. We believe that this bundled offering is a compelling value relative to other competing promotions. We also continued our 2-for-$5 mix-and-match promotion featuring premium sandwiches like the new flame-grilled chicken burger, the extra long buttery cheeseburger and the extra long fish sandwich.

There were also a number of product introductions during the quarter, but two particularly stood out as they garnered much press, social media buzz and customer attention. First, BURGER KING introduced a new menu platform, grilled hot dogs, which is one of our biggest new product launches in some time. The new grilled dogs included both the classic grilled dog and the chilli cheese grilled dog. Customers are purchasing the hot dogs in both meals and as add-on orders and sales of these products have been effective in building our average check. We also introduced the Angriest Whopper sandwich, a differentiated addition to our premium sandwich line. This limited time offer featured our signature flame-broiled Whopper in a red bun with baked in spicy sauce topped with flaming onion petals, spicy angry sauce and jalapeños.

Our chicken fry platform also continued to gain traction with the addition of [ph] Jalapeño Chicken Fries (04:49) and our $1.49 promotion of chicken nuggets early in the quarter continued to be an effective traffic driver. We also featured our 2-for-$4 bacon, egg and cheese and sausage, egg and cheese for our sandwiches, which have worked well in driving increases in our Breakfast business. And lastly, I'd be remiss to not acknowledge the better weather early in 2016 pumped our sales trends somewhat as well.

As I said earlier, our strong top line performance along with more favorable commodity costs translated well into higher profitability. For the quarter, restaurant-level EBITDA increased 63% to $30.7 million from the prior-year period and included a $5.9 million contribution from the acquired restaurants. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin increased over 400 basis points to 13.8% and adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $18.5 million.

Let me also update you on two of our other strategic objectives: our remodeling program and our expansion strategy. We completed the reimaging of 10 restaurants in the first quarter and expect to complete 85 to 95 remodels for the full year. As mentioned on our last call, we expect to have approximately 75% of our restaurants remodeled by the end of this year and would anticipate a reduction in our remodel spending in 2017 as we slowdown these activities after this year. We also continue to focus on the execution of our expansion strategy. During the first quarter, we completed the acquisition of 12 BURGER KING restaurants in Central Pennsylvania. We also have a number of potential transactions that are in various stages of evaluation or negotiation, and believe that some of these could be completed in the second quarter. We will provide future updates as these deals progress.

In summary, we had a good start to the year, with a good performance – with a solid performance in the first quarter. Sales were strong, operating margins improved considerably, and we increased both our adjusted EBITDA and net income significantly.

I will now turn the call over to Paul for our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales during the first quarter increased 15.2% to $222.5 million from $193.2 million in the prior-year period. Comparable restaurant sales increased 5.7% compared to an increase of 8.4% in the first quarter of 2015. Restaurants that we acquired from 2014 to 2016 contributed sales of $53.4 million compared to $32.5 million in the first quarter of last year. Comparable restaurant sales increased 5.7% in our legacy restaurants and 5.8% at the restaurants from our 2014 acquisitions that are now in the cap base. The overall increase reflected a 3.2% increase in average check and a 2.5% gain in customer traffic.

We effectively leveraged these top-line gains into substantially higher profitability and margins. Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $18.5 million compared to $7.7 million in the prior-year period and adjusted EBITDA margin improved from 4% to 8.3%. Restaurant-level EBITDA increased 63% to $30.7 million. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin was 13.8% and improved 407 basis points from the year-ago period as we levered to the highest sales across nearly every expense line item. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin increased 413 basis points at our legacy restaurants and increased 531 basis points at the acquired restaurants.

Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, was 291 basis points lower in the first quarter compared to the prior-year period due to the favorable impact of lower commodity costs, namely ground beef. This decrease in cost of sales also reflected effective menu price increases of 2.5% and improvements in operating performance at both our legacy and acquired restaurants. Beef costs averaged $1.86 per pound in the first quarter of 2016 and were approximately 23% lower than the prior-year period. We continue to expect beef cost to be down 5% to 10% for the full-year compared to 2015.

Restaurant labor expenses decreased 38 basis points from the prior year quarter to 32.4% of sales due to our leveraging of sales increases against fixed management labor and from lower medical claims. However, this was partially offset by deleveraging in our hourly labor cost from a 5.8% increase in our average wage rate and due to suboptimal efficiency at our acquired restaurants. We expect the latter to improve as we continue to enhance operating effect of this at the acquired restaurants.

General and administrative expenses were $13.2 million in the first quarter, compared to $11.6 million in the prior-year period, and as a percentage of restaurant sales, decreased slightly to 5.9%. These costs increased due to the incremental field management and training cost associated with restaurants acquired over the last year. Depreciation and amortization increased $1.1 million to $11.1 million, primarily due to our ongoing remodeling initiatives and from our acquisition of BURGER KING restaurants over the past year. Interest expense decreased from $4.8 million in the first quarter of last year to $4.5 million due to our 2015 refinancing which reduced our borrowing rate.

Our overall profitability increased significantly. Income from operations was $6.7 million in the quarter, compared to a loss from operations of $4.5 million in the first quarter of 2015. Net income for the first quarter was $2.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $9.3 million or $0.27 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2015. Net income in the first quarter included: impairment and other lease charges of $0.2 million; $0.4 million of acquisition expenses; and $0.5 million gain from the settlement of a partial condemnation ____11:10. The net loss in the prior-year period included: impairment and other lease charges of $1.6 million, and acquisition expenses of $0.2 million.

Adjusted net income was $2.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share, a substantial increase over the adjusted net loss of $7.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share in the prior-year period. As a reminder, we're not currently recording any income tax expense as a consequence of having established a net deferred tax asset valuation allowance in 2014. Accordingly, there was no income tax expense or benefit reflected in either the 2015 or 2016 results.

Total capital expenditures in the first quarter were $18.7 million, and included $12.7 million for remodeling. In addition, we invested $7.1 million for the acquisition of the 12 BURGER KING restaurants in Central Pennsylvania. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $12.3 million, total outstanding debt was $209.1 million and our lease adjusted leverage ratio on a pro forma basis was approximately 4.5 times. We've considerably reduced our financial leverage during the past year with a significant increase in EBITDA and as we've effectively invested the capital raised in 2015 to acquire additional restaurants.

Lastly, I will provide an update to our 2016 guidance. We are raising our expectations for total restaurant sales to $935 million to $960 million from our previous guidance of $930 million to $955 million. Included in this projection is an estimated 2% to 4% growth in comparable restaurant sales on a comparable 52-week basis, which remains unchanged.

Our cost of sales comparison for the year is in the second quarter as we lap a 10.3% increase in comparable restaurant sales from 2015. Given this comparison and the general pause in consumer spending that I think many others have experienced in April, we expect our Q2 comparable sales increase to be a bit more muted than the first quarter. We do however expect the second half of the year to be stronger as our prior year comparisons ease. Commodity costs are expected to be somewhat better than originally projected. We currently expect commodities to be flat to down 2% with beef cost down 5% to 10% on a year-over-year basis.

General and administrative expenses are still expected to be between $50 million and $52 million, excluding stock compensation costs. Adjusted EBITDA is now expected to be between $85 million to $90 million, compared to $80 million to $90 million previously estimated. So, we've tightened this guidance somewhat. We left our capital expenditure guidance unchanged and expect total expenditures excluding acquisitions to be $75 million to $85 million. This covers the remodeling of 85 restaurants to 95 restaurants and the construction of six to eight new or relocated restaurants.

Lastly, we expect to complete the sale-leaseback of 12 properties acquired in 2015 for net proceeds of $17 million to $18 million in 2016. We completed three of these sale-leasebacks for $5 million net proceeds in the first quarter 2016 and expect the balance to be completed in the second quarter. We previously estimated that we would complete 13 sale-leasebacks for net proceeds of $18 million to $19 million.

And that concludes our prepared remarks. So, with that operator, let's now go ahead and open the lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty & Co.

Good morning, guys. Congratulations on another terrific quarter. Paul, I wanted to see if I could just get a little more color on that comment about more muted expectation for Q2. Are you still expecting positive same-store sales in Q2?

We are at this point, yes.

Okay. And if I'm not mistaken, April was your toughest monthly comparison from last year? I think you did at 11.5%...

That's exactly right. You're correct.

Okay. Is there anything noticeable in the trend from a – I know there has been tougher weather in the Northeast in particular with tremendous amount of rainfall, but just generally cooler weather. Is there anything noticeable from that impact that you've seen quarter-to-date thus far?

No. I think you are fair. We gave weather some credit for the first quarter, so we can take some back I guess in April. [indiscernible] (16:16) been colder obviously in the Northeast, little wetter than normal. How much this impacts sales, that's hard to judge, but.

Okay. And then I think comparisons ease beginning in August. Is that right? I know you had a huge July last year.

Yes, July is a big month and then the back-half of the year last year our comps were between 5% and 6%.

Okay. Just one additional follow-up on that. In terms of the nugget deal, I think the nugget deal was brought back towards the end of April, launched at the same time as chicken fries. I know you didn't call that out, but we've heard that maybe chicken fries was not a huge launch as an addition or an extension of that menu line item. But can you speak to the 10-piece nugget deal bringing traffic back, is that still having a similar effect to when you relaunched that or brought it back in November of last year?

That's been consistently a strong traffic driver each time that we've run the promotion. So, yes, it's had some favorable impact more recently.

Okay. And then just a follow-up on beef prices. You said $1.86 in Q1. What is the level that you've experienced quarter-to-date in Q2 on beef prices?

We're running at about $1.91 in April I think roughly. So we're still little bit below, obviously, where we've guided to. So we'll see if our guidance turns out to be conservative or whether these prices do go back up a little bit, which we expect they will.

Okay. I'm sorry last one. Labor costs, it was kind of impressive how you guys levered that in the first quarter given that 5.8% increase in hourly cost. What would you need in terms of same-store sales results to see leverage on labor in Q2 specifically? I know you mentioned that you expect actually better performance from the acquired stores, but would you need a positive comp to leverage labor in the second quarter given that increase in hourly wage costs?

My guess is that labor will be probably negative leverage to some degree just because the cap is likely to be a little softer.

So little deleverage on that year-over-year?

Little bit.

Okay, great. Thanks for taking my questions. Best of luck, guys.

Thanks.

We'll go next to Will Slabaugh of Stephens, Inc.

Yes. Thanks, guys. Wanted to ask on the acquisition pipeline first. I know you mentioned that briefly, but just curious if you're seeing a lot of activity out there and just sort of what your appetite you think may be for this year, and then maybe if you could speak more broadly on an annual basis what you would hope to be able to acquire if that makes sense at this point?

Yes, well, this is Dan. Yes, we're seeing a fairly robust pipeline of deal flow activity, and as we said in our prepared statements, we would expect that some of those deals will close in the second quarter and we've got several other opportunities that we're evaluating that we'll be potentially closing throughout the year.

Great. And then switching gears to the new group, I guess, of the acquired stores that you talked about. So those margins are obviously moving in the right direction and look very good this quarter. I'm wondering how much room you think you have to go there and I guess what I'm getting at is, is there any reason to believe that over time that those margins shouldn't be getting close or equal to what we're seeing in the legacy stores now.

Yes, I mean, again, you've got the 2014 group of acquisitions that were lower volumes and so structurally just because of the volume differences, you're going to have margin differences even as those are operating at full efficiency. What I'll say is the restaurants we bought in 2015 volumes were a little higher than the ones we've bought so far in 2016. We're even above where our legacy volumes are. So those two groups over time should get in closer to where the legacy units are.

I think when I look at what the opportunity here is, if I just focus on cost of sales and labor, as we've said, we've made some progress already. However, we have a ways to go. I think there is probably a good 70 basis points or so of cost of sales to get to optimal levels and probably another 40 basis points to 50 basis points in the labor line. So I think if you think about those numbers in context of where we were on the 2012 acquisition a few years ago, we've obviously made a lot of progress with those restaurants very quickly.

Got it. That's helpful. And lastly for me, just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about sales trends. We've heard a number of guys in addition to you talk about a little bit of softness as we get through March and then especially into April for quick service. So I'm curious if you have any detail as far as is that happening more at a particular daypart, is it happening geographically or is it very much across the board, and do you have any color that you can provide as far as rationale behind it?

No, I don't think it's any one particular day, pardon me, if we call a daypart out, I think the focus on it all would be breakfast. We've comped up considerably at a higher level in our breakfast daypart, so the offset is obviously in some of the late-night business later in the day. So in terms of geography, I think it's generally we're seeing it in various places in Northeast perhaps a little softer.

Got it. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Brian Vaccaro of Raymond James.

Thanks, and good morning. I just wanted to start back on the Q1 comp trends, and can you give some color on the monthly cadence as the quarter progressed, maybe touch on daypart trends, is breakfast still leading the way, and change in relative performance of lunch and dinner. And maybe following on that comment you just made there, Paul, the softness you're seeing later in the day, was that a comment on April specifically or was that back on Q1?

Well, in terms of the first quarter, I don't think I really want to talk about monthly numbers in precise terms, but I would tell you that the comps were reasonably strong throughout the quarter. They softened up a little bit more towards the end of March as we got closer to April, which we've said obviously has slowed up a bit.

In terms of the dayparts, if I look at the first quarter numbers, our comp number was 5.7%, as I said earlier. Our breakfast comp was 10.7%. So a lot of what we're doing in terms of national promotion on the breakfast side seems to be working very effectively. Obviously, they've come out of some other – I mean there's been a shift in dayparts, I guess, is a better way to describe it, because we are positive across the day in the quarter. But I think our sense is that the shift probably comes out a little bit in the late night business.

Okay. That's helpful. Shifting gears to the product offerings and promotions in the first quarter. I guess if we could just touch on two of them real quick. On 5-for-$4 with a few months under your belt now, how is the sales mix trending on this promotion? Any color on order add-ons and general ordering patterns that you're seeing in incrementality to your sales would be helpful?

You want to add, Dan or...?

Yes. I'm not really certain at which daypart the 5-for-$4 is having the greatest influence. We're equally positive across the lunch, dinner and the snack period. So I can't specifically speak to if it's having more of an effect on one daypart or another.

Brian, in terms of volumes I think we're seeing the 5-for-$4 daypart is probably averaging 30 grilled hot dogs to 40 grilled hot dogs a day as high as 50 grilled hot dogs in some cases. There are [ph] add-ons (25:35), the average check is above $5. So inherently there is [ph] add-on (25:40) to the ordering and it's probably taking a little bit of business away from the 2-for-$5 I think is our sense, a little bit, not too much.

Okay. All right. That's real helpful. And just last one also on the grilled hot dog product launch. I think initially you mentioned you were selling the 80 grilled hot dogs to 100 grilled hot dogs a day. Can you give an update on how you are now that you're through the initial period, how those sales volumes look and also comment on the margin profile of this product? Thank you.

The margin is very good. It's primarily being purchased as an add-on. The volumes are somewhere in the 50 grilled hot dogs to 60 grilled hot dogs area now and that, of course, moves around based upon whatever it is that we're promoting on television. It was higher when your hot dogs were promoted, your grilled dogs were promoted on television, and then when we reintroduced the $1.49 and the Angry Whopper, there was a little bit of a shift at that point, but it's still a very strong product offering with very good margins and very good incrementality in terms of check.

Thank you. That's helpful.

That does conclude our question-and-answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing comments.

I don't have anything really to add, but we appreciate everybody's attention today and for joining us, and we will update you and talk to you in another couple months. Thank you.

Thank you. That does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for your participation.