Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — President, Chief Executive Officer, COO & Director, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Bryan C. Hunt — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
James Fronda — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Bryan C. Elliott — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call on the 6 of August 2013. Throughout today's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand the conference over to Paul Flanders, Carrols' Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now, you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which can also be found on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may include comments regarding our strategies, intentions or plan. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and our results.

Please note that during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation of comparable GAAP measures is included in our earnings release.

I will now turn the call over to the President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. I will begin today with a discussion of our second quarter results, provide an update regarding recent Burger King initiatives, as well as discuss the traction we continue to make at integrating the restaurants that we acquired from Burger King Corporation last year. Paul will wrap up our formal discussion by covering our financial results in greater detail and update our full-year outlook.

Second quarter comparable restaurant sales increased 1.4% at our legacy restaurants, marking the eighth consecutive quarter of comparable sales gains. We view this as a solid accomplishment in the face of lapping an 8.8% increase from the second quarter of last year and in light of a somewhat heightened competitive environment.

You'll recall that the Burger King brand embarked on a broad menu expansion and other initiatives beginning in April 2012. Aimed at broadening our customer demographics and lighting the overall appeal of the brand, we continue to build on the success of those initiatives. Our two-year sales trend in the second quarter was the highest that we've seen in several years.

Burger King remained focused on taking a balanced marketing approach, highlighting premium items on a limited time basis while balancing the use of value promotions to drive traffic. As a result, our comparable sales gains in the second quarter were driven by a balance of both increased customer traffic and increase in average check.

Promotions during the second quarter included a $0.50 small ice cream cone, a two for $5 mix-and-match offer for the Whopper original chicken sandwich and fish sandwich, and $1.29 Whopper Junior. Featured premium items included a Chipotle Whopper, a Chipotle Chicken Sandwich, a Turkey Burger, and a Bacon Cheddar Stuffed Burger among others. The specialty coffee menu blended by Seattle's Best was also expanded to include lattes and a variety of flavored iced or hot coffees.

Late in June, Burger King brought back many of the summer barbeque menu items that were launched last year, including the Memphis Pulled Pork Barbecue sandwich and Carolina Barbecue Whopper, frozen lemonades and sweet potato fries, while adding new rib items, including – adding new items, including a rib sandwich, the Carolina TENDERCRISP Sandwich and a barbecue chicken salad.

There have also been a number of premium desserts recently added to the menu for a limited time, including OREO shake and a Chunky Cookie made with OREO pieces. As you could see, product innovation continued to be very robust and the marketing consistent with the brand's balanced marketing approach.

Having said that, it does appear that there has more recently been a modest pullback in consumer spending, and in late June and July, we have experienced more traction on the value-oriented promotions. Our July comparable restaurant sales were down modestly at about 1%. However, it should be noted that this was also against the strong 8.7% increase last July.

In terms of our overall second quarter performance, both legacy and acquired units expanded their restaurant level operating profits and margins compared to last year. Restaurant level EBITDA, which is adjusted EBITDA before G&A expense, was 15% of sales at our legacy restaurants and grew 56 basis points from the second quarter of 2012. This improvement reflects what has been a more benign commodity environment along with our effective leveraging of higher sales.

Turning to our acquired restaurants, we [indiscernible] (05:03) anniversary of the acquisition on May 30, making the year-over-year comparisons a little difficult since both restaurants were only included for about a month in the second quarter last year. Still, I think it is clear that the incremental improvements we are making are evident in our restaurant-level EBITDA margins, both compared to 2012 and on a sequential basis.

Average weekly sales for the acquired restaurants increased seven-tenths of a percent from the second quarter of 2012. However, this increase was net of an approximate 2% reduction in sales from our elimination of 24-hour operating hours and a large number of the acquired restaurants during the third quarter of last year.

We continue to work hard to improve operating results in these restaurants and we are in fact realizing very solid sales gains in a number of markets. However, the overall sales performance for the group is being muted by a few markets where it is simply taking longer to rebuild the brand that made them regain customers. For example, the 113 acquired restaurants in our North Carolina market as a group posted a solid sales increase of over 3% for the quarter. On the other hand, sales in our 42 restaurants in Virginia declined 4.7% for the quarter, as we continued to work to restore the Burger King image in those markets.

In terms of profitability, the acquired restaurants continued to improve and contributed $5.3 million to restaurant-level EBITDA in the second quarter of 2013. Operating margin, which was 6.8% for the quarter, increased 189 basis points from the second quarter of 2012. And even though margins expanded at our legacy restaurants, we still reduced the margin gap by 112 basis points with the acquired restaurants sequentially from the first quarter of 2013.

Cost of sales at the acquired restaurant was 143 basis point higher than the legacy restaurants in the second quarter, and sequentially, this difference narrowed about 200 basis points for the quarter. We believe that this difference will continue to narrow. On the other hand, the gap in labor costs widened about 100 basis points sequentially for the second quarter to 221 basis points. However, this was primarily caused by unusually high workers' comp claims at the acquired restaurants in the second quarter, which we do not believe should be recurring.

We also closed four of the acquired restaurants during the quarter, resulting in a reserve of $1.6 million to cover estimated future rental and other lease costs. These closed units averaged less than $500,000 of sales and has negative cash flow of approximately $740,000 for the past 12 months. These closings, which were planned, will obviously improve our P&L results going forward.

In the first half of 2013, we completed the remodeling of 71 restaurants to the 20/20 design image and now intend to remodel a total of 100 to 110 restaurants for the full year. For all remodels completed over the past year, we are experiencing an average sales lift of more than 10%.

So, all in all, we felt like it was a pretty solid quarter. Although the competitive environment has heated up a bit during the year, we continue to increase sales against some difficult comparisons. Operationally, we effectively leveraged the increase in sales and expanded margins at our legacy restaurants while continuing to improve both operational and P&L metrics at the acquired restaurants.

Lastly, we believe that Burger King's balanced marketing strategy will continue to be effective in driving our business as we move forward.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Paul to continue our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. On a consolidated basis, restaurant sales in the second quarter of 2013 increased 42.1% to $173.5 million, of which $78.2 million was from the acquired restaurants. Total sales last year were $122.1 million, including $27.5 million from the acquired restaurants.

Comparable restaurant sales at our legacy restaurants increased 1.4%, consisting of a 1% increase in average check with no pricing and a 0.4% increase in customer traffic. This compared to a strong 8.8% increase last year following Burger King's initial launch of its new marketing and product initiatives.

Average weekly sales for the acquired restaurants were $21,950, 12.7% lower than our legacy restaurant but increased 0.7% from the second quarter last year. As Dan said, this increase in average sales was narrow about a 2% reduction from the elimination of 24 operations in a large number of the acquired restaurants.

Adjusted EBITDA was $10.4 million in the second quarter compared to $8.6 million in the prior year and adjusted EBITDA margin was 6% in the quarter compared to 7.1% last year. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA reflects positive contributions from both legacy and acquired restaurants. However, margins declined at an overall basis from the inclusion of the acquired restaurants for a full quarter this year.

Restaurant-level EBITDA margins were 15% at our legacy restaurants and increased 56 basis points compared to the second quarter last year. Cost of sales improved 126 basis points, reflecting modest changes in commodity costs as well as favorable sales mix changes and a higher average check. Restaurant labor costs were also favorably leveraged 22 basis points in the quarter. These margin improvements will harbor us somewhat by an increase in our local advertising expenditures.

As in prior quarters, we've provided supplemental data on restaurant-level operating expenses in today's earnings release to enable you to analyze the differences in operating margins between the legacy and acquired restaurants.

Restaurant-level EBITDA margin at the acquired restaurants improved 189 basis points compared to the second quarter last year and improved sequentially by 438 basis points from the first quarter. Also, the difference in restaurant-level EBITDA margin when compared to our legacy restaurants narrowed by another 112 basis points sequentially from the first quarter this year. But we still have opportunities to make improvement. It is evident that we are making progress as we continue to improve the operating results and margins at the acquired restaurants.

General and administrative expenses were $9.5 million for the second quarter of 2013 and were $1.4 million higher than the second quarter last year, reflecting increases for regional and district infrastructure and for training costs supporting the acquired restaurants. G&A as a percentage of sales was approximately 113 basis points lower than in the second quarter last year.

I note, however, that the second quarter of last year included approximately $836,000 in expenses related to the acquisition and $673,000 of legal fees related to our litigation with the EEOC that was settled earlier this year. Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $6.1 million in the second quarter of 2012 to $8.4 million this year due primarily to the addition of the acquired restaurants and our remodeling initiatives over the past year.

Interest expense increased from $2.6 million in the second quarter last year to $4.7 million due to the increase in outstanding debt from our May 2012 financing used to fund the acquisition and to raise capital to fund our restaurant remodeling plan.

Net loss from continuing operations was $3.5 million or $0.15 per diluted share compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $779,000 or $0.03 per diluted share in the prior-year period. It is noted in this morning's press release, our net loss from continuing operations included a charge of $2.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share after-tax for impairment and other lease charges.

As Dan said, $1.6 million of this charge was for a reserve for future lease costs at the four acquired restaurants that we closed during the quarter. However, the closing of these restaurants lay at about $740,000 to our EBITDA, which is the amount of negative cash flow from these restaurants over the past 12 months.

Our effective tax rate in the second quarter reflected a tax benefit of 32.5%, which is lower than the overall rate expected for the year. The second quarter tax provision included a reduction of $355,000 to our 2012 WOTC credits after finalizing these credits when comparing our 2012 tax return.

At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $33.1 million, including $20 million of restricted cash held as collateral for our revolving credit facility. Total outstanding debt was $161 million at quarter-end, essentially unchanged from last quarter. Capital expenditures for the second quarter of 2013 totaled $13.8 million, including $11.2 million for restaurant remodeling. Total capital expenditures for the six months were $27.3 million. 32 remodels were completed in the quarter and 71 restaurants have been remodeled during the first half of the year.

And finally, we provide the following updated guidance for 2013. Given our trends and current expectations, we have mostly lowered our sales guidance for 2013. We now expect comparable restaurant sales of 1.5% to 3.5% in our legacy restaurants and total restaurant sales of $660 million to $670 million for the year.

Commodity costs are now expected to increase only 1% to 2% for the year. We still expect general and administrative expenses of approximately $35 million to $36 million, which excludes stock compensation costs. We closed six restaurants in the first half of 2013 and expect to close a total of eight to 10 restaurants for the full year. Our annual effective income tax rate is expected to be between 42% and 45%, including the carryover benefit of the 2012 WOTC credits that were mostly recognized in the first quarter.

And lastly, capital expenditures are expected to approximately be $45 million to $50 million, including $35 million to $40 million for remodeling a total of 100 to 110 restaurants. Our estimated remodeling expenditures include $6.5 million for the relocation of two restaurants to new sites and for cost to scrape and rebuild four restaurants. Excluding the scrapes and relocations, the remodels are generally still expected to average around $300,000.

That concludes our prepared remarks, and with that, we'll now open the line for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] We have our first question, which comes from Bryan Hunt from Wells Fargo Securities. Please state your question.

Daniel and Paul, good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

Good morning, Bryan.

You saw your performance gap narrow again in Q3 but at a slightly different pace than it has between the legacy store and the acquired stores over the last three quarters. Could you talk about, one, in more detail what happened with the workers' comp claim and then maybe give us some magnitude there? And then two, maybe give your expectations on how you expect that the performance gap to narrow throughout the rest of the year?

Yes, sure, Bryan. The – I'll answer the second question first. We expect that to be at around 200 basis point delta to the legacy stores in terms of cost of sales by midyear and at 150 basis points by the end of 2013. And we expect that that's what we will achieve. That's actually about 50 basis points high – better than what we had expected when we began the year. So we're actually a bit ahead of where we expected to be in terms of the cost of sales management, which is food and paper variances.

The labor issue, which is – as indicated, was primarily driven by a workers' comp issue, and these were simply two claims that occurred in the – in these restaurants that were very high cost claims. So we don't expect again that that's going to be a recurring phenomenon, we had two claims that were well over $100,000.

Okay. Great. And then, Paul, you've talked before about monthly sales performances. Is there any way you can give us the sequential sales trend throughout the quarter? And you've obviously given us some light on what's going on in July a bit. Also I guess, Daniel, you talked about it seems like consumer was trading down to more of a value-oriented mix. I was wondering if you could just expand on those comments.

Yes. In terms of sequential sales, as we said in the last quarter's call, April was about four-tenths of a percent. They got much better in May when we were up about 4.2% in May. And then, as Dan said, we've seen some consumer pullback and a little more escalation of the value messaging in June and July. And June was actually about nine-tenths of a percent negative. And as he said, July is about 1% negative. But those are up against pretty big sales increases, as we said over last year. I think July is – we capped up 8.7% last year. So I think all in all, we're not – the two-year trends still are looking pretty solid.

All right. And then my last question is, what are your expectations for liquidity by the time you get to the end of this year? And where do you see that troughing out as you move through the throes of the remodeling process?

Our focus has clearly been trying to balance how quickly we're running with the remodeling program in relation to how quickly the cash flows from these acquired restaurants are improving. And those two go hand-in-hand. Our guidance originally for CapEx, if you recall, was fairly wide at, I think, 90 to 130 remodels this year and it was purposely – we purposely guided why because we knew we need to flex that depending on how we progress. We've cut the remodeling down a little bit, which is reflective of the fact that we've lowered the sales guidance a little bit, but our intention would be to end the year with cash balances that are in the $20 million to $25 million range.

We're calibrating the pace of the -

I'm sorry.

– remodel – we're calibrating the pace of the remodels, Bryan, based upon where we think the sales are going to be and we kind of – we moderate that and recalibrate it every couple of months.

And is there any way you can delineate the sales performance in between Virginia and North Carolina as well as our – were there any other major regional differences?

That was a major regional difference. And the Carolinas, I think there are probably two issues there. The average unit volumes in the Virginia and the same-store sales in Virginia with all the franchise groups, the Burger King groups, seemed to be a little softer than what we're seeing elsewhere in the system. We got two markets in Virginia. Norfolk is probably somewhat volatile based upon what's going on with the military there. That's a big part of our sales component. And Richmond is the other market. Norfolk is a tad more negative than Richmond.

In North Carolina, I think the brand was in better shape than when we bought these restaurants plus we already had a pretty significant presence in many of these Carolina markets. We've also done significantly more remodels in the Carolinas. Virginia, we haven't even started the remodeling project yet. We've only got two stores, which has been recently done. So I would expect that we're going to start to see some more brand traction in Virginia once we move these remodels along as well.

All right. Great. Thanks for your time.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from James Fronda from Sidoti & Company. Please state your question.

Hi, guys. How are you?

Good morning.

Could you just give some insight I guess into 2014 and I guess how many remodels you expect to do?

We're going to provide that guidance later in the year. As we just said, we're still recalibrating these as we move forward and I think it'd be more appropriate to provide a little more clarity later on in the year.

Okay. And I guess, with commodities the way they are, are there any anticipated price increases going forward?

Yes. In the legacy restaurant, we're going to get some pricing from the acquired restaurant simply by adjusting some of the prices in these restaurants. When we bought these restaurants, there were 278 different pricing tiers -

Okay.

– pricing. So we've recalibrated that and then some. And so consequently, the acquired restaurants have already had about a six-tenths, seven-tenths of a percent price increase, and I would expect by the end of the year that that might be at around 1%. The legacy stores I think that we'll be somewhere between 0.5%, 1% by the end of the year.

Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

Our next question comes from Bryan Elliott from Raymond James. Please state your question.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just wondered if through maybe some of Burger King's consumer research that they do or any other source you might have, any sense of what might be creating this consumer behavior change that we seem to be seeing across much of the US restaurant landscape in the last couple months?

Well, I would guess, Bryan, and you're seeing – you're absolutely right. You're seeing this across all – all of the – certainly, the QSR segment. I think that the economy at least in terms of our consumers is not as strong as what perhaps is being reflected in the stock market and in other areas. I mean, our customers are still very value-oriented and we're going to have to be responsive to that for the balance of this year. Burger King is recalibrating its marketing tactics, and we will certainly be very value-focused over the next little bit. We'll have a balance with premium products as well, but I think that everybody is going to have a stronger value orientation because that's clearly what the customers are telling us.

And a different question while I have you. Part of the brand repositioning obviously is tied to the modernization and remodeling effort. Any sense of where the tipping point on consumer perception is that, hey, this is a different Burger King than it was three to five years ago. What percentage of stores in a market or any – is there a tipping point or is it random market-by-market and even store-by-store?

We haven't really done an entire market yet. So it's difficult to determine if there's – if remodeling an entire market has a different response than if we only did a part of the markets. On average, we're seeing good response to these restaurants that are at north of 10% in terms of an incremental sales lift. So our intent would be to complete markets as quickly as we can, and we're further along in the North Carolina market than we are any place else. Indianapolis, we were pretty far along in terms of getting that market remodeled. We'll have Philadelphia done by the end of this year and then we're going to attack Virginia.

Very good. Thank you.

Yes.

Our next question comes from [ph] Andre Gadelha from Bar Capital (26:33). Please state your question.

Good morning, gentlemen. My question is regarding the weather, if you could comment please on the July weather and if it's been beneficial compared to last year? Thank you.

I don't think that the weather has any significant bearing on our same-store sales at all.

Not at all. I mean, is it something similar to what happened to last year?

No. It's – when you're geographically as diverse as we are, we had certain storms and certain heat waves, but overall I think it's not terribly different than it was a year ago.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

There appears to be no further questions at this moment. Please go ahead with any points you wish to raise.

We don't really have anything to add to this. I mean, we think all in all, it's a pretty good quarter. We appreciate your attendance today and we will talk to you in – after the third quarter. Thank you.

This concludes today conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.