Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Paul R. Flanders — Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Daniel T. Accordino — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc.
Will Slabaugh — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Frederick Wightman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Company LLC
Brian M. Vaccaro — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Carrols Restaurant Group First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, the 8th May, 2018 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time and will be available for replay.

I would now turn the conference over to Paul Flanders, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. By now you should have access to our earnings announcement released earlier this morning, which is available on our website at www.carrols.com under the Investor Relations section.

Before we begin our remarks, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include forward-looking statements, which may consist of comments regarding our strategy, intentions, guidance or plans. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. We also refer you to our filings with the SEC for more details, especially the risks that could impact our business and results.

During today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which we believe can be useful in evaluating our performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation to complete comparable GAAP measures is available with our earnings release.

Please note that with the start of 2018, we no longer plan to separately break out our more recently acquired restaurants since this has become less meaningful as we've grown larger. We will, however, continue to provide commentary for any meaningful impacts from the acquired restaurants that may be noteworthy.

And with that, I'll now turn the call over to President and CEO of Carrols Restaurant Group, Dan Accordino.

Thank you, Paul. Good morning, everyone. As you can see from our earnings release, we are off to a solid start in 2018 from a sales and profitability standpoint and are increasingly confident in achieving our full year guidance as updated in today's release. We generated double-digit sales growth in the first quarter, including a robust 6.2% increase in comparable restaurant sales with momentum across all day parts.

This is a testament to the [Technical Difficulty] (00:02:34) BURGER KING's marketing and it's barbell menu strategy, which balances premium, value and limited time products that continue to resonate well with [Technical Difficulty] (00:02:43). We also posted a strong improvement in both restaurant-level EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, as we successfully leveraged our strong sales performance against nearly all operating costs.

Restaurant-level EBITDA grew nearly 20% on an absolute basis, resulted in 60 basis points of margin improvement compared to the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA grew nearly 37% and resulted in a 118 basis points of margin improvement.

And on the promotional front, BURGER KING continues to enhance its 2 for $6 platform that was introduced last year. In the first quarter, the Crispy Chicken Sandwich and then the [Technical Difficulty] (00:03:24) Crispy Chicken Sandwich were added as options for the 2 for $6 WHOPPER promotion. These product additions have bolstered the platform's variety, popularity and unit sales.

Other value drivers during the quarter included the 2 cheeseburger meal for $3.49 as well as 10-piece regular or spicy Chicken Nuggets for $1.69. Premium offerings include additions to the KING Sandwich line, DOUBLE KING QUARTER POUNDER (sic) [DOUBLE QUARTER POUND KING] (00:03:50), the RODEO KING and the BACON KING Jr. Toward the end of the first quarter, BURGER KING also introduced the SOURDOUGH KING as an addition to the KING platform. All of these new products have been well received by customers.

The breakfast day part continues to grow with 2 for $4 Mix & Match breakfast sandwich offering, the $0.79 Sausage Biscuits and most recently with the now – with the new breakfast SOURDOUGH KING products.

With respect to acquisitions, we closed one store transaction during the quarter and we have two small transactions expected to close in the next few week. And while we are not currently in a position to disclose any other transactions at this time, we are evaluating a number of potential opportunities and we'll [Technical Difficulty] (00:04:37) these develop.

So as you can see, Carrols is benefiting from BURGER KING's product and marketing strategy as the brand increases market share within the QSR category. We have also demonstrated our ability to leverage the related growth in sales and to improve overall profitability. Given our results [Technical Difficulty] (00:04:57) quarter, we have updated our annual guidance as we are increasingly confident that 2018 will be a solid year for our company.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Paul for our financial review.

Thanks, Dan. Restaurant sales for the first quarter increased 13.2% compared to prior year period to $271.6 million. Comparable restaurant sales increased 6.2%, reflecting a 5.9% increase in the average check and a 0.3% increase in customer traffic. The increase in average check included 3.3% of menu pricing, along with favorable sales mix shifts. Adjusted EBITDA increased 36.3% to $18.9 million in the first quarter from $13.9 million in the prior year period, while adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 118 basis points to 7% of restaurant sales.

Restaurant-level EBITDA increased 19.8% to $33.4 million in the quarter from $27.9 million in the first quarter of 2017. Restaurant-level EBITDA margin was 12.3% of restaurant sales and 67 basis points higher than the prior year period.

As Dan mentioned, we favorably leveraged our strong first quarter sales performance against most operating costs. Cost of sales, however, increased slightly by 10 basis points as a percentage of sales compared to the prior year period. This reflected higher ground beef prices, which averaged $2.04 per pound in the quarter, or approximately 6.3% higher than the first quarter of 2017, our low point in 2017.

We were able to offset the higher beef cost and slightly higher promotional levels versus the prior year quarter with modest menu price increases and improved operating performance including improvements at recently acquired restaurants. As you may recall, beef costs were at elevated levels in the second and third quarters last year. Our updated guidance, which I will give to in a moment reflects our current outlook that beef cost should remain lower than last year over the next few quarters.

Restaurant labor expense decreased 24 basis points to 33.6% of restaurant sales compared to the prior year quarters, as we were able to leverage restaurant labor costs due to the robust increase in sales. Although our restaurant hourly wage rate inflation did increase, we were able to offset this as we improved productivity and leveraged our fixed costs, particularly management lever. We also favorably leveraged other restaurant operating expenses by 57 basis points as a percentage of sales and leveraged general and administrative expenses by 55 basis points.

Our net loss in the first quarter of 2018, which reflects seasonably lower revenues in the first quarter was $3.1 million or $0.09 per diluted share. This improved notably from the prior-year periods net loss of $5.6 million or $0.16 per diluted share. The net loss in the first quarter of 2018 included $0.3 million of impairment and other leased charges and $0.1 million of acquisition expenses. For the same period last year, the net loss included $0.5 of impairment and other lease charges and $0.7 million of acquisition expenses.

The adjusted net loss was $2.8 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $4.8 million or $0.14 per diluted share in the prior-year period. A reconciliation of the net loss under GAAP to the adjusted net loss and which is a non-GAAP measure is provided in the supplemental tables included with today's release. Total capital expenditures excluding acquisitions were $17.9 million in the first quarter of 2018. At the end of the quarter, our cash balances were $34.5 million and total outstanding debt was $285.9 million, including $4.5 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility.

With that, let me review or updated guidance for 2018. As a reminder, our guidance does not include any impact from potential acquisitions that we may complete during the year. We expect total restaurant sales of $1.15 billion to $1.17 billion, previously $1.14 billion to $1.17 billion, including an estimated 3% to 5% growth in comparable restaurant sales. Commodity costs are expected to increase 1% to 2%, previously 2% to 3%, including a 2% to 3% increase in beef costs, which were previously estimated at 3% to 5%.

General and administrative expenses are still expected to be $58 million to $60 million, excluding stock compensation and potential acquisition-related costs. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $95 million to $102 million, previously $93 million to $100 million. Our effective income tax rate is estimated to be 0% to 5%, capital expenditures before discretionary growth-related expenditures are expected to be $50 million to $60 million, which was previously $45 million to $50 million.

In addition, expenditures for the construction of 10 to 15 new restaurants and remaining cost from our 2017 construction late last year are expected to be $15 to $25 million. We expect to complete sale/leasebacks of the restaurant properties for $10 million to $15 million in expected proceeds. And lastly, we expect to close 20 to 25 restaurants in 2018, three of which were closed in the first quarter.

That concludes our prepared remarks. So with that, operator, let's go ahead and open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Will Slabaugh from Stephens, Inc. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. I wonder if you could talk a little bit more about the trends throughout the quarter. I know you said you were trending kind of solidly mid-singles quarter-to-date and then we actually had some rough winter weather in the Northeast into March. So, curious if that winter weather had any real impact on your traffic or your results overall? And also any color on how things have been trending through kind of April and May would be helpful as well as if you would want to speaking to that?

Sure. Hey, Will. This is Paul. Yeah, I mean, sequentially through the quarter, probably our strongest month was January. If you recall in 2017, we get out to a little slow start, given the nature of the promotions early in January, so this year we [Technical Difficulty] (00:12:28) the strongest in that month and we were – I would say, February and March were equally – all of those two months, we're in about the same in terms of [indiscernible] (00:12:37). And I think with respect to the weather, yeah, it's always hard to quantify the weather. I think our sense is that we're overly impacted by a lot of the storms, which seem to hit the East Coast, but further east and where most of our markets are.

And I think – then lastly, I think as we go into April, we continued those trends which are – were mid single-digits, but I mean, I will note that the two-year trends have improved certainly as we moved into the second quarter.

Great to hear. And also, just curious on wage inflation, you mentioned that was again a headwind, but that was, I think if I'm looking at the numbers right, probably even a bigger headwind last year. So, can you talk about what that wage inflation number was for you in 1Q and how that compared to what you saw last year?

Yeah. We can expect wages to continue to go up this year with – albeit a little bit lower rate. I would say that in the first quarter, our rates were up between 5% and 6%, so they come down slightly where we were running over 6% last year, as you may recall. The offset was the fact that we were more productive relative to our labor formulas in the restaurants and given the sales increase, we obviously leveraged the fixed cost as well.

Got it. Thank you, Paul.

We will now move to Greg Badishkanian from Citi. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. It's actually Fred Wightman on for Greg. If we look at that full year comp guidance, I think last quarter you'd said, given the strong 2017 you could be at the low-to-mid point of that range, is that still on the table, or I mean have you sort of moved within that range?

This is Paul. I – yeah, I think we're still cautious in terms of range, our sense was it's a little early to retract guidance, but I think we are caution than last quarter and I think we will probably carry that forward, as to think a little bit lower in the range. And I think – and the reason we're saying that is, it's primarily because we've got some strong comps in the back half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, so we're coming up against [Technical Difficulty] (00:15:14). Clearly, if the trends continue, we'll feel better as the year moves on. But I think, for the moment, we're going to remain somewhat cautious in that sense.

Sure. And then if we look at I think the commentary in the prepared remarks, you mentioned that the breakfast day part was still strong. Have you seen any signs of increased competition in that from some of the promotional offers from your competitors?

This is Dan, excuse me. No, not really. I think the – what the competitors are doing is pretty similar to the competition that we experienced for the last several months.

Okay, great. And then the last one, can you just sort of walk through what changed in the CapEx outlook versus last quarter, it looks like it's up a decent amount?

Yeah. And the major change was that, our plans called for remodeling, say, 30 or 35 restaurants this year and we've shifted, or we actually increased the number that we're actually going to scrape and rebuild versus a more traditional remodel. We haven't changed the overall number of restaurants that we're reinvesting in that we're spending – going to spend a little more to scrape and rebuild them, commensurately we'll see – should see higher returns out of that capital.

Great. Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty & Company.

Hey, guys. Congratulations on the strong results. Paul, I wanted to follow-up on that last point on the CapEx and the remodels versus the scrape and builds. What is the average cost at this point, when you're doing a scrape and rebuild versus the average cost of remodel? And then, what is the typical sales lift that you're seeing on the remodels versus the scrape and rebuilds?

The cost on the scrapes is twice what we're spending on a remodel. The remodels are running let's say, $650,000, so the scrape and rebuild is going to be about $1.1 million or $1.2 million, so then we would had quite twice. That is [indiscernible] (00:17:51) so much greater. I mean, they can be all over the board, but I would say, if not [Technical Difficulty] (00:17:58) to see 20% to 30% increase in sales of some of these scrape and rebuilds. I don't know if you want to add anything, Dan.

Yeah. The way we look at it, Will, is – or Jeremy, is you look at the cost of the remodel, the age of the asset and also where the asset is located on the lot. Most of these scrapes are repositioning the building, so that we can add a double drive through, which as Paul said is giving us a lift in sales.

Okay, got it. Thanks for that color. And then, I also wanted to follow-up on the labor point. I know you've run some really strong comps here now for several quarters. It is notable to see this is two quarters in a row where your labor has actually leveraged, and there aren't that many restaurants out there seeing that with wage rates up over 5%.

What's – can you just provide any additional color on – you had a 7.5% comp in Q3 a year ago, but you had 40 bps of deleverage. Now you're kind of even a little bit lower than that on your comp, still very strong, but you saw 20 basis points – almost 25 basis points of leverage here in Q1. Is there something that you're adapting, either in your food prep stations or in how you're running those labor matrices to get that leverage and how should I be thinking about that for the remainder of the year?

This is Dan. [indiscernible] (00:19:39) you can assume that the leverage is going to continue to be favorable for the balance of the year. A lot of this frankly is driven by the BURGER KING promotional strategy. If we're doing a $2 for Chicken deal or a $2 for WHOPPER deal, actually the labor efficiencies associated with that are quite good. But beyond that the kitchen layouts and that sort of thing, really we haven't done anything with and we haven't added any additional equipment. But it's primarily the training that we've done in the restaurants, as well as the items that are being sold under the various promotional opportunities.

Because they're gravitating to these two – a lot of sales of these fewer number of items?

That's right. Yeah, we're selling a lot of the $2-for items, yeah.

Got you. Okay. And then, I also wanted to ask just on the line items, rent expense was flat despite the 6% comp, are you seeing anything there in terms of thinking about how that's going to play out over the rest of the year, presumably comps are going to slow a little bit, considering what you're lapping? Are we just seeing higher rent costs, that have something to do with kind of the new units you're building, any color that you could provide on rent?

Well, rent – yeah, as you said, rent was flat. I think the – if you recall, we had an increase in the – on the rent from the stores we bought from BURGER KING by the middle of last year. The rent went up. We've owned the stores five years beginning in June – well, at the end of May, I guess. And so, those rents increased a little bit, and which was an explanation for where we had a little bit of de-leveraging back half of the last year.

And so, all you're seeing here is, we're just lapping those increases in the first part of the year here. Other thing is, as we go through the year, there's no reason to think for full year, we're not going to – we shouldn't leverage the red line.

Okay. So, that – and then that switch would happen maybe about in Q3?

Yeah. Exactly second half.

Okay. Okay. And then the company has been very successful, obviously with its promotional strategies. As we're looking forward, you guys often times have some pretty good insight into the pipeline. Can you give us any color on directionally where they might be looking, continuing to build out on the KING series. Are there other kind of dynamic product launches that are outside the box that you have visibility on at this point, without getting into specific?

We are – we're very excited about the promotional calendar for the second half of this year.

Okay. And then, last one. The unit acquisition pipeline, you mentioned that you only closed one. You have two active deals, but they are small. Is there anything out there in terms of the franchisees that are currently in the system, that's changed. It does seem like the pipeline of deals has slowed just a little bit. Any color that you can share on why that might be? Is price a factor? Are there other factors that we're not seeing there?

The deal – this is Dan. The deal flow tends to ebb and flow. And what we're seeing now is, we are looking at a fair number of deals currently, more so than what we were evaluating in the fourth quarter or the first quarter. So, I don't really think that the dynamic has changed terribly much. And I think it's simply a function of timing and the flow of these and there are some reasonably good-sized opportunities that we're currently looking at.

>: Great. Thanks for the color and best of luck, guys.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Brian Vaccaro from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Well, I appreciate you no longer breaking out the details of the legacy versus acquired units. But could you just give us some high level color on how each cohort performed year-on-year and maybe quantify the COGS improvement that you referenced in the acquired units?

Yeah. I'm not prepared to give a lot of detail, but I mean, I would say it's fair to say that the margins have continued to improve at the stores that we acquired and while the effect gets lost a little bit, given the relative size to the whole, individually I would say that we've been pretty significant. By example, I think if we look at cost of sales, I would say that overall cost of sales on the groups of stores we acquired at least in the last – say, the last couple of years, year-over-year improved probably 70 basis points or 80 basis points in the quarter and margins at the restaurant-level, EBITDA margins more than that, probably 100 basis points to 120 basis points. So, they clearly – we can clearly continue to make progress as we integrate those stores and they're are positively contributing to both EBITDA and margins.

Okay. Thank you. And on the COGS outlook, I just wanted to make sure I understood your comments there. So, you expect year-on-year deflation on the overall basket led by lower beef in the second quarter and third quarter and then maybe a return to slight inflation in the fourth quarter. Did I interpret that correctly?

Yeah, I think that's fair. I mean, the beef costs were very high. It's been throughout the third and fourth quarters and we anticipate they should be relatively stable for the balance of the year, at least that's our current view. So, yes, the beef would be [indiscernible] (00:26:49) inflationary over the next couple of quarters.

Okay great. And shifting gears to the acquisition pipeline, if I could. I know they were small, but how many units were acquired in the quarter and how many are expected to close in the next few weeks that you referenced in the release?

Yeah. What we said was we closed one – it was [ph] one to one store (00:27:11) transaction...

Okay.

...that was closed and we got a couple transactions for a couple of stores each.

Okay. It's encouraging to hear that there are some facilities with some size to them. [Technical Difficulty] (00:27:29) is there the potential or a reasonable expectation would be that the pace of acquisitions could be 40 or 50 this year, if the cards play out correctly or as you [Technical Difficulty] (00:27:42).

I think that's fair...

Yeah, I think...

I think that's a reasonable expectation.

Okay. All right. And then just last one on the balance sheet, Paul, with the first call option now upon us, what's your latest thinking around the potential on interest rate and potentially restructuring the debt at this point?

Yeah. We'll make any decisions definitively one way or the other at this point.

All right. Thank you.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Flanders for any additional or closing remarks.

No, we have no more comments today other than to thank you for your time and we look forward to updating you in another three months or so. Have a good day.

That will conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a good day.