Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Justin Chan — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Michael Stoner — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Hunter Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone and thanks very much for taking the time to join me on this call. I'm joined on this call with from Ross Jerrard, Chief Financial Officer. And what we'll do is I'll take you through a summary, then Ross will go on to the financial section, then I'll provide some more updates on the open pit exploration and close out from there.

As we are all very well aware, 2018 was not a typical year for Centamin. We were faced with some tests of the management team and the operational team and we had a lot of folks there we had to work through. As you have seen quarter-on-quarter, performance delivered in H2 was a demonstration of the good progress made in returning to carry back to its steady state. We still have work to do. But the open pit performed very well and the underground is seeing improvement, although we still do have challenges with our cascading stopes from the underground. There were plans in place and there is direction and it is taking the right direction for improvement.

Going forward, the year end review gold production was 472,418 ounces. We've put out our guidance of this year of 490,000 ounces to 520,000 ounces. The cash cost production in 2018 was $624 and all-in sustaining costs of $884 an ounce. And we've guided for the year cash cost production $675 to $725 an ounce and all-in sustaining cost of $890 to $950 an ounce. As I said, 2018 was a challenging year for us but we are working through the issues. The open pit is doing what the open pit should be doing. The underground, we have the challenges continuing with the cascading stopes, but everything is in place and the plan, the team to rectify those issues and get the underground back to being where it should be operating.

So guidance for 2019 is split 45% of production in the first half of the year, 55% of production in the second half of the year. Q1 will be a relatively low [ph] quarter course (00:02:17) of between 105,000 ounces to 115,000 ounces, principally with the underground delivering less ounces in Q1. Open pit sulphide Stage 4 of the open pit is the major source of ore for the next three years. And as I keep saying with the underground, there's tighter controls. We've appointed a lot of new personnel. We also have going on in the second half of the installation of the backfill plant, so that we can backfill future stopes.

Financial performance quickly, it was a solid cost performance, successfully minimized cost inflation across the group in spite of reduced production and fuel cost pressures. We generated positive cash flow of $63.4 million through what was an operationally challenging year. We still have a strong and flexible balance sheet of $322.3 million in cash and liquid assets with no hedging, no streaming. We are committed to shareholder returns, and the total full year proposed dividend of $0.055 per share is returning 100% of the free cash flow from Sukari back to our shareholders. In spite of a difficult and challenging year, we are still returning our excess cash flow to our shareholders.

On the exploration performance as well, we've seen resource growth across the group with very successful results coming out of Cote d'Ivoire. We've also seen reserve replacement and reserve growth in the underground at Sukari as well. Open pit reserves have reduced slightly. That's a combination of depletion from mining and also using a higher steel price reserve to the open pit. But underground reserves have gone from 2013, 520,000 ounces now up to 800,000 ounces. So there's been a [indiscernible] (00:04:12) reserve replacement of 1.3 million ounces from the underground.

Sustainability, performance, safety, we've had a 73% decrease in the group lost time injury frequency rate to 0.06 across the group and also a reduction to 0.7 at Sukari where we had two lost time injuries during the year. Despite achieving a zero-harm target for the fourth consecutive year in Cote d'Ivoire in Q1, this year, sadly, we had a drilling contractor that lost his life after being attacked by a swarm of bees. It was a very, very unfortunate incident and we send our condolences to the family.

Environmental side of things, we've had no major incidents year-on-year and we've had a 33% reduction in overall incidents. We're targeting a 50-50 recycled freshwater balance reducing water levels of the active tailings, downstream tailings dam facility. We also have a detailed 40-megawatt solar plant feasibility nearing completion which will go a long way to reducing our diesel consumption and also reducing CO2 emissions and leading to a further cost reduction.

On the education side of things, we are also investing in the future. We've created two university grants, undergraduate masters and Ph.D.s, awarded to outstanding geology students, two in the UK and two in Alexandria in Egypt.

So, with that, briefly, I'll hand back to Ross for the financial presentation.

Thank you, Andrew. I refer you to page 19 of the slide deck. Overall in terms of setting the scene, we have a robust financial strategy. We have a strong and flexible balance sheet of $322 million cash and liquid assets at the end of the year, and this is after the payment of the $28.9 million interim dividend. Very important to us is the reliable stakeholder returns – there's been a sustainable dividend stream of $420 million distributed over the last five years. And importantly, we believe that the dividend returns will continue into the future.

They are stringent cost management and capital allocations. Andrew has mentioned that we have been under cost pressures but we routinely prioritize our capital allocation and are reviewing the cost base. Importantly, we have a self-funded organic pipeline. This next year, you'll see $40 million allocated to exploration spend and it's really underpinning the long-term growth and our asset portfolio.

On page 20, there's a summary of the financial highlights. I draw your attention to the net cash flow from operations even in a tough year generating $223 million of cash has been very good. And importantly, that free cash flow number of $63.4 million which is proposed to be fully distributed back to shareholders has been a good result in a challenging year.

In terms of cost management on page 21, we have benefited from the buildup of stockpiles. That helped us this year. There have been improvements to the fleet scheduling and utilization across the trucks. We've had significant improvements in our warehouse, stores, inventories and working capital initiatives. And there's ongoing renegotiation in terms of commercial terms with our contractors, so we've had some good wins and performance in 2018 addressing that cost base.

Importantly, the quantum of our cash cost of production and all-in sustaining costs, so our cash cost of production of $289 million has reduced by 6% from last year, and equally, our all-in sustaining cost bucket of $420 million has reduced, obviously, with the lower ounces produced and sold, that said, the impact in terms of our unit cash cost measures. Going into 2019, our guidance at a $1,250 gold prices cash cost range is $675 to $725 per ounce produced and all-in sustaining of $890 to $950 per ounce sold.

Slide 22 summarizes the breakdown of the mine production costs. Costs have gone up 7% year-on-year. This has been primarily driven by the increase in mining rates and volumes. The key input there is mainly the fuel price where the fuel increased over the course of the year and we benefited earlier in the year in terms of a lower fuel price. We've exited the year at close to $0.61 per liter and we've budgeted that fuel input going forward into 2019. The cost per tonne metrics are relatively consistent with volumes, and as mentioned, the various cost control programs that are underway and we're confident that we'll keep these costs under control into 2019.

Slide 23 gives the summary of the various costs across open pit, underground, and processing as well as the quarterly analysis, which I won't to talk to you, but is there for information.

Page 24 summarizes the cost base exposure. In terms of our group allocations, it's very similar, splits across the various cost centers. I've mentioned the fuel increases. Importantly going into 2019; we are expecting to use a lot more fuel at that higher rate which has been a primary driver of our cost base. There is a solar plant detail, design, feasibility study that is underway. Andrew will talk to that, but really in terms of our cost mitigation over the next couple of years, the implementation of that solar plant will significantly help and facilitate our cost base. There is a big focus on consumables and locally sourced products. We have had exposure to the Egyptian [ph] towns (00:10:53). They are on inflationary pressures. More recently, we've seen that come back into check. But importantly, we're managing that base and mitigating it as much as possible.

Page 25 is a little bit of our summary of our capital allocation. The 2018 CapEx budget was $135 million which included $22 million of greenfield exploration. We were able to slow that down. There was a $10 million reduction in that CapEx spend in 2018. Importantly, as we go forward that CapEx budget, the sustaining spend rate is very consistent at around $90 million a year. And we are very vigilant in terms of our capital allocation and the discipline in terms of those projects

Slide 26 gives an overview of our corporate responsibility in terms of our allocations. It's important that there's a fair allocation across all the various streams, and importantly, you'll see the quantum of funds that have paid both in terms of our EMRA partners in terms of profit share and royalties paid to-date, so there's an excess of $400 million that is being paid directly into the government and host countries both in terms of royalty and profit share.

As mentioned at the beginning in terms of our strategy priority, prioritizing shareholder returns is very important. Our dividend policy is very much at the forefront and distributing a minimum 30% of free cash flow. And as mentioned, it's proposed that we distribute another 100% of the free cash flow generated to the financial year.

Finally, in terms of concluding, slide 28 gives our summary in terms of our robust financial position, again, a very clean balance sheet, $322 million in cash and liquid assets. That's off to the interim dividend payout of $29 million and we have no debt, no hedging, gold loans or gold streams, so it's very clean and it's important that we highlight that the shareholder return is sustainable and we're very proud of the fact that we've been able to distribute those funds.

With that, I'll hand back to Andrew.

Andrew?

Hello, sorry.

Yeah.

Just going back to the operations, Sukari is entering its 10th year of commercial production and it still has a very long time left to go. So on slide 9, we've had the short-term issues we had in 2018, and then moving into 2019, we're dealing with the underground issues and we'll start to see production moving back up to what people expect from Sukari.

Sukari is still, on slide 10, is still a world-class asset. It's a Tier 1 gold asset with greater than a 10-year mine life and production levels greater than 450,000 ounces of production. 2018 slide 11 production summary. If you look at Q4 to Q3, you can see the reduction in total ore tonnes mined as Stage 4 is dropping down into the true sulphide material and they're relative to increase in grade. And also through – from Q3 to Q4, working the underground on the scheduling and trying to minimizing the dilution from the stopes, we did see an increase in the grade coming out of the underground in Q4.

On the processing plant, we had record throughput for the year of 12.56 million tonnes and this year we're expecting to mill close to 13 million tonnes through the processing plant. And importantly, recovery as well, recovery was consistent at 88.7%.

On Slide 12, the operational review, we've had significant operational turnaround and there're still further improvements to come. We have the underground stopes tonnages early in the year. The long haul drill rig causing disruptions and the temporary suspension of stoping. We then came across the issue of the increased volumes from the cascade stoping. We've addressed the long haul rig that's back and working. We have a second long haul drill rig that is now also working down the underground. We're reviewing alternative mining methods. At the moment, most of us stoping at Sukari is done top down, moving forward and it takes time to get through as moving more into a bottom-up type stoping method and implementation of the stope fill plant which is now onsite. Engineering work is underway to get that all in place and the relevant pipe work put in so that we can in the latter half of the year start commencing backfilling stopes which will go a long way to minimizing any dilution from the underground.

We've also implemented new software in the underground, the Deswik software, so everything is scheduled in one package that [ph] covers (00:16:25) everything from exploration drilling through the grade control drilling, through the long haul drilling, through stoping sequence [ph] hole up (00:16:31), so that is all automated and in one scheduling package. We are seeing good improvements. We still have a lot more work to do and the team onsite underneath the general manager, Raitt Marshall, the underground manager, the operations director are all working very well and strongly to ensure that Sukari continues to deliver as people expect it to deliver.

Everyone knows the open pit, the long life low cost bulk tonnage operation. It has greater than a 15-year mine life and with the update in the reserve grade, we know 6.2 million ounces had a grade of 1.1 grams per tonne from the open pit to be mined over a series of seven stages. Current mining for this year and for the next three years is Stage 4 for the sulphide ore coming from the north part of Stage 4 and the west wall of Stage 4. Stage 5 stripping will also be commencing this year and that's combined down through the transitional zone while Stage 4 is the major source of the sulphide ore for the year.

We had record movement time, slide 14, we had record material move from the open pit last year of 77.9 million tonnes and there was a lot of all ore mined partly due to the transitional area. There's 23 million tonnes. Of that, 23 million tonnes, 11.1 million tonnes at 0.76 grams per tonne was delivered to the mill, 2 million tonnes at 0.37 grams per tonne to the dump leach, oxide dump leach and the other 10 million tonnes which was mentioned earlier went to stockpiles.

As I've already said, outlook Stage 4 is the ore source, primary ore source for the next three years, Stage 5 stripping is commencing. So we don't go through any issues with our transition in the future. That has been rectified. Mine grade as Stage 4 drops down into the [indiscernible] (00:18:22) the ore body coming to the top of the happy zone which is the first place for the underground mine that the grades over the course of the year from the open pit will increase.

Underground, as I said, we have mentioned before that the reserve – reserves and resources, we got a measured an indicated resource of 1.6 million ounces at a grade of 6.8 grams per tonne and the reserve has increased. It's now been at 0.8 million ounces at a grade of 5.1 grams per tonne. So we have a rolling life of mine of five years to the underground, again, it's been year-on-year replacement of what we have mined. Production from stoping was 739,000 tonnes at a grade of 6.5 and ore from development was just over 500,000 tonnes at 4.5 grams per tonne with a 60/40 stoping development split.

If you look at slide 16, you can see the key areas for the underground work program are circled. Ptah in the center there, production and development work; Amun, continuing on with stoping and also production and development work to go down through to the top of the Horus zone; and then on the left-hand side, Cleopatra, and you can see with the heat diagram, [indiscernible] (00:19:43) that's targeted for further decline development over the course of the year and importantly further drilling to really prove up what we have in that Cleopatra, Antoni and Julius zones.

Processing, processing plant continues to perform very well, year-on-year increase in throughput, and as I said this year, the team is expecting to mill closer to 13 million tonnes through the processing plant.

Okay then, moving across to the active growth pipeline on slide 29. We've got organic growth, self-funded growth pipeline in the near-term growth. We got to Sukari underground. We've also got Cleopatra deep line extending down into the Antoni zone. It's self-funded exploration and development. Sustainability, we have [indiscernible] (00:20:36) Ptah with resource extension drilling continuing to return very good results, underpinning the long-term sustainability of the Sukari underground mine.

Longer-term, we've got the ABC project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire where we announced just last week, the maiden resource. But basically, 12 months' worth of drilling, that was a fantastic job from the exploration team. And then we also had the Sukari site wide for 2D and 3D seismic study to identify [ph] deeper sites across the concession (00:21:09), identify what's happening with the Sukari porphyry at depth and also identifying other structures that we can then target with systematic drilling to see what else we have on the concession and ensure and continue on with the long-term viability of Sukari Gold Mine.

In the medium-term, Sukari underground, we've got Osiris and Top of Horus zone and the other new one is the Doropo Project, where we now have over 2 million ounces in the indicated category. That's an exciting project. We now have work underway to determine what we really have putting the economics on to the project and we expect to have a PA in the second half of 2019 which is a very exciting project for Centamin.

Moving on to the next slide. Everyone knows Sukari in the Arabian Nubian Shield, a major highly prospective under explored greenstones terrain. Sukari deep as I've already talked about the 3D seismic study that we're going to undertake across the concession. If you do look at the diagram there, you can see [ph] this varies (00:22:16) away from Sukari on the concession. There's V Shear, there's Quartz Ridge, there's Shu, there's Horus, there's Kurdeman, which are all with the seismic work which will go to identifying and being [indiscernible] (00:22:27) where the drilling needs to be done following up those targets identified.

Underground, unlocking the Sukari underground potential, sustainability on slide 33. Top of Horus, you've got that Osiris zone plunging to the north but it also goes to the south as well, that's a longer-term future Sukari going down deeper well and truly below the open pit. And then the near-term, you've got the Cleopatra, Antoni and Julius zones. As you can see from that heat diagram, there's still a lot of gold that needs to tested and drilled and firmed up and potentially mined.

The next couple of slides just show – they show some of the examples of the intercepts that we're seeing across Amun and Osiris, intercepts like 0.7 and 213 grams a tonne, 9 meters 25 grams per tonne, 2 meters at 239 grams per tonne, 1.7 meter to 258 grams per tonne. As you can see when you go through those interceptors, there's a lot of high grade intercepts that still need to be followed up with further drilling and further development from the underground.

I've already spoken about this, but slide 35, the near-term growth of Cleopatra, last year, most of our focus ended up being on Amun and Ptah with the issues we had in the underground. So we didn't do as much development as we would have liked in Cleopatra. That development is well and truly underway. And if you look on slide 35, you can see on the left-hand side, the Antoni decline coming down into the Antoni zone, and then development levels being put out to drilling, and if the drilling comes up successfully, potentially stoping as well.

West Africa, great pipeline, on slide 36. We've got our permits. We've got 8 in Burkina Faso, and we've got 11 permits in Cote d'Ivoire where we've had very successful exploration, and we've drilled over 358,000 meters of auger drilling, air core drilling, and diamond drilling across the projects in Cote d'Ivoire, Doropo in the northeast and in the ABC Project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire.

With the Doropo Project, we've had a 58% resource growth from the previous year. We've extended the main resource [indiscernible] (00:24:59) to over 2.6 kilometer strike length. We've merged the Nokpa and Chegue Main into one deposit per drilling and two new resources at Enioda and Tchouahinin, that were identified over the course of the year. So 2019 is strike extension drilling to be done on Souwa and Nokpa, filling the gaps between Nokpa and Chegue Main and also then also doing looking at the down plunge potential on the deposit, and also following out moving out from the70 kilometer radius moving out to look at the other targets sort of 10 kilometeres and 15 kilometers out from the Doropo core.

As I said, updated slide 38. There's 2.13 million ounces and that's all sitting within a 7-kilometer radius. This is all maximum depth of 250 meters. [indiscernible] (00:25:56) very, very amenable to open pit mining based around CIL plant.

Again, slide 39, it shows and you can see the circle where the Doropo resources sit, then moving out from that, you can see the auger results, you can see 15 kilometers out. There's one highlighted structure, and third route, there's another highlighted structure that the team will be following up with drilling while also continuing on with the infill drilling. That's the right [indiscernible] (00:26:28) to continue to prove up additional resources and look at the PA study and getting reserves.

On the western side of Cote d'Ivoire, slide number 40, greenfield exploration and the ABC Project that was a newly discovered Birimian greenstone inlier with maps greater than 60 kilometers of the permit area. And then what that's shown on the Kona permit, we have greater than a 23 kilometer continuous surface gold anomaly and we announced the maiden resource of 650,000 ounces with 60%, 65% of 2018 [indiscernible] (00:27:06). So that is very exciting, still early stage. The team is back at drilling and we expect to also see substantial resource growth coming from that project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire.

So 2018, it was 25,000 meters drilled successfully to find the maiden resource and that resource is 19.6 million tonnes at a grade of just over 1 and 16.1 million tonnes at a grade of 0.87 in the inferred category. Preliminary met test work on the ABC Project has identified no major metallurgical challenges with high recovery rate expected from conventional CIL drilling. 2019, there'll be another 34,000 meters of drilling planned to look at resource growth and also new discoveries along that corridor.

So, in summary, slide number 43, investment case. We've got strong fundamentals. We have the asset quality. Sukari is, even with the hiccups, is a – it's a Tier 1 asset, has greater than a 10-year mine life. We have the financial flexibility with cash and liquids. We have no debt, we have no hedging, and we have no streaming. We've got the active growth pipeline internally to Sukari underground, Amun and Ptah reserve replacements, Sukari underground Cleopatra exploration and development, the Doropo pre-feasibility study under way, and ABC ongoing greenfield target generation. And importantly with all of this, stakeholder return, reliable dividend policy, a minimum of 30% of free cash flow. And as you can see for the last year, we didn't have a home for the excess cash flow, so we have returned 100% of the free cash flow to our shareholders even in what was a difficult and challenging year for the operation.

The key objectives obviously continues to optimize performance of Sukari with further operational improvements driving increased production, return our excess free cash flow to shareholders, deliver on Sukari solar project feasibility study, continue to unlock the underground reserve and resource growth, the Doropo pre-feasibility study, the ABC Project maiden resource, and the significant exploration target generation across the portfolio both at Sukari with the seismic growth that we're going to undertake, and then across our landholdings that we have in West Africa. Importantly on the governance sustainability, also continue the downward trend in our group lost time injury frequency rate. We have a board succession program, appointment of three independent NEDs, one migrating to a non-exec chair, implement board approved local community initiatives and proposing also this year at the AGM, a new remuneration policy to our shareholders.

With that, I would like to say thank you for listening, and I will now hand back to the administrator and have today the Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of James Bell from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah, good morning and thanks for the call. Just two questions from me. [audio gap] (00:30:45) it's obviously disappointed the market this morning. I just wanted to give this and the volatility of your recent production and the downgrades you saw last year, do you think it's time to provide a three-year to five-year outlook on [indiscernible] at Sukari to maybe reassure on what the outlook is for growth, volumes, grades, and costs. And just secondly on dividends, I appreciate you're sticking to your policy on returns, but I just wondered if you still think keeping around $250 million of cash on the balance sheet, is that really the best use of this capital? Would you consider higher returns if no investment opportunities came along, and what's your thinking on that? Thank you.

James, you dropped out for about a minute when you were talking at the front. I'm not sure if – Ross, did you hear what James was saying?

No. There's a couple of seconds that he dropped off, but certainly got the gist of the three to five year question and the dividend. Maybe I'd address the dividend question. James, but in terms of the use of funds, yes, 100% of free cash flow this year as part of the discussion and the board decision, certainly, there's been a robust debate in terms of the discussion around the $250 million cash held. We'll be going back and looking at that again. If we don't have any earmark in terms of where those funds will go, certainly capital allocation and whether that comes back in the form of a dividend or a share buyback or other alternatives will certainly be considered but there was a good debate on that.

Okay. And sorry, Andrew. My first question is more around a three- to five-year outlook. Obviously, things have changed a lot around Sukari over the last couple of years. I just wondered on maybe giving the market better [audio gap] (00:32:45)

Sorry, James. Your line just dropped. Can you please ask that question one more time? [indiscernible]

(00:32:56) I'll try again. So just in terms of the outlook for maybe the next three to five years, would you be willing to give that for Sukari given the volatility you've had in production and the downgrades last year, maybe to reassure us on volumes, grades and cost, is that something you'd consider, Andrew?

Well, look, James, going out and doing five-year plan I mean a five-year plan is only a snapshot at one point in timeGiven further drilling, Cleopatra, Amun, Cyrus et cetera, the important thing is to look at the year-on-year reserve replacement, so that in itself provides you an idea -- the underground is a long term part with Sukari and obviously survey exploration work that 3D seismic et cetera generate more target generation would -- it also provides confidence in what is going on with the market. Would I be directly going at this point in time putting in three-year to five-year guidance? No, I would not that I'd be -- I think very, very open on the half yearly to yearly progress and let the results speak to themselves.

Okay, thanks. And just a quick one, your COO, Mark Morcombe, appears to have joined Endeavor last week, [audio gap] (00:34:19)

Sorry, James, you dropped out again.

Operator, I'll just leave my questions there, the line is obviously not good enough. Thanks.

Okay. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Justin Chan from Numis Securities. Please go ahead.

Morning Guys thanks for the call. My first one's just on the on the 5.8, five times strip ratio. Is that characteristic of what you expect going forward given the ore body narrows or how much of that is due to Stage 5 stripping as well?

Justin, the like of mine strip ratio has always been around 5.82 to 6.1. So, bringing the Stage 5 stripping forward is to ensure that we have the consistent delivery of sulphide ore to the processing plant rather than going through issues where we had last year early on in the year with the transitional material.

Okay. And so is the -- I guess as a follow-up is the 5.85 for this year, is that all included in I guess in cash costs and all-in sustaining or is some of that going to be capitalized and expensed later on. And does the pre-stripping, is that included in the 5.85 or is that in addition?

[Multiple Speaker] (00:35:49)

Sorry, Ross.

Justin, it's all included, so we're not going – we haven't budgeted to capitalize any of those amount.

Okay and the 5.85 number is inclusive of Stage 5 pre-stripping as well or is that

Correct. That is correct. That is correct. That includes Stage 5.

Okay, thanks. That's very helpful. And then in terms of just looking at Doropo and your thoughts and scope there, do you have an annual target or do you have an annual throughput rate you're looking at and does that I guess, if you could share, what does that include in terms of [indiscernible] (00:36:37)?

It's too early, it's too early stage but generally be looking at a processing plant that's around probably 3 million tonne per annum capacity and gold production somewhere in the vicinity of at least 150,000 ounces a year. But it has got to be cost effective. We're not going to rush in and do something if it's not going to make money. We're aware – we're not going to just add ounces for the sake of adding ounces. It's got to be quality over the quantity. We want to deliver ounces at the lowest cost possible and importantly [indiscernible] (00:37:13) returns for our shareholders is key.

Okay. All right. Thanks, thanks very much, Andrew and Ross.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Shaw from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Just a couple for me. So Ross, [indiscernible] (00:37:34) with the guidance, if we assume reserve grade from the open pit [indiscernible] (00:37:43) or certainly below reserve grades from the underground, can you just give a bit more detail around what might be driving that or am I thinking about that incorrectly? And then I suppose follow-on to James' question, I think most of the – most of the sulphide have 550 ounces plus for you guys from Sukari, if not this year then certainly kind of next year and beyond, is that still a realistic target you guys will hit within, say, the next two years or can you not sort of – or can you not be [indiscernible] (00:38:22)? Thank you.

Dan, the most important thing we have to do is get Sukari underground performing where it should be and getting the Sukari back at the 520,000 to 540,000 ounce run rate. And the way we're going to do that we have to deliver our results so that everyone can have the confidence and see what we are doing. We know what the issues are with the underground and they are being addressed. The results will speak for themselves as they come through with the improvements in place.

Okay. And in terms of grades in the underground this year, still going to be negatively impacted them from – mostly from the dilution issues you're having or is there anything else?

There is – look, there is still – there is still – we are still dealing with the cascading stopes, but we've got better controls in place to minimize the dilution that we are getting from those cascading stopes, but the other thing is well, we also are doing a lot more decline development getting the declines further in front of production. So you'll see lower grades coming out because decline development is generally in very low grade porphyry or even waste material and we've also – with Ptah, we've got the eastern side of the Ptah and the western side of Ptah. There's also long distances of development that has to be done to exercise areas. So again that development is lower grade material, so you'll see development grades down around 3.5 grams to 4 grams per ton. And then stoping, stoping you will see grades coming from stoping above 6 grams per ton.

Thanks. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Stoner from Berenberg. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Just looking into the reserve update, you mentioned last year that you might consider – or there might be a higher dilution assumption going into the reserve. Grades to look broadly unchanged, so has that happened. And is this kind of higher dilution you're seeing in the underground already baked into the reserve grades or is it kind of a cut below the reserve grades.

Yes. No, we have the reserves to be underground, the dilution has been factored in some areas of reserves is 30% dilution. I mean what people need to consider – but when you're applying dilution at Sukari because you would've been the pole free, you are diluting it with mineralized material rather than waster but not all those reserves, all those stopes have depending on the stoping method have dilution that varies from 15% up to 30%.

Okay. And can we read anything into the drop in the proven grade. Does that mean you're kind of mine through the highest grade to material that was in front of you and replaced it with the slightly lower grade. Is kind of – is anything to read into that?

No, that's just the function of the book really, the mining methods and the dilution that we are applying to those areas of the mine.

Okay. And as you pull in the backfill kind of get – the kind of better handle on dilution that you were looking for next two, could we then potentially kind of a long way out, potentially see that dilution assumption reduced or is that – had stay?

That is correct. Once we can go through, we can get in place backfilling of stopes that will have a significant impact on reducing dilution.

Okay. And then on this next come back, as you mine through the transitional zone there, what kind of percentage of feed will that potentially – that material be through 2019, maybe 2020?

Zero. The Stage 4 is dividing almost feed we need for the processing plant in 2019 and 2020, which is in the core of the ore body.

Okay. So any material coming out of for – for that cut back, that's mineralized will just be stockpiled?

Correct. It will get stockpiled potentially some of them may get to the dump leach pads.

Okay, perfect. And then what kind of timeline are you now looking at for Cleopatra. You mentioned that it's kind of the – those are a bit less activity than you wanted almost in in 2018. At what point do you think we might get some clarity on the potential of that and heading into the on to new zone?

Light – light in the year, the big factors are pushing them forward is getting development levels down and getting the drilling happening. The short term drill holes happened on the Antoni, Julius and Cleopatra's structures. Then that will really allow us to understand and determine what we have say from an undergrad point of view and also an open pit point of view.

Okay. So...

Drilling is critical, the drilling in Cleopatra over the course of this year especially the next six months is really what will drive Cleopatra

Okay. Perfect. And then on Doropo, you said you're looking to [ph] PEA (00:43:43) by kind of back end of the year

Correct

What would you then do with that, do you – given your cash position. Do you have to push through towards bankable studies or would you yeah kind of what level of study would you do before then starting to think about construction decisions.

Well, first of all, we do it internally and we discuss it with the board. What is the best way we would fund – fund any development should we go ahead. I mean when we start to construct a plant or what is a significant capital cost but that construction doesn't happen overnight, it's generally spread over a good two years by the time you order equipment paying for it et cetera. So you have got a timeframe where you could potentially you can use cash from scary after you pay the minimum 30% dividend to shareholders or you could go down the [indiscernible] (00:44:35) but that work needs to be done.

Okay, so no major cash call from that probably until later 2020 or 2021.

No. Correct, that is correct.

Okay perfect. And final one for me on the open pit you've kind of historically been mining more than you processed and stopped piling to optimize your feed grade. Now that you're in kind of the core and better grade areas of the ore body in the open pit, can you – do you expect that ore tonnes mined to reduce and normalize to processing some kind of volumes?

It will be – the primary ore will be basically at the processing volumes of around 11 million tonnes to 12 million tonnes, but as you come down the peripheries of Sukari Hill with Stage 5 coming down, you do generally pickup additional low grade ore, which we'd be going to stockpile or to dump leach. And that's just a function of the topography with the Hill and where the drilling has been. And that's what we've always had. We've always generally pick up a bit more low grade ore on the core, on the peripheries [indiscernible] (00:45:46) until you get it to the body level, which is the base of the hill and start the pit going down below ground.

Okay. Perfect. And then just I think the initial question James was going to ask, does Mark's departure as COO impact on any of the kind of optimization and improvement projects that that you are running?

We have a very, very strong general manager in place. We have a very, very strong operations director, and we have a very strong underground manager in place. We have a key team of people onsite that are driving the project and driving the improvement to the Sukari underground.

Okay. Perfect. So, we can take that as no impact.

Yeah, that's correct.

Thank you, Andrew.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Hunter Hillcoat from Investec. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Three questions, please. Can you just clarify for me what total CapEx and total exploration number is for 2019, because I might be crossing over my numbers. Also the solar plant, can you give us some idea. I know that study is still in place, but just what a 40 megawatt set of foam potentially costs, and whether that's likely to be on balance sheet or off balance sheet? And the third question is, Andrew you say Sukari, still there is a potential to be 520,000 ounce, 540,000 ouncequestion is Andrew you say Sukari is still has a potential to be 520,000 540,000 ounce producer. That's why you've always said you could see the operation going at, but on one of your slides, you've always usually had Sukari portrayed as a world-class asset with plus 500,000 ounce potential and that's now being dropped by 10% and today and todays slides to 450,000. What should we infer from that?

Well, look, when you say we've now dropped that so that's just to reflect the year of production that we had because it was below 500,000 ounces. So to be totally open and transparent we had to change that and that's the only reason why. Once Sukari is back doing above its 500,000 ounces, the slide will go back to the new ones but we've got to portray the information as it currently stands. Regarding – sorry.

Yeah, carry on.

Regarding the solar farm, one month ago has finished the study and we take it to the board for approval, but these days the price of solar power has come down significantly. From two years ago when we were looking at solar power, it was in the vicinity of $2 million a megawatt. Now, we're looking at costs of around $800,000 and even slightly below that per megawatt. And with the installation of the solar farm we go ahead with it, it looks to be done in a staged approach. We will fund any funding for the solar farm will be funded free PGM and we'll use that cost recovery model like we did with when we did Stage 1 to frame for Sukari and recover that CapEx over for a new year period.

All right. Okay. And just total – yeah, carry on.

Just to help you out the CapEx, sorry to. Yeah, so, we've allocated $40 million to exploration spend and there's the sustaining CapEx of just under $90 million, in terms of – so in that $40 million some of that is sustaining. So there's about $7 million that we classify sustaining exploration, so that's probably where the crossover is.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Alan Spence from Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Most of my questions have actually been asked. I'll just follow up one. Andrew, at the end of your remarks you mentioned a change in remuneration policy. Just given the year we've come through, will you have a higher benchmark weighting toward operational metrics? Will you be tied more to the longer term performance in the mine. Just wondering what the impacts are to the guys in the upper management?

Well. I mean, remuneration has to be tied to the performance of the operation. You can't get rewarded if you aren't delivering results and producing. So, yes, the remuneration is very much tied to – a portion of it is very much tied to performance, production and importantly as well costs. You need to be producing efficiently and generating returns for your shareholders.

I was just wondering if there are any changes in that. I knew obviously there was some tied to – it was a new policy and it's just a repeat of the past one or is there any material changes?

No. It's a new policy that will be coming out with the annual [indiscernible] information for shareholders to vote on.

All right. Thanks.

Thank you. And as there are no further questions, I will hand back the word to the speakers for any closing comments.

Okay. Thank you very much everyone for joining us on this call. We do appreciate the support we've been given through what has been a very challenging year. And you will, over the course of 2019, you will see Sukari improve and getting us back to where we should be and delivering gold at low cost.

With that, I'll say thank you very much, and if you have any further questions, please feel free to contact myself, Ross Jerrard or Alexandra Carse. Thank you very much.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.