Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, and welcome to the Centamin Second Quarter 2015 Results Call. Throughout this call, all participants will be in listen-only mode, and afterwards, there'll be a question-and-answer session. And just to remind you, this call is being recorded.

Today, I'm pleased to present Andy Davidson, Andrew Pardey, and Pierre Louw. Andy, please begin.

Thanks very much, and hello, everyone. Good morning and thanks for joining us on this results call. I'll hand over straight away to Andrew who'll give a brief review before we have the Q&A. Just to point out though that Andrew is overseas at the moment. Had a few phone issues this morning with his line. So, if he drops out, I'll bust in. But over to you, Andrew.

Okay. Thank you, Andy. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us on this call. Our Q2 gold production was up 33% on the same period last year to just under 108,000 ounces and in line with our Q1 production. This is better than expected and we are pleased to advice the market in early July of our updated full year production guidance of 430,000 ounces to 44,000 ounces compared with our previous guidance of 420,000 ounces. The higher rates of quarterly production were driven by record throughput at the processing plants, which was 7% above the nameplate capacity of 10 million tonnes per annum capacity.

We continue to expect the throughput to reach an annualized 11 million tonne per annum rate in Q4 this year with the potential for further increment of improvement in 2016 as we continue to optimize the expanded plant. Plant recovery was also a highlight for us. It came in at 90% compared to 88% in the previous quarter. And we are now working on bidding down the improvements we've seen during the quarter from both the ultrafine grinding circuit, and the new carbon regeneration kilns.

Underground mining rates and grades were slightly above our forecast rate of 1 million tonnes per annum at 6 grams per tonne and the focus of the operation remains to consistently deliver ore at an average grade of at least 6 grams per ton. Open pit material movement was down slightly on the previous quarter, but has subsequently improved, and mining remains on track towards a sustained delivery of reserve average grades from the fourth quarter onwards this year.

Production rates are therefore expected to pick up again and in the second-half of the year to reach and stabilize to 450,000 ounce per annum to 500,000 ounce per annum range. We have continued positive results from the underground drilling program, and some of these are highlighted in the release. We're anticipating releasing our results and our reserve update for Sukari in the near future. Regarding the financial results, the cash cost of production of $706 per ounce was $11 per ounce below Q1 principally due to a reduction in the fuel price, and this was offset by slight increase in open pit mining and processing cost.

With grade driven production increases expected in the second half, and assuming fuel prices remain at current levels, we are well placed to coming below $700 per ounce of full year guidance. All-in sustaining costs were $853 an ounce, well below the $950 ounce guidance for the second quarter partly due to the lower fuel price, but also a certain sustaining capital items have continued to be deferred to the second-half of the year. The high production rates mean that we expect to come in below $950 per ounce full year guidance for all-in sustaining costs.

Centamin continued to generate strong cash flows under the weak gold price with EBITDA up $37 million and a period end position of $217 million of cash, bullion, gold receivables and liquid financial assets being up $17 million net of a U.S. $22.7 million payment in relation to the final dividend of 2014. The cash build has supported our dividend policy and the board is pleased to announce today an increased interim dividend payment of $0.97 up from the $0.87 in 2014.

So in summary, Centamin remains in a strong position to deliver cash flow, sustain a meaningful dividend and to self-fund the exploration led growth strategy, even under the current depressed gold price environment. We expect this to be further enhanced in the coming quarters with continued grade and productivity driven increases in production at Sukari.

Okay. That's the summary of Q2. I'll now hand back to Andy. Thank you.

Thanks Andrew, and back to the operator for any questions please.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of James Bell at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, gents. Just in terms of looking at the gold price. If we were to see gold fall to $1,000 an ounce, would there be any changes in terms of your mine plans or longer term plan. And secondly on the underground grades are run rating at 6.3 g/t in 2Q with guidance being maintained at 6 grams for the full year. Can we expect that to fall in the second half?

Thanks, James, I think that's – both of those are for you Andrew.

Hi. Well, the first thing with Sukari, everyone's got to remember Sukari has a long mine life in excess of 20 years in the open pit. So with this period of low gold prices, and as scheduling from the pit, there will be no changes in what we are doing because we have the long mine life at Sukari. As far as the underground grade goes, grade was slightly up from 6.3 g/t compared to 6.01 g/t, and at the CMD we forecast the second half of the year for the underground grades could come in at around 6.5 grams per tonne.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, James.

Okay. [Operator Instructions] We go over to the line of [indiscernible] (07:15). Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, gents. Just a quick comment and to ask your future development on the exploration in the Ethiopia. I noticed that you did about 1,500 meters of drilling at Una Deriam. Are you planning on ramping this up in the future, and if so to what level?

Sorry, [ph] Richard (07:44), just before I hand over to Andrew to answer the question, could you just clarify which institution you're with, if any?

I'm a private investor.

Okay. Thank you. Andrew, maybe you answer that one, please?

The question that I'm actually asking to do the Ethiopian exploration that you're doing currently I noticed at Una Deriam, that you did a drill program of about 1,500 meters recently in Q2, and you've got some relatively good results. I noticed 18 meters at 0.93, and 8 meters at 1.83 which is...

Sorry. I understood the gist of the question. I was going to handover to Andrew but before maybe here, I'll just say that the main focus of our exploration efforts at the moment are primarily on the underground at Sukari that's where we're getting the high grade results, and that's where we're focusing the efforts at Sukari.

And then, outside of Sukari, it's mainly West Africa for us. We have a large exploration program at Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire we're spending a significant amount of money there. There were relatively lower spend in Ethiopia because it is earlier stage – they are earlier stage projects. They're at a very early stage of development, that's both their go-to. Both are Una Deriam and our own Ondonuk license in the west of the country. So it's relatively low spend. Some of the results that we've reported are recently encouraging. But we haven't seen anything yet that warrants a significant ramp up in exploration spend on either of those two projects. I don't know if there is anything you'll add to that, Andrew?

No. That's really it. I mean the drilling in Ethiopia is really, it's just testing the continuity of mineralization, along a broad zone of alteration, and that's very early stage.

Yeah. Okay.

Okay.

Pretty much of action. Thank you again.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Gentlemen, at this stage, there seems to be no further questions in the queue. Sir, I'm passing the call back to you.

Okay. Thank you very much. As there is no further questions, I will just wrap up and say thanks to everyone again for joining us this morning. And look forward to speaking to you all again next time. Thank you.

This now concludes the call. Thank you very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.