Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Nick Hatch — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Hello and welcome to the Centamin Q1 Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode, and afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

Today, I'm pleased to present Andy Davidson, Head of Investor Relations. Please begin your meeting, sir.

Thank you very much, and thanks, everyone for joining me on the call. Firstly, apologies from Andrew Pardey, he's traveling at the moment and he's been unable to dial in. He may be able to join us probably through the call but [ph] I pressed (00:37) ahead anyway.

So, just in summary, we delivered a strong start for the year. First quarter production [ph] at the top end with our (00:44) 450,000 to 500,000 ounces per annum range and the continued downward trend in costs. The higher production, lower costs were given a further boost from the rising gold price. EBITDA rising by 43% on the fourth quarter to $675 million. Strong free cash flow generation through our cash and liquid assets balance increased by $45 million to $276 million. And, of course, we remain debt- and hedge-free as per our long-standing policy.

The $603 per ounce cash operating cost was a material reduction on the previous quarter and the last full-year guidance of $680 an ounce. That's partly due to the lower fuel cost but we're also starting to see productivity improvements. And this year's big drive for cost efficiency is reflected in the financial results starting today.

All-in sustaining cost is $758 per ounce was also down on the fourth quarter and also down on full-year guidance of $900 per ounce. Sustaining CapEx was lower in the first quarter than we expect for the remaining quarters as the scheduled time maintenance spend comes through in the remainder of the year.

Operationally, as you carry the processing function was a highlight and a key driver of the increase in gold output with plant throughput rising above our base forecast of 11 million tonnes per annum as the optimization program continued.

The mining operations also performed well. The open pit delivered a 10% increase in material movement and hit our 66 million tonnes per annum target rate in March. Productivity for the undergrounding exceeded our base case targets of 1 million tonnes per annum at 6 grams a tonne on both tonnes and grade.

Particularly pleasing, in light of all that good operational performance is at the same time we met our safety targets with zero lost time injuries. And that's again, a testament to the strong culture of safety and professionalism amongst our workforce. So, those are very key highlights for us.

Our exploration in Burkina Faso continues to build evidence of a number of potentially economic high-grade mineralized structures. So, we'll continue to update the market over the coming quarters on progress towards our ultimate aim there of establishing a low cost and high-return project. So, a solid to the year, increasing production, reducing costs, delivering cash flow and progress towards our long-term growth targets.

Our full-year guidance remains unchanged with 470,000 ounces at $680 an ounce. Cash operating cost at $900 an ounce all-in sustaining cost. And the key focus for the operation is on sustaining and improving upon these levels of productivity and on continuing to drive costs lower. Ultimately, this offers a potential to deliver higher production and lower costs in our base case forecast, which are in our presentation and which we've talked about for some time now.

With that, I'd like to hand back over to the operator for any questions, please. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Richard Hatch from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Morning, Andy. Andy, just [ph] told me on the ground. I know (04:21) the grade was very robust at 7.77 grams. Can you talk a little bit about how you expect grade to evolve over the coming quarters and what your expectations of the underground for the full year? I mean, basically, do you see this grade continuing or do you see it drifting off a little bit in line with the mine plan? Thanks.

Yeah. Sure. Hi, Richard, thanks for that. Yeah. I mean, we're going to get some variability of the shorter-term horizon, that's to be expected as you all know, particularly on the higher grade underground mining operation. So, we've, at the same time, given the 6 grams a tonne forecast as a base case. We said that we can do better than that and we have done better than that in the past.

Having said that, we've mined some higher grade stopes in the fourth quarter last year and into this first quarter just gone. And also, in those periods, we had less of a contribution than we did through a couple of quarters last year from lower grade development [indiscernible] (05:30), which essentially meant that we mined more tonnes and that diluted the grade slightly as we went through some areas that were forecast to be waste or essentially turned out to be low grade ore that, obviously, we put into the mill.

So, you had less of an effect from that in the first quarter and also in the fourth quarter last year. So, I mean, the objective here really remains really to mine at least 1 million tonnes of ore, at least 6 grams per tonne and then work from there. So, we probably could do. We will aim to do better than that. But the forecast for the time being remains 6 grams per tonne.

Okay. Thanks. It's great.

Thanks, Richard.

Thank you. The next question comes from Nick Hatch from Canaccord. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

I'm no relation of Richard. Just looking at the cost breakdown, you obviously had some big unit savings on the open pit and the processing. And you've alluded to the fact that some of the efficiencies are likely to continue into subsequent quarters. Do you see that mainly on the mining side of things or the processing or is it pretty much spread across the operation?

Yeah. Thanks, Nick. It's spread across the operation. I mean, it's a big drive for efficiency for us really across the operation on ore front. We've had second half 2014 [ph] (07:05) through last year the big focus on productivity getting to the base case level of production. We obviously always have a big focus on cost. But now, the really strong focus is on cost this year. And now we've got to our base case level of productivity.

So, that's starting, as I said, in the intro to have an impact, and that is across the board, and you're seeing improvements in mining and processing as a result of that, more on the mining side. It's going to obviously be more in the open pit potentials for lower cost there. If you also factor as well less quarter-on-quarter, I mean the few we paid in the first quarter was $0.42 a liter versus the fourth quarter $0.44. But the average through 2015 was $0.55. So, yeah, I mean, versus the full year last year, we've had a positive impact from continued reduction in fuel prices. But going forward from here, it's about unlocking real operational efficiencies and that's across the board.

Okay. Thanks.

Thanks, Nick.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question comes from James Bell from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, Andy. Just two questions. First of all, on phasing of the remainder of the CapEx, obviously, CapEx came in lower in Q1. Just wondering how much is looking like it's going to be [ph] Q2 invest to (08:40) second half.

And secondly, when will you guys look at potentially revising guidance? Obviously, you guys are run rating well ahead. Costs are well below. Is that something we're going to potentially see around Q2 once you've got those numbers in the back in terms of production or is it something you'd want to see three quarters before you'd look to revise? Thanks.

Hi, James. Yeah. Looking on the guidance side, this result is driven obviously with a good start for the year. The first quarter is not – it's a great start, but it's not sufficient yet to revise guidance. We'll see how we go. Certainly, I'd hope to be in a position where we keep pushing towards the top end of the 450,000 to 500,000 ounce range if not, better, as we've outlined the potential. And to the extent that we can do that, then that will bring forward the need to revise guidance. But we'll wait and see how we go in the second quarter for that.

On the CapEx, it'd pretty evenly spread from here. We had less maintenance charges, costs in the first quarter, that was a bit of a theme last year as well. We were able to optimize the scheduling of the maintenance of the mobile fleet and defer a lot of those things, essentially trucks not showing the hours or not showing the requirement that the maintenance are pushing longer hours between scheduled maintenance. So, it's a good operational improvement, but they are starting to come through now. So, we are starting to see an increase in the maintenance costs. So, I would expect that to be consistent through Q2, Q3, Q4 this year. That run up to meet the full-year guidance on costs there.

Okay. Thanks. And then, I mean, can you just talk a little bit about underground development? Obviously, again, with the CapEx spend being low, is your sort of underground development running in line with plan or have you been spending less in the underground and sort of Q4 and Q1 than you would normally be in terms of run rate?

No. The underground is in line with the spend, projected spend. We spent $9.2 million on the underground CapEx in the first quarter. I think we said, yes, about this $33 million to $35 million for the year for that portion of the sustaining CapEx. So, that's – yeah, about a shade higher but nothing significant. That's pretty much in line with the run rate. Yeah.

Okay. Thanks, Andy. That's all for me.

Thanks, James. Cheers.

Thank you. There appear to be no further questions. I'll return the conference back to you, sir.

That's great. Okay. Well, thanks very much. Thanks, everyone, and look forward to catching up with you all again soon. Thanks very much. Cheers.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.