Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Josef El-Raghy — Chairman, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Egypt Ltd.
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
David Haughton — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, Investec Securities (Australia) Pty Ltd.Corp.
George Topping — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus Canada, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and afternoon and welcome to the Centamin Q1 Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in listen-only mode, and afterwards, there'll be a question-and-answer session.

Today, I'm pleased to present Josef El-Raghy, Chairman; Pierre Louw, Chief Financial Officer; and Andrew Pardey, Chief Operating Officer.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Haughton [BMO Capital Markets (Canada)]. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning, all. And thank you for making yourself available to us this morning. You may not be aware but your line was not muted in your intro, so we heard all about your light today, Josef. The question that, I guess I've got, is really a couple of ones. Firstly, the treatment of that fuel payment, at what time will you know whether you can flip that from expense to capital and do you already expect to get some money back from the Egyptian government on the back of it?

Pierre, do you want to talk about when we flip it or...

[Inaudible] (1:59). David, just on the question, the treatment at the moment, we're treating it in our books as a prepayment as you would have picked up on the [ph] balance sheet (02:08). And once we have an outcome, a positive outcome from the government or from our negotiations with government, we will then bring that number back into our operating cost and capital – the portion that belongs to capital. At this point, I'm not sure what the date of that would be, as we are continuing our negotiations with government.

But would you expect to get some of that money reimbursed to you from the government?

It's not paid to government. It's actually paid directly to Chevron, the fuel supplier.

Yes.

So, what would happen – our arrangement with them at the moment is that – what would happen is that they will continue delivering until the money is used up. In other words, it is a pure [ph] pre-payment, to a certain extent (02:57)...

Got you. Yeah, all right.

...on what the rate would be.

Yeah, okay. Now, I understand.

Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Mikitchook [Investec Securities (Australia)]. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hello, gentlemen. Just a quick follow-up question, at least for the balance of this year, are you expecting any other scheduled engine rebuilds on excavators or significant maintenance, say, on the mill or mill equipment that would at least in your mine plan have significant decreases in throughput in any, say, the next three quarters here for the balance of the year?

No, Andrew. There's two excavators there was two of the – the original two RH120 excavators, they had their engines changed out from C18 engines to C27 engines, it's something that O&K and Caterpillar have been doing all across the world because the new ones come with a C27 engines which are bigger and more powerful. So, it's retrofitting them. That's been done and completed. So, we will not be having any more issues with mining fleet parked up for that period of time.

And the mills – as far as the mills go, the only downtime for the mills is scheduled maintenance, planned maintenance and relines, and we have to do them. And the re-lines now, we've got all the other equipment on site because the re-lines take place in a much shorter period of time. In fact, we just completed a segment re-line in early May, it was basically done in 48 hours.

So, there shouldn't be any significant variations in, all being equal in tonnes moved on a quarterly basis or tonnes processed, I guess, actually more accurate.

Tonnes, prices, availability will come up within milling, as we said, at 656 tonnes an hour and that's the rate we expect it to continue milling at.

On the mining front there – quarters, I'm not sure if there's some ahead of us, but in that last quarter, it wasn't purely a downtime that was a contributor. It was mining in tighter areas, and that will happen from quarter-to-quarter.

Right. And to some degree, likely you did this quarter, you supplemented from stockpile, and I guess you want to rebuild the stockpile to have that flexibility?

Yes.

Okay. And just to confirm, I think the wording that you guys used in the earlier presentation was the optimized mine plan is still slated for release to the public in the month of May, right?

Yes, that's correct.

Okay. Thank you very much. I'll sign off.

Our next question comes from the line of David Haughton. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Yes. Hi, guys. I had more than one question. With that mine plan, do you expect now for a rescheduling to smooth out that grade dip and the spike in stripping in 2014 and 2015? Is that the kind of thing that we should be thinking about in the revised plan?

That's correct, David.

And should – it probably won't be the kind of grades that we would have expected in 2013 through 2016 on that plan, but at least a lot better than what you had before. Is that how we should be thinking about it?

That is correct, David. There's significant improvement.

Good. On the underground front, sticking to your guidance of the grade and throughput for the year, it's kind of required quite a step-up to get the average grade into your range. So, what are you seeing down there to make you feel confident that that's going to be delivered?

Well, what we've said all along, David, is 10 to 12 grams per tonne. And with the other stopes, we concentrated on the bulk tonnage stockwork stopes for this particular quarter and with the development dirt going on and we're going to be pulling out of those high stopes, we'll be delivering in the 10 to 12 gram-tonne range, combination of development dirt and the stopeing dirt.

If you look at the previous couple of quarters of underground grade...

Yeah.

...then one quarter [ph] a day (07:38) is not that difficult to drag it back up to the 10 to 12.

No, no, no. Fair enough. And so, what you're going for – you just think that stockwork area now, the bigger areas, I guess, is just where you have those blow-out veins that's just carrying all the grade. I guess that with this, you could hit, I guess, a bonanza spot at any particular point in time. So, it's kind of have a bit of variability I would expect. Is that a reasonable way to think of it?

That's correct, David.

Okay. Thanks for providing the cash cost helps on Table 3 or Figure 3 of the report. I'm just scratching my head as to how I'm going to reconcile that back to the average of $637 per ounce because when I add the open pit cash cost together with processing and the G&A and add around about $50 per ounce for the royalty, I don't kind of get to the $637. So, maybe a little bit of a hand at how I should understand, that would be gratefully accepted.

I think if you take the face value of that table, we're talking about the mining operating cost of $194 an ounce; underground, $52; processing, $314; and G&A, $77 per ounce. That adds up to $637...

All right, I would've – yeah, I've got that as an addition, yeah. But I would've expected that if I'm looking for the open pit cost, that the open pit cost, I would've been looking at $194 plus the processing, plus the G&A, which would be separate from the underground processing which is the $52 plus the $314 plus the $77. So, I was trying to get a sense as to what the different costs were coming from.

No, it's actually just an accumulation of them to get to the $637. So, the portion of the underground, for instance, going to the process plant.

Right. Okay. So, I can pro-rata that out if I want to really work out that the underground cost that was for mining, milling, admin.

Correct, yes.

Okay. I'll work that out.

And it does not – just for clarity, it does not include the royalty.

Yeah. Yeah. I could see that, which is another $50 an ounce. What should we be thinking about for the path forward on the subsidy? Would we be looking at a progressive phase-in of international pricing, or do you have any sense as to how that might unfold for you?

The government – the discussion at the cabinet level at the moment is that subsidies will be phased out over three to five years.

Okay.

On heavy fuel oil, they have just increased the price of heavy fuel oil by 25%. And now, they're working on the mechanism for diesel. And the discussion is 25% to 30%. So, we just got caught with the – a period of time in [indiscernible] (10:59) where there's not enough discipline and structure and a lower-level bureaucrat right into fuel distributors, saying that he believed that we should pay international price. And because there's a lack of structure, no one's jumped on him.

Okay. I can understand that what we saw this quarter is different to the longer-term kind of unfolding pattern here.

Look, we has said that the reason it's been treated as a prepayment is that we do regard the position as rectifiable. And we would say that we – we'll get that money or not back, we will probably end up taking fuel deliveries without advancing funds once we rectified the problem.

Okay. For the underground, one of the areas for a big step-up potential in production is access from the north. How are you going on that?

That's progressing well, David. From the takeoff from the Amun decline, at Ptah that's advanced, that's 250 meters further along now and that's still on target that will be hitting those zones to the north in late Q3, early Q4.

Okay. And once you get those two declines working, can you see your throughput exceeding the 0.5 million tonnes per annum?

Yes, realistically. The decline and the vent system and all that can hold – it can easily accommodate hauling over 600,000 tonnes up the existing decline.

All right. Well, that's good. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of George Topping [Stifel, Nicolaus]. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Great. Thanks all, everyone. Say, we're having problems getting the cash cost, right, when we take the dollars per ounce and work it back to dollars per tonne, we're coming out with not credible figures. Could you just run through for us on open pit, the mining cost dollar per tonne milled, processing cost, dollar per tonne milled and now the mining cost for the underground?

I do not have those numbers in front of me. I've actually just got the document as we published it this morning. But our thought is, because we published the ounces and we published what we got from underground, that would be an easy calculate back.

Yeah, it's not. In Q4, it calculates at $1 – sorry, $118. And then for Q1, this is underground, $35. So, unless there's a lot of costs that are being capitalized and perhaps that's where we should – where we need to look. But if you add the dollar per tonne to those numbers, perhaps the CFO can help us out there.

Okay. Which one are you having problem with, just the underground or open?

Both. Well, if you give us the dollars per tonne mined for the open pit, dollars per tonne mined for the underground and milling costs and then we can have the G&A as well, that would be good. [indiscernible] (14:41) would just kill it entirely so as we can get this model reconciled.

All right. Okay. We'll look at that with the quarters going forward. And if you want to have a chat offline on how to back calculate these, it shouldn't be too difficult.

Okay. Just on the capitalized costs for this quarter, do you have an estimate of – on millions of dollars that's capitalized?

For which part of the project?

For the mine.

For open pit and underground, or are we talking about stage four development?

The underground, there is a quite a lot of capital development, so if you do have those numbers split out, that would be great.

Right. But we don't have them at hand at the moment, George. Why don't we pick that up if Pierre can get back to you this afternoon?

Okay. That'll be good. And just the last question on the inventory. The $8.5 million inventory move, is there more to it than just the 3,600 ounces, because if you divide the $8.5 million by the 3,600 ounces, it comes out at $2,300 per ounce, which, of course, the gold prices unfortunately not attuned. Is there more to it than just that?

It is the implementation of IFRIC 20 which we've described in the accounting rules, in the accounting note. That's basically where the change comes in from previously. Again, that's something that I can do a break-up – breakdown and we can take it from there, which I can provide later this afternoon.

Okay. Because obviously the impact on earnings, it's higher than it would normally be. And then just lastly on the depreciation, we noted that depreciation went from $18 million in Q4 to $6.5 million in Q1, not a big decline on production. So, I'm just wondering why did depreciation fall by so much?

It's a combination again. One is the ounces and those items we write down on the ounces that we produce. And the other would be then again the introduction of IFRIC 20, and that's the treatment of the stripping. So, IFRIC 20 has a big impact on the numbers for the quarter.

All right. So, we can look for that depreciation to be low for the rest of the year, is that the case? This is now the accounting rules and these are applied from here on.

Correct. If we just look what we did previously, is that your waste would be capitalized and that would be depreciated or amortized at least over the units of production. What IFRIC 20 does, it actually brings that depreciation portion, which is then based on your stripping ratio back into your operating cost. So, it's a total change in the way that we've done it previously.

Right.

And as you know, that is why things like IFRIC 20 does come in. So, the companies standardize on their treatment of the cash cost.

Yes. All right. Well, let's chat later. Thank you.

Sure, George.

[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from George Topping. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi. I'm just George Topping's colleague, [ph] Dave (19:02). Firstly, if we – about the run-of-mine stockpiles which you're saying decreased of 499,000 tonnes. When I'm trying to do the math, it seems like you mined 1.075 million open pit and underground and you processed [ph] 1020 (19:19) from the mill and you stocked 264,000 tonnes from the dump leach, that shows that the stockpile has grown considerably around 210,000 tonnes. Can you just clarify that?

Those numbers that you reeled off then don't really add up. I mean, there are actual numbers, but I can't follow what you're trying to do there.

I was just trying to calculate what those – how much you drew from – how much oil you took from the inventory. So, when I add it up, what was mined in total, what was processed, including the dump leach I'm not getting the 499,000 tonnes decrease.

We can't calculate it that way because we don't know what went to low-grade stockpiles.

So, how much do you stockpile to the low grade?

I don't know for the quarter. I can – we can probably calculate it from all those numbers, but – where are those numbers? So, the mining numbers, I'll probably not going to add all these up from these quarterly numbers. Or [indiscernible] (20:50) is that [indiscernible] (20:52) million, and is it – there's the, the [indiscernible] (21:05) of 499,000 tonnes, so that means descent, 504,000 tonnes from the pit that went to the dump. And then – what do we say, 264,000 tonnes went to the dump leach. What do we add there? 264,000 tonnes? So, it would be, I reckon – [indiscernible] (21:47). Maybe 235,000 tonnes to the low-grade stockpiles. Okay?

Okay. And what's the balance here right now? So that we can model it for the dump leach, if that's what's going to the dump leach going forward?

No, it's not going to the dump leach. It's going to the low-grade stockpile. To the dump leach was the 264,000 tonnes.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] As there are no further questions, I'll return the conference to you.

Okay. Thanks for joining the Q&A session and we would endeavor actually next quarter to do this time again or schedule the entire conference call for later in the day, so that we can pick up what questions you may have, too, from North America. All right. Thank you.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your line.