Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Justin Chan — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Michael Stoner — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Hunter Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Charlie Bendon — Partner, Tamesis Partners LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Centamin Interim Results. For the first part of this conference, all participants are on listen-only mode, so there's no need to mute your individual lines; and afterwards, there'll be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, the call is being recorded.

I'll now hand the floor to our host, Andrew Pardey, CEO. Please begin.

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for taking the time to dial in this morning. Joining myself in this call will also be Ross Jerrard, our CFO.

This morning, we published our Interim 2018 results. A copy of this can be found on our website along with a copy of our results presentation, which we'll be referring to over the course of the call. Where we can, we'll reference the page numbers. There'll also be a Q&A at the end, should you have any further questions.

Notwithstanding the operational challenges experienced at Sukari, the first half has involved continued financial discipline and also delivered some very encouraging exploration results. So, moving on to slide 3, the H1 review, it has been an operationally challenging half year with ounces produced due to lower grades from a combination of the open pit and the underground. So during the first half, we produced 217,099 ounces of gold at $637 per ounce cash cost, and $939 per ounce all-in sustaining cost. We are maintaining our revised guidance of 505,000 ounces to 515,000 ounces, and progress has been made in overcoming the short-term operational challenges produced. With a gold production of 217,000 ounces for the quarter, that is 43% of the annual production target. So, the guidance is well and truly achievable.

The factors that impacted the performance in Q1 have been – so the first half of the year have been open pit grade. We had the transitional zone being broader than what was originally planned. We remediated on this through increased grade control drilling and also reshuffling its various people. Sukari, we've also appointed a new general manager onsite who's also in there, also making server enhancements and improvements to the operation. With the underground stope tonnages, we had damage to the long hole drill rig which caused suspension and deferral of some of our stoping sequence. That rig is now up and operational again and the stoping tonne has improved, although we have seen in the larger open stopes, [indiscernible] (00:02:54) we have experienced an increase in dilution, which has also contributed to lower grades coming through.

To make up for the lower stoping tonnes during that part of the year, we had increased development tonnages which were generally at lower grades. I've already referenced the underground stoping grades and there's methods in place where we're reducing the dilution and putting certain measures on controls and checks and balances.

Okay. Moving over to slide 4, Ross will go into more detail on this later on, with the financial review, but himself and his team have done an excellent job managing our costs very closely. We have successfully minimized cost inflation across the group in spite of reduced production, increasing sustaining costs, and increasing fuel cost pressures.

We've generated positive cash flow of $36.1 million over the half year with Q2 generating only $1.6 million in cash flow, which we've flagged was an extremely poor quarter for Sukari, producing approximately 30% below what you'd expect Sukari to produce. But importantly, it was still cash flow policy; we're maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet of just over $300 million in cash and liquid assets, importantly with no debt and no hedging. And finally, the board and myself are pleased to declare an interim dividend of $0.025 per share, equal to that of last year's dividend. This represents 80% of the free cash flow generated for the half-year, whilst also self-funding our pipeline of potential development and exploration projects.

I'll try and review the next slide, exploration has delivered positive results across the portfolio.

Near term, the Cleopatra exploration did decline; we've had successful early-stage results and importantly, it's coming through mineralization, so it's almost completely self-funding its drilling and development costs. Further positive drill results have come from Amun and Ptah, and the best there was we've had intercepts including 21 meters at 37 grams per tonne, 9 meters at 226 grams per tonne, and in the lower Ptah Keel area, 57 meters at 6.8 grams per tonne, underpinning a long-term sustainability in the underground.

Medium term, Doropo, which had near resource and – near the existing resource, we've had further positive drill results and also further extension of results coming from the Doropo area, and we expect to have an updated resource and reserve pre-feasibility study expected in H1 of 2019.

And longer term, the ABC Project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire, we've also had some very positive exploration results.

With that, I'd like to hand over to Ross for a financial review and then I'll come back to [indiscernible] (00:05:55) and do a more detailed operational review.

Thanks, Andrew. Turning to Slide 7, Centamin delivered a solid financial performance in spite of the operational challenges. EBITDA increased 16%, driven by higher revenues, lower cash cost of production and offset by a 20% increase in exploration expenditure, which is now included in our operating costs. This is following the change in accounting policy, where we are now [ph] expensing (00:06:25) greenfield exploration costs as incurred.

I'll highlight the change in accounting policy, which is effective during the half year and I'll refer you to note one of the financial statements, which gives you full disclosure on it. All comparative figures have also been adjusted in accordance with the accounting standards.

The decrease in cash flow during the period compared to the same time last year is primarily due to the increase in sustaining capital expenditure that was planned during the year. As we have flagged during the second quarter, it was going to be tough, but it's important to highlight that we were still able to generate positive free cash flow for the quarter and overall $36 million of free cash flow was generated for the half, which resulted in the interim dividend of $0.025 being declared. We're pleased with the work done on our working capital reduction, excluding the build in stockpiles, which I'll talk to you in a minute, a 20% reduction has been seen from the first half of 2017.

On to slide 8, we are particularly pleased with how we've been able to manage our overall pool of costs. The quantum of cash cost of production has decreased by 13% and our all-in sustaining cost pool has been well managed with an increase of 3% in line with our planned increasing [ph] sustaining (00:07:43) capital expenditure. As already mentioned, the improvements achieved in profitability were underpinned by the 13% year-on-year lower cash cost of production, reflecting the build-up of stockpiles in line with our overall mine plan.

It's important that I highlight that the accounting standards require the matching of the timing of production costs with those ounces produced and ultimately sold for the period. The movement in inventory adjustment primarily reflects the buildup of these low-grade stockpiles during the period.

Unit cash costs of production decreased by 5% year-on-year to $637 per ounce, in line with our full-year guidance. Our all-in sustaining cost pool is on track and we expect a downward unit cost all-in sustaining cost per ounce increase in the second half.

Slide 9 shows the breakdown of our costs. In spite of direct and indirect inflationary pressures within Egypt, our cost breakdown is well managed. Some examples include the long-term contracts that have been applied to limit any pricing variations and separate procurement committees have been established to review new and existing pricing and tender processes to manage ongoing pressures. This is in light of the reduction of fuel subsidies and that's affected both through indirect costs and direct costs with our fuel cost base.

Slide 10 shows our disciplined capital allocation where we have a large budget allocated for 2018. Our CapEx budget of $135 million is allocated across $22 million in greenfield exploration and $130 million in brownfield exploration and sustaining CapEx. Of the $51 million sustaining CapEx spent today, 22.6% was spent on underground mining development and explorations and $28.9 million on other sustaining CapEx such as the scheduled fleet rebuild program.

In addition to completing the working capital systems upgrade, the 18-month program to reduce the stores inventory successfully reached its target warehouse levels, which has meant important cash benefits for the group. We continue to take a stringent approach to capital allocation, undertaking continual reviews of the capital program and other initiatives to counter cost inflationary pressures.

Slide 11 shows our financial flexibility where we continue to maintain our flexibility and balance cash flow. $303 million in cash and liquid assets with no debt, hedging, gold loans, streams, at the end of the period. It shows a very healthy balance sheet which is clean and the pie chart shows the well-balanced cash flow distribution.

I close on slide 12, where our main pillar is prioritizing shareholder returns and we're proud to have maintained our sustainable dividend stream with an interim dividend of $0.025, representing 80% of free cash flow being approved by the board. We are establishing a good track record of returning capital to shareholders with $420 million returned over the last five years.

And with that, I'll hand back to Andrew.

Okay. Thank you, Ross. Now, going on to the operational review which is from slide 13 onwards; first of all, on slide 14, health and safety. Obviously, as I've always said, our people and workplace safety is our number-one priority. We've continued to see a reduction in our loss time injury frequency rate across the group to 0.06 per 200,000 man-hours worth. We only had one LTI across the group, and that was at Sukari. Cote d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso both maintained a zero LTI.

Looking on to the next slide, slide number 15, the open pit operations. Improvement in the open pit are being realized, and we are now moving into mining the higher grade sulfide material. We have excellent mining productivity with total material movement of just under 37 million tonnes, which is a record six monthly mining figure to Sukari. As we've stated earlier, the transitional zone delivered more tonnes at lower grades, and during that period of time, we delivered 5.6 million tonnes at 0.64 grams per tonne to the mill.

Across the period of the second half of the year, the feed grade going to the plant will be between 0.8 grams per tonne and 0.96 grams per tonne and the total overall mined during the period was 0.51 grams per tonne. The second half of the year, we'll see mining grades overall at 0.6 grams per tonne to 0.75 grams per tonne. The pit, while it had its challenges, is exiting a transitional zone and moving into primary ore. The pit is in good shape with – well set up to deliver what we expected it to deliver in the second half of the year.

The underground operations. Okay. The underground operations we had the challenges during the first half of the year with the long hole drill rig, leading to deferral of our stoping sequence, which has pushed the sequence of stoping out. And as I said before, the higher grade stopes, which were scheduled to come through are now expected to come through in the latter part of Q3 and into Q4. The long hole drill rig is back up and operating. We still – we've had dilution issues – greater dilution issues with the large open stopes further than what we expected, but the schedule, the plan, everything is in place to show that the underground is set to be able to deliver on the increased targets for the remainder of the year although we still have some way. The high – first of the high-grade stopes starts to come through in the later part of Q4 – Q3.

There's tighter control in the underground; there's been personnel – additional personnel changes and additional personnel also bring in to ensure that we can get the underground delivering what it should be and what we're used to it delivering.

Now, moving on to slide 17, the processing plant. We had strong performance with the processing plant with 6.2 million tonnes milled for the plant, you know, running at an annualized rate of 12.4 million tonnes per annum. Given the lower head grades, the team has done a very good job on recoveries as well and we've also got the second leach pad set in Q3 that is now under irrigation to the north of Sukari, which will also be contributing to gold production.

Moving on to the exploration review, slide 18, and then further to Sukari on slide 19, we've had some very good drill intercepts coming through, in particular, some of the highlights – I won't go into all the details, but that's 21 meters at 37 grams per tonne, 9 meters at 226 grams per tonne, all within or close by to the existing underground infrastructure. Then across in the Ptah area and importantly in the deeper Ptah areas, we've had intercepts including 2.2 meters at 58 grams per tonne, 1 meter at 97.2 grams per tonne, 10 meters at 7.3 grams per tonne, 57 meters at 6.8 grams per tonne, 1.7 meters at 3.54 (sic) [354.8] (00:15:14) grams per tonne. Again, that's just again predictive of Q2, the line showing further continuing results and further growth for the existing underground operation.

Moving over to Cote d'Ivoire, slide number 20, the Doropo Project, we've now got pre-feasibility studies under way under the existing resources. We've also had very successful further drill results coming out through Cote d'Ivoire, and that project is continuing to look very exciting for us. So, there's a bit more detail on slide 21, showing some of the intercepts that we have achieved during the first half of the year and there's also a follow-up drilling to be taken on a number of the prospects surrounding that area.

Okay. Moving on to slide 22. At Côte d'Ivoire, the ABC Project on the western side of Côte d'Ivoire, the team has identified [ph] with licenses (00:16:09) across the area of 60-kilometer geochem trend. The team has been doing some initial drilling across that area and if you look on to slide 23, there's one of the better drill intercepts across the area. We've done some preliminary metallurgical test work which so far shows there's no metallurgical issues with this area and the target to that is to have amazing results in the first half of next year.

So, in summary, if we move straight to slide 25, near-term deliverables, now we look forward to delivering a strong second-half and returning Sukari back to its steady state. We still do have some challenges in the underground, but the plan is to schedule so that these can be met. So, we're about to deliver on guidance.

Also importantly, returning excess cash to our shareholders; we're undertaking a feasibility study on the solar power at Sukari which we expect to have results in the second half of the year. Again, the search and the appointment of a non-executive chairman is expected in the second half of the year. We'll have updated reserves and resources of the underground in the first half of 2019. Doropo, an update on resource and pre-feasibility study in the first half of 2019, and maiden resource coming out of the ABC Project on the western side of Côte d'Ivoire with significant exploration potential across the portfolio; and the most important thing is ensuring that Sukari is in place to deliver its guidance for the full year.

Moving on to slide number 26; our investment case remains intact. We've got asset quality, we've got quality at Sukari, we've got the financial flexibility, no debt, no hedging, minimum cash balance of $250 million to $300 million; we've got the active growth pipeline, Sukari Underground, Sukari Cleopatra, the Doropo Project and ABC across on the eastern side – western side of Côte d'Ivoire and importantly stakeholder returns. Contributing to our host country/partners; minimum dividend of 30% of Sukari cash flow; excess free cash flow will also be returned and maintaining our social license to operate. As I've said at the start, our investment case remains intact.

And with that, Ross and I would be delighted to take any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of James Bell of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning, and thanks for the call. Two quick questions from me. Firstly, on the open pit, can you talk about whether there's any potential for other transitional zones similar to what you've seen in H1 in later years? And from what you've learned from H1, what are you going to do to basically identify those and avoid similar issues to what we saw? And then maybe one for Ross, on slide 10, you talk about deferral of non-critical sustaining CapEx items, what is the timeframe for these deferrals and why are you deferring them given the kind of relatively strong cash generation of the group? Does this lead to 2019 CapEx being higher versus previous guidance? Thank you.

Okay, James, on the first question, basically, stage 4, we're predominantly through the transitional material. Stage 4 provides the sulphide ore for the next four years. Now, the thing is to do stage 5 is to slowly, while you're mining – stage 4 is in its primary [indiscernible] (00:20:15) getting stage 5 moving and mining through those transitional areas so that you have a continuous supply of better grade material coming from your sulphide material.

Hi, James. In respect of your question in terms of deferral, we're looking at key components. The big numbers are really around the scheduling of the TSF, the north TSF and seeing if we can push some of those costs out. You're correct, in terms of overall levels, they need to be spent in some stage, but there's timing on that. And the other one is the rebuild schedule in terms of excess capacity of fleet, so all those amounts have actually committed. We're obviously going on with [indiscernible] (00:20:58) where these non-essential rebuilds, we'd be looking to see if there's a form of deferral. We do have excess capacity, so it's not necessary that we need to do some of those right away.

Okay. Thanks. And then so on that, would you say that these items you're deferring, are they likely to come in next year or are we looking at further out into, say, 2020 and beyond?

Some of them next year, some of them a little bit further. It's really about matching our cash spend and making sure that we've got the timing right on that. TSF is probably the one that we could push after that.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Justin Chan of Numis. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks guys for the call. Just on undeveloped – or from development and stoping, your guidance for the year is 40/60 and that implies you'll be at 35/65 in H2; is that correct?

Sorry, Justin, it will be 60% to 40%, 60% stoping, 40% development, but importantly, the forecast and the schedule are showing that there will be higher grade stopes coming through in the latter part of Q3 and Q4.

Right. I see. And just as a follow-on to that, where do you see grades in Q3 versus Q4, given that the stopes are coming in, say, mid to late into the quarter in the underground that is?

Okay. Okay. Look, we're expecting over the course of the year to see development grades in the vicinity of 4 grams, 4.5 grams to 5 grams a tonne and stoping grades coming in overall at around 9 grams to 9.5 grams per tonne. We're going through a lower-grade stoping sequence here at the moment, and then we do have some higher-grade stopes scheduled to come through in Q3 and Q4 – later Q3 and into Q4. We've got to go through in sequence before we can get to the higher-grade stopes.

Okay. No, that's it from me. Thanks very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Stoner of Berenberg. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Morning. First question is on dilution. You've mentioned that you're looking to reduce it; could you help me understand how much of the production is from the larger stopes where you're saying there was a higher issue with dilution, and how does that evolve over time? And then what kind of quantum of improvement in dilutional grade impact are you hoping to achieve?

Michael, over the period of the first half of the year, the cascading stopes, which we're acquiring stopes over several levels, they contributed up to 65% of the stoping tonnes. By the end of the quarter, their influence has come down to 22%, and we're still – we're currently going through the last of the cascading stopes now and that their input over the rest of the schedule should be in the vicinity of 15%. Now, importantly, it's putting in the controls in place when they're firing those stopes, ensuring controls and how much – how they're fired and the amount of material that is bogged out, because when you get large stopes opening over several levels, you do get material diluting in because those holes are large and open. And it's really moving away from the influence of those areas, which was in the upper part of the mine.

Okay. So, is that 15% going forward, is that for the balance of the year or is that kind of in perpetuity?

That's for the balance of the year and obviously, we're doing further work as well to minimize any dilution in the existing cascade style of the stopes.

Okay. Perfect. I've got a couple more questions, if I may. Cleopatra, you talk about it kind of comfortably self-funding itself; in terms of where you're at in the development there, can we expect that to continue?

We'll continue developing. We'll continue decline development, and we are – we've got one development crew that's just full-time committed to continuing to develop that decline down towards some of the drilling intercepts, internal drilling intercepts that we've had on the Antony, Julius, and Cleopatra structure, but more importantly is having the two rigs up there full time drilling away both internal to the porphyry and on the structure on the western and eastern context as that porphyry progresses down the depth.

Okay. So, speaking of this, there's no change – you're continuing the development, but there's no change in your expectations on how much revenue you can generate from that?

No. Look, it's still really focused on the medium term and the longer term growth and what we can do is [ph] scurry (00:26:12) underground.

Okay. Understood. At Doropo, you point to kind of good progress there; can you remind me of what the timeline or kind of workflow will be following the PEA? How long will it take for a construction decision and what will you need to do before that?

Well, you've got to go through the whole permitting process [indiscernible] (00:26:36) behind all that, while that work is underway, we're doing, all the environmental studies have commenced, water studies have commenced, et cetera, so that should it continue to prove that to be positive, we're then in the position to be able to apply for an exploitation license.

Okay. And then final one for me on fuel. How do you buy your fuel? Are you receiving live pricing or are you on a quarterly or longer term contract and is there therefore a lag on kind of receiving higher pricing?

Hi, Michael. It's Ross.

Hey, Ross.

In terms of fuel, our direct purchases and we've got a quarterly fuel price that's set by the government that's based on international prices. So, we have seen increases come through in the last couple of quarters. We're – our current run rate is $0.61 per liter. That's set on a quarterly basis. So, we've got that for Q3. We wait for Q4. And then obviously the other important one when we talk about inflationary pressures with the removal of some of the local subsidized price on the streets in Egypt, Egypt increased their pump prices, which obviously has an indirect [ph] QMF part (00:27:52) on for our costs in terms of transport and things like that.

The important one we've been advised, there is no quarterly reset. So, the government did have a look-back approach previously in terms of those quarterly adjustments. We understand that that's no longer happening. So, we're quite – we're positive that we've got a lot better visual on that fuel price going forward for the next quarter.

Okay, understood. Thank you for your time.

Thanks Ross.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Hunter Hillcoat of Investec. Please go ahead your line is open.

Good morning, guys. I noticed that you mentioned that your long hole rig is operating well now and that you've got a spare one coming in at the end of the year to provide some greater flexibility. Do you see it impacting your planning the fact that you now have an additional rig?

No, it's just – Hunter, it there basically as a backup space should something untoward happen. The planning – we have a sequence we have to follow, and we are continuing to follow that staging sequence.

Right. Okay. Fine. And in terms of your dividend, clearly, it was a far more substantial proportion of the cash flow than would normally be the case; and clearly, you see an improved environment in the second half allowing that, but do you have any sort of minimum dividend policy that the board has perhaps adhered to in recommending this number?

Yes. The minimum policy is a minimum of 30% of that free cash flow that would be distributed, and then that's [indiscernible] (00:29:38) 80% of that free cash flow that was distributed. In that sentence, the board looked at other alternatives, share buybacks and other uses of that capital, but the distribution approach and following-up policy is – will be indeed the best avenue.

Yeah, not sure I stated the question correctly, the $0.025 seems to be a comfortable base level that you – that the board has set?

Yes. Well, that's also taking into consideration the minimum of free cash flow but also underlying of the $250 million to $300 million cash balance. Having that $0.025 brings us back in line, and we'll be closer to the $250 million actual cash number when we pay that dividend.

Hunter Hillcoat>: Got you. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Charlie Bendon of Tamesis. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Just looking at the dividend policy and wondering whether or not you undertook any trade-off studies and looked into whether or not buybacks were appropriate taken into account; I know you've given us quite a lot of content and flavor covering in the second half.

Hi, Charlie. Yes, there was a healthy debate in terms of different options. We looked at share buybacks and to be quite honest with you, the analysis that we went through and the quantum that would have to be thrown at the share buyback to have any meaningful impact on EPS and other factors really doesn't drive any value. It will be a watching [ph] brief (00:31:18) but at this stage, we're not going to down that avenue.

Okay. Our next question comes from the line of Tony [indiscernible] (00:31:33) retail investor. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking the call. It was a complaint really that I don't seem to be getting any answers from your Investors Relations' e-mail. I've e-mailed at your company e-mail several times, and I don't seem to get any answers now. I used to get [audio gap] (00:31:58) but recently I don't seem to get them. So, it's a complaint about that and I wonder why that was.

Let me let me look into it, [ph] Tony (00:32:10) and we will come back to you. Okay?

Yeah. The other question was, you mentioned in Q1, we were looking forward to 560,000 ounces this year; that was announced in the Egyptian press as well and then two weeks later, we have the RNS stating that the guidance was being reduced to 505,000 ounces due to poorer-than-expected transitional grades in the over ground pit. But I understand there was a report published in 2015 that made you aware of that and basically, what's happened, the company is being able to higher grade from the – it was put to me that you were higher grading from the open pit. Is that normal practice? [ph]

Tony (00:33:15) the pit is mined through a schedule. We mine to that schedule. You don't have opportunity to report for the ore body in an open pit season, but in Sukari you can go through and go higher grade.

Right. Because it said – this – evidently, this recall in 2015 flagged up the problems. [ph]

Tony (00:33:39), I'm unaware of any report in 2015.

Well, I've got – it was basically produced by a guy called [ph] Keys Drooker (00:33:47) and evidently at the time he approached your company for some more information, and you didn't send him the information. It was produced in – on Seeking Alpha. There was a warning...

I'll tell you what, [ph] Tony (00:34:07), please send it through to me.

Sorry. Is that Andrew answering?

Yes, it is, [ph] Tony (00:34:13).

Yeah. And I'm not – I mean obviously as a shareholder, I've got a lot of money invested in Centamin, hell of a lot of money, and this recent cutback in production came as quite a shock because I've got ultimate faith in the board. I've been with the company for over 10 years and a lot of my friends are invested in the company and we obviously believe in you. We believe in the company, and we feel let down. And the incident with the long hole drilling rig, what on earth went wrong there? Shouldn't the manager of Sukari been overseeing that? And why wasn't there spares available or a backup? The whole production of Sukari depended so much on that rig and yet it was allowed to operate without sufficient spares, and obviously Barminco weren't being supervised properly. Now, why was that? [ph]

Tony (00:35:24), we have addressed those issues. I think we've made it pretty clear in the [indiscernible] (00:35:28) release that we've put out.

I agree, Andrew. You've addressed the issue.

Yes, [ph] Tony (00:35:31) 00:35:32, I agree, that shouldn't have happened. [indiscernible] (00:35:35)

It's wiped £0.5 billion off the value of the company and evidently, these issues with the grades from the over ground pit, you were aware of those. In Q1, when you're making the statement about looking forward to 560,000 ounces, you were aware of those grading problems according to what I've been told. Now... [ph]

Tony (00:36:01) we hear your concerns and frustrations and we look forward to getting Sukari back to where it is and deliver Sukari as it should be. Thank you.

I'm grateful that you do. So...

Thank you, [ph] Tony (00:36:17)

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Okay. As there are no further questions, I'll hand back to our speakers for their closing comments.

Okay. Thank you very much, everyone, for joining us on this call today. If you do have any further questions, do please get back to myself, Ross and/or Alex. We do understand people's frustrations, and we are doing our best to ensure Sukari gets back to where it should be. Okay. Thank you.