Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Marina Calero — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking the time to dial in today. As was mentioned, I'm Martin Horgan, CEO of Centamin, and welcome you to Centamin's third quarter results call. I'm joined today by my colleagues, Ross Jerrard, CFO. And we'd like to welcome back after maternity, Alex Barter-Carse, Corporate Comms. Ross and I are going to take you through a quick overview of the quarter. We'll have a look forward to the full year, the direction of travel, we'll outline our next milestones, and then we're happy to take any questions.

It's been a great quarter, and I think importantly for us all, we've continued delivering through our plan. It's a strong quarter that firmly puts us on track to the midpoint of our production and the upper end of cost guidance. And we've also been able to progress our project pipeline where we're looking to maximize the value of our assets.

To start with, though, I think we had two really notable milestones during the quarter. The mine produced its 5 millionth ounce of gold in the quarter, which is an amazing achievement, and I think it's a testament to the operating team in country, many of whom have been with the company for a number of years. I also think it speaks to the quality of the Sukari ore body. Few operations get to achieve this milestone. And I think it's amazing when we look at the remaining reserve life ahead of us, we're only halfway through the ore body at this stage. And I think we still see further upside potential that can be realized from the ore body.

I think this 5 million ounces have delivered some really tangible success both for Egypt and for Centamin. We've got a total workforce of 3,800 people in Egypt, 94% of those are Egyptian nationals. We've got 70% of our leadership roles held by Egyptians. 61% of our procurement comes from local supply chain. We paid $803 million to government in royalty and profit shares, and we've returned $777 million to shareholders in dividends. I think that's a really sort of tangible success that we can all point to.

And sticking with the number of 5 million, earlier this month, and I do appreciate it's past the end of the quarter, the site achieved its record of in excess of 5 million hours worked LTI-free. Safety of our people is paramount. And I'm delighted at the work over 2022 in respect of health and safety as evidenced by its continued performance.

And definitely, you'd have seen last week, we announced the ramp-up to full operation of our solar project, which is providing about 36 megawatts of power and displacing 22 million liters of diesel a year. That saves us about $20 million in cost of current spot prices and, importantly, removes 60,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas equivalents. It's a great story and I think it's not just for Sukari, but also for the wider mining sector and how we also play our role in the fight against climate change.

We're also looking at a potential grid connection for Sukari. We're currently evaluating offers we've received in connection with this exciting initiative and that has very real potential to further significantly reduce the cost base and our greenhouse gas emissions.

And of course, [ph] diligence (02:43) production, another excellent performance by the team to deliver into our plan for the quarter. Gold production was 127,000 ounces, bringing the year-to-date to 331,000 ounces and all-in sustaining cost of $1,288 (sic) [$1,289] per ounce. It's a strong delivery and it places us very well to reaffirm our guidance for the year. And to be clear, it's the middle of our production range of 430,000 to 460,000 ounces while targeting the upper range of our costs towards $1,425 per ounce.

Open pit performed well. It achieved record material movements for the quarter and we continue to see operation improvements from the stripping campaign, with multiple working areas now available to the team.

Underground had a challenging period but it stepped up and delivered against their plan. The team was hampered by equipment availabilities over the period, but despite these minor headwinds, they're able to deliver the ounce profile required to support the Q3 plan and also the full year.

The good news is that our replacement underground fleet has started to arrive, which would significantly improve availabilities and productivity from this end of this year and beyond. Four trucks, four loaders, two [ph] sand pit drills (03:46) were all been delivered over Q4. The Q4 plan for the underground will see us mining grade back in line with the ore body averages between 4.5 grams to 6 grams and with a focus on development as we prepare for 2023.

Processing team performed well and in line with plan. During the quarter, we processed some of the high-grade material from Bast as part of the gravity gold recovery test work program, which contains high levels of clay materials which can have an impact on recoveries. As a result, recoveries were slightly down on the quarter. I've already mentioned the solar plant and all of the major capital projects at paste plant and construction continues. And we plan to commence commissioning later this year into early next.

The mineral resource management team have also been busy, working with the mine talents and our external QPs to commence the resource and reserve update for 2022. This will incorporate drilling up to the end of June 2022 and includes those eye-catching results we announced in July. Updated resource and reserve statements will be released in December this year. The underground expansion study progressed well during the quarter. We're now waiting on the final draft report, which we'll be able to share with you in November.

And with that now, I'll hand you over to Ross who'll take you through the financials.

Thank you, Martin, and good morning, everyone. I'm glad to report that from a numbers perspective, that we are on track across our metrics, both for the quarter. Cash cost per ounce of $811 and all-in sustaining cost of $1,289, resulting in year-to-date numbers of cash cost of $885 and all-in sustaining cost of $1,386 per ounce. A good result driven from the operations on ounces, but also the continued focus in delivery and cost savings initiatives by the team, which has gone a long way to offset the global inflationary pressures that we are all facing.

As mentioned already, with the solar plant commissioning, we'll see the full impact of this and our other initiatives dropping in the fourth quarter and beyond, which will continue to realize savings going forward. With the solar plant completed, we now have substantially finalized our discrete capital projects this year. It's the waste stripping program and the completion of the paste-fill plant being the two ongoing major CapEx programs outside of our normal sustaining CapEx.

Group free cash flow for the quarter returned to a positive $11 million for the period. This resulted in reducing our year-to-date number to a negative $14 million, again, ahead of where we had planned to be at this point in time. And looking forward to Q4, we hope to continue to improve that position.

I would encourage you to look at the table in the announcement where we have reclassified certain stripping costs from OpEx to sustaining CapEx. This has meant a reduction in the cash cost metrics and an increase in our all-in sustaining cost metrics. This is an accounting adjustment only and does not affect the actual cash expenditure. It was driven by a more granular approach on our mine plan and the way we model the strip ratios, which has changed the accounting. It is important to note that we still do fall within our guided ranges for the year at both cash cost and all-in sustaining cost lines.

Lastly, we had made good progress on our capital allocation review and are currently reviewing the options that we have been presented, balancing both growth and dividends. With active engagement across various banks and advisors, we look forward to updating you on the outcomes of this review before the end of the year.

And with that, I'll hand back to Martin.

Thanks, Ross. Maybe moving away from Sukari operations. Our Eastern Desert Exploration team continue to implement their plans and they're currently busy completing follow-up soil sampling and mapping priority areas identified in the Nugrus block, which is the exploration ground immediately surrounding the Sukari.

We also received permission to sample export in the quarter and we now started to sample the chip samples at international labs for analysis and we start their results to come through towards the end of the year and early into Q1 next.

Across in West Africa, Doropo Project continues along its PFS path, with [indiscernible] (07:52) resources due for completion this month as part of the overall program. We'll update you on this in the coming weeks with some further interesting news on the direction of travel for Doropo.

We also made the difficult decision to relinquish the Batie West Project in Burkina Faso. Back in 2020, we faced a difficult situation in respect of the credit license validity period. There was very limited time under which the issued mining license to commence construction activity. This was particularly challenging given the lack of studies supporting a development decision, let alone the technical financial outcomes that would support investments.

We did manage to negotiate an extension of time, which enabled us to complete a technical economic evaluation of the project and then a very short window to try and find a partner, as we did not believe the project was of the scale or quality suitable for Centamin. However, with the recent political security and security issues in Burkina Faso, we've not been able to secure a credible counterparty and, as such, we've taken the decision to relinquish the licenses in light of the cost to Centamin to hold the project and the lack of a clear timeline to engage with any form of government in Burkina Faso. As we've noted previously, we attribute no value to these assets in our accounts.

And as we look to the fourth quarter and year-end, we've got a great pipeline of news flow coming, which includes that underground expansion study update, the Doropo PFS update, the capital structure review touched on by Ross, and our resource and reserve update as well. I think this represents a really exciting series of releases and is the result of the work done over the last years or two and will deliver the full potential of Sukari and our wider group.

And looking ahead over Q4, we're delivering to our plan that will see us target the midpoint of production of 430,000 to 460,000 ounces. It will be a trend of our all-in sustaining cost guidance of 1,275 ounces to 1,425 ounces, given the inflation that we've seen over 2022. I think you can reflect on a great quarter for the company across numerous aspects of our work but importantly, we've put it behind us now, when we focus on Q4 to deliver 2022 as planned and keep pushing to fully maximize our portfolio in a safe and responsible way.

And with that now, we'll open up for question.

Thank you. Our first question today comes from the line of Marina Calero from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for the call. I have a question about your production guidance. You had a very strong Q3 and you're expecting production for the year to come at the mid of the range. How conservative is that assumption?

Hey, Marina. How are you doing? Look, I think if we sort of step back and think about how we thought about 2022, that's probably going to put a bit of context around for you around where we are. So, towards the end of 2021, as we're looking to this year, we knew that during the first quarter, we're going to swap out from Barminco in the underground contractor. And so, we knew that we're going to have a softer quarter and we planned accordingly for a softer Q1 to account for the inevitable disruption as they left site and we sort of gained control.

Second quarter, we thought we'd have a stronger quarter over Q1, but still recognizing that we were going to basically be bedding down the operations and [ph] be able to put all the modelling (10:50) in the underground. And then of course, we felt that by midyear, we'd be in a pretty strong position then to be able to take a – to a strong second half of the year. So, we always had a sort of a bias weighting towards H2, given the disruption to the – or potential disruption to the underground in H1 as part of the contractor swap-out. So that was our sort of philosophy as we looked at the year.

We then further went a bit more granular than that and said, look, looking to H2, what I hate is when your fourth quarter is your biggest quarter to meet guidance, and then all of a sudden, you find yourself heading into the fourth quarter needing for everything to go absolutely perfect in order to meet guidance. And then, at the slightest slip-up that can occur, there can be a delay to a consumable or a bit of equipment availability impacts or who knows what happens. But all of a sudden then, you find yourself trying to rush to meet guidance in a challenging environment.

So, we very purposely decided to have a stronger Q3, where we preferentially bring in some of the higher-grade stopes into the third quarter, recognizing that during the first half that we get ourselves settled from the underground perspective, have a big Q3, de-risk the year, and then into Q4, back to a normal sort of mining rate in terms of grades, where we said something 4.5 grams to 6 grams in the underground and then moving to year-end. And then, using that fourth quarter to then think about setting up the 2023 to make sure we have a good year next year.

And I think the other thing to think about is that with that sort of big third quarter, if there were any issues that we faced, we still have then time to basically deal with those and then still make guidance for the year as well. So, we very much planned a big Q3 this year, recognizing the Barminco situation, not wanting to push all the risk into the fourth quarter and having to disappoint, and perfectly sequence the way we went on that basis as well.

So, I think that how do we look at that? I think very much now looking at what we need to do to bring in Q4 that sort of mid-range of sort of 440,000 ounces to 445,000 ounces, I think that's very much where we're looking at on our 9 plus 3 forecast to set up mid-range of the guidance. I think it allows us then to think about getting ready for 2023 development in place, making sure we set up stockpiles, inventory management, and so on from there as well.

So, I think that not conservative, not aggressive. I think we've got a very clear plan to deliver into, that make sure we can deliver this year and make sure we can start next year in a good way as we hope to deliver again into 2023 from there as well.

So, I think it's – yeah, as I say, it's just – I think it's quite important just to understand what we did this year and why we did it for very good reasons. I must say delighted that the team were able to – each quarter this year, have actually delivered into the plan as set out in late 2021 forward as well, I think, which is great.

So, hopefully, that – I don't know if that answers your question. I'm not sure. But I just thought a bit of the philosophy of how we looked at this year as to basically sort of balance out the risk effectively, but also making sure that any short-term decisions we made fit in that medium to long-term plan context.

Very clear. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question today comes from the line of Alan Spence from Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Good morning, guys. Just a couple of questions around the waste stripping. The first one, I just want to make sure I'm absolutely certain that your CapEx guidance is excluding that breakdown you provided in terms of the waste that's been capitalized?

Ross, do you want to take [ph] some of that (14:07)?

Hi. Yes, Martin. Hi, Alan. Yes, and so, for that CapEx guidance that we're guiding to, apples with apples, the $225 million excludes the waste stripping. So, if you looked at that – in that table that we've provided, basically, the $213 million run rate year-to-date will go up to circa $285 million by the end of the year, and the bottom line, the $167 million, will end up being the $225 million, which is our CapEx guidance. So, yes, it excludes this. And then, the – basically, all-in will be $285 million, including the waste stripping component of that baked in.

Okay. So, yeah, so if I had that number right, then that implies around another $15 million capitalized in fourth quarter?

Yes. So, there's $50 million that's being capitalized, and then there's another $20 million-odd that will be the waste stripping component here.

Okay. I mean, if I think about kind of trying to bridge it to your guidance, and I appreciate the fact that you talked about kind of having a more normalized fourth quarter, but year-to-date, I mean, you're running significantly below on cash cost guidance and if there is going to be another $20-ish million in Q4, that's going to be deferred – not deferred, but put on to CapEx as opposed to OpEx. I mean – to kind of ask the previous question again but different, how conservative is that? I mean, it feels like the underlying cost assumption you're allowing to flow through is for a really, really big step-up quarter on quarter. [indiscernible]

(15:47) I guess from a cost perspective...

Sorry, Ross. Yeah. I was going to – sorry, you know what, you carry on mate. Sorry.

Yeah. No, from a cost perspective, I think that the key thing for us, yes, there is a step-up, but we are – in terms of our cost profile and how that all flows through, we've got some significant reductions in costs. So, for instance, the [indiscernible] (16:10) just come through. We've just had basically a one-month saving on that. But the full impact of that is a $6 million to $7 million that will drop in this fourth quarter, that will help to offset, and across other initiatives that go through. So, and we're feeling pretty comfortable when we look at our 9 plus 3, barring anything that comes left-field. I think we'll hit those metrics.

The other one is the fuel price that we did see a step-up. Q2, we're running at sort of circa $0.99. That ramped up. We had an average over the Q3 of $1.08 and we've – that's taken down and we're currently sitting back down at $0.93. So we feel that we have seen that peak going into the Q4 and the run rates and the initiatives that we've gotten on track of – from a cost perspective, I think we'll be able to hit in certainly in those ranges.

And I think – so you hit on one of the key things that – sorry Ross. I think you hit one of the key things there. Sorry, Alan. I apologies. But I think that fuel price, who knows what happens in Ukraine, further disruption to that. How does that work? Egypt produces about 50% of its diesel onshore. It imports about 50% of its diesel. So, I think in terms of sort of being prudent around that and recognizing what shocks could come over the balance of Q4 from certainly from just fuel prices expected alone I think, we're just being guardedly cautious around that, recognizing that solar's coming on stream, some of the initiatives we're pushing through there as well. But, yeah, looking – it's a big variable we have no control over, and we've got to be prudent around that.

Okay. So – okay. I won't put words in your mouth. But I guess my takeaway is that it sounds like you've left some room to potentially do better and what's the words on the paper there. But that's my conclusion, not yours. Ex-fuel, can you just talk about kind of the inflation trend you're seeing in other consumables? Are we – have you – do you think we're past the peak in that? Are we starting to see some deflation there?

I mean, I think from an in-country perspective, I mean, that – the in-country run rate and then inflation, the official inflation rate is 16% this last quarter, going into this last month. It's actually the real rate on the Street. We are seeing that, as pressures coming through their supply chain. And we factored that in as we go into the end of the year. But there is pressure coming through. I think the good thing, again, these cost initiatives, we are able to – we're seeing a – if it's not a full offset, we're able to counter a lot of those headwinds that are coming through. From a supply chain side, I think some of those shipping costs are the things we are seeing coming down. So, there is some tempering, but I'll be totally honest that sort of in-country inflation rates are still high. But we have factored those into our numbers.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you, guys.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered on the telephone line. So, I would like to pass over to Alex Barter-Carse for online questions.

Thank you, Bailey. Only a few online questions have come through. Starting with, can you give us an update on the regional Sukari exploration program, including the geophysical airborne survey that was done earlier in the year?

Yeah. I'll take that one, Ross, if you're okay. So, look, we did fly the airborne survey which was a sort of execution success that we were able to get the helicopter up, run the equipment, and get the results back. So, we received the imagery. I think that came through in June. And then what we've done is then we've taken that imagery and we've passed that onto a third-party specialist geophysical contractor to do some further processing as well. So, that remains a valid work stream. And moving forward there, that's the [indiscernible] (20:14) being further processed as well.

And obviously, look to incorporate that into the exploration plan for 2020 – end of 2022 and into 2023 as well. So, look, I think we can look back and with a sense of satisfaction, did the first airborne survey, [indiscernible] (20:31) coming through and then look to lay that in as well.

So, I think, no earth-shattering sort of discoveries, we didn't find another Sukari yet, heading sort of 5 meters away from the main ore body, unfortunately. But I think really interesting in terms of the structural setting of the ore body implications for areas for potential further, sort of, discovery of a more minor scale around the concession area.

And I think the really interesting piece of work to explain and then extrapolate into the broader areas that we're now sort of exploring across the Eastern Desert's work as well. So, a really good exercise, had some good valuable information out of it and very informative for both Sukari concession and broader EDX.

In terms of EDX, we have done the BLEG sampling. So, that's that very sort of first-stage, early grassroots type approach to screening large areas. So, we've finished the BLEG on both Nugrus and the Um Rus block, which is the north of Nugrus, the block around the Sukari concession, that both sets of its license areas have been [indiscernible] (21:39) with BLEG. With the weather being particularly hot in the summer months, the Najd block, because that's a bit more inland, we're going to go back there in Q1 when the temperatures are cooler. So, with the team having done BLEG sampling across Najd and – sorry, across Nugrus and Um Rus, the team has now gone back into the Nugrus area, which is the zone around Sukari.

We're now doing a priority sort of follow-up, both soil sampling and mapping, in a more closer space but in detailed bases across some priority targets that we've identified. And the idea there is to generate as quickly as possible some drill targets so we can get rigs into that concession start maybe poking a few holes in sort of early next year as we go forward as well. So, that's in terms of the field work.

We have got our exploitation license now. The samples are being shipped from Egypt across to actually Perth, Australia, where we're now in the system. And we expect to see results flowing through end of the year as part of Q1 when we start getting those assay results back from that phase of work as well. So, the team has done an excellent work. We're in the field, we're covering large areas and really exciting in terms of the progress being made and we'll pivot to the Najd block in Q1 once, say, the temperature drop off as well. So, team going very well. And, yeah, looking forward to seeing the results myself later this year and then sort of trying to work out if we can get a rig on there and start looking at some of these priority areas from a drilling perspective.

Great. Thank you. A question on the capital structure review. If you do take on debt, please, can you clarify what it will be spent on?

Well, look, I think as we said a few times, that that sort of – Sukari not having any debt on its balance sheet is atypical, I think, within normal sort of the mining space. I think that the strategic rationale for looking at this now is not to basically have a burning desire to do something unusual, that we want to form a relationship with a group of international banks and have a track record with them.

And then, such as we look forward to things like Doropo, for example, is a good example, as soon as we get sort of – we acquired some significant funding to develop, having an existing bank group where you have a banking relationship to them, engage with them around [indiscernible] (23:56) Doropo, just makes life a lot easier at that point as well.

I think if we saw opportunistic ability to do some additional CapEx expenditure at Sukari, for example, then that's something that we could potentially fund through debt. So, it just gives us a lot more operational and strategic flexibility to have that bank.

One of the things that Ross and I have been chatting about, though, is that if you think about our cost recovery model for capital expenditure at Sukari Concession itself, solar plant is an example, we spent $36 million building the solar farm. Then, we get to cost-recover that on a three-year basis. So, we get $12 million each year cost-recovered to us. And Ross and I were chatting about the concept of, I think, something like a revolving credit facility where we would draw down at $36 million to fund the capital of, say, the solar plant. And then, each of the subsequent three years, as we get those $12 million back in priority payments to Centamin, they'd be used to retire that RCF as well.

So, there's also an operational functionality that if we wanted to go down that route, we could start to use that to fund some of the sort of the capital requirements at Sukari with that cost recovery model matching up to an RCF type of facility.

So, at this stage, it's about forming a strategic relationship with a bank or a group of banks, I should say. It's about having additional sort of, if you like, a sort of balance sheet strength and flexibility to allow us to react to opportunities. It's about thinking down the track of Doropo. And to think about basically managing our sort of capital commitments within the Sukari Concession as well. So, that's what we're thinking.

And of course, balancing those – all out, it just gives us an extra tool in our capital allocation framework when we're looking at balancing growth versus dividends in terms of how we are able to sort of navigate this pipeline of opportunities that we have, while maintaining a kind of stability as well.

Thank you. And the final question is what are your views on M&A and how does that fit into the Centamin strategy?

Yeah. Look, it seems to be the absolute favorite question of every journalist and [indiscernible] (25:52) these days is that everyone's very excited about M&A and always ask us the question and I always sort of have to answer it. And then, it always seems to be the first point that's reported in any article as well, which is always a little bit amusing to me.

Look, I think that as a business, I've said this in the various interviews, is that we've got a huge amount of work done over the last couple of years. I think there's still a bit more work to do as we look to really optimize Sukari. I think we've got a great opportunity at Doropo. I think the EDX work is really exciting as well. So, we've got a really exciting pipeline that I believe can deliver a huge amount of shareholder value, given our ability to execute on our financial position to be able to deliver in time as well. So, very much starting to position all, that we've got enough on our plate. We've got a lot to do, and I'm very sort of keen to get on with that, continue this momentum that we've got now.

Having said that, single-asset, single-jurisdiction risk is always a concern. Doropo is a few years away from the sort of – from being in production. And while we're busy getting on with it, one should always be [ph] aligned (26:58) that there may well become opportunities to look at a potential M&A if and when they arise. And so, I think that to say that we're not – that we're completely closed to M&A is not correct. I think that we have an opportunistic watching brief that if an opportunity arose that made sense for Centamin, then I think we should maybe consider that.

But I think to be very, very clear, we're not proactively looking to go out and do things at this stage. We are – we have a watching brief for opportunities. We're very happy with our own internal growth pipeline. And I think that – I think really importantly for us, if you look at other transactions that are in the market right now, where companies are saying we have to do this transaction because if we don't, we won't have anywhere else to go. That's the polar opposite to where we are at Centamin. Lots to do, lots of generation of value to be done over the next 18 months, lots of focus to make sure we don't lose – get distracted by these things as well.

But be aware, opportunities may arise from time to time, and as a business, if we can see a value-accretive transaction that makes sense with our shareholders, then I think we really have the duty to look at that if those opportunities arise. So, that's the same answer I give sometimes is like to sort of set things up a little bit, and it's like to, sort of, go out Centamin considering M&A. Yes, we are, if something makes sense there.

But right now, very much focused on what we have. Strong pipeline to come. And I think, don't feel any pressure to go and do something that could ultimately unwind a lot of the good value that we've created by doing a silly deal that makes money for the people and not our shareholders.

So, I hope that sort of puts a bit of context around that in a bit more of a sort of direct, sort of straightforward way, Alex.

I think it does. Thank you. And that's all the questions from me.

Thank you. Well, look, thanks to all for dialing in today. Great quarter. I think the teams across the assets have done fantastically well, continue that sort of mantra around delivery into plan, and they've done that despite some challenging situations. And continue to progress our sort of value maximization projects. I'm really excited about where we can go. We put Q3 behind us. We focus on Q4 now, we'll deliver year 2022, and make sure we set up to continue delivering into 2023 and beyond, as well. So, yeah, look, I think something that we can look on with a sense of satisfaction, but maintain that momentum into Q4 and beyond.

So, with that, I'd just like to say thank you again to the audience for dialing in, and look forward to talking to you all soon.