Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Michael Stoner — Head-Corporate, Centamin Plc
Marina Calero — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Jason Fairclough — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Richard Hatch — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS AG (London Branch)
Yuen Low — Analyst, Liberum Capital Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Centamin Q1 2024 Results. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session through the phone lines and instructions will follow at that time. I would like to remind all participants that this call is being recorded.

I will now hand over to Martin Horgan, CEO. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. And good morning, everybody, and thank you for taking the time to join this first quarter update of Centamin's activities. A busy quarter successfully navigated. I think as we flagged a couple of times during the quarter, a planned softer quarter than the previous Q4, but important in setting us up for the balance of the year.

In terms of the open pit, we start there at Sukari. A period of mining and processing some lower grade oxide material from the Stage 7 area of the open pit, meant that we were slightly down on grades than used to be the case. But gladly, that's substantially behind us now from a processing perspective, although we do anticipate mining some more lower grade material over the balance of the year that we'll report to stockpiles and dump leach.

In underground perspective, as you know, we've been signaling the expansion of the underground production at ore rates up to 1.4 million tonnes from the 1 million tonnes that we achieved last year as part of our future Life of Mine expansion plans. As part of that overall workstream, we undertook a ventilation upgrade program during the first quarter, that was largely been successfully completed. Commissioning is actually occurring this week and that significantly improves our ventilation requirements as we look to expand that production rate as I mentioned.

Accordingly, due to the rescheduling of equipments and availability of working areas while we did this work, [ph] terms (00:01:54) were down a little bit in the underground and [ph] grade associated (00:01:56) as well as we focus more on development [ph] pool (00:01:58) through that period. From a milling perspective, a reline in the quarter schedule as planned twice a year, but otherwise processing performed well in terms of throughput and recoveries, and actually some nice performance for the dump leach as well.

So, a busy first quarter coming in – just a shade below where we have planned. We've anticipated about 109 ounces to 110 ounces produced for the quarter, a little below that 105 ounces, mainly predominantly due to slightly lower than anticipated oxide grades in the open pits. But so, with that behind us now, I think the important thing for us is that with that quarter delivered guidance maintained for the year of that 470,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces.

In terms of the cost base, as you know, that's been a real focus over the last two or three years at Sukari. And we've been very successful in taking significant chunks of the cost out of the business. But I should say that continued into Q1 on a quarter-on-quarter basis compared to Q4. Delighted to say that we were some $9 million lower on the total basis of the all-in sustaining cost base in the first quarter of this year. But fortunately from an asset perspective, we do calculate that on ounces sold.

So, with a timing of the inventory of shipments, we did have sales lower than the production number and that have unfortunately made the asset look a little bit [ph] lumpy (00:03:21) on a unit rate basis. But I think importantly for us on a total dollar basis, it was a significant reduction on Q4 last year. Of course, that leads us to also reaffirm and restate our guidance for the year of $1,200 to $1,350 per ounce all-in sustaining as well. So, a solid and good first quarter of Sukari from production and cost basis. That's at work largely behind us now and sets us for Q2, Q3, Q4 as I mentioned sort of that guidance of both production and cost as we go.

Probably the only negative of the first quarter in our perspective was unfortunately single LTI in the period, our first one in the year. As you know, I've said repeatedly and I believe that safety is a very good proxy for the management capacity and capability, and obviously very regrettable to have the single incident in over 12 months. Brought to an end our sort of run of the LTI hours free work and we had set a new site record of 12.5 million hours before this unfortunate incident.

With that full investigation and resets, we go again. But, of course, with that single incident over that period, it means that our sort of both leading and lagging indicator rates are incredibly sort of good and heading in the right direction as well. So, we maintain our focus on safety for the site. I think that was evidence, as I mentioned at the full year results around the awarding of that ISO 45001 around OH&S systems at the site as well.

Staying in Egypt away from Sukari, good work around EDX. And the first quarter really had great results that we had at Little Sukari and Umm Majal [indiscernible] (00:04:59) back into the field. So, mapping some ground-based IP work to help us some further target delineation around that, and we've been mobilized to the area right now.

And the construction of a small exploration camp will see us back drilling at both of those targets now starting in the second quarter as we hope to try and sort of further expand and delineate those targets [indiscernible] (00:05:21) their full potential and their ability to contribute to Sukari Life of Mine Plan in due course as well. So, it's a good progress and quite exciting progress across EDX as well.

Pivoting to Doropo in West Africa. Feasibility tracking along well in terms of its timeline and its outcomes, happy we progress there. So, we now [indiscernible] (00:05:41) finished line at the end of this year, feasibility study. I'm pleased to say that the work is tracking well. The field work programs that support that [indiscernible] (00:05:50) largely done now from drilling to geotech to hydro and so on and so forth. That is largely complete. We're now working through this [ph] Director based (00:05:59) consulting and engineering work as we prepare for the feasibility study for Doropo. So, hope to have that established around the mid-year point to support our license application process with government.

As part of the license application process, we need our environment compliance certificate. I'm delighted to say that during the quarter that our ESIA was submitted to the local authorities to commence that process as well. So, that's going well. We have [indiscernible] (00:06:24) local communities in the Doropo area and that is progressing quite nicely in terms of our sort of the clearance with the environmental department and along with our feasibility study, assuming we'd be able to navigate that successfully. We'll see us making our license application to the third quarter, to the previous disclosed plans as well, so going well there.

So, and we look forward to the second quarter now, plenty to do. In terms of our grid connection, made a very good progress and we're [ph] just waiting to (00:06:53) finalize the contracts of our engagement there. [indiscernible] (00:06:58) important to get that documentation finalized [indiscernible] (00:07:01) signature. We've been progressing a detailed engineering work with that in parallel and should enable to see the project kick off in earnest now in the second quarter as we look to bring that [ph] online forward (00:07:11) during this year calendar.

In terms of the Sukari as well, Capital Limited should be finishing [ph] their work at (00:07:18) sort of waste-stripping campaign this quarter now. That's substantially completed, over 90% done with that fixed volume contract that continues to perform very well for us. And they will be rolling off sites by the end of Q2 in respect of that. Obviously looking forward to EDX drilling sort of updates in due course and we'll continue to push hard at Sukari and Umm Majal, and of course, that Doropo feasibility study later in the quarter as well.

So, overall, a busy first period. A lots of preparation work done that sets us up for this year and the balance of future years. Very happy with progress at the sites, as their guidance maintained for the year in terms of that 470,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces and the $1,200 to $1,350 AISC and ready to push on both Doropo and EDX as well.

So, with that, very happy to open it up to the floor to questions. And I'll hand back to the operator who will now [indiscernible] (00:08:09) Ross and I to take any questions you might have.

Thank you. And the floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Marina Calero from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for the call. I have a question.

I'm sorry. It appears we've lost Marina there. Is that just me? I heard Marina said, I have a question and then it went blank for me. I'm not sure that's the same for you, operator?

Us too, yeah.

Marina, your line is still open. Are you able to speak?

Can you hear me?

We can.

Okay. Thanks. Sorry about that. I have a question about the open pit. It looks like your grades and the strip ratio were impacted by your reclassification of waste into ore. How should we think about it for the rest of the year? What are you expecting for these two variables?

Sure. Thanks, Marina. Good morning, Marina. Good to talk to you again. So, look, I think as we touched on there around that oxide material, so I think, Marina, at the north end of the open pit, we had the – this what was formerly called the Sukari Hill. It's obviously less of a hill now because we've been busy mining it for the last year. But as you might remember, there's a lot of oxide and transitional material on that because effectively it's unmined previously. So, we have that set material to come through. There was historical mining in this area from the Cleopatra exploration, trial stoping at the zone a number of years ago.

So, [indiscernible] (00:10:09) area, we got rocky terrain, it's oxide material, and we have some historical sort of voids in this area as well. And really, the combination of terrain and the voids meant that we weren't able to get our usual level of sort of drilling coverage into this area ahead of production, caution areas around the voids and we couldn't put rigs in certain areas, and just certain areas were difficult on the edges to access with the drill rig. So, as we mine through this area, what we found is a persistent waste ore conversion, [indiscernible] (00:10:39) clearly in finding more gold. So, we've seen that come through. It is at the margins, so it's that lower grade material sitting at round about 0.5 gram.

So, certainly, I think in the first quarter this year, there's about 1.5 million to 2 million tonnes of additional sort of material that was waste, that is reclassified to ore and sitting at that low grade to the 0.5 grams oxide material as well. So, that's [indiscernible] (00:11:00) strip ratio for the period and, of course, it's going to drag the overall grade down in terms of, it could be the ex-pit grade, and that's obviously quite different from the processed grade as well.

So, largely now, in terms of that area, as we continue to mine through that zone now is that we still anticipate there should be some further potential sort of waste to ore conversion to occur. We will continue to get more of that oxide sort of lower grade material coming through. I think important before is the – from a processing perspective, that material should now start [indiscernible] (00:11:34) the stockpiles or at dump leach facility as well. And from a processing perspective, that material should now – we should be back to normal shall we say [ph] in around (00:11:44) 1 gram open pit material to come through to the processing schedule.

So, when we take that back to the sort of the full-year look forward basis, we have plans in mind about 16 million tonnes of ore this year as part of our Life of Mine Plan. We think that probably move towards 20 million tonnes, and that's to do with that ore to – sort of that waste-to-ore conversion, so there will be more ore mined this year than planned, but that's positive with that conversion ratio.

I think importantly from a processing perspective, we still will be getting that 11 million tonnes at round about 1 gram to go through the process at feed as well. So, when we think about what [ph] reports at the (00:12:17) mill, that 11 million tonnes at round the ground is still what we see for the balance of the year. And the balance of that material plus/minus 8 million, 9 million tonnes will be going to stockpiles and oxides as well.

So, I think the overall picture is that we can assume that from the open pit, 11 million tonnes at round about the ground will be the plan for the year on a processing basis. There'll be about another 8 million to 9 million tonnes will come from the open pit, which is more than we planned by a [ph] couple of 3 million tonnes (00:12:43). But that we'll be reporting to both dump leach and oxide – sorry, and stockpile material from that as well. So, [indiscernible] (00:12:52) obviously quite a lot to digest, Marina, but I think the key thing for me is that processing [indiscernible] (00:12:58) open pit is unchanged. It's more about that additional tonnes of oxide material and it reporting to dump leach and stockpiles for the balance of the year.

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jason Fairclough from Bank of America. Your line is open.

Martin, good morning. Thanks for the opportunity again to have another chance at the questions. And happy birthday again. Just a quick question on the underground. A couple of people just sort of pushing me a little bit on why the underground grade was low just in this first quarter. Is it only down to the fan installations? Or is there something else going on there that's meant that those grades have been lower?

Morning, Jason. And thank you again for the birthday wishes. So, look, in terms of the period, we recognize that obviously, we'll be able to have the fans – well, actually the preparatory work for the fans to get the new great fan chambers that we're putting. That meant some of the equipment that we would have been using for production was diverted into the sort of project work as well. So, we had a reallocation of equipment away from the sort of normal production and development duties to focus on that.

Also then, recognizing that as we sort of upgrade sort of the fans surface and underground were being sort of [indiscernible] (00:14:26) as well, certain areas of the operation were sort of replaced on sort of [ph] restricted e-duties (00:14:31) while we're doing this work as well. So, in terms of an actual physical activities on the underground basis is that there were some restrictions effectively about what we were able to do while both equipment and working areas were impacted by this capital sort of project that we put in place as well. And that's why you've seen a reduction in total tonnes on the underground coming through for the period.

In terms of grade, obviously, again, where we can work, what's available to us at that particular time, we have to be cognizant of that. We have to, of course, keep pushing on developments to being able to meet that sort of step in future months around – sorry, future periods [indiscernible] (00:15:11) 1.4 million tonne a year rate as well. So, we've got to think about balancing out stope production versus development within the overall context of further expansion as well. And that also impacts on where we're able to mine from a grade perspective as well.

So, in terms of the putting the fans in, it's impacted on what we could – where we could work and what we're actually mining in the period stoping versus development and those areas and also taking some capacity out of the production as well. So, in terms of that, from our perspective, I don't – we're not concerned that we're having sort of particular issues within the underground at this stage. With that work now largely done, so that the fans are being commissioned actually this week as well, we see ourselves returning back to that normal run rate, certainly in terms of tonnes produced from the underground.

And last year, it was about 1 million tonnes brought to surface, and we're targeting just about 1.1 million tonnes this year on that trajectory back to sort of up towards 1.4 million tonnes by 2026. And we expect that the sort of the grade to recover from this low in this first period, which is a function of available working areas and what we are focusing on and actually bring us in just below 4 grams for the year, so you could probably work out [indiscernible] (00:16:21) lower terms and lower grade in this first quarter, we're anticipating better tonnes and better grades in quarters two, three and four, to bring us in for that set at a total of just under [ph] 4 grams (00:16:30) for the year on a grade basis. So, look, from our perspective, no, not concerned as planned, as scheduled and the work done there and that's a nice piece of work that sets us up for the next few years. We look to do that underground expansion there as well.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hatch from Berenberg. Your line is open.

Yes. Thanks. Morning, Martin and team. Just a question on Doropo. Lovely to see the gold price where it is, but when the gold price gets this high, you tend to find that certain governments look to try and increase their share of cash flows from assets and push up royalty rates we've seen in the past. Just wondering, if you're sort of hearing anything on that in Côte d'Ivoire or any concerns on that and perhaps just talk us through any kind of sensitivities if you do see the royalty rate increase. Thanks.

Thanks, Hatch. Short answer is no. I haven't heard anything sort of oscillated around sort of the [ph] d'Ivoire (00:17:45) government looking to change things. Look, I think, my sort of view of Côte d'Ivoire is that it is obviously quite a mature mining jurisdiction. It's been very successful in terms of its ability to sort of nurture a very successful gold sector over the last 10 to 15 years. A number of developments, as we know, sort of coming through in terms of the new builds, I think.

So, we're dealing with a mature government that understands and actually is pro-mining [ph] we wanted that (00:18:20). Aware that sort of the sort of the [ph] code in (00:18:23) in the Côte d'Ivoire was changed not too long ago. For example, those tax incentives that were going to companies where they were [ph] getting set to go (00:18:30) and have been removed. And as part of that set to my understanding as well is that, we have a sliding royalty scale in Côte d'Ivoire already anyway.

So naturally, of course, the Ivorian government has access to – has sort of a sliding royalty scale [indiscernible] (00:18:48) take advantage of higher gold prices, which miners should be able to sort of absorb in those environments as well. So, I think we're dealing with a mature jurisdiction that understands mining, that's pro-mining. It's very successfully nurtured the industry. It's – it already has that sliding scale royalty in place at this stage and certainly haven't heard anything to the contrary that the Côte d'Ivoire would look to revisit in this environment as well.

All right. Cool. That's very helpful. And then just – can I just ask a bit on CapEx? Q1 generally is a bit soft, right, but it came in quite light. And I'm just interested to hear what the pathway is for the rest of the year just in terms of CapEx spend. Thanks.

Yeah. Sure. So, look, again, CapEx as per plan from our perspective, obviously, our sort of ongoing sustaining CapEx sits in the background there, rebuilds and developments, so on. So, that sort of is fairly – it must be consistent through the period in terms of that sort of growth CapEx and non-sustaining CapEx that we think about.

Then, obviously projects as and when they drop, so we've got obviously some new equipment coming through to drop later in the year. We've got our tailings embankment raising that will sort of come through as that work is done. And, of course, a substantial part of that CapEx is sort of around the grid connection, which we expect to kick off in Q2 and [indiscernible] (00:20:15) CapEx into Q2, Q3, Q4 as well.

So, I think in terms of the – how we see the CapEx dropping, Q1 was where we thought it would be, at no change to either the quantum or the timing of that. And we expect to see some of those major projects, expect to come through start dropping in Q2, Q3, Q4 as well. So, no change to the year and no change from a timing perspective from our end at least in terms of how we expect that to drop. So, all on track, on plan [indiscernible] (00:20:44), Hatch.

Great. Okay. Thanks a lot. Have a good one.

Thanks, [ph] friend. (00:20:49)

Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Major from UBS. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks. Can you hear me okay?

Yes. Perfect, yeah.

Great. Thanks. Yeah, I think most of my key questions on the operational side in terms of the trajectory for the rest of the year were answered. But just one, just quickly on the open pit. So, you would expect the grade to be north of 1 gram per tonne for the remainder of the year, resulting in an average of just under. Is that the guide?

So, the way to think about this, what comes out of the ex-pit down. So, all the total ore tonnes that come out sort of above cutoff grade from the pit and then that kind of, if you like, simplistically they kind of split one of two ways. Either they go to the ROM pad in processing or they go to dump leach [indiscernible] (00:21:37) stockpile depending on that. So, if we think about the total material that's going to come out of the pit this year, we had plan for about 16 million tonnes. I think that's going to be more towards 20 million tonnes because of some of that ore – waste-to-ore conversion that we're seeing up in Stage 7 as well.

So, total coming out of the pit will be more like 20 million tonnes. Because we're getting more of that low-grade material than we'd anticipated, that means that's obviously going to dilute the grade down. So, I think you can think about sort of 20 million tonnes plus milestone from the open pit and that's probably going to sit in the 0.7 grams per tonne to 0.8 range grams per tonne as we come out of the open pit. So, that's what will leave the pit.

When then we think about what goes where, we're still planning to have about 11 million tonnes at round about 1 gram. So, that's subset of that 20 million tonnes at, say, [ph] 0.7 grams per tonne to 0.8 grams per tonne (00:22:29), 11 million tonnes of that – at round about 1 gram, 0.95 gram to 1 gram, that will go to processing and fill the mill. And then the balance of that, which will be round about 0.5 gram, that will then go to stockpile or dump leach for that as well. So, yes, so total ex-pit all above cut off will be 20 million tonnes, between 0.7 grams and 0.8 grams, and then about 11 million tonnes at, say, 0.95 gram to 1 gram that's processing. And the balance will go to stockpile dump leach. That's on a total basis. That's not from [ph] here (00:23:04), that's on the year as a whole.

Yeah. Got it. So, the process [indiscernible] (00:23:08) goes through the mill will be back above a 1 gram for the remainder of the year?

About a 1 gram, yeah. Yeah. About a 1 gram for the processed mill feed. That's right, yeah.

Okay. Cool. And then, just again on the FX inflation situation [indiscernible] (00:23:29) your predominantly dollarized business, but any comments on the kind of any disturbances in the cost base in Q1? Obviously, the unit costs were impacted by the lower volumes, but as a consequence of the devaluation of currency or anything.

No. So, look, I think as said, we touched on the past is that we're [indiscernible] (00:23:50) very lucky to largely sort of escape as sort of almost unimpacted by the sort of Egypt sort of currency issues as that dollarized business, as you rightly say, Dan, gold sales offshore, the dollars back onshore by the local currency to pay local costs. And then, sort of everything else is in US dollars, including the profit share repatriation back to sort of [indiscernible] (00:24:12). So, that's not impacted us.

Probably, the main impact of it is, when we've had to buy EGP to pay local costs, we bought it at the official government rate of [indiscernible] (00:24:22) about EGP 30 to $1. Of course, now with the floating currency sitting at, say, mid-40s, we're now buying at EGP at that rate. But I think it's important to understand the sort of the [ph] total performance (00:24:35) of our cost base that sort of sits in EGP, so with salaries and then sort of the next – well, it's salaries [indiscernible] (00:24:43) is fuel costs as well as the [indiscernible] (00:24:46) as well. So, on that basis, no significant impacts in Q1 from the sort of the floating exchange rate to that. It's a relatively minor component in the overall cost base to us as well.

Got it. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Tim Huff from Canaccord UK. Your line is open. Tim, just checking. Your line is open.

Hey, Tim?

We'll return Tim back to the queue. [Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Yuen Low from Liberum. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone, and happy birthday, [ph] Ross (00:25:49). Just one question left that's not been answered then. That's to do with recoveries this time around. I was wondering whether they were impacted by the transition material.

Hey, Yuen. How are you doing, mate? Thanks for that. A little bit, a little bit. So, we're targeting it sort of round about that 88% to 89% for the year. So, we're just a little bit below the 88% for the first quarter. So, there was a minor impact. As you're probably aware, recoveries actually work on a fixed tail basis, so that the lower material grade that goes in impacting a recovery because there's a fixed tail relationship as well. So, naturally, with some of that low-grade material going into the processing during the first quarter, with a fixed tail relationship, it will naturally drag down the recovery a little bit as well.

But as we transition back to, shall we say, more normal milled grades going through the mill, we expect that obviously to get back towards that 88% to 89% as well. So, yes, a little bit of an impact on that due to the fixed tail relationship and processing as well. But as I say, not anticipating. We'll move – mine more of that low-grade material in the balance of the year, but it will be reporting significantly to the processing facility. So, we expect that to sort of be recovering and back in line where we expect and want it to be.

Okay. That's clear. Thank you.

Thanks, Yuen.

And there are no further questions on the phone lines. I would now like to hand over to Michael to address written questions submitted via the webcast page.

Thank you. Okay. So, we've got a couple of questions on kind of exposure to the gold price and hedging with the rising gold price, kind of, how do we expect that to flow through to revenues given the put options? And then, are we expecting – are there any plans to increase hedging through purchases of put options or other products given current gold prices? Or could we expect to see no further purchases going forward?

Thanks. Thanks, Michael. Well, maybe we start with the current protection program. And so, [indiscernible] (00:28:04), so they protect us to the downside, but obviously, do not limit any of the upside exposure as well. So, in terms of those programs, we bought [ph] a strip of plots (00:28:15) that were out to the middle of this year. So, they're the final [indiscernible] (00:28:19) June of this year. Pretty much given the gold price performance and strength, those [indiscernible] (00:28:25) effectively to date expired out of the [ph] money (00:28:29) and have not been utilized. So, the company obviously is retaining full exposure to the rising gold prices as we go.

And given where the gold price is today, given we've got April, May, June, to pretty much go, it would be surprising if those [indiscernible] (00:28:44) came into play between now and the end of their expiry [indiscernible] (00:28:50) the program by middle of this year as well. So, I think that's kind of first point to note is that kind of downside insurance policy has effectively sort of rolled off or continue to roll off there on an exercise with no impact or drag on the revenues received by the company.

In terms of do we anticipate putting any more in, I think from a Sukari perspective, no. I think that that [ph] put (00:29:15) protection program was a response to what was a sort of still a heavy CapEx program through last year going forward and taking advantage of what we believe then was a robust gold price and the ability to navigate reinvestments from cash flows without having to draw on the RCF. I think we're substantively through the CapEx program. Obviously, great to come later this year, but that leaves us [indiscernible] (00:29:40) navigate that reinvestments definitely through cash flow and without [indiscernible] (00:29:45) down the RCF as well.

So, it leaves us in a very strong position from a sort of liquidity perspective between the balance sheet and undrawn RCF availability and that CapEx rolling off after 2024. So, I don't envisage that this is a company in the normal course of business around sort of Sukari operations that would be looking to do any more hedging at this stage. Certainly, I think that will be a conversation for the board, quite a big decision to be made. But I don't feel that that would be – we'll be able to do that anytime soon.

Where, of course, things might differ is as we take Doropo forward to a development decision and, of course, depending on how we look to sort of fund the construction of Doropo, if we had some form of debt financing in the Doropo's construction, which, to be honest, is highly likely. Then I think sort of the ability to protect some of the early-stage cash flows out of Doropo as part of any [ph] loan (00:30:45) repayment period would be something that we'd look at with our potential funding counterparties as well.

I think in just sort of proper risk management and I think about hedging is risk management not as a sort of revenue game, taking some gold price risk off the table during the early years of the projects sort of [indiscernible] (00:31:00) developments where we got debt repayments against it, I think is prudent. So, I think it is to be sort of hedging conversations within the company going forward [indiscernible] (00:31:10) sort of the Doropo financing and construction decisions [indiscernible] (00:31:13).

A final question from the webcast. Considering the CapEx for the open pit, what equipment is needed? Is any of this to increase in-house capacity, as the contractor capacity rolls off?

Thanks, Michael. So, we do have some new trucks arriving later this year. And they should be [ph] on deck (00:31:40) during the sort of third quarter. We will [indiscernible] (00:31:45) the total material movement capacity is about 95 million tonnes per annum from the open pit. The Life of Mine Plan requires us to be a bit above that for a couple of years, [ph] not substantially (00:31:57) so. And so, we've got a [indiscernible] (00:31:59) units arriving sort of third quarter of this year. They will allow us to move a little bit more material during 2025 and 2026.

But then importantly, when the sort of the material moves back down towards the 90 million tonne per annum requirement, past that initial sort of the period is those trucks can be blended into the fleet and some old units retired. And, of course, by sort of doing that, it means that we don't need sort of significant extra 40 million tonne a year capacity [ph] capital raise (00:32:27) as well. So, yes, we do have some of the equipment arriving in Q3.

It will allow us to sort of incrementally, marginally increase our material movement capacity for a relatively short period without the requirement for use of a third-party contractor. And ultimately, on an overall Life of Mine fleet management strategy, allow us to retire some very old units later on in the period and bring those units in and sort of see us through to the end of the mine life with our current 785C Caterpillar fleet.

That's it from the webcast.

Thank you. Well, maybe to wrap up, then I'd just like to thank everybody for taking the time to join us this morning. As I say, a busy quarter, lots of heavy lifting done that sets us up for the balance of this year and beyond into 2025 and so on. Look, I think the key message for me is that sort of a [indiscernible] (00:33:25) delivered and importantly [indiscernible] (00:33:28) to enable us to maintain guidance both in terms of costs and analysis for the balance of 2024. Exciting sort of development of EDX hopefully coming through as we continue to push on there and that Doropo work coming through the middle of the year as well. So, lots of good momentum and looking forward to updating you all on the quarter two and at the half-year point as we push on through 2024.

So, thank you [indiscernible] (00:33:54). Wish you all a very good day. And as ever, if there's follow-up questions or comments, you can get us through the usual channels of the company. And we'd be happy to take those offline for you post this call as well. Thank you very much.