Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Maurice J. Mason — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP
Hunter A. Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc (Broker)
Bart Jaworski — Analyst, J&E Davy

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the 2013 Annual Results Conference Call. Throughout today's call, all participants will be in listen-only mode, but there will be an opportunity for questions. And it's a great pleasure to present Andy Davidson. Please begin your meeting.

Thanks very much. Thanks to everyone for joining on the call. I'm joined by Pierre Louw, our CFO; and Andrew Pardey, our COO. And I'll just kick straight-off with an overview of the results, some highlights, and then we'll go into Q&A.

And so, the full-year production, as we pre-released before, was 356,943 ounces. That's a 36% increase on 2012, and it beated the guidance of 320,000 ounces that was set in the first quarter. But basically reflects the year where the operations didn't suffer any significant stoppages from external challenges and, therefore, speaks of a significantly better operating environment through the last year into present in comparison with the challenges that we had in 2012.

Production was generally in line with the mine plan, but the key areas of the operation, that it performed above the original expectations and hence factors in the beat on guidance. Firstly, plant productivity, the tonnes milled averaged around 15% over the nameplate, and that clearly bodes well for future expected levels of throughput once [ph] the plant expansions are (1:38) fully commissioned and optimized.

And also, the underground productivity, underground continues to ramp up through the year in Q4. We ran at an annualized rate of 700,000 tonnes, and that's over 500,000 tonnes annualized rate that we had in 2012 in our long-term forecast.

Cash cost to production was $663 an ounce versus $669 in 2012 and below guidance of $700 and that shows success in containing costs with the ramp up in production and the higher output level. The growth – and that growth in production therefore [ph] with (2:20) similar cash costs helped contained the effect of weaker gold prices and that translated to record EBITDA of $234 million which was up 1% on the prior year.

Basic EPS was just under $0.17 and it's down 8% on the prior year with the impact from some impairment charges on the northern exploration properties in Ethiopia and also on our other investments in Ethiopia and Eritrea.

Centamin remains debt free and unhedged. We cashed and liquid assets of around $142 million at the end of the year. So remain in a strong position to fund future growth. And Stage 4 – talking of future growth, Stage 4 plant expansion was substantially complete by the year-end, it's currently under commissioning. And that sets the stage for the next step-up in production towards our long-term target of 450,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces [indiscernible] (3:24) next year onwards. And the plant expansion, the expenditure at the year-end was substantially complete as well, $328 million spent to date with an estimated cost of completion of $331 million.

During the year, we put out an updated resource and reserve statement till the end of the year in December. The total resources remain over 15 million ounces, we've measured and indicated category at 13.4 million ounces. Total reserves, contain 8.2 million ounces, but the highlight really in this resource reserve update was 120% increase in the underground reserve tonnage net of depletion, and then so – sorry, 120% increase over the December 2011 reserve update.

And substantial high grade sections in the underground drilling and continued positive result, that lends confidence to our expectation that we're going to see further increases in the underground reserve in the coming years.

In terms of our overall growth strategy, we progressed it on two fronts during the course of the year. We entered into a joint venture with AIM-listed Alecto Minerals over their exploration projects in Ethiopia. And we've initiated an exploration program on those two properties, one in the West and one in the South of the country.

Also, we announced an all-share takeover offer for Ampella Mining in December. That's now past the 90% acceptance threshold, and the offer will close today, with compulsory acquisitions of the remaining minorities. That deal, which valued the company of just over A$40 million at the time of the announcement, provides us with an extensive exploration license portfolio and a highly perspective and underexplored 100-kilometer trend of gold mineralization in Burkina Faso, and also adjacent properties over the border in Côte d'Ivoire.

So we're in the process now of initiating an exploration program over those properties, and the focus really there is developing the potential for further substantial growth of the existing 3 million ounce, 3.2-million-ounce resource base. [indiscernible]

(5:48) the court cases, both the court cases are ongoing. The diesel fuel oil and the administrative court appeal in relation to the exploitation lease. Both of those cases are ongoing and we remain confident with a satisfactory outcome in both cases. As we originally guided with the exploitation lease case, that process is likely to take around two years to resolve, and we're now 18 months or thereabouts into that process, and progress has largely been as expected.

We continue to benefit from the full support of the government, with the parallel cases filed by the Minister of Petroleum and by EMRA. And progress last year was most notably much, where the original ruling was suspended and the court said that the original ruling was likely to be cancelled when the court issues a judgment on the merits of the case. The court process is now in the merit circuit of the Appeal Court and that's the circuit that will make the final ruling.

So, in terms of the outlook for this year, the key deliverables are clearly Stage 4 plant commissioning. That's going to set the stage to reach our long-term production target of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces from next year onwards. And the underground mine will continue to expand, and we're forecasting production from that mine of 800,000 tonnes of ore at around 8.5 grams a tonne this year.

So this year guidance is unchanged, 420,000 ounces at $700 an ounce, as we notified in January. Our exploration program in Ethiopia will progress and also in Burkina Faso and Côte d'Ivoire.

So just to round off, 2014 marks the year where we conclude the investment phase of the Sukari project and start to see a significant reduction in our annual capital expenditure [ph] requirements (7:55). And we continue, at the same time, to ramp up productions of our long-term target and keep costs well under control so, as such, we're moving into a free cash flow generative phase of the project over the long-term 20-year mine life. And as we do so, we expect to outline a dividend policy for our shareholders over the course of this year. That's something to come in the near future.

So with that, operator, I'd like to wrap up that summary and hand over to you for questions, please?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Cailey Barker from Numis. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Morning. Morning, Andy and guys, congratulations on the results. Just a couple of questions. Could you just give us a steer on how you see the quarterly production profile during the course of this year?

Yeah. Hi, Cailey. Yes, I mean, it would clearly scale up during the course of the year as the Stage 4 plant is commissioned. We're not going to see any meaningful increases in throughput in the first quarter, and we start to put all through really from now onwards. So we'll gradually ramp-up. And that commissioning process is a continuous and gradual one. I don't know, Andrew, maybe you'd like to elaborate on that?

Well, we're going through – [ph] currently (9:50) going through the stages of the mine with – we're tying things in and making sure that they work correctly. So initially going forward, Q1 is going to be – it's going to be slow and then we'd start ramping up through the end of Q1 going into Q2.

Okay. And then just a second question. Just, I mean, obviously you're going to do the 800,000 tonnes on the underground this year, but what do you think your exit rate is expected to be at the end of the year?

So I think our long-term forecast now, we're using 750,000 tonnes per annum as a relatively conservative, realistic long-term target if we need to see more from the ongoing reserve expansion before we can talk about sustainable higher rates than that. But we're very comfortable with that as a long-term sustainable production rate but around about $8,500 a tonne. So I think that's probably what you should use in your models for the time being until we sort of flesh out the reserve and development plan in more detail. But certainly, the infrastructure can handle throughputs significantly higher than that, around about 1 million tonnes is the potential, 1 million tonnes of oil per annum, but we're not forecasting those kind of rates at the moment.

Got it. Okay. And then just a final question on – just on the dividend policy. Could you just give us a bit of a color on the sort of issues you're discussing and how you're going to sort of come to your final decision?

Yeah. I think the dividend versus buyback arguments, you could go around in circles forever, there are various arguments for both and we understand the arguments for both. We've settled on it being a dividend policy, I mean obviously the board is yet to finally determine that, but I think that's the current thinking at least. We've got a 20-year mine life, and the dividend policy allows us to set out a long-term policy.

Yeah. And in terms of quantum timing, that those are the things I can't really preempt at the moment. But we're in a strong position to be very competitive certainly at these share prices and have a very competitive yield, that's certainly the potential. And – but, yes, I can't really say much more than that, Cailey, at this stage.

Okay, great. I [indiscernible] (12:44) line enough. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Maurice Mason from Peel Hunt. Go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, gents. I wondered if you could just give us some guidance on what you expect regarding goodwill payments to EMRA. Do you expect a repeat of the goodwill payment that was made in 2013? And if so, are you able to give us any view of the sort of quantum that that might be?

Yeah. Hi, Maurice. Yeah, we're not really able to sort of say whether or not we can make any, or we intend to make any further goodwill payments. You've seen the statement in the results regarding the expected timing of profit share. Yeah, we've shown a significant amount of goodwill with the payments made last year, and we continue to pay substantial contributions, obviously, to the government with the royalty payments. The government and EMRA are well understanding of the concession agreement and terms and the model that we're working under and through. So, we need to monitor that one [ph] as we go along (14:01). We've generated significant goodwill with the payments we've made already. I think that's the way to view it.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Maurice.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Jason Hindsight (14:18), who's a private investor. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hello, Andy. My name, for the many people listening before was sent in online is [ph] Mr. Hindsight (14:28). And one of the biggest questions being discussed online in the forums at the moment is the ability of the company to [indiscernible] (14:36) secure supply of explosives needed for the mining process. Could you tell us if there are any – if there are sort of still any problems acquiring it?

Hi, [ph] Jason (14:50). Problems, no. The timing of securing the authorization to go to the higher rate, slightly behind where we originally thought they would be. We had originally guided we'd have that authorization at the end of last year. We're obviously a little bit behind that, and that's really a function of dealing with new people in government and just going through the process a little bit longer than we originally expected as a result of those changes.

So – but problems, no, the delays that we've had to date, as reflected in the result, have impacted our waste stripping rates that we'd forecast so far for this year in the mine plant to date this year. But look, I mean, the bottom line is if we don't get the permit until the end of the year, there won't be any impact from this year's guidance. So we're not in a position where further delays are going to impact production this year, but obviously the sooner we get that authorization, the better. We're in the final stages of gaining that authorization. And, yeah, we remain confident that we will get it before we need it.

That's good to hear yeah. And [indiscernible] (16:17).

Can I just...

Would you pass on our thanks to all the miners on site who are doing such an efficient job, thanks from the underlying community.

Thank you, [ph] Jason (16:28). I think Andrew just wanted to add something to what I said.

No, [ph] that's all (16:35). All I was going to say is, in the conversation here we have only [indiscernible] (16:41) secured for this year going through and going forward.

Yeah.

Again, that's good to hear. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Hunter Hillcoat from Investec. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys. Could you just give me an indication as to where you expect your sustaining capital level to be now that most of the project capital is spent, I'd kind of thought $100 million per annum was a reasonable number. And in light of the increased focus on exploration with the new assets, is $15 million per annum a reasonable number still, or should we be looking at a lift from those levels?

Maybe Pierre would...

Hi, Hunter. Yeah, just on sustaining CapEx, I think our CapEx number for the year would end up around about $135 million to $140 million excluding the exploration. The breakdown for that would be around about $45 million to $50 million in the underground development. The open pit fees that we're still paying for, $35 million, more or less. The close off of Stage 4, between $3 million and $5 million somewhere; open pit work that we're doing at the moment with infrastructure under $15 million and then the remainder I would say about $35 million, but that's rough – very rough numbers.

And then on the exploration, at the moment, we're looking at $15 million which would then exclude Ampella. We are busy putting the program together at the moment for Ampella, and then we would begin to understand numbers that we will spend over in that section.

Thanks, Pierre. And in terms of sustaining capital on ongoing basis, do you see that as a reasonable annual level to expect?

Excluding [ph] the part of the underground, I would say we are at $5 million (18:45) [indiscernible] (18:48)

Great. Okay, Thank you, guys.

Yeah. Thanks, Hunter. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Roy Mitchell (19:09), who's a private investor. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning. I must say very pleased with the results. I have one question with regard to communication. I have sent two e-mails to the company with regard with questions and the easy ones have just been totally ignored.

I'm not the only investor going by various sites that I read online, and I was wondering if you can improve the communication because there was a lot of misinformation that does come out of the Egyptian press. And it's very difficult for private investors to get a hand on exactly what's going on.

Hi, [ph] Roy (19:52). I'm sorry you've had problems getting a hold of us. You left us – drop me a line because I don't recall receiving any e-mails from you but my e-mail address is on the results, it's on the website, it's on any presentation that you'll see. Please feel free to get in touch and ask any questions, certainly an open-door policy as that goes.

In terms of our general communication with the market, I think we are as open as we can be. With the court cases there is only so much we can say and have been able to say in the process as we've gone along. We've only updated the market as and when there's been a material development and that's generally our policy. So – but I do apologize if there's been a communication e-mail issue but please, do look up my details, maybe you've got an old e-mail address or something but... [indiscernible]

(20:50) your e-mail address taken from the website. And the question – what I wanted to know was – takes back several months, it was reported, there was a dispute with EMRA over expenses of up to $0.5 billion?

No.

Is there any truth in it?

No, there's no truth in that, [ph] Roy (21:13).

Right. Okay, thank you. I mean...

There's a chance...

It would have been nice at the time to have a reply. But...

Okay, well, look – okay, I think I've answered that one. Thank you.

Yeah. Okay, thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Barry Lake from Barry Lake Associates (21:29). Please go ahead, your line is now open.

Hello, Andy, many congratulations on the figures. And it's good to see a company delivering on what they say they would do. Just a small point, how much cash is in the Ampella balance sheet at the date of takeover?

Hi, [ph] Barry (21:52). Thanks for those comments. Yeah. Ampella had approximately A$10 million in cash at the point of takeover. Obviously, we've been trying to execute the takeover as quickly as possible and cut down the costs to corporate overheads as quickly as we can, focus expenditure on putting resources, cash resources, into the ground on the exploration program. So that's what we're in the process of doing at the moment.

Okay. That's good. One other thing. What lessons do you feel you've learned from your investment in Nyota?

That's a good question. I think it's difficult to be an equity investor in a junior exploration company, from the point of view of us being an operating company. I think we took the lesson forward with our joint venture in Alecto in terms of structuring that investment as a joint venture on an earning basis where we are the operators. So we are actually controlling the money, where it's spent. So I think that's probably the biggest lesson and that's really our general principle. But look, Nyota was a very specific company with a very specific set of challenges and issues that we had to look at and deal with. And so it's probably wrong to read too much into that one experience. But I think generally, we do, in principle, like to spend – sorry, control the operations where we're spending the money.

Okay. That's good. Thanks for the info.

Thank you, [ph] Barry (23:41).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Anthony Darnley (23:45) who's a private investor. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, Andy. Firstly, I'd like to say thank you to you and your team for such a splendid performance. I wondered how the sort of political unrest that's been going on in Egypt is likely to affect the sort of production at the mine and also security at the mine in the future?

Yeah. I think Andrew can answer on that one. But I'll just say I mean, briefly, in terms of the perception of political risk in Egypt and the reality of us operating on the ground, you only have to look at the numbers to see that it's possible to operate and continue to invest and grow the business in Egypt, and it has been for some time. As I said in the summary earlier on when I opened up, the operating environment now is very much better than it was certainly in 2012, where we had a few well-highlighted and publicized issues.

And those issues, though, were more to do with communication with the chain of command in government. There was never any – we've never had any breakdown in relationship with government. We've always enjoyed a very positive, constructive relationship with EMRA and the government more broadly. And at the end of the day, we're operating 1,000 kilometers, 700 kilometers south of Cairo in the desert, and securing supply lines is – throws up bureaucratic issues, slight delays in customs from time to time, but there's ultimately nothing we can't deal with. And yeah, we're operating about as far from Cairo within Egypt as you can be, so being in the desert helps. And what you see on the TV, on the news, is far from the reality that we see on the ground.

That's very reassuring. Thank you. The other thing is, it was [ph] Anthony Darnley (25:58), I'm a private investor. And there's a group office that have a considerable amount invested now in [ph] sentiment. (26:06) I'd like to thank Bobby Morse actually, of Buchanan, for his tremendous support to us over the past couple of years, and I think his support has been some of the best I've ever encountered with investor relations at any company that I've ever had an investment in. So would you please pass our sincere thanks on to Bobby Morse at Buchanan, please?

Will do, [ph] Anthony (26:32). Thanks very much. I share those thoughts as well. Good guy and a good team. Thank you.

Thank you very much anyway, Andy. That [ph] sums (26:40) my questions. Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Bart Jaworski from Davy. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Thanks very much. Good morning, guys. Just a quick question on the commissioning of Stage 4, when does that actually finish in earnest and you go forward on the new mining rate or processing rate?

Hi, Bart. Andrew? [indiscernible]

(27:10) Good morning. Yeah, we're actually going through commissioning as we speak. We've done all the coal commissioning at the moment and now we are working on coal hot commissioning going forward, still progressing in the correct direction.

So, you expect – the current thinking, I think, is or was by June, July that you'd get the actual hot commissioning finished and is that still the case?

Yeah, I think Bart if...

Correct.

Sorry.

We're going for hot commissioning now

Yeah.

So we should get that all finished in the next – with this [indiscernible] (27:49) finished in Q1 and improve early part of Q2, we'll have that all completed.

Okay, perfect. Sounds good. And I guess on the court case, is there any updates as to when the final court decision may be expected. I think it was sometime in the – again in June, July period.

Yeah. This you can't – we've never been able to put dates on the final resolution and the timetable, we've never had a timetable. But as I said earlier, we guided – originally this was going to be most likely a two-year process and we're now 18 months into it.

Yeah.

We are in the final stages of the court process with the cases in the merit circuit of the Appeal Court which will make the final ruling. We have a hearing tomorrow. It's unlikely that based on the advice we've been given, that tomorrow's hearing will result in anything technically other an adjournment to a later date. Whether the next hearing after this one is the final ruling or the one after that remains to be seen. But hopefully best expectation, best guess if you want to call it that would be two or three more hearings from here.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

Bart, cheers.

And it appears we have no further questions at this time. So I'll turn the conference to you.

Thank you very much and thanks everyone for joining the call. And for those who fielded the questions, thank you, and look forward to speaking to you all next time. Thank you very much. Bye.

This now concludes today's conference. Thank you for all attending. You may now disconnect your lines.