Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Centamin First Half Year Results 2017 Conference Call. For the first part of today's call, let me remind you that all participants are in listen-only mode. And afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please note that today's conference call is being recorded.

And I would now like to hand over to Andrew Pardey. Mr. Pardey, please begin your meeting.

Thank you, operator, and good morning to everyone who has joined the call this morning. As announced with the preliminary production results, production increased 14% on the first quarter to 124,000, 641,000 ounces (sic) [124,641 ounces]. The majority of this improvement came from additional open-pit ounces as both mined and feed grades improved from the Q1 levels.

From a financial perspective, costs remained well controlled with mine production costs up 1% on Q1 2017. With increased production, cash cost for the quarter fell 17% to $609 per ounce compared to the first quarter. EBITDA increased by 24% on the first quarter to $66 million. Allowing for the increase in our sustaining capital expenditure, all-in sustaining costs fell 7% to $829 per ounce. With a strong second half to the year expected, we maintain our full year guidance at 540,000 ounces at a cash cost of production of $580 per ounce, and all-in sustaining costs of $790 per ounce.

Given the strong free cash flow of $50.8 million we have generated during the first half of the year, we are delighted to announce a 25% increase in last year's interim dividend to $0.025 per share. This dividend will be paid out of cash and liquid assets which stood at $334 million at the 30th of June, which is essentially the same figure as at the end of the first half of 2016. This is a notable achievement given that we had paid $178 million in dividend to shareholders and almost $50 million in profit share and royalty payments to the government of Egypt to the end of June 2017.

Looking in more detail at the operations, at the open pit, [indiscernible] (02:31) again improved productivity levels to mine a record quarterly total at 17.5 million tonnes. As in the first quarter, the majority of the mining during Q2 was focused on east wall cutback with consequent lower grades.

In addition, the open pit has mined at a lower cut-off grade approximately 0.25 grams compared to the reserve model, with low grade oxide in this range reporting to the dump leach from Stage 4 and 5. Excluding the dump leach material, open-pit grades for the quarter averaged 0.80 grams per tonne.

Towards the end of the last quarter, mining progressed to the higher-grade zones within the middle benches of the Stage 3B, which helped raise the mined grades above the levels seen in Q1. We're expecting to mine further high grades from the open pit to the balance of 2017.

Turning to the underground operations, we enjoyed an excellent quarter with ore production of 293,000 tonnes, well above the guided annualized rate of 1 million tonnes. The ratio was up, stoping to development ore, remained consistent compared to Q1 with 59% of the ore coming from stoping and 41% from development.

Some very high grades were accessed in the quarter leading to high stoping – overall stoping grade of 11 grams per tonne, whilst development grades came in at 5.6 grams per tonne. At the narrower vein selective mining operation, quarterly variability in the underground grades is to be expected.

Moving on to the processing plant, it achieved a record throughput of just over 3 million tonnes, exceeding the quarterly annualized rate of 12 million tonnes for the first time. Metallurgical recoveries of 86.7% were the lowest we've achieved for some time. Recovery rates were below average, largely due to below average head grades and are expected to increase in line with the average plant head grade during the remainder of the year.

We continue to learn from experience how recoveries vary at the higher throughput rates we are now achieving. A strong focus on improving overall metallurgical recoveries while processing increased tonnes through the pad is continuing. Several projects are due to completion in the third quarter, including the installation of the VisioFroth, which is an automated control monitoring system that aims to increase the floatation mass pull, an expansion of the elution circuit, and reducing the CIL tailings losses with improved carbon management and carbon monitoring techniques.

From a financial perspective, we continue to focus on cash growth and free cash flow. The business generated free cash flow after all CapEx and exploration of $31 million in the second quarter and over $50 million in the first half of the year. Revenue increased $10.6 million or 8% from the first quarter due to both higher sales volumes and higher average gold price. With cost well controlled, EBITDA rose 24% to $66 million. Sustaining capital expenditure increased during the second quarter due to open-pit mining fleet rebuilds and increased underground development.

Moving briefly on to the exploration activities during the quarter, underground drilling remains the focus of the Sukari exploration program. Drilling in the second quarter focused on extending the Amun region at depth, with encouraging intercepts to the west of the main Amun lode and above the interpreted Horus zone.

At the Cleopatra exploration decline, drill testing targeted the extension of the Antoine zone within the porphyry. It should be noted that the exploration results reported today from the Cleopatra area are internal in the porphyry. Drilling results from the contact zone of the porphyry to the west and the host rock will be reported on an ongoing as the results [ph] are attained (06:25). At the moment, we currently have three drill rigs operating in Cleopatra with all of them now targeting the western contact.

In Côte d'Ivoire, exploration focused on regional target generation around the Doropo project, principally through systematic grid mapping, prospecting, soil sampling, and further resource development. In Burkina Faso, exploration focused on anomaly development and extensions from the main resource area, prospecting outward from in the resource cluster within 50 kilometers of Konkera and Napelepera.

Looking forward, the current performance levels of the open-pit, underground, and processing operations both [ph] giving you (07:07) the confidence that we'll meet guidance for the year and demonstrate the potential for further growth in production from the existing Sukari operations. In addition, Cleopatra and our West Africa projects offer significant additional growth opportunities.

With that, I would like to hand back over to the operator for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of James Bell, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Morning. Two questions. Firstly, just on cash. Obviously, the cash balance continues to grow. I wonder, Andrew, if you could talk a little bit about minimum cash balances, especially in light of the positive developments around the second decline and how you think about sort of excess cash and whether we should expect all of that to return to shareholders.

And secondly, in terms of the second decline, when could we expect an initial resource? And then, given the fact that a lot of infrastructure is obviously already on – in place at Sukari, how quickly could that go towards a feasibility study in economics? Thank you.

Well, first one, just on the cash balances. We've always maintained – we've maintained a cash balance of between $250 million and $300 million. And with the interim dividend payout that we've just announced of $0.025 per share, that brings the cash balance down to around the $300 million mark. And as we've always said, excess cash will be returned to our shareholders.

With Cleopatra for expansion opportunities, Cleopatra is still really in the development phase with exploration drilling now going on in earnest. We have three rigs drilling there. And it's really going to be delivered – how it comes online will be determined by the results that we achieve. The principal target is obviously the western contacts, where we see the current high grades that come from the existing Amun and Ptah declines, and that's where the main focus will be.

In the interim, there is also results coming back from the Cleopatra area on the Antoine structure that is internal to the porphyry. They'll also be getting further drilling on those because they have the potential to bring in production sooner while we're waiting for further drill results to come through from the western contacts.

The reality is, Cleopatra adding to production. We've got to complete the drilling first. Then, we can make the decision to move into production. It's not a major change. The decline is being constructed as though it would be a production decline and have initial capacity of 1 million tonnes per annum. And what you do if comes that successful, the underground production would increase and you'd use that to – in place of open-pit ore.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you very much. And moving on to the line of Richard Hatch with RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks very much. Morning, Andrew. Thanks for the call. Three questions from me. First one, I know you've given a bit of an update on your court cases in Law 32, in particular. Are there any dates out there that you're aware of in terms of when we'll next hear anything from the Egyptian government or is it still a case of wait-and-see and wait for their updates? Second one, can you just talk a little bit about cost inflation and how – what kind of cost inflation you're experiencing at the moment and how you're mitigating that?

And then, my third one was just on this recent Egyptian licensing round. I think you decided against participating as you've done before just on account of it being, I think, challenging economics or whatever that the government was looking for you to commit to. Can you just talk about what was challenging in those proposals for the new licensing round, please? Thanks.

Okay. Thanks, Richard. I'll answer the first and the third question. And Ross Jerrard will answer the second question on cost inflation. Regarding the court cases, it's really now – it's as before, it's a wait-and-see. As we get any information, we'll provide updates. That's all [ph] I can say in it (11:48).

Regarding the current – that previous bid round that's just been released, we've said publicly before, we weren't going to participate in it. The term's unsatisfactory for Centamin to participate in. And we're still very strongly along the lines we would like to see in Egypt introduce a modern-day mining [indiscernible] (12:07) royalty arrangement. We still believe that it would be the best way for Egypt to move forward.

There has been talk that Egypt is going to release another bid round. It's only talk. We haven't seen or heard any details of it. And obviously, even when it is released, we would then take a look at the terms and conditions and determine whether we would participate in that bid round.

Andrew, was there kind of term such as government free carry or excess royalty rates and such like that [indiscernible] (12:39)...

It was basically – it was a 6% royalty and then a 20% production share, and only partial cost recovery.

All right. Okay. Thanks.

Richard, it's Ross here. Just in terms of inflation question, it's ramped up considerably. So, when you look at the official inflation stats running late last year, inflation was at about 13%. It's now up to 29%, 30% in terms of inflation rate. That was the official figures out of the Central Bank. In terms of what that means for our cost, the big savings are really around salaries. There's a little bit of insurance and [indiscernible] (13:18) consumables and food supplies.

And it's really an inverse relationship in terms of our U.S. dollar versus EGP exchange rate. So, we're watching that closely. We have had a few savings in the first half versus where we expected it to be. But it's [ph] watching brief (13:34) in terms of where we're going with it. We certainly think that we're going to have to push up local cost in line within that inflation rate. We've seen some [indiscernible] (13:43) effects from transport and the like locally.

Ross, just remind me what percentage of your costs are local?

There's about 25% that is actually in [ph] EGD (13:55). But that actually includes our fuel component which is priced in U.S. dollars but paid in local currency.

Thanks. Okay. But – so now, you're comfortable with the cost guidance based on current inflation rates?

That's right. That's right. And the big component is fuel. [ph] And I set that (14:13) the fuel price for the quarter in advance. Probably, when watching brief on that is they recently introduced a retrospective adjustment. So, I mean, at the end of the quarter, we also get a lever in terms of what those fuel costs are. So, that's the only change from previous. And then, locally, fuel on the street and paid out locally, it has gone up quite a lot. And we're expecting some flow on impact on that in terms of transport and consumables.

Right. Thank you.

Thank you very much and moving on to the line of Dan Shaw with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Just two questions from me. So, firstly on CapEx, if you look at your CapEx on exploration in the first half was around $45 million [ph] of service (15:05). I think for the full year, you're still expecting around $125 million. Is that still the case? Will we see a big wait into the second half in terms of CapEx than this year?

And then, secondly, just on the court case again, obviously it sounds that there's been some negative developments there in relation to that and on the concession agreement. You also mentioned now that Centamin has prepared a report in response to this. Can you give any details on the types of things that are contained within that? Thank you.

Hi, Dan. I'll take the first question on the CapEx spend. We're certainly expecting a ramp-up in the second half around our CapEx and specifically around our rebuild schedules. A lot of that is in train and we're expecting it to ramp up, but certainly still within our budgeted figures. But we will see an increase in the second half of the year.

Thanks.

Thank you. And moving on to the line of Alan Spence, Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is open. [indiscernible]

(06:15) Sorry, we've got to answer that second question.

Apologies.

In relation to the court case, there's been no real change. There was one group that had said that they found Law 32 to be unconstitutional. That is now being sent back to be reviewed again, and then we'll [ph] represent (16:38) it to the court to determine if it's constitutional or not. At the present times, [ph] they don't (16:44) have any impact [indiscernible] (16:45) all our existing court case on hold.

Can you guys hear me now?

Yes.

Yes, we can.

All right. Okay. It's Alan Spence, Jefferies. I just wondered if you could give us an idea on grade you're expecting, particularly from the open pit into the Q3. You've done the cutback and you mentioned accessing higher grades in June. Is that the run rate into Q3 and just kind of where that will shake out?

In Q3, with regards further down in the Stage 3 cutback, we think where the grades coming through will be around the 1 gram per tonne mark from that part of the pit. Then, you've also got Stage 4 and your Stage 5 cutbacks come in – going ahead as well, which are higher up, which is slightly lower grade. [indiscernible]

(17:39)

The overall grade [indiscernible] (17:41) the mill will be around to 1 to 1.03 grams per tonne from the open pit.

Okay. Thanks. And then following on Dan's question just about H2 CapEx, can you give us a rough split of Q3 versus Q4? Are those roughly even or one of a higher weighting?

They're probably pretty much even, a lot of the orders and everything that are coming through. So, I would basically go 50/50 on it. It's got to be very close to that.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And moving on to the line of Richard Hatch, RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks. Sorry. Just a couple of follow-ups. The first one, just a boring modeling one. Should we expect that 4,000 ounces of gold that you didn't sell over what you produced just flow through into the third quarter? And then the second one, just I mean – just on your West African portfolio, you gave us a little bit of an update on what you're doing there. I mean, what are the next key catalyst we should look for as you try and take these projects forward or look to take the projects forward? Thanks.

Hi, Richard. Just a quick one, so the 4,000 [indiscernible] (18:58) timing and – that was the timing difference into the next month, no issues from that. Yes.

Cheers. Thanks.

Okay. And Richard regarding the West African portfolio, we've got that initial resource we announced at Doropo of 1.3 million ounces, as indicated and inferred, of which 300,000 indicated and 1 million was inferred.

On Côte d'Ivoire side, it's really about drilling around those areas, [ph] the other (19:29) prospects, that's really what the first half of the year exploration is focused on. And the second half is in – focusing more on resource development to determine what we have there, and ideally lift that number towards a 2 million ounce mark. So, we can then make a decision, look at the economics of it and determine if we do have a project there or not.

The same thing in Burkina Faso. It's really focusing around the Napelepera-Wadaradoo corridor, ignoring the difficult refractory sulfides and determining what we have there and doing further exploration on Napelepera East and West, which are all oxide, to again make the same call.

Thanks. Andrew, can you just remind me what your hurdle rates are for projects?

Look, we don't go into the detail of hurdle rates. But we'd like to see a minimum production of 120,000 to 130,000 ounces a year with costs below $800 an ounce.

All in.

Yeah.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. No further questions at this point. [Operator Instructions] And as there are no questions in queue for the moment, I would like to return the conference call to the speakers.

Great. Thank you much. Thank you very much, everyone, that listened in on the call today. If you've got any further questions or any clarification or anything, you've got our contact details, please feel free to contact us. Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.