Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Michael Stoner — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for taking the time to dial into our Q1 results webcast and conference call. For those participating through the conference call, the quarterly presentation can be found on the website. Joining me on this call today is Ross Jerrard, our Chief Financial Officer.

From this year, our reporting has evolved to a format and timetable you'll be more accustomed to with the London market and subsequently more in line with our peers. I hope you'll agree this is a more comprehensive review of the group business activities within the quarter. It is important to note that in addition to the quarterly report, we will be publishing financial statement at the interim and full year. Should you have any feedback, we are always open to improving our communication.

Okay, here are our disclaimers. Do please take the time to read them at your leisure.

Okay. Our assets, Centamin holds greater than 4,000 square kilometers of highly prospective land across Africa. Our core asset and operating mine is the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt. We've been operating this for 10 years. And prior to that, proving up what is a world-class deposit.

Alongside the producing open pit and the underground mine, we have active development underway with the Cleopatra Exploration Decline, providing alternative access and infrastructure to extract additional sources of high-grade ore in the future. Advanced exploration is continuous across the underground as the ore body is far from being fully defined. We have successfully replaced our reserves in the underground year-on-year, and that remains a key objective going forward with Sukari.

Outside of Egypt, we've had further exploration success with resource grades at Doropo and a maiden resource at the ABC Project also in Côte d'Ivoire.

Okay. We've had a solid start to 2019, with the Q1 results delivered ahead of forecast. We reiterate our full-year guidance for 2019 and the company will be releasing a longer term outlook during Q2, providing guidance for 2020 and 2021. Importantly, Q1 was 116,000 ounces of gold. Costs were $631 an ounce, cash cost, and all-in sustaining cost of $898 an ounce.

Okay. Sukari is an established long-life, low-cost Tier 1 asset, which generates tangible returns for not only its shareholders, but also its stakeholders. We have recovered all of the $1.2 billion capital investment to-date. This year will be our third largest year of production as we navigate away from the operational challenges we faced in 2018. Key personnel changes, technological upgrades, and ongoing improvement throughout all sections of the mine are a few of the illustrations of how we have successfully strengthened the business.

Okay. Exploration is at the heart of what we do. Sukari has a mine life of greater than 15 years from the open pit and a rolling 5 years and growing life from the underground. We have successfully replaced the underground reserves year-on-year, and the ore body remains open at depth, along strike, and regionally within the tenement area.

Exploration at CDI has been very successful, delivering a 58% increase in Doropo indicated resources to greater than 2 million ounces and declaring a maiden resource that are exciting greenfield project also in Côte d'Ivoire, the ABC Project.

Strong balance, multidisciplinary board. Excellent progress has been made against succession planning and recruitment activity. We welcome Dr. Sally Eyre to the board earlier this month. Sally brings not only a wealth of technical expertise, but also capital market experience. We have several appointments to make in 2019 including two NEDs, another technical appointment and a financial appointment.

At the management level, we're delighted to welcome Jeremy Langford as Chief Operating Officer with immediate effect. Jeremy has an impressive career developing and building gold mines in West Africa, but also in maximizing operational performance.

We have made key appointments throughout the operation, more namely operations director, supply chain manager, technical services manager and underground manager. These high-impact appointments have already made good progress, delivering improved performance and driving results from the changes implemented throughout the operation last year.

Responsible corporate citizens, responsible site operations at the forefront of our decision making. As previously reported, we very sadly had to [indiscernible] (00:04:58) at the Doropo exploration site where a drilling contractor was attacked by a swarm of bees. We're continually reviewing and developing our safety measures to ensure we provide a safe place of work for all our employees, contractors and stakeholders.

Managing risk, we have strong working relations in the countries we operate at federal and local community level. And we are applying the same approach within West Africa as we continue to unlock value against their production and cost objective.

Asset quality, again open pit. The open pit is the foundation of the operations with a greater than 15-year life of mine. In 2019, forecast quarter-on-quarter growth is driven from the open pit. The grades improved with depth Stage 4 – as Stage 4 drops down over the course of the year.

The open pit, I'd say it's [indiscernible] (00:05:57) mining. We'll continue to deliver the quarter-on-quarter growth. We mined 3.1 million tonnes at 0.73 grams per tonne and, importantly, 2.9 million tonnes of 0.83 grams per tonne was delivered to the mill.

We've had strong initiatives of further work by training, integrating the mine planning, optimizing the program, et cetera. Have seen improvements in the mining sequence. The mine grade is expected to continue to improve throughout H1 and towards the reserve grade as we progress into the Hapi Zone in the second half of the year.

Okay, Sukari underground, you can see in this slide here the areas of operation. You've got the Amun area on the right-hand side, you've got the Ptah in the middle of the screen, and then you've got Cleopatra development on the left-hand side.

It's important to note that the challenges that we face in the underground throughout 2018 are isolated to the southern section of Amun and are not across the entire underground operation. Okay, underground total production from the underground was 270 million tonnes – 270,000 tonnes at a grade of 6.34 grams per tonne. Production from stoping, importantly, was 168,000 tonnes at a grade of 8.2 grams per tonne, and ore from development was 102,000 tonnes at 3.27 grams per tonne. There was very good equipment availability and utilization including the operation and availability of two long-hole drill rig. [indiscernible]

(00:07:39) and again an integration of new processes and controls has been an easily a brilliant thing that increased stoping grade coming from the underground. Increased decline development in the lower Amun and Ptah areas, providing access to future production faces going forward. And there'll be a 75:25 stoping development split due to an increased development classified as waste [indiscernible] (00:08:08) further for future expansion.

Next slide, here, you can see extensive infrastructure in place. The blue is existing infrastructure. And importantly in 2019, we are doing increased decline development outside of the ore body to open up new production level, which is partly relating to the increased waste movement. But more importantly, opening up and developing into the lower Horus area, which is a future longer term driver for the underground mine at Sukari.

Processing. Processing plant continues to perform well. Had record quarterly throughput of 3.25 million tonnes and a head grade delivered to the processing plant of 1.28 grams per tonne. We're targeting a mill throughput of 13 million tonnes for the year, an improved head grade driven by – principally by the open pit as it drives down lower into Stage 4.

Okay. Now, I'll hand over to Ross to talk briefly on the financial flexibility.

Thanks, Andrew. Our robust financial strategy continues [indiscernible] (00:09:15). We finished the quarter with $332 million of cash liquid asset. And with our disciplined capital allocation and cost management, rest assured that our bottom-line result remain well-managed. The Sukari Mine generated good cash flow during the first quarter and led to the [indiscernible] (00:09:33) investing activities. Our West Africa's been the corporate G&A. We concluded the period with group free cash flow of $14 million.

Talking about our cost management in a bit more detail, we are pleased with the Q1 cost performance and the fact that we were able to maintain and contain cost on an absolute basis. This is in spite of the increased volumes mined and the inflationary pressure.

We did have some benefit of volume variances in both fuel and reagent consumption against budget and also benefited from the build and stockpile. But our focus on overall cost control is ceasing, and the team has done a good job in this area. Work is obviously ongoing and we are targeting further improvements during the year to reduce our cost base.

Mine production cost of $89 million during the quarter was split across the primary areas: 49% processing, 36% open pit, and 7% underground, respectively. Important to highlight is the cost per tonne profile against previous quarters, which remain well-managed and, again, are ceasing [indiscernible] (00:10:37) profile.

Our cost base exposure remained relatively consistent in terms of [indiscernible] (00:10:43) split across the cost bases. One key risk remains, the diesel fuel price which contributes the large portion of our cost base and, pricing-wise, out of our control. The solar project continues to be [indiscernible] (00:10:56) exposure in the future. A final project feasibility study is [indiscernible] (00:11:02) in H2 for capital approval.

The focus on the whole [ph] procure state (00:11:07) cycle is delivering results with progress in the key initiatives against [indiscernible] (00:11:12) and availability of item, local content and cost reduction initiative [indiscernible] (00:11:17), and we continue to drive this project.

In terms of CapEx, [indiscernible] (00:11:22) mainly relates to the underground resource and infrastructure expansion, including the [indiscernible] (00:11:27). We continue to match the CapEx spend with [indiscernible] (00:11:31) production profile in order to match the cash [indiscernible] (00:11:34). And overall, our CapEx remains well-controlled and on track.

Our shareholder returns remains our core focus with a minimum of 30% free cash flow being returned to shareholders as per policy. We are proud of the fact that we are effective leaders and the fact we have had five years of consecutive payout totaling $453 million, which is an excess of 75% of free cash flow. The $332 million of cash and liquid asset from the balance sheet prior to the $34 million 2018 final dividend payout is due to [indiscernible] (00:12:10). We are constantly reviewing the cash position and our ongoing funding requirement. We are actively assessing the various alternatives available in light of the [indiscernible] (00:12:19) cash flow allocation and maximizing the shareholder return.

With that, I'll hand it back to Andrew.

Okay. The active exploration pipeline, we have an organic internal growth pipeline. We've got the Sukari exploration and development, the Sukari underground, the Cleopatra Decline, the regional exploration and, importantly, the 2D, 3D seismic programs, which are underway, which will unlock a complete geological architecture of the tenement area at Sukari and highlight potentially other areas outside of what we currently know.

We've got Doropo advanced exploration, the Doropo resource area outside of that Doropo regional area and then the earliest stage, the ABC greenfield exploration, the Kona permit exploration. Unlocking Sukari's underground potential. Continuous results as expected, supporting further resource and reserve replacement and also growth. I'm not going to go through all these results, but you can see some of the Q1 results similar to what we've seen previously, including Mount Osiris 3.2 meters of 13.6 grams per tonne, 1.8 meters at 25.9 grams per tonne. You've got Horus Deeps, which is below the existing production areas. You've got 1.6 meters at 5.7 grams per tonne. You've got 1.3 meters at 14.6 grams per tonne. You've got 1.8 meters at 10.3 grams per tonne. You've got 1 meter at 68.4 grams per tonne, all highlighting and showing further growth below the existing underground areas. Ptah Deeps is continuing to return a series of successful result. And then, Cleopatra drilling as well is at earlier stage, but it's now with a drilling that's been starting to deliver medium-term results as well.

Okay. The Horus Deeps, I touched on that briefly. Early stage, but very, very exciting result. Again, showing further longer term growth to Sukari underground outside of our existing resources and reserves at the operation. Cleopatra, I'm finally happy with the progress that has been made on both the development and the exploration at Cleopatra in Q2. We've had over 2,000 meters of decline development and we've had over 3,000 meters of drilling completed. So, it really was the [indiscernible] (00:14:56) development has been done and the drill results we're going to be able to provide a lot more information over the coming quarters and the results coming out from the Cleopatra area of the operation.

Again, Sukari Deeps regional upside. I won't go into the detail. But again, the seismic program to construct a robust district 3D geo-seismic architecture. That program is underway. And again, over the course of the year, we'll be able to provide with more details, more results from what should be a very successful exploration-driven program in the future.

Advanced exploration, Doropo, drilling in Q1 has demonstrated significant potential for further [ph] needs (00:15:40) and resource growth. And this drilling is important to align with the PEA studies that will be coming out in the second half of the year for the Doropo Project.

Again, Doropo, intercepts have included over the quarter, 9 meters at 2.4 grams per tonne, 10 meters at 3.3 grams per tonne, 16 meters at 1.9 grams per tonne. All within the existing resource area in that 7-kilometer radius. So the current, over 2.1 million ounce indicated resource at Doropo.

Greenfield exploration. ABC, much earlier stage. But again, drilling – early-stage drilling in Q1 has also returned encouraging results, 3 meters at 2.9 grams per tonne, 3 meters at 2.4 grams per tonne, 9 meters at 1.2 grams per tonne, 13 meters at 0.8 grams per tonne. Importantly, all-new surface in outside material.

Then, moving on corporate and social responsibility. We take our operating seriously and continue to make good progress on our [indiscernible] (00:16:48) initiative. Good health and well-being, access to water and sanitation, education, clean energy and economic growth in the local areas. Sustainable development goals. 94% of our group workforce is locally employed, 22% of the workforce excluding Egypt are female and 58% of our suppliers to Sukari are Egyptian supplier.

Investment case. In summary, our investment case is robust, underpinned by strong fundamentals. We had a clear corporate strategy, a reliable dividend strategy, established foundation, robust financial strategy, growth for the value chain and responsible corporate citizens.

Our near-term milestones, delivering on performance, continuing to optimize performance at Sukari including stringent cost management, unlock value from the organic growth pipeline and strive to achieve the high standards of corporate governance.

With that, thank you for your time. We'd like to now hand back to the operator to reiterate how you can submit any questions you might have from the conference call or webcast. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] So, our first question today comes from James Bell of RBC Capital Markets. James, please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks very much for the presentation and call. Just two quick questions. Firstly, Ross, just on the cost front, can you remind us why inflation expectations you got baked into your guidance are and how that kind of compares to what you're seeing in Q1? And on the fuel and reagent consumption being below budget, will we see that for the catch-up through 2019? And then, the second question is on the three-year outlook, which you've committed to in Q2. Any more information on sort of timing and, secondly, just would that include production and cost profile? Thanks.

Okay. I'll just quickly jump in, James. First, on the three-year outlook, we just had Jeremy Langford join us as Chief Operating Officer and the important thing from [indiscernible] (00:19:28) Jeremy to get in there, understand and really get familiar with the operations, which I do not expect will take very much time. So, Jeremy and I would like to think we will have the three-year outlook by mid-Q2 at the very latest.

Hi, James. In terms of your cost question, there's a 3% to 7% [ph] increase there (00:19:55) for the stationary that we've built in there. We're actually doing very well against those metrics in the first quarter. So, we are pleased with our results so we also don't want to jump the gun in terms of [indiscernible] (00:20:08) so we're continually managing that. But we're quietly confident that we're going to be able to reduce that cost profile down further and that's really [ph] going across (00:20:18) that local cost base where we're seeing the [ph] stationary pressures (00:20:23) coming through in terms of our local supply chain and that's one of the key initiatives that we're trying to push [indiscernible] (00:20:33) cross-production strategy or initiative.

Okay, thanks. So, I mean, just maybe what was the local inflation running out versus that in Q1 versus that 3% to 7%?

It's probably about 12% that we're seeing through this. The primary [ph] position is at our (00:20:50) local fuel, so that the fuel and the subsidized price [ph] on the street that we're not held to for the (00:20:55) mine. But all our service providers and transport costs [ph] are flowing back (00:21:06) through the supply chain that we're seeing. So, early days and it's hard to [ph] know (00:21:13) just on an isolated quarter, but we'll see how that unfolds as it goes forward.

Okay. Perfect.

And then the fuel [indiscernible] (00:21:23) in terms of volume. We don't expect that to – it's starting to catch up. We don't – the gain that we've seen in the first quarter, we certainly don't want to give those back going forward as it's not a catch-up type position. But we actually are monitoring it and the fuel burn rate is a very importance consideration in our budget where we have increased our volume of [ph] extra (00:21:47) diesel fuel that [indiscernible] (00:21:48) during the year, or [indiscernible] (00:21:52).

Okay. That's great. And just a quick one on Cleopatra. It sounds like we're going to be getting quite a few drilling results this year. In terms of moving towards a resource or considering how this might come into the mine plan, is that something we should think about in 2020 or is that something you think we could get a bit of an update on in this year?

The intention is, is the drilling – the development and the drilling that we complete it in Q1. And then, drilling is continuing [ph] today (00:22:18). We're going to be able to provide a lot more detail and information on Cleopatra over the course of this coming year.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much, guys.

The next question on the line comes from Alan Spence of Jefferies. Alan, please go ahead.

Thanks very much, guys. So, I've got two questions. Firstly, on the underground, you noted in Q1 that [ph] you had beat (00:22:45) internal expectations. Is there a risk we see a weaker contribution from that in the second quarter or should that be kind of the new basis we think about moving forward for the rest of 2019?

And then, secondly, more broadly on the group production levels. Can you help us frame the type of quarter-on-quarter pick up we should be thinking about? If I was to simply take the midpoint of the 2019 production guidance and integrate the [ph] 45/55 split (00:23:10), that would actually imply Q2 was down around 111 ounces. What do you think is the potential increase quarter-on-quarter you achieved?

Okay. Without going into detail quarter-by-quarter, we've said the production profile will be at 45/55 guidance production profile for gold production. We have had a strong – Q1 came in slightly better than what was originally forecast and we expect that trend to continue through. I'm expecting Q2 to be slightly stronger, and then Q3 – and growing through Q3 and Q4.

As I've said, we're going to be coming out later on. We'll be coming out with an update on production profiles for 2020 and 2021, so I'm going to be able to provide more information on the medium-term guidance production and cost for Sukari.

Okay. That's helpful. And on – can you address the question about underground performance, perhaps?

Look, the underground – look, the important thing with the underground has been operational control and compliance to plan but we had the issues with a cascading stopes in part of Amun. [ph] Now, look, (00:24:39) cascading stopes are still there, they're still in place but it is management of – it's management of those particular stopes. And by expectation and what I'm expecting from [ph] this Amun site (00:24:51) is that the improvements we've seen, we'll continue to see those improvements and the underground will be back performing the way as people expect the underground to have performed previously.

It's really adherence to the plan and following that plan. And with the key personnel that we have at Sukari, the underground manager, the planning engineer – the medium-term planning engineer, the operations director, there is a very, very strong focus on ensuring the plan is [ph] supervised (00:25:20). And managing where there is dilution, that dilution is managed.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes on the line comes from Michael Stoner of Berenberg. Michael, please go ahead.

Morning. If I could quickly start on the plants. So, you've pretty consistently delivered improving volumes to the plant. Is 95% kind of a sensible utilization rate to expect going forward? Could we see maybe utilization hold, but you can debottleneck a little further and drive throughputs or kind of is the focus broadly keeping it here and kind of running the mining side of the operation harder to deliver better grades?

Michael, it's running the mining side of the operations harder to ensure we can maximize the grade that is delivered that processing plant. I mean, the processing plant doing around 13 million tonnes per annum. I mean, the initial [ph] plants (00:26:24) were basically 5 million tonnes and 6 million tonnes per annum per plant. We're well and truly above the nameplate capacity. It's all about consistency for you there. And then the operations, maximizing the grade that could be delivered to that processing plant.

Okay. So, is focus of the plant going forward now really just driving recoveries to the kind of best of your...

Correct.

...ability rather than...

Yeah.

...any more small volume increase?

That is correct.

Okay. And then, on the underground, just to get a feel for – I mean, you've talked about mining to plan or stricter compliance. But how much of the improvements or how much of kind of this quarter next quarter is it going to be moving away from cascade stopes or then becoming a lower part of the mix underground and how much is it dilution-focused from the cascading stopes, if that makes any sense or...

Look, the cascading stopes are in one part of Amun. They weren't across the entire underground. Amun, we – Amun has obviously been the main production area. That the cascading stopes, they were only about 40% of the production from the Amun area. And obviously, they have – some of those have the higher grades. It's managing those plants. Ptah has no issues with cascading stopes and the other stopes in Amun also didn't have the issues at cascading stopes.

It is really strict compliance to the plan and following the plan. We haven't moved away into different areas for mining and we have continued to mine in the same areas that we've just done it better and we comply and we stuck to the plan that has been in place.

Okay. Perfect. And then, is there any transition away from any of those areas through this year? Does it become a lower part of the mix and kind of effectively de-risk dilution or...

Well...

...it's kind of going to stay around here?

Look, in some of these areas, it's around for a period of time. It's around for another 12 to 18 months. You can't just move away from an area. But importantly, as you would have seen with the decline development going further on, we can look at different stoping methods. But also, importantly, in the second half of the year, the [ph] solar (00:28:47) plant becoming operational and we should really expect the benefits from that [ph] build plant (00:28:54) late in Q4 and more so coming into the following year.

Okay. Perfect. And one for Ross. So, the appointment on supply chain management. Do you think there's kind of material improvements you can make to process and potentially costings there or is it already a pretty efficient system?

We've made good progress on that. But I'm confident with the appointment that there's some big, big numbers that are – we're still working through with contract and the supply chain that I think we can pull that down further.

Okay. And then, Andrew, do any of the appointments – I mean, particularly Jeremy – point to – or do they create or kind of point to any change in strategy? Does it make the West African development kind of ever more likely subject to the economics coming through well?

Look, Jeremy, as well as being a good plant builder, which everyone gives him a lot of credit for, Jeremy is also a very good operator as well both in an open-pit and an underground environment. So, Jeremy is adding strength to the executive team with Ross and myself.

Perfect. Understood. Okay. Thank you, Andrew and Ross. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further telephone questions on the line, so I'll hand back to the speakers.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much for joining us today on this webcast and call. If you do have any further questions, please feel free to contact us. Thank you very much.