Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andy Davidson — Head of Business Development and Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Salim Ben Mansour — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to today's Centamin Third Quarter Results Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in listen-only mode and afterwards there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

Today, I am pleased to hand the call over to Andy Davidson, Head of Business Development and Investor Relations. Please begin your meeting, sir.

Hello, everybody. Good morning to those in North America. Good afternoon to everyone in the UK. With me here is Andrew Pardey, Chief Operating Officer and Pierre Louw, Chief Financial Officer.

I think we'll go straight into the Q&A as the normal form. So I'd like you to hand back over to operator to open the lines up for Q&A. So we're ready to take your questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Salim Ben Mansour of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Good morning. This is Salim calling on behalf of David Haughton. First, thank you for having a call for North American analysts. I have a few questions, firstly on fuel subsidies. I want to know in the near-term the status of the refund and how likely for the near-term, that would be my first question?

Okay, I'll sort of answer a general thing. And I think also didn't say the outset and that was we're talking about fuel subsidy and there's a litigation, prices going on in as part of that. Just before I answer the specific question, just widely with regards to the litigation and the court ruling on October the 30th, we're not going to be able to give anybody any new information other than what is already out there in the market.

At the moment, yeah the information that we've given, so if there are any questions on that front, I'm afraid we're not going to be able to really go into any depth on that by this thing. So that said, sorry, that the fuel subsidy discussions are ongoing. We don't have any update at this stage that we can provide in terms of timing of when the discussions will conclude. We'll obviously keep the market updated as and when, but it is something that we're actively discussing with EMRA as things progressed on the grant.

Thank you. And is it on the same topic more of a longer-term outlook. Is it too early to discuss potential timing and size of the phase-out – of the gradual phase-out of those subsidies or is it – that's still under a discussion?

Yeah, all those things are under discussion and we can't really discuss in sort of a public forum what the nature is. Those confidential discussions are until they reach a conclusion.

Okay. My other question was on the current appeal, but since you mentioned that we can't discuss. That's it for me today. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Okay, our next question is from the line of Andrew Mikitchook of GMP Securities. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Just a follow-up to a discussion that was – had this morning about the CapEx, is there anyway, or is there any guidance you can provide us to how much of the CapEx would drag out, I guess into Q3?

Andrew. Just because we haven't finalized the contracts on the local input, the local contractors, it is difficult to say. We were always saying around about $50 million per quarter. I would be careful next year by bringing, I'd say let's say about $20 million into the third quarter, with the rest of the money split in the first two quarters. That would be our cash flow. But obviously, once as we complete the work we will accrue for those, and it will be in our statements at that time. But for cash flow purposes, I would say that we should roll about $20 million into the third quarter of next year.

So Andrew, sorry – Andy, it's just a sort of – that would give you a set of balance of roughly $120 million left, running up a little bit. It'd be 40-40, 20-20 over the next four quarters.

Yes.

...something like that.

Okay. So we'll make those adjustments. And the only other follow-up was there – has there been any discussion or public disclosures to what timeline you guys would be looking at for the concept of perhaps a dividend or a share buyback or something to that effect?

Because I think we said on the conference call this morning, we're not at a stage yet where we can talk about dividends. It's obviously something that has been mentioned quite a lot by investors. It's obviously been a lot of growth. You're going through that the construction and a major growth phase and we'll be coming out of that one stage forward if delivered.

But then also the other dynamic in there is the commencement of profit sharing with the government. So I think you just have to sort of bear those things in mind and we're not at a stage yet where we can – where the board sort of actively discussing commencing a dividend payment, but the time for that discussion will come at some point next year, I would imagine.

Okay. Well that answers my questions. Thank you very much for your time gentlemen.

Thanks, Andrew.

Thanks, Andrew. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. As there are no further questions, gentlemen, can I please hand it back to you for any closing comments.

Okay. Thank you very much all for listening in. Do get in touch with me directly, my details are on the website here, I got them already. Do get in touch if you got any other questions. Otherwise, thank you very much. Bye-bye.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Now it concludes our call. Thank you all very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.