Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Centamin Results for First Quarter and Three Months Ended 31st of March 2017 Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode and, afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

Today, I'm pleased to present Andrew Pardey. Please begin your meeting, sir.

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q1 results call. Joining me on this call this morning is Ross Jerrard, the Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Stephens, the Chief Development Officer; and Andy Davidson, Head of Investor Relations.

As we indicated at the beginning of the year, a lower production rate was expected in the first quarter. The grades in the open pit reduced as the cutback in the east wall continued, which was in line with the mine plan.

Accordingly, Q1 gold production was 109,187 ounces, down 20% on the previous quarter, Q4 2016. As a result, there was also an increase in mine production cost over the previous quarter mainly due to an 8% increase in the open pit mining rates to a quarterly record of just over 17.1 million tonnes.

This, together with the lower ounces produced, saw an increase in the unit cash cost of production to $734 per ounce from $536 per ounce in the fourth quarter of 2016. For the same reasons, all-in sustaining costs increased to $887 per ounce from $720 per ounce in the previous quarter.

The lower production and higher costs [ph] led through (01:47) to the financial performance during the quarter with EBITDA down 35% to just over $53 million and earnings per share after profit share down 63% to $0.0116 per share.

Cash flow from Sukari however remained strong whilst the cash and liquid assets balance decreased by $137 million during the quarter. This came after a $155 million payment for the 2016 final dividend.

Net of this figure was just over $18 million added to the balance during the quarter. With open-pit grade set to increase from here, quarterly production rates are expected to increase and unit cost decreased over the remainder of the year. Therefore, we maintained our full-year guidance of 540,000 ounces at a cash cost to production of $580 per ounce and all-in sustaining cost of $790 per ounce.

Our continuing exploration programs also offer significant potential for medium and longer-term production growth from the company. Results from the underground drilling at Sukari continues to impress, and we look forward to providing an updated resource and reserve estimate during the second quarter.

The new Cleopatra decline to the northeast on Sukari Hill also continues to progress well as completion of initial development phase was marked by the establishment of the three drilling platforms. Initial results confirmed high-grade zones in the eastern contact of the porphyry as outlined in today's release, [ph] grades in which (03:24) so far encountered similar to those observed in the existing Amun and Ptah areas.

Whilst it still remains early days of this exploration project, the Cleopatra decline is being developed with infrastructure capable of supporting up to 1 million tonnes per annum from this area. Whilst ultimate production rates will depend on future exploration results, it is worth noting that this directly replicate the strategy we use to explore and develop the Amun and Ptah regions at Sukari.

Outside of Sukari, we also announced earlier in the year a new discovery at Doropo in northeast Côte d'Ivoire with 0.3 million ounces Indicated and 1 million ounce Inferred resource. Initial metallurgical test work has been positive and the plan from here is to undertake further resource and metallurgical drilling with the aim of completing a preliminary pit optimization study during the year. There's still a fair way to go in the exploration process, but this project has got off to a flying start towards providing low-cost and high-return growth.

Burkina Faso also continues to offer good potential for economic growth, and new exploration manager has been busy during the quarter reviewing and interpreting the extensive datasets with a view to planning further exploration in 2017.

With that summary, I'd like to hand back over to the operator for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from Richard Hatch from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks very much. Good morning, gents, and thanks very much for the call. Firstly just, Andrew, I wonder whether you might just be able to give a bit of an update on your expectations for the grade profile for the open pit and underground for this year at Sukari, please.

As we said at the start of the year, Q1 was always going to be lower grades coming from the pit. And during the process of Q2 and going into Q3, the grades from the open pit would return to – closer to the reserve average grade of 1.05 grams per tonne. The underground, again, as we forecast, overall production and development grades of 7.5 grams per tonne.

Okay. Thanks. And then, can you just remind us of your plans for Cleopatra for the remainder of the year?

Cleopatra, at this stage, it's all about the drilling. We've established a drilling platform, so [ph] we've got the (06:08) rigs and they're drilling. And it's really – as those results come back, they will determine the strategy for how we go forward with developing Cleopatra, but initial results are encouraging.

Okay. Can you just remind me how many meters [indiscernible] (06:21) to drill this year as part of your budgeted plan?

At Sukari, we're going to drill approximately 7,000 meters of exploration drilling.

Okay. Cool. And then, I appreciate there's now update in terms of the two court cases. But is there an update in terms of the next date for the court case or is it just wait and see?

It's really a case of wait and see. It's just running through the process.

Okay. Fine. And then, last question, I note you've [indiscernible] (06:55) one my esteemed ex-colleagues is in corporate development, I just wonder whether you might be able just to give an update on your views on M&A in the market at the moment?

Well, look, we have a strategy. We believe the best way for our growth is obviously through exploration, but we do continue to look at M&A opportunities and we're doing that on a regular basis.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. There appears to be no further question, so I'll return the conference back to you.

Okay. Thank you very much for dialing-in today. If you've got any further questions at all, please contact either Jonathan or Andy Davidson. Thank you very much.

Thank you, ladies and gentleman. This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.