Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Marina Calero — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS AG (London Branch)
Yuen Low — Analyst, Liberum Capital Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody, and thank you for taking the time on what is I know a busy day from a market news perspective to join us to discuss the First Half Interim Results for Centamin. I have some of my colleagues, Ross Jerrard, CFO; Alex Barter-Carse at Corporate Comms. And we'll stick with the usual format where we'll take you through the first-half of the year operationally. Ross will do a bit of a deeper dive into the numbers. And then we'll have a look at some of the major milestones we've achieved during the year. And then of course we'll finish off with Q&A.

So, moving on past the disclaimer which I'm sure as ever you'll all read, and we'll start off with the first slide of our portfolio. Look, delighted that this slide has been updated recently. And for the first time now, on that slide, we're able to show a reserve number, but also in the company's history now includes reserves outside of Sukari. So, delighted with that. That's a bit of a headline for us there, and I think start to get confidence to our ability to our ability to diversify away from Sukari and start to build that growth platform. So, delighted with that 7.9 million ounces of proven and probable reserves now includes Doropo project outside of Sukari.

Well, maybe [indiscernible] (00:01:13) portfolio there. Sukari, really good first half performance. Team did excellently. Guidance met in terms of production of ounces and obviously some great news on the cost base, and Ross will walk you through that a bit later on a bit more detail.

Away from just the straight production numbers of ounces and costs, our projects move forward nicely. Paste plant was commissioned. Dump leach finalized [indiscernible] (00:01:38) construction. And of course continue to develop the TSF2, with raisings 4, 5, and 6 moving forward. And also important for us a continued movement towards compliance with the GISTM framework for dealing with that tailings management as well.

So, a really good first half of the year at Sukari. Delighted with that. [indiscernible] (00:02:00) is on budget and on track the guidance for the year. And second half of the year plenty more to come and looking forward to taking you around the grid connection opportunity and also the updated life of mine plan.

Moving across to Doropo, delivered the PFS. Very happy to get it out the door. I think a robust project. Delighted with the work there. And we'll take you through that a little bit later on. And of course, we're able to continue also exploration across Côte d'Ivoire at the ABC project. [indiscernible] (00:02:30) some work now looking at drilling some of the potential extensions to mineralization, and that will allow us to assess those extensions. And then our next phase of work will be to start looking at that from an economic perspective to see if it is a viable project.

And on the EDX finally, a couple of big step forwards there. Most recently last week camp delighted that's after a period of sort of fairly lengthy negotiation engagement that we managed to reach in principal terms with the Minister of Petroleum around the model mining extraction agreements – exploitation agreement for Egypt alongside those EDX project, alongside our industry partners and Barrick as well. So, I think, a big step forward for Centamin and, I think, equally a big step forward for Egypt in terms of the modernization of the mining sector.

And, of course, in parallel with that, we could start drilling on our EDX projects in the Nugrus Block around Sukari and commence there the first RC program to test the Nugrus priority target there as well. So, I think, a really great slide. A great progress across all four of those sort of elements of our portfolio and, as I say, delighted that now, we can include the non-Sukari reserves for the first time in that – our proven and probable reserve statement.

The next slide, please, Alex. So, in the first half of the year, you saw us publish our first decarbonization roadmap. Delighted to say that we're targeting a 30% carbon abatement by 2030. And, I think, the three obvious pillars to our decarbonization strategy. Firstly, of course, is can we move to renewables and completely remove carbon from the power generation aspect of our operations. The alternative then, of course, is to swap our higher carbon emissions, diesels, for lower carbon emission power sources, looking at that as an opportunity. And, of course, the third pillar then, of course, is to reduce our energy use to be more energy-efficient effectively as well.

Now, the thing that I'm really delighted about this decarbonization roadmap. Lots of people are publishing them and lots of people are talking about sort of the plans that they will implement of aspiration changes to come, but I'm delighted actually we have taken our first big step down there. And, as you know, in 2022, we commissioned our 36-megawatt DC solar plant, which have been up and running now and, well, actually, Ross will take you through some of the stats and how that's been performing over the first half of the year. But we've taken our first significant stride to do that.

We're actually putting into practice our plans and starting to see the benefits of that, both on a decarbonization and a cost basis. But, really, how do we build on that start, that great start that we've made? Well, in terms of renewables, we're currently evaluating a solar expansion. Can we basically get from 30 megawatt AC, which is the current solar capacity of the solar farm, can we get that to 50 megawatt AC? And that would allow us effectively to run fully on solar during daylight hours. So, technical evaluation and study work ongoing around that now.

The grid connection, which I think [indiscernible] (00:05:18) a couple of times. Can we connect to the Egyptian National Grid and whether the Egyptian National Grid uses a combination of gas and also significant renewables? I think the target is to get to about 40% renewables within the grid by 2030. And therefore, that would obviously displace diesel as part of our make-up. And of course, energy efficiency. Can we look at some of those strategies to basically be more efficient how we use energy around the site? And the combination of building on the current solar farm with expansion with that grid, that gives us that interim target of 30%.

I think the nice thing, of course, as well is that, that 30% is a base number. We do see a number of other opportunities that we are currently looking to chase down and can we actually beat that 30% target as well. So, I think it's an interesting work to come there. And I think in terms of the solar expansion and the grid connection, we'll be able to update you sort of further through the year as we go forward, and look to build on that target of 30% that we're looking forward to delivering as we go forward from there.

Next slide please Alex. A little scorecard here. Yeah, really, really happy with that. Across all three metrics there with production, ASIC, and cash costs where we wanted to be on ounces and that's a nice 8% improvement year-on-year to where we were at the first half of last year. And that puts us as we look at the [indiscernible] (00:06:36) as we plan for the second half of the year, puts us bang in the middle of that guidance range. So, very happy with the production performance there. Really solid sort of work by the team say.

In terms of the AISC, it's just at the bottom end of the guidance, 15% improvement year-on-year. And obviously, when we look at these things, some of the questions are, is that just down to sort of tailwinds evolution of input commodity prices, input prices to us? There's been a little bit of that, but of course, there's also a number of operating efficiencies and strategies put in place driving that as well.

And I think Ross will take you through the AISC and the cash costs in some detail during his section there. But pretty much happy to see sort of three green lights across all three of those boxes; in line or better than plan, improvements on last year, and tracking very nicely for the full year as well. So, I think that's a really nice slide and a really good sort of testament to the work done by the team [indiscernible] (00:07:25) of this first half of the year.

But if you just step on the next slide, what we can do here maybe is have a little look at behind the numbers and how [indiscernible] (00:07:33) those numbers, how did we sort of over deliver those performances over the first half of the year. So, in terms of total material moved, relatively flat year-on-year, sort of 2% increase. When we look at that 66 million tonnes, that was about 44 million tonnes by ourselves and about 22 million tonnes by capital. We still continue to see the benefit of that waste-stripping program that [indiscernible] (00:07:55) program, continues to give us good and increased operational flexibility with the open pit, so delighted with that. And the strip ratio for the first half year is about 8.5:1. And that in part was driven by the open pit [indiscernible] (00:08:12) as well. [indiscernible]

(00:08:13) on the first half of last year, about 20%, at 6.9 million tonnes. I think it's important to note that, that particular outperformance on [indiscernible] (00:08:21) had a number of contributing factors to it. One of those was the ongoing conversion to waste to ore that we see as we go to grade control and we pick up and we find out geological models. But also we've had a higher number of oxide and transition funds coming through obviously, which are free gig and easier to get through there. And they come, as we've been to Sukari hill down, that material will be placed on the dump leach eventually, but that also has contributed to that outperformance of open pit ore mined as well.

So, an excellent result there. And obviously, the combination of those two things, a function and also better productivity. I would say that one of my sort of pickup that we had as well for both those first two boxes is around the performance of the explosives that we've been using. They're looking at different product, looking to optimize some of our blasting efficiencies there. That has worked quite nicely and that was contributing to some of that productivity gain as well. So, really good performance in the open pit.

Underground, tracking nicely, tracking well. Excellent target, perhaps sort of 950,000 to 1 million tonnes of ore from underground this year. I think big improvement on the first half last year. That was the transition from contractor to other mining in the same period last year. But nice to see that 20% pickup half-on-half.

I think the headline numbers are good. They say that we're tracking along. I think the story behind the underground, things are slightly more nuanced. There is a global sort of shortage of labor, skilled labor generally across the market. And obviously, we haven't been immune to that. So, the team have been sort of managing that sort of staffing rosters, have been able to sort of navigate through that. We continue to upgrade and replace the underground fleet [indiscernible] (00:09:59) as well. So, there's been a couple of headwinds there that the team have navigated really well and maintained on track in terms of [indiscernible] (00:10:07) full year total.

But I think what's behind those numbers is some of the work that's been going on that's not obvious and apparent when you look at just the basic numbers of tonnes and meters and so on. A lot of work has been continued to be put into the underground in preparation for that sort of expansion sort of the full underground rate that we're going to publish later this year on a fully engineered basis. And there's a lot of work that doesn't show in those numbers.

And I think it's really important that the team didn't divert from that long-term planning process to sort of take care quick, easy wins on the terms and maintain the discipline around putting the groundworking that will support that uplift as we go forward form the underground production rate. And it's a number of things that are not particularly noteworthy or exciting but actually essential as we go forward. So, for example, we've completely sort of updated the underground dewatering pump system, vent grades continue – vent upgrade, I should say, continue. We're targeting sort of 450 to 500 tubes [indiscernible] (00:11:03) from the current 320, that actually be done by October, November this year.

We're pretty much doing the full electrical upgrade to the underground, advancing the substations. We're working on the pit portal as well to come in and help that sort of infrastructure and sort of tramming opportunity. And generally around the next reduction program and national promotion as well. So I think when I look at that underground contract for the year, a big improvement on last year and actually a lot of work behind the scenes studying that long-term vision that we can take in the [indiscernible] (00:11:30) push that towards that sort of 1.3 million to 1.5 million tonnes per annum as we go forward as well. So, delighted with that.

In terms of ore processed, 6 million tonnes, a bit of a pickup on last year, great to see again. As we know, back in the first quarter, we did a bit of essential long-term maintenance that have been hanging out for a little while. We looked at the [indiscernible] (00:11:48) change out and some of the most realignment. So, even despite the scheduling and factoring in that additional sort of work above and beyond the normal reline cycle, able to bring that increased in there as well.

So, I think that's some great. Some nice work to be done as we go forward as well, looking at some of the chance to further optimize combination circuit, look at things like [indiscernible] (00:12:08) software which will help us to look at sort of throughput and ball feed and optimization as we go. Feed grade, pretty steady. Happy with that. No major change there [indiscernible] (00:12:14).

And on the met recovery, again, a bit of a back story here that the 88.5% met recovery, again, in line year-on-year, a slight tweak from last year. We should expect that the feed grade being largely similar. Shouldn't be too much of a change there. But I think what is really nice is what sits behind that 88.5% And I think we're seeing a number of the sort of the projects and investment strategies that you put in place of the last two years starting to come through.

Reagent mixing and dosing CapEx that we put through has kind of come through there now. Giving us better process control around use of existing reagents. We're looking at using new reagents and can we improve and optimize the process and should, of course, be able to [indiscernible] (00:12:57), in parallel, that gravity circuit, which we hope to be able to finalize the design and the engineering of the second half of this year and [indiscernible] (00:13:06) as well.

Ross, again, will take you through a little bit of the work there that we've been doing around the network and how that's flowed through to the bottom line in terms of cost base as well. So, I think a really strong operations scorecard. Delighted with the headline metrics, all on track moving forward, are doing well. And I think behind those headline metrics as well, some really nice good wins and really sort of good debt progress across a number of fronts of both the mining and the processing side, leading to direct to the bottom line as well.

And, of course, moving on to the next slide around safety. I'm delighted to say that continue to deliver that performance in a safe manner. Obviously, we had one LTI in Q1 this year. Delighted to say, no LTIs in the second quarter, and a real sort of refocus and doubling down by management to really sort of reinforce the commitment to being a safe site. I think I've said before that I believe a safe site is a proxy to good management and delighted to see that there's a continued performance into Q2 as well.

So, in terms of trending towards our internal targets, on track this year to meet those internal targets. But, of course, the real focus is to strive for that zero harm workplace as well. But, yeah, delighted to say a clean and good, safe Q2, rounding out the half and moving to, to my mind, what is an increasingly safe and professional workplace as well.

With that quick run-through the operational side, what I'd like to do now is hand over to Ross. He will take you through a bit of a deeper dive of the numbers over the first half of this year. And then post-Ross, we'll have a look at Doropo and the EDX work as well. So, over to you, Ross, and thanks very much.

Thank you, Martin, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report material movements across most of our key financial metrics after a really solid first half performance by the ops teams. As you can see on this scorecard, revenue is up 11% year-on-year, driven by more ounces sold at an increased average realized gold price. And EBITDA margin of 45% delivered represents a 13% increase year-on-year, driven by those ounces and gold price; but also lower costs, particularly fuel, which averaged $0.77 a liter for the half.

Post-tax profit to shareholders of $91 million was up 7% year-on-year. And this is driven by the catch-up of outstanding cost recovery, which is a pleasing result, now be up to date on distributions. The cost savings program is now at $143 million of the cumulative $150 million target, with further opportunities identified that will continue to drive sustainable savings.

Driven by the good performance, we finished the half with liquidity of $311 million, which includes $150 million of undrawn RCF facility. This overall good performance across the period resulted in a 7% increase in basic EPS. The strength of the results this period and over a period of elevated capital investment is testament to our prudent long-term approach to capital allocation and cost management, and reiterates our robust financial strategy of maintaining a strong balance sheet, our stringent cost management and disciplined capital allocation, with a focus of maximizing free cash flow generation.

The first half of 2023 delivered strong operating cash flows of $172 million. This is the highest in the last five interim periods. We generated positive free cash flow of $19 million after Sukari profit share distributions of $46 million to our Egyptian partner, EMRA; and $46 million to ourself. We were also able to distribute that offsetting cost recovery that's all due to during the period.

The result was that we closed June 2023 with cash and liquid assets of $161 million. Comprised on the left-hand side of this pie chart, with cash and equivalents of $96 million; 40,000 ounces of bullion on hand, which is waiting to be shipped, which is valued at $28 million; Gold and silver sales debtor at $34 million; and derivative instruments valued at $3 million.

With a strong half year results and cash flows generated, we have been able to fund investments from cash flows and the RCF remains undrawn. Though from a overall liquidity standpoint, $150 million sustainability-linked RCF represented in grace remains available and provides a total liquidity pool of about $311 million to work with.

We also commenced the gold price protection program, which supports the remainder of 2023 and the first half of 2024 cash flows, providing more certainty and further balance sheet flexibility. Let me talk to that in a bit more detail. As you can see on this slide, gold has been trading below $1,900 dollars an ounce for 27 of the last 36 months. Or put very simply, gold has been below $1,900 an ounce for 75% of the last three years.

To safeguard revenues during a period of increased investment, Centamin purchased put options for 240,000 ounces of gold at a strike price of $1,900 per ounce. The put options mature at a rate of 20,000 ounces per month for 12 months from July 2023 to June 2024. This is a cash settled program not involving physical gold delivery, and was done across two tranches where we are able to take advantage and lock in attractive pricing for these put options. [indiscernible] (00:18:37) premium paid of $6 million, which represents an average cost of approximately $25 per ounce, and it was all funded from the group's cash position.

The program provides the company protection should the average monthly gold price fall below $1,900 strike price, while allowing us to retain full exposure to any upside in the gold price above this level. Importantly, this program aligns at a period of elevated capital investment at Sukari and provides us further financial flexibility and certainty to pursue the company's strategy of delivering growth and returns to shareholders. And note, we did not hedge account for this transaction, and it's simply booked as a financial instruments in the accounts.

Globally, cost inflation remains high and central banks continue to tighten monetary policy. [indiscernible] (00:19:28) approach to forecasting and stringent cost management has allowed us to deliver costs within our guidance both last year and we remain on track to meet our 2023 guidance.

Slide 12 shows the breakdown of costs. Both mine production costs and costs in absolute US dollar terms, where pleasingly you can see the downward trajectory of costs for the first half of 2023 versus prior period. The mine production costs split by cost [indiscernible] (00:19:56) is the top right-hand pie chart, which shows the majority of the cost pool spent on processing. This is always our largest cost component. And then, in the first half, it formed 45% of the cost pool, totaling some $85 million, which has decreased by 11% compared to the first half of 2022 due to the decrease in fuel costs due to solar savings and fuel prices, as well as reductions in consumable costs like reagents.

The next largest component was the open pit costs, forming 38% of our total cost pool, some $72 million, and has increased compared to the first half of 2022 by 17%. This is due to a 1 million tonne increase in the volumes mined, offset by that $0.04 lower average fuel price. Finance and administration costs are also 20% lower year-on-year at $18 million due to the Egyptian pound devaluation effect on catering costs, salaries and wages, freight, and customs costs.

The blue bar on the bottom left quadrant charts the cash cost of production in the first half of 2023, which was $187 million, a 1% improvement year-on-year and below our internal forecast. This primarily due to that lower fuel price and lower fuel consumption due to the integration of solar and also our focus on operational efficiency gains, which was partially offset by a 2% year-on-year increase in total material line.

The unit cash cost of production on the right-hand lower quadrant show $849 an ounce produced for the first half of 2023, a 9% improvement year-on-year, driven by higher production volumes. Similarly, the red or red-bit color shows our all-in sustaining costs for the first half of 2023, a total of $269 million, which is an 8% improvement year-on-year, reflecting lower sustaining CapEx in the period, offset by increased corporate costs due to nonrecurring legal fees associated with the debt facility and the gold protection program. Of the unit, all-in sustaining cost again, shown at the bottom right of the chart, at $1,228 an ounce sold, is a 15% improvement year-on-year, driven by those higher sales volumes.

We have been updating you regularly on the cost savings program. And as I mentioned, good progress continues to be made on the multiyear cost savings program with a cumulative $143 million delivered of our $150 million target to be delivered by the end of 2023. This continuous improvement program is all about controlling what we could whilst reducing exposure to external drivers. These initiatives identified our credit to the teams in terms of conversion from opportunity to implementation, but importantly, the investments we have made are now starting to make an impact on our costs as seen trending on these graphs.

I've always spoken on the processing plants as being our single biggest cost center. Now, with the introduction of the solar project, as well as other targeted savings initiatives, there are meaningful savings being delivered. The top graph on the left shows our consumables savings where line costs are down due to improved line activity, so we are able to use less. Oxygen costs go down due to the oxygen system update to maximize the free oxidization kinetics at each kinetics.

And copper sulfate was down due to the grinding flotation reagent optimization after fully commissioning and upgrading the new reagent area dosing system. This includes lab test work and online measurements for operational parameters. We changed that dosing strategy for the copper sulfides. Three clear examples of project initiatives delivering value.

The impact of the Egyptian pound devaluation against the US dollar as shown on the bottom left chart where we have benefited in the US dollar terms because of the devaluation, notwithstanding local inflationary increases. You can see the monthly averages indicated by the dotted lines.

Our most exciting and biggest impact has been the diesel consumption dropping with the solar project and fleet optimization. Year-on-year, you can see the reduction in the top right bar chart of the diesel usage in millions of liters. Whilst we have had the benefits of reduced diesel usage, we have also seen a reduction in diesel prices, which is down from the 2022 peaks.

Talking a bit more about our solar plants, you can see the performance and payback is meeting our expectations. We have seen savings of up 100,000 liters of diesel fuel a day during the peak sunlight months, with average savings year to date in line with our target of 18 million to 22 million liters each year.

The 100,000 liters per day metric is fantastic, but it is comparing when the diesel engines are least efficient versus when solar is performing well and the diesel engines are derated. On an average across the year, we are saving 55,000 to 60,000 liters a day or approximately $1.3 million per month at the average fuel prices year-to-date. A fantastic result and meaning further solar expansion is warranted.

Talking a bit more about currency. You can see that we are largely a US-dollar exposed business and a US-dollar denominated business. Giving a bit more detail on the group exposure, you can see that EGP component is down 5% from some 33% in the first half of 2022 versus 29% in the first half of 2023. The composition of that 29% is mostly fuel at 67% and labor 13% as you can see that pie chart.

So whilst we have seen an almost halving of the Egyptian pounds over the last 12 months, we are equally conscious of the high local inflationary environment that we're seeing in the domestic market; now at a five-year high of almost 40%. For us as a business, operating largely in US dollars, this has not had a material impact, but we do remain vigilant at both monitoring and managing this cost base.

This year is a period of significant reinvestment with an elevated level of growth CapEx of $273 million budgeted for 2023. This includes $48 million of sustaining capitalized deferred stripping. As a number of studies and multiyear projects move towards completion, we expect the CapEx to reduce from 2024 and beyond. These projects underpin our confidence in the long-term potential of Sukari.

The first half of 2023, gross capital expenditure was $108 million, including commissioning the underground paste-fill plant, the continued contracted waste stripping program, new underground equipment purchases, underground development, open pit rebuilds, and construction of the north dump leach facility. Total sustaining CapEx was $50 million of that $108 million, including $10 million on deferred stripping; and non-sustaining was $58 million, of which 44 $million represents our capital waste stripping program. We had expected a higher CapEx spend in H1; but due to minor changes in scheduling, this has been moved into the second half, and we remain on track to meet our 2023 guidance.

In terms of our key capital projects, that accelerated waste stripping program is now 70% complete; solar expansion studies are underway; Doropo DFS is underway; the grid tender proposals have been received and are under review; we have commenced our EDX drilling; and the gravity circuit is being advanced. So, all projects remain on track.

I'm delighted to talk to our commitment to shareholder returns, and this will be our 10th consecutive year of dividend distribution. Centamin has strengthened its dividend policies, which is to continue to use group free cash flow generated and applying a 30% minimum priority payment of dividends from those cash flows that calculated before growth project, which is funded by debt and surplus cash flows. Thereafter, any surplus cash flows would be reassessed against both balance sheet requirements and the application of further shareholder returns.

The board decided to distribute a total of 53% of first half 2023 group free cash flow before treasury-funded growth CapEx, which is to be distributed to shareholders on the 29th of September. This decision was considered together with the fact that Centamin continues in a financially robust position with $161 million worth of cash and liquid assets; still having the $150 million RCF facility undrawn as a result of the first half growth CapEx being funded from cash flows; securing the gold price protection program for 12 months from July 2023, now limits the revenue downside risk below $1,900 per ounce; and operationally and financially being well-positioned for a stronger second half, which is in line with plan.

So, consistent with the company's stated commitment to returns, the board declares an interim dividend of $0.02 per share, or $23 million for the period ended 30th of June 2023. The steps taken against that dividend policy are shown on the right-hand side of the slide. So, by taking group free cash flow of $19 million, adding back the growth project, CapEx funded from treasury of $21 million, and taking off the 30% minimum dividend distribution per policy results in a surplus cash flow for discretionary capital allocation of some $28 million.

The board supplemented that interim dividend by adding back the $10.8 million, giving a total dividend declared of $23 million. So in summary, following board discussion, the minimum 30% of free cash flow was calculated and then a third of the surplus cash flow available rounded up to $0.02 per share was taken as part of the dividend declared.

We have maintained a robust financial strategy and continue to deliver continued improvements. We finished the half with a strong balance sheet with liquidity of over $300 million, allowing clearer exposure to gold price and also after funding CapEx from treasury. Our balance sheet position now across both cash and RCF allows additional flexibility and now, complemented with the gold price protection program, provides further certainty over the next year which enables us to remain fully focused on managing the bottom line of the business to drive margins and generate free cash.

We have continued to deliver on our cost savings initiatives and are on target for that $150 million with more to come. And we have delivered on our key projects, on budget and on schedule. Our treasury and strong cash flows, even during the three investments phase means we have financed our projects, paid our partner at EMRA, and continued to deliver shareholder returns. So in summary, I think it's been a really strong delivery against our stated plans and we've continued to build on that track record of delivering results.

With that, I'll hand back to Martin.

Thank you very much, Ross. It helps when I take myself off mute when talking to you, so I do very much appreciate it, Ross. I think, as you say, an excellent first half in terms of stringent cost control and those optimizations coming through. Delighted to see that when we start into – to put Sukari back where we know and think it should be.

And really, of course, we talked about Sukari as a platform on which to build a multi-asset business and, really, Sukari is that engine of the business into whether that growth come on and how do we fund that growth. And I think that's sort of the strategy that you're employing there around cost in terms of Sukari but also resilient and robust so the balance sheet puts there to do that. And of course, during the first half of this year, we were able to deliver the PFS at Doropo. And we would like do now then we took a little bit of a deeper dive into Doropo as well.

So, moving on to the slide there, just as a location map, just a bit of a recap as to where Doropo sits. So as you can see, the Doropo [indiscernible] (00:32:20) sits in the northeast of the country. ABC is over on the west side there. And of course, I think two things to note really I think around that map [indiscernible] (00:32:30). One is that proximity to the Burkina boarder. The project sites adjacent to that. And to the south of the project area is the Comoé National Park as well. So I think importantly is that the project site is at a good number [indiscernible] (00:32:48) from the border. And I think at the [indiscernible] (00:32:51) we're talking 10 kilometers from the park as well. So that's where it sits geographically.

I think obviously PFS was delayed slightly as compared to where we had anticipated getting it out. And I think we signaled previously, that was around the decision to try and chase down those metallurgical opportunities that we identified as part of the PFS work which [indiscernible] (00:33:11) flow sheet. So, a slight delay to that, but delighted that they actually did flow through. So when we look at the sort of transition from the PEA that we did into the PFS, we've seen the sort of resource work set-up really nicely from a geological perspective.

The infill program [indiscernible] (00:33:28) actually increased the grade of the project. And we saw those metallurgical improvements from the PEA with that simplifications of the flow sheet. Of course, offset against that was those inflationary pressures that the whole set can see. And really, of course, when you sort of balance all those things out and taking the project forward, I still believe that we have a very robust project with a great outcome for Doropo as well.

So moving on to the next slide. So in terms of the project itself, I think [indiscernible] (00:33:55) categorization of projects is that as far as I'm concerned, it's relatively technically simple. It's not a particularly challenging project from a technical perspective. The secret of making Doropo work is going to be around the social engagement and getting that sort of that license to operate in this part of Cote d'Ivoire.

So from a technical perspective, geologically speaking, it's eight separate resource as sort of a pit if you like or orebodies, all with broadly similar geological settings with shallow dipping structures that we're targeting that mine through a conventional open pit configuration using truck and shovels. It's a pretty moderate life-of-mine strip ratio, about 4.1 times sort of strip ratio. And for the PFS, we did assume that contract mining would be the method to be employed as well.

Processing-wise, a standard SABC circuit on the comminution side and into a CIL. It's free milling. It's non-refractory gold. And the comminution circuit averages 4.4 million tonnes per annum, so that varies between 4 million tonnes [indiscernible] (00:35:08) running entirely of fresh material and up to about 5.4 million tonnes that's running oxide transition material. And the grind size there [indiscernible] (00:35:12) fresh material down in the 75 micron. And with the oxide and transition [indiscernible] (00:35:17) to 106 micron. And running below that, that gives us a life-to-mine gold recovery across the project of about 92% as well.

Infrastructure-wise; tailings, fully aligned facility, designed for ANCOLD and will be operated in line with GISTM and downstream construction methodology for the embankment construction oasis. And from an infrastructure perspective, looking to hook into the national grid system. It's about 55 kilometers from the Bouna substation and looking to bring [indiscernible] (00:35:45) as well.

So, I think from a technical perspective, a shallow pit, maximum pit, that's about 130 meters. Most pits average about 80 to 90 meters. Simple truck and shovel into a very standard comminution flow sheet into a CIL, good north of 90% recoveries at standard grind sizes, and a pretty standard configuration around the infrastructure for tailings and grid connection as well. So, I don't see it as particularly sort of technically challenging project. And one of the things we've worked out hard there is infrastructure layouts, looking to optimize that within the overall concessions as we sit there.

Maybe moving on to next slide, please, Alex. I think the key, obviously, around Doropo is going to be the environmental and social assessment and setting of the project. I think it's been my sort of personal experience, whether I was in banking and consulting a number of years ago now and then more recently at Toro before joining Centamin is that, generally, my view is you can't have too much environmental and social information and you can't have it too early in the process. I think that's never really a fault of any project.

And I think sort of one of my sort of big takeaway in terms of working in [indiscernible] (00:36:50) a number of years now is that if you get that environmental and social data early, it allows for better project outcome, you can assess that as you're doing your pre-feasibility. Fewer surprises, you can be more sort of considerate around those inputs, not just focus on the technical. And that leads you to a more robust investment decision down the track as well.

And I think we very much apply that approach here with Doropo. So, in terms of the sort of PFS work, we pretty much did a full, if you like, ESIA baseline review work for both environmental and social to PFS standards in parallel with the technical work. We used both internationally sort of experienced groups like Earth Systems supported by local experts [indiscernible] (00:37:35) consulting as well. And I think that baseline work is proving valuable as we think about sort of project sort of a configuration and then project development.

I think the major sort of headline is coming out of that baseline summary. So, we are sitting in a rural area, it is multi-community with different ethnic groupings within the project footprint. And we see a mosaic of different land uses within there as well. There's [indiscernible] (00:37:56) cropping, pastoral sort of grazing with animals. And there is an element of artisanal working in the area as well. It's a fairly rural part of Cote d'Ivoire, relatively underdeveloped. And as you'd expect in that rural setting a number of different land uses across the project footprint.

We think that over the full lifecycle of the project, construction and then into operation, up to 3,000 people could potentially be impacted. That's not to say we have to move 3,000 people, but 3,000 within the area could be impacted. There will be some resettlement, some land take [indiscernible] (00:38:35). And we think that within that sort of footprint as well, about up to 10,000 hectares of land take is required, again, over the course of the projects.

And as I mentioned earlier, the other thing to note is that to the south of the project area is the Comoé National Park as well. I think it's important to note that the project, as envisaged, as designed, sits entirely out of the park and out of its buffer zone, but it is adjacent to that and we are therefore aware that it is obviously an environmentally-sensitive receptor. And we have visited as part of our sort of project evaluation.

And, really, understanding that baseline summary that allowed us to basically look at the various scenarios that we could do as part of the PFS work. I think one of the some of the main considerations that have influenced the project design is from the ESIA. Well, clearly, the first and foremost is to make sure that we try, where possible, avoid or minimize a community impact. That's obviously an easy and early win for us. And how that's manifested itself is that effectively we have a, if you like, a staged approach to both project developments and then subsequent operation.

And what that really comes down to is the idea of a starter project where we can build the project infrastructure or plant site, accommodation, and so on. And the initial two to three years of mining production actually sits within a single relatively small startup project area, and that has only engagement with one local community.

So, it's not like we have to basically deal with all of those communities across the entire project site to get at the running. We actually can deal with one community grouping that will allow us to get the project infrastructure built, and allow us to get the first two to three years of production under our belt before we have to start engaging with subsequent there sort of community groups within the project area as well.

So I think in looking to combine that sort of sort of community groups within the project area as well. So, I think in looking to combine that sort of placing an infrastructure away from communities and then staging that design, I think, has allowed us to simplify the upfront development sort of approach before we then sort of get into subsequent phases of operation.

I think the other [indiscernible] (00:40:31) we've thought about the mining sequence. Clearly, you could let the sort of the software run wild and it would sort of be pulling tonnes from all the different pits at different times to try to maximize the NPV. We've not gone down that route. What we'd look to do again is sort of sequence the mining pit operation. We constrained the schedule to make sure that at any one time, there are only two pits open. And then, we look to progressively rehabilitate as we close down pits and use the next one in there as well.

And I think that the final point really is that sort of community engagement, getting that social license to operate is going to be critical. And designing a very detailed and thorough RAP, [indiscernible] (00:41:10) restoration program and starting that engagement early is really going to be the key to making Doropo work. And that's something that we're starting on the second half of this year as well.

So, I think in terms of the overall project setting, as I say, technically simple. The art of this will be sort of putting the project within this sort of rural mosaic that we set in that northeast Cote d'Ivoire. But identification of those issues early sort of [indiscernible] (00:41:38) into the plans and a staged approach to engaging the community as we go forward and early start to that work is going to be key. So, pretty happy with that. There are some challenges, of course, as with any project; but I think it's something that we believe that we have the skills and the experience to deal with.

And I think, importantly, something that [indiscernible] (00:41:54) these types of programs have already been successfully completed by other companies within Cote d'Ivoire as well. So, there's a level of sophistication and understanding within the country, both in the administration and from the community side, about how these things work as well.

Just moving on to the next slide. So, when we pull together that configuration, when we pull together our staged approach to development and mining, where does that leave us? Well, look, as I say, delighted that the resources held quite nicely on the drill out to the PFS stage. And that led us to a contained reserve about 1.9 million ounces at just a shade under 1.5 grams a tonne. That leads us to an average gold production of about 170,000 ounces per year over a 10-year life. But we do average around 210,000 ounces per annum in the first five years. Again, that gives us a life-of-mine all-in sustaining of just over $1,000. And after those five years, just below a $1,000 as well. So, it's sitting quite nicely.

And when we look at the CapEx of construction, that's just a shade under $350 million, and that includes a 10% contingency as well. So, I think that sort of – when we looked at that as a company, we looked at that against our own internal hurdle rates of IRR, NPV, project life, and then production profile, is that we think [indiscernible] (00:43:07) really nicely. And if we do that at a long term, slightly more conservative price of $1,600 or we use a sort of current levels around $1,900, we see a project that certainly hits those NPV IRR targets as anticipated. And then as I say, that's a sensible level of gold price and [indiscernible] (00:43:24) price assumption as we move forward as well. So, I think that gave us the confidence effectively to take the project forward.

Next slide, please, Alex. In terms of assessing the sort of the CapEx and OpEx base, clearly, we've taken a bottom-up approach on first principles. And, of course, we have a fair amount of experience now [indiscernible] (00:43:44) of West African gold project construction and development. Our project lead [indiscernible] (00:43:47) this would be his fifth project of construction and development of gold project in West Africa. He's [indiscernible] (00:43:58) and successfully led the feasibility then the construction of that project, which is ahead of schedule and under budget as well.

So, we think we've got quite a bit of in-house experience. We've used high-quality consultants and engineers to do the work, and we came up with the project economics that we just discussed. One of the things we wanted to do, of course, that was to make sure that we're sort of cognizant of inflation, cognizant of where the market is moving, where does Doropo sit? I think what we were quite pleased to see that having taken this sort of bottom-up approach and derived the CapEx and OpEx numbers, and then when we benchmark into industry, we're pretty happy that actually where we've come out is a project that sits kind of mid-range on the capital intensity.

So we're certainly not the cheapest, as you'd expect in a remote location. But also pleased to see that we're not at the top-end and it fits rather nicely, kind of middle of the pack in terms of that sort of capital construction cost intensity as well. So I think that gave as additional comfort that we're in the right ballpark for a project of this scale. And when look at the all in sustaining cost again, again we believe that the project will screen quite nicely and set the right side of the median there sort of 50 percentile for the cost curve as well.

So I think that was a good validation and a good sort of sense check points to make sure that when we did the work that we're not kidding ourselves and there is something that's real there. And it is in line with industry sort of benchmarks at this stage.

Just moving on to the next slide. So I think with that sort of confidence in the project sort of economics and the potential sort of scale and viability of the project, with that sort of benchmarking to industry, we're pretty much launched straight into the feasibility in ESIA at process as well. So, one of the good points is that we've actually pretty much completed the drilling for the [indiscernible] (00:45:41) stage already. We've taken advantage of the current dry season that's just coming to an end in West Africa now. And pretty much we have completed all the resource throughout required to support feasibility as well.

So that really just leaves metallurgical test work at two weeks and then the actual study work to be done over the balance of [indiscernible] (00:45:59) into the next. And really what we all know that the PFS. I guess philosophically we think about the PFS as being sort of project evaluation. So what are the alternative configurations of project into such a layout? What are the different, sort of, generic configurations of processing, metallurgical zoning, TSF sort of opportunities?

And really the TSF to my knowledge is trying to find the preferred configuration for the project, and then, the DFS stage is about then optimizing that PFS design. So, very much the approach that we've taken. And that does lead us to believe that there's a number of opportunities now that we can refine to the DFS stage to enhance the project from there. And these are identified real opportunities that are being laid out right now.

On the resource base, we know there's some better grades to come. We didn't include some certain oxide material as part of the PFS. We just didn't have enough test work at the time. And they are shallow, good grade, high recovery ounces. They will come into the DFS as well. Nice to see those coming through. We've been able to drill off some known extensions to current resource sort of the target and pits. So these are extensions to existing sort of pits that will come in. And we'll have some nice work on those. We'll update you later in the year on.

And also, we've identified a number of new areas within the broader concession area from source [indiscernible] (00:47:20) we're we've done some drilling. And there's a good chance that some of those resources might come in. They're likely to sort of extend the life of the project more than sort of [indiscernible] (00:47:27) at this stage. But certainly we see quite a bit of resource offsite that can be sort of factored into that feasibility work.

Operational cost savings, we still think there's a number of things on the table that we can sharpen up. Reagent consumption optimization, moving to an owner's team on the mining, rather, the contractor. Obviously got a lot of skills and experiences to carry that we could bring across. And we do think there's an opportunity there to shop at some of the cost base.

And I would say the same with the construction capital cost as well. Thinking about construction philosophy, moving away from an EPC, ancillary EPC, warehousing some of the tasks within our owner team, and also transferring some of that execution risk to ourselves, but also lowering the cost as well. And then, also, looking at how quickly could we sort of front run some of the longer lead items, how much the financial risk are we prepared to take to shorten the construction time, as well it would take some of the costs out of that as well.

And I think really when we put all of those things together, what I'd really like to see, of course, is that first five years of production all sitting above 200,000 ounces a year. That would mean some of those ounces coming through backfilling years three, four, and five, getting us to that at least 200,000 ounce mark for the first five years and seeing what happens thereafter as well. So, I think there's a number of nice opportunities that will flow through that we'll capture as part of DFS, look to improve on those already sort of pretty robust NPV and IRR target as well.

So, in terms of the next slide, where do we go from here? We've got a pretty detailed plan laid out now is to get the ESIA finished by sort of year-end broadly and the need for a mining license application by the middle of next year. That is our sort of target from a procedural basis with government. We actually met with the Minister of Mines in Abidjan a couple of weeks back. He was very supportive of the Doropo project. It is a rural, relatively underdeveloped part of Cote d'Ivoire, and the government is very keen to see investment in this part of the world; infrastructure development, job creation skills, and so on. He did indicate that this was a priority project for them as well. So delighted to get that sort of in-country support for the project as well.

So, really, on the assumption that we can get our applications in by the middle of next year, we then go to government review process, and then we get into the FID before then a sort of approximately plus/minus sort of two-year build [indiscernible] (00:49:46) process as well. I do think there's quite a bit of opportunity to sharpen at that pipeline. And that's something we'll look at during the feasibility stage now and look to see where we can sort of shorten that up and bring in sooner effectively as well.

So I think in summary, slightly delayed, but ultimately a very good result, a robust project that screens well against its peers. We think we're on the right track. A number of identified opportunities that we can now layer into the DFS. And it seems capable of delivering it as well. So I think that's a great bit of work for us that sort completed now, and we're full throttle pushing on with the DFS and ESIA as we speak.

And if that wasn't enough, just moving on to EDX, our recent desert exploration work in Egypt. And a picture there of myself. They say the camera adds 10 pounds; it looks more like 20 pounds to be there. I think I might have to get to the gym before I head for a holiday looking at that picture. But delighted that last year – oh, sorry, last week, apologies, we were able to agree the framework around the MMEA for Egypt. After what has been a fairly sort of lengthy and detailed engagement process, I was delighted that ourselves and our entry partner, Barrick, were able to meet the Minister of Petroleum, the gentleman in the middle there, his Excellency Engineer Tarek El-Molla, and finalize the in-principle terms to support a exploitation sort of agreement for new projects in Egypt going forward.

And I think it's a – it's a great step forward for us at Centamin. Delighted now we've got clarity around our main EDX blocks from exploitation terms basis. We're delighted now that the likes of Barrick are sufficiently comfortable with the framework agreement that they're prepared to commit to the country as well. I think it's a real step forward for Egypt now to genuinely put itself on the map as an exploration and potentially development jurisdiction on a global basis as well. A lot of Arabian-Nubian Shield there. It's an emerging jurisdiction, as we know, for the likes of Saudi and other places. And now, what we believe is a modern code has been effectively agreed.

In terms of the process itself, ourselves and Barrick, with kind of for the industry group, we were supported [indiscernible] (00:51:45) a highly experienced legal firm. And I think one of the key roles is played by Wood Mackenzie, who acted as almost a buffer between the industry group and the Minister, looking to ensure that sort of the economic argument of discussions around the regulatory framework with sort of, if you like, umpired or provided an independent point of view as well.

So, I think it was a good process. I think it was sort of supported by a really sort of leading panel of industry experts. And, really, what we've come up with this concept of a kind of win-win, which is kind of a bit of a cliché. But, generally, one of the things that we discussed right to the process was to see this kind of sharing of risk, but also reward on a sort of 50/50 basis between the state and industry.

And I think that's where Wood Mackenzie were very useful, be able to sort of sit down with the ministerial team and look at the various sort of options and levers they could pull to make sure that there's a balance of the sort of win-win between industry and state as well. And I think we pretty much got there on lifecycle basis as well with that kind of 50/50 approach to that.

I think, interestingly, the Minister very much understood that international mining can choose, within reason, to be in certain jurisdictions. And, therefore, Egypt was effectively competing with other international countries for that foreign direct investment from mining companies. And he understood that model as well. And I think that's sort of where Egypt has ended up on this new mining code in terms of commercial terms is that it's probably screened very, very similarly to something like Cote d'Ivoire as well.

So, now, we've got the Arabian-Nubian Shield in Egypt. We've got this wonderful infrastructure of roads and power and people, which were obviously very familiar [indiscernible] (00:53:26) at Centamin. We've got a pro-mining minister and government that wants foreign direct investment, and we've got a regulatory and fiscal regime that is clear and concise and also is on a par with something like Cote d'Ivoire as well. So, I think that is a real win for Egypt.

Process from here is that sort of agreement now will effectively go through a three-step ratification process per the normal sort of process in Egypt. Government is on summer recess now through August and September. So, we anticipate when everyone's back at their desks through October, November, that will be ratified and voting to [indiscernible] (00:53:57) special law as well. So, I think an excellent piece of work, a long process committed at times.

I'd like to commend the Centamin team for their perseverance over an extended period, but the like of shaken hands in [indiscernible] (00:54:11) last week and alongside James [indiscernible] (00:54:16) and Barrick to get to that point as well. So, I think that's great news for Egypt, for Centamin as well.

Moving on to the next slide. So, with that, sort of framework, we did start work at our exploration ground earlier. We didn't wait for this. We had confidence that we would get there. So, we did start work on our EDX ground predominantly the Nugrus Block which sits adjacent to the Sukari concession agreement. And we generated over the sort last 12 months up to seven drill targets through a combination of soils mapping and so on.

I'm delighted to say that during the first half of this year, we rolled the first rig off the rig onto the first target and have commenced drilling on a 10,000 meter programs across EDX. We're about 3,000 meters into that program now. And over the next two or three months, as we move across these targets, we will face that initial scout drilling and look to update from there as well.

So, delighted that that we've got those fiscal terms and regulatory terms in place now. And actually sort of quite excited to have a rig on the ground and actively drilling those first targets that's all sit within a trucking distance of Sukari as well. So, looking forward to updating you on the balance this year as they all start to come in as well. So, exciting times in Egypt. Very, very happy with that.

So, maybe moving on to summary. In terms of our clear and consistent strategy, I think this is a familiar slide that those who've been on these webcast before. Look, I think, Sukari, obviously in terms of the sort of value maximization, to maximize plant come through a second half of this year and of course, we'll continue to push on the [indiscernible] (00:55:53) part of that and sort of further growth opportunities around resource reserves and further cost optimization as well. So I think the life of mine the headline, there's still lot initiatives to come through there.

Turning to growth and diversification, as we've talked about, Doropo is doing nicely, full boarded for DFS now and, of course, the EDX results that we hope should be coming through later this year and its exploration, it's early stage. It's high risk but we're excited about that. And of course our commitment to shareholder returns. Ross sort of articulated our sort of a capital allocation structure earlier this year. We put into practice now with this year's interim dividend at this stage. And I look to continue to stay committed to stakeholder returns as we go forward as well.

So just, yeah, delighted the really strong first half of the year, sets us very nicely for the second half year at Sukari and also Sukari set the foundation to continue deliver sort of growth diversification to the portfolio. So on that basis, I'll pause there and would now be happy to throw the call open to questions. And I'll hand back to Bailey who will running through that on that basis as well.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Marina Calero from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead, Marina. Your line is now open.

Good morning and thanks for the call. I have a quick question about your growth strategy. Now that your Doropo project is moving into DFS stage, would you be open to expand your footprint in West Africa via M&A?

Hi, Marina. Yeah, look, absolutely. So, certainly from – well, if we sort of look at West Africa, absolutely, look, we've got ABC and Cote d'Ivoire. We think Cote d'Ivoire remains a really interesting place geologically and obviously even an established sector. I would say that from an exploration basis at that sort of early stage exploration work we are currently assessing a number of opportunities right across West Africa. And we'd look to add in that sort of early stage direct application or JV with the junior companies to continue to sort of grow out the exploration sort of sector as well.

And, I think, if we move sort of further up the curve towards the development and predevelopment opportunities, yeah, look, absolutely. I think we'd have to think about sequencing. I think it's incredibly difficult to try and build two projects concurrently. I think, that would be a bit of a challenge. So, if we're looking to develop opportunities, we'd have to see how they sort of integrate into our development pipeline and how that would fit. It's something that would come before Doropo and, therefore, we could accelerate on that basis or it's something that would then sort of naturally sort of finish or be ready to be constructed post the Doropo construction as well. So, you kind of roll your design and your construction team from one to the other as well.

So, certainly, I would say that the exploration portfolio perspective, very active and looking at those things right now. If we've moving more towards a development opportunity, we'd have to think about how that fit in, in the sort of timeline around Doropo. And if it was a producing opportunity, why not? Look, absolutely, we're keen to sort of try and diversify the asset base, as you know. Organically, we've got a good pipeline, but we remain sort of, if you like, opportunistic looking at sort of M&A opportunities. If we could find the right value to the right project at the right jurisdiction then, absolutely, I think we could consider that.

Great. That's all I have. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Thank you. The next question today comes from the line of Daniel Major from UBS. Please go ahead, Daniel. Your line is now open. Please do ensure that you've unmuted locally.

Yeah. Sorry about that. Hi and thanks for the questions. First question, sorry if I've missed this somewhere in the statements, what is the cost of the production that you put in place for the next 12 months?

Ross, do you want to take this one?

Hi. Yes. So I think – hi, Dan. So the total cost of the production is $6.1 million. That's across the full sweep through to June next year. In the financials, you'll see two tranches. So, there was a first tranche of $2.5 million that was entered into the 14th of June and the second tranche was post June, so July, $3.6 million the subsequent event, so the total number of $6.1 million.

Great. Thanks. Second question just on CapEx and I think [indiscernible] (01:00:54) showing CapEx in full basis in your summary rather than the adjusted number. But can you give us a sense of where we should be thinking – even if it's not the exact number – around total CapEx into 2024? And you said it's going to come off, but can you give us any range and any guidance there?

Dan, so that, to the CapEx guidance for 2024, Dan, sorry, is that the question?

Yeah. Arrange a list of sort of I know [indiscernible] (01:01:26) provide some guidance in the past but there's there's quite few moving parts and so, yeah, whether there's any, any steer on what we should be thinking in 2024 at this stage.

I think, Dan, that will – hello, Dan. Sorry, I didn't say hello to you. Apologies for that. And I think, Dan, the I think the new life of mine plan, I think, we'll have that sort of sharpened up through sort of Q3 and really furnished in Q4. I think sort of some of the options we're looking at there, I think that's going to drive that CapEx number as well around projects taking it forward.

So, I think in terms of giving you sort of a good steer, I think that's probably going to come part of that life of mine update. I would say though, that in terms of the projects that we sort of know about now that we can probably sort of flag and you can put a pin in them, then we'll sort of pull then into next year. Solar expansion, that's probably in the order of $20 million to $25 million to take us up to that 50 megawatts of total installed AC. So, that's sort of order of magnitude for that project. Gravity circuit, probably in the order of about $15 million, maybe $20 million at the upside, maybe $12 million at the bottom. That's the sort of gravity circuit we're working to that at the moment. So depending where we go, but stick a pin in that $15 million is probably not a bad estimate at this stage, [indiscernible] (01:02:45) further work as well on that basin.

Grid connection, again, $15 million to $20 million, I would say, [indiscernible] (01:02:54) $20 million to $25 million on that, apologies, I think would be a good number for that as well. So the three sort of big projects that we see going forward – solar expansion, gravity, and grid – that's the sort of quantum I think you could look at on this basis.

Things around stripping and some of the sustaining capital underground development and those are the bits and pieces, they will fall out of that new life of mine update as well. But in terms of, if you like, sort of projects, that's the sort of number I think you can envisage, but we'll sharpen up over the second half of this year. But that's the sort of quantum of numbers as we go forward.

Okay. Thanks... [indiscernible]

(01:03:31) that helped.

Yeah, yeah. That does, yeah. Thanks. And just to just expand on that slightly. Have you provided explicit guidance on the direction of the $48 million of deferred stripping on work? Because that should be a number that you've got line of sight on now, I would have thought? [indiscernible]

(01:02:54)

And what that looks like next year?

Oh, for the stripping? No, I think that's going to come out in the new plan, Dan. I think once we look at that, I think we've got the capital program that goes middle of next year. I think you can assume that, that capital sort of waste-stripping program will roll through and will sort of hit our plans and that will finish sort of May, June next year.

And then outside of that, in terms of our own fleet, our own sort of stripping plan, and again, it's an accounting issue where it sits about the average life of mine strip ratio, I think that will fall out that new life of mine plan update. So I think, again, when you look at the first half of next year, you can assume that capital will finish off that program after we contract it on our own fleet and how that relates then to sort of the accounting treatment, that sort of deferred waste stripping, that will come out of that new life of mine plan.

Okay. That's useful. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. And then just one on Doropo. I mean, you mentioned in your slide about exploration upside and backfilling the production profile to 200,000 ounces first five years. I mean, it seems like fragmented mineralization. I mean, should we think about the upside here being more sort of backfilling and maintaining somewhat closer to 200,000 for the 10 years rather than sort of large scale discoveries likely extending the life materially beyond the sort of 10-, 12-year time horizon?

So I think that kind of the backfilling in the first five years. So we know there are some upside material that we couldn't include in the [indiscernible] (01:05:32) so that will become available as part of the DFS. We know that we currently have drilled up some extensions to current pits. So, we know there are some additional ounces that are likely to sort of extend current pits and they will sort of help to sort of between at least those two things there, the two areas where I believe that we'll be able to sort of get that first five years each year at least with two in front of it on the first five years effectively.

I think in terms of the sort of the discoveries, if you like, additional mineralization outside of the current eight pits, I think initial indications there that it's going to be of a similar grade to the current sort of orebodies if we found something that was 2.5 grams. But I think you could bring that sort of pit forward in the mining sequence and look to displace some of the other pits to sort of increase the ounce profile there. It does look it's sitting around about the average of the grade that we're seeing at the reserve resource at this stage anyway.

So, then it comes on to the fact that, because it's the same grade, because you've got the same mill capacity, it's likely to add life rather than sort of it all being at [indiscernible] (01:06:35) for the 10 years [indiscernible] (01:06:38) on the grade pick up, then I think you can sort of bring that forward in the schedule, and you might be able to do as well. So I think sort of in my head to have this sort of view of the first five years hopefully having two in front of it in terms of production and then incremental resource discovery of the target that we know about now, then adding years on to the back end rather than sort of [indiscernible] (01:06:57) as well.

Of course, [indiscernible] (01:07:04) still there was a chance that you find something that's got slightly better grade. You bring that forward, and we could sort of push that further [indiscernible] (01:07:05) target out longer. But at this stage, I think first five years with the two in front of them, and then it's mine life addition to the back end.

All right. Thanks a lot.

Thanks, Dan.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question today comes from the line of Yuen Low from Liberum. Yuen, please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, Martin, Ross, and Alexa. Congratulations on the good H1 production results. Your [ph] operational (01:07:44) guidance, you said that you're being conservative with the cost guidance. Bearing in mind whether H1 [indiscernible] (01:07:53) has come out, I'm surprised you haven't reduced the [indiscernible] (01:07:57) guidance?

Good morning, Yuen. We'll, I'll pass this to Ross, of course. I think in terms of CapEx, we remain on track for the full-year target. We remain on track for that. And, of course, we've rescheduled some of that CapEx from H1 into H2. And, of course, some of that CapEx will have an impact on the outlook as well. So, I think we're right to maintain that all-in sort of range and certainly for the half year. Let's see where we get to at Q3. But I think that we're [indiscernible] (01:08:35) as well. Ross, I mean, happy for you to maybe sort of take a bit of a closer look at that from your perspective.

Yeah, that's exactly right, and hi, Yuen. Yeah, it was a great result at H1. We are light on CapEx. There's a big bend in H2. We're very much on track. And everybody believes that that's all going to drop. So, we've kept consistent, but we'll reassess it as we go into Q3. We have had the tailwinds of some of the input costs and things that have helped. But, yeah, we do have that elevated second half.

Yeah. I do appreciate the CapEx would be higher in H2. But looking at your cash cost, that's come down quite a bit from Q1. It's come down by, I think, over $10 million.

That's right. That's right.

Well, Yuen, guarantee us diesel price for H2 and we'll give you the guidance. How does that sound? We just have to be careful of diesel prices. We've had that tailwind in the first half of the year, ourselves against the budget numbers. Are we super confident that – all of us globally – that the sort of the oil and gas price or the diesel prices as a proxy, how does that kind of perform second half of the year with what our Middle East production, Ukraine situation, so on as well?

So, I think, at this stage with still half a year to go with diesel being the key sort of input to that cash cost, and as I note in the CapEx issue as well, I think to sort of aggressively sort of lower that at this stage and then find that the diesel price moves against that, that it could sort look a bit embarrassing. So I think I think let's get another quarter under our belt, get to Q3. If we're still seeing diesel where we needed to be, then I think we can look at this as well. But I think the sort of prudent aspect of this on the sense of running the managing the business and setting external expectations is that we can't actually be repriced. We're a price taker. We still look at the international market as a proxy of where the price will go. And I think at this stage, it's prudent just to maintain at this stage.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. There were no additional audio questions waiting. So I'd like to pass over to Alex for any written questions.

Thank you, Bailey. Just a couple have come through online. One is around hedging. Some of your peers are hedging over $2,000 an ounce gold over 2025 to 2027. You've hedged the downside, but would you take an opportunistic, higher priced hedge given growth at Doropo?

Look, I think there's two things here. Let's look at this sort of the program as we look at investment into Sukari over the next 12 months. I think that very much is a tactical short-term sort of a decision to protect those cash flows while we continue this review of the accelerating stripping program and some of these are the CapEx project in Sukari. So I think we anticipated that this sort of that reinvestment in Sukari starts to roll off next year, stripping normalizes, those projects are dropped and developed, we see the benefits coming through.

So I think that at that point Sukari listed on a cash cost curve would mean that hopefully that tactical sort of downside protection isn't required. We've still got the RCF in our back pocket to draw down on. So, I think about that risk management has been to the price protection and available liquidity. So I think we're in a very nice position.

Doropo, different story, of course. If we're going to take the project forward, if we're going to build it and we're going to project finance that, I think that's a different scenario. I think at that point where you're looking to secure project finance, I think having some sort of price protection within a development scenario is entirely sort of justified. And I think that when you add that to the level as well, I think you could then also look at different products. Of course, the puts, I don't really [indiscernible] (01:12:22) through hedging. We haven't created a commitment to delivery for the business. We put protecting that this like a an insurance policy on your car.

I think once we get into the Doropo of discussions I think that's a different story then. And then we could look at the products, whether that'd be a flat forward, a zero cost [indiscernible] (01:12:38) products where you are genuinely hedging because you're creating a commitment. But of course, with those commitments [indiscernible] (01:12:43) financial cost to the business in terms of upfront but it does give you a potentially a higher forward price as well over that period.

So I think you know personally – and Ross and I haven't had a chance to discuss this in depth either between ourselves or with the board. I think we're fine for Sukari now. I think that tactical and short-term [indiscernible] (01:13:00) in place. I think if we look at Doropo, I think that's the time to look at different products. That could be the sort of longer dated trades in place that would benefit from higher prices. What you are at that point sort of committing to delivery of those ounce and you are hedging in the true sense. But it isn't that point connected to a project finance associated with Doropo development. If that answers the question.

I think it does. Then, apologies to those who've submitted questions on EDX. I'm just trying to combine them as one, but with clarity around the mining terms, can you take us through your strategy at EDX? And following the Nugrus drilling, what would be your next steps?

I don't strategy has changed. And that's the try and make discoveries within Egypt. If those discoveries are made in close proximity to Sukari, can we basically look to benefit off the Sukari infrastructure to bring those out to account more quickly and more cheaply? And then, discussions with the Minister Is that they see the benefits to that as well?

The sort of economic terms between the new code and our concession agreement are broadly similar. The sort of give and take is, is the same. There's no real depth of the government, whether they come in by the concession agreement or by the new code, which is we can utilize the Sukari infrastructure to accelerate the development of satellite deposits around Sukari, then that's great for the government [indiscernible] (01:14:29) and obviously great for Centamin as well. So no change to that basis.

And on the other blocks away from Sukari, no change in the strategy. Try and make a discovery that supports the commercial development decision. Can we find a deposit of scale and grade that supports a CapEx investment. What we now have, of course, is that with the exploitation code and terms completed is that we have the confidence that if we were to make a discovery on either the current blocks [indiscernible] (01:15:01) or further north of [indiscernible] (01:15:04) then we now know what those terms in terms of the development of a stand-alone project as well.

So, it just gives us better surety on the long term for those other discoveries. It tells us that if we make a discovery close to Sukari, the [indiscernible] (01:15:22) government, will economic terms and get approved and [indiscernible] (01:15:28) So there's no doubt that. In fact it's probably strengthens the ability to bring some of those [indiscernible] (01:15:29) into Sukari. I think the government would move away and expect the results.

So, look, I think to be honest with you, it doesn't change our view. I think, what's really encouraging is that it's a very clear signal to the international mining community that you can tell that the business support a government that wants them there and lots of geology to go and have a run at. And, really, capitalize on the sector there as well. I think, yeah, I think that it's really positive in that sense.

Great. And then, just kind of quickly refresh, but the last question, I believe, is you guided at the beginning that you'd be doing 95,000 meters of drilling at Sukari. How is that progressing in H1, and would you expect that to be captured in an R&R update later this year?

So, that is the underground drilling now. It's the 95,000 meters that we're talking about? Yeah, yeah. And so, that is – and so, at the half year, we're about 48 kilometers. So, just about, on the run rate, about halfway through at where we think it would be. And, of course, we – I've mentioned before the kind of the three buckets of the kind of – sort of the grade control of the support, effective sort of preproduction and sort of shopping for the resource model.

We then have a bucket, where we – another third where we look at sort of converting inferred to kind of measured and indicated so that we could bring it into reserve. And then, we have about a third of the bucket, which then looks to extend the limits of the orebody and can we go and find new targets here as well?

And of the 48 kilometers that we've done in the first half the year, about 16 kilometers of that work has gone in – of that drilling has gone into grade controls for preproduction and about 32 kilometers, or the balance, has gone into our exploration bucket of infilling, upgrading those targets into resources, and then extending the orebody to the identification of new targets as well. So, that's kind of the split now in the first half of the year, and I would imagine that that will roll forward into the second half of the year and beyond.

Wonderful. Well, that is all of the questions from online.

Perfect. Well, I'd just like to say thank you to everybody for taking the time to listen in this morning. Lots to get through. Obviously, take a [indiscernible] (01:17:43) everybody's time, but I think a really positive first half of the year at Centamin. Operational delivery has been superb. [indiscernible] (01:17:51) is in the costs. Project at Sukari moving ahead, delighted with Doropo as we start just going to push that forward. And then, of course, absolutely delighted in Egypt with the new mining code and starting out work on EDX as well.

So, some great momentum, some nice new slope to come hopefully in the second half of the year around life of mine plan and those other projects as sort of [indiscernible] (01:18:08) H2. And as ever, if there's any sort of follow-up questions or thoughts, feel free to reach out to us through our usual channel with Alex, myself, or Ross, and happy to engage with you from there.

So with that, I'll thank you all again for taking time this morning and look forward to speaking to you all soon. Thank you.