Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Timothy Huff — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Centamin 2020 Results Presentation. My name is Ruby, and I will be your moderator for today's call. [Operator Instructions] I will now hand over to your host, Martin Horgan, CEO to begin. Martin, please go ahead.

Thank you very much, Ruby and good afternoon everybody and welcome to our 2020 results presentation. As mentioned, I'm Martin Horgan, Chief Executive Officer and I'm joined today by my colleagues, Ross Jerrard, who's Chief Financial Officer and Alex Barter-Carse, who is Head of Corporate Communication. Ross is going to take you through our 2020 results in some detail and then I'll update you around some – our new and exciting news regarding our updated mine planning and exploration at Sukari. We'll then finished with a Q&A, where Ross and I will be happy to take any questions you may have.

It's my first anniversary as the CEO of Centamin, I just wanted to say it's been quite a year. So it's been a year with challenges across many fronts, and I think, it's one that we've faced head on and I think with a growing sense of confidence. I think, looking back at 2020, it's going to be viewed as a pivotal year for Centamin. I think, one that has put us in much better position for the future. I said at our Capital Markets Day presentation in December, one of things I was most pleased about when I joined, was the quality of the team here. And I can say [indiscernible] (01:29) incredibly well over 2020,

In the face of a unique operating environment, we've delivered what was required and quite a bit more. I'm also pleased with the way the speed at which the new team members have integrated into the company. Collectively as a group, they've started to make some really positive changes in how we operate the business.

In October, we revised guidance due to a minor geotechnical issue in the open pit and this was compounded by a lack of mining flexibility. [indiscernible] (01:55) was a clear disappointment to the market and obviously for us. Improving operating flexibility is key for us, and I have to say progress is already being made. We started an accelerated waste stripping program back at the end of last year and that was utilizing our own operated fleet. That led to a record amount of dirt being moved and we recorded the highest total material moved in the mine's history.

We've also introduced a mining pit – open pit contractor to accelerate the waste stripping. And this will provide better mining flexibility as we invest in Sukari to ensure we're able to meet our long-term goals. And the same situation applies in the underground. We're seeking to ensure we have more stopes available to provide wet mining and operational flexibility.

I think it's important to recognize that in the midst it wasn't a function of poor performance by our operational site team. As I've said, our teams performed incredibly well over the last year by any standard, let alone one that was impacted so severely by COVID. Working within a long-term planning framework, I've no doubt that the SGM team can deliver our vision for Sukari.

And if I continue building on our knowledge of the geological framework of Sukari, this will improve our models and support our more confident long-term planning. As a result of this, we've already identified a number of new exploration opportunities where our resource base beyond the current life of mine and we're going to discuss that a little bit later on.

In terms of the operations, as I said, I'm looking forward to updating you on a new and improved strategy for the management of Sukari ore body, and this has led to a change in the open pit and underground mine design. By implementing this approach, which resulted in a more optimized open pit mining plan which not only increases and enhances the value of the open pit, but also reduces the operating risk as well.

And our optimized open pit is the result of a long-term mine schedule, which we think is strategic with respect to value, with practical respect to the mining shape and a pit stope requirement, and that's achievable with respect to the mining equipment fleet we have and ore processing capacity.

Away from Egypt, we made some excellent progress of assessing West Africa, that work is close to completion now. And I'm very much looking forward to updating you the next month as we continue this work and start to map out the next steps as we seek to realize value from our West African portfolio. And speaking of growth, continues to discuss the bid round with our partners in Egypt. I hope we can click, contemplate these discussions and get a highly capable team on the ground and into the field, to start really exploring that huge potential of the Arabian-Nubian Shield in Egypt.

Over 2020, our set to benefit is from improved commodity prices, that's the gold prices, lower fuel prices. And in addition to this, Centamin continue to realize a number of cost saving initiatives, which helped to drive strong free cash flows, which underpinned our commitment to dividend pay. Ross will take you through the details of this shortly.

Back in December, we mapped out our clear reset plan from locking the full potential at Sukari. We start 2021 stronger, with a clear vision and a sense of confidence and excitement. We want to rebuild that market confidence in Centamin's delivery, but also the value that sits within company. And we hope with a clear plan and delivery's results, to be able to do just that.

As we've all faced the global challenge of COVID, I'm really proud of the way the Centamin and the team responded. It was fast, comprehensive and some nimble thinking, aligned to hard work and a commitment above and beyond the normal course of business by our team that allowed us to do this. We navigated the crisis without any material disruption to our operations, I'm pleased to say. We've also sought to support our local communities and help them navigate COVID. We've completed a number of initiatives in this regard, both in Egypt and West Africa.

And watching how the team responded to COVID, further underlines my sense of confidence that I have that we've got the ability and the resolve in Centamin to deliver the company as we believe we can and should be. But COVID is not yet behind us and we continue to treat this really seriously. We've assumed that COVID could be with us for the foreseeable future. We've adapted our operating processes and procedures accordingly. It allows us to take a constructive and proactive approach to our day-to-day operation, a longer-term planning, in particular capital projects involving third party contractors. I believe we have a resilient approach to COVID and to use the old expression, be prepared for the worst but we're hoping for the best.

In terms of operational safety, it remains a clear and primary focus of management. Everybody who comes to work should get to go home safely. This year's safety record is evidence of continued progress, we have a 41% improvement in the lost time injury frequency rate, down 0.8 four million hours worked. And the total recordable injury frequency rate of 5.16 per million hours worked. It's an improvement, but it's not where we need it to be, where we want it to be. And it is going to continue to be an ongoing focus for us as we roll into 2021 and beyond.

And with that, I'd now like to hand you over to Ross, who is going to take you through our financial performance in 2020 and mark progress against those key initiatives.

Thank you, Martin. It is my pleasure to present top 2020 results. Centamin is a financially robust, highly cash generative business, committed to responsible mining and balanced stakeholder return. Our financial strategy remains consistent and while it will take with this last year with the challenges faced from COVID-19, it demonstrated the strength and resilience of our business. Revenues increased by 27% to $829 million from annual gold sales of 468,000 ounces, down 0.3%, but at an increased average realized gold price of $1,766 per ounce, which was up 27% year-on-year.

Underlying EBITDA improved 54% to $439 million, at a 53% EBITDA margin, principally driven by higher gold prices, but also lower costs. CapEx was up 42% year-on-year at $138 million and was in line with what we had forecast for the year after deferrals from COVID. Our capital expenditure, which predominantly invested in the projects focused on long-term sustainability of the business.

Importantly, adjusted free cash flow improved by 91% to $142 million, which is a key driver and component of our dividend policy, resulting in a dividend per share of $0.09 for the year. Please remember that we also had a first interim dividend distribution of $0.06, attributable to 2019 which is a direct replacement as of 2019 vital. So, our total distributions actually amounted to $153 million, or $0.15 per share. Please refer to the financials for further detail.

Sometimes it feels quite repetitive when we say this that Centamin continues to maintain a strong balance sheet with cash and liquid assets of $310 million as at December 31, 2020. After free cash flow generated for the year of $142 million and outflows primarily in the form of dividends, unique amongst our peers, Centamin has never had debts, hedging or streaming in place, we were therefore able to maximize the strength and flexibility of the balance sheet and offer shareholders gold exposure throughout the cycle. Undeniably, our balance sheet is our strength.

Dividends are central to our strategy. In December 2020, we expect our intention to pay $0.03 final dividend and today we have delivered on that promise. This marks the seventh consecutive year of dividend distribution. For us, this is demonstration of a good, sustainable dividend policy. Centamin's business model we spoke to is on the responsible maximization of free cash flow and our dividend policy is a direct function of that free cash flow generation that provided $0.03 per share, or $35 million, brings the total dividend attributable to 2020 to $0.09 per share, or $104 million. In other words, $222 per ounce sold in 2020 is returned to shareholders, which puts Centamin in the top quartile amongst our peers. This is a proposed dividend and is subject to shareholder approval at our AGM on 11th of May.

The 54% EBITDA increase was driven by the record revenue number of $829 million, an increase of $176 million from 2019, driven by an increased average realized price, up 26% year-on-year, but our focus has firmly been on cost containment and managing what's within our control. For those of you who have followed Centamin for some time, will know that we went through a multi-year efficiency program to reduce our stock and working capital balances.

In 2020, like many companies, it was prudent for us to actively increase our working capital and critical inventories as a precaution to mitigate potential supply disruptions due to the COVID pandemic. This was successful and we were able to secure sufficient supplies and ensure business continuity and we've had no material disruption.

Specifically, we incurred $14 million worth of additional costs in 2020, directly attributable to COVID and we have budgeted a similar number in 2021 as ongoing COVID costs. The company has undertaken risk analysis scenarios and has put in place contingency plans for the business. I believe, we have taken the prudent steps to continue to navigate these difficult times, but it is an evolving situation to which we draw the air on the side of caution. We therefore expect to maintain these slightly elevated working capital levels for the foreseeable future.

Finally, the [indiscernible] (11:51) operates under cost recovery model with our Egyptian partners, EMRA. We have increased our provision held essentially by $10 million to cover costs recovery reconciliation items and timing of certain cash flows, where settlement of payments is [ph] before due (12:08).

Looking a bit more at costs, Centamin delivered cash costs of $719 per ounce produced and all-in sustaining cost of $1,036 per ounce sold, both within our previously revised guidance ranges. The pie chart shows operating costs breakdown, mine production costs are down 4% year-on-year, but specifically, purchasing costs are down. This is a significant portion of our cost structure and therefore is a key focus area and opportunity for extraction of cost.

We have and we'll continue to focus on cost reductions and efficiencies across our operations as a driver of cash flow generation. The next three years are period of reinvestments. So we are planning a higher spend profile as seen on the right hand side. It is critically important that they are contained group costs during this capital reinvestment phase.

We must remember that 2020 CapEx spend came in lower than anticipated due to some project delays, mainly driven by COVID. This resulted in total capital expenditure of $138 million, down from $190 million initially guided prior to the COVID outbreak. These projects have been rolled into to 2021, the solar project being the prime example.

We're guiding our CapEx expenditure through to 2023, is generally flat or be at an increased level and then expect that to fall away after 2023. The non-sustaining spend that's across a handful of key projects, for example, camp upgrades and the TSF 2, which are largely complete here. And then we have solar, a waste stripping and underground development as the main projects through to 2023. This account for the step up in our all-in costs. What you can't see on the chart is 2024, when many of those non-sustaining projects finish or substantially reduced.

At Centamin, we focus very seriously on cost, particularly on productivity and efficiency opportunity to save dollars. Sukari is a bulk tonnage operation, [indiscernible] (14:12) there is a cost, whether it is waste or water. In December, we outlined a lot of great initiatives to target to improve operating efficiencies and there are many, both large and small.

There you can see that [ph] volume gain (14:26), the bars are per tonne operating costs and the line chart shows our total material moved or ore processed. Showing the results of our focus on cost containment is a long term view that the unit rates will flatten or reduce over time as indicated on these costs. Our open pit cost per tonne increased as there is a record material mined and we saw the ramp-up ahead of the contracts with the waste stripping program. The underground was equally impacted by lower cost tonnes, since there was reduced mining this year due to the infrastructure upgrade.

Equally, processing unit rates were impacted by reduction in consumables and reagents, offset by the reduced throughput volume. And there was an increase in the G&A costs, mainly due to the impact of COVID and the additional rosters in rotations, including bonuses and [indiscernible] (15:13) allowances that were introduced to ensure we kept the mine operating and large fully sourced. The G&A cost unit rates uses the processing times as a denominator so the reduction in terms of processing also had an impact on the unit price.

Excellent progress was made throughout the year against our cost savings program, with [indiscernible] (15:34) costs removed from the business. This is gross, i.e., before the unscheduled $14 million COVID cost mentioned previously. There is a long list of cost savings, many of which are small, but in aggregate they add up across the business. But here are some examples of key initiatives and as we [indiscernible] (15:50) the opportunity for further savings in the future. A new fuel transport agreement was signed, which reduces the transport cost of fuel to $5 million per annum.

The completion of the new tyre workshop, reducing the demand for all new tyres to be purchased and increase cyanide supply terms, which both reduce the [indiscernible] (16:11) ensure longer and stronger future supply. And we negotiated [indiscernible] (16:17) country agreements to recycle 60-millimeter grinding media, reducing the reliance on imports, but also reducing the cost base and importantly, increasing local content rather than import. And our inventory management program benefited from stores agreements with long term suppliers that we are targeting across our broader supply chain.

The $44 million delivered in 2020 was part of a wider cost reduction program, where we have a further $56 million worth of cost savings targeted, bringing a total of $100 million worth of savings by 2024. This year, 2021, we've budgeted for $16 million, including but not limited to, our 6040 loaders where we have purchased two new CAT 6040 excavators, this primary production excavation and loading units to replace the existing 6030 [indiscernible] (17:10) production unit.

This commissioning in the first half has lowered highly operating costs in the first instance by reducing by $1 million per annum as a start, by [indiscernible] (17:21) the higher production capacity and better utilization and productivity of open pit. We can see one of the new 6040 [indiscernible] (17:30) arriving in stocks and getting commissioned. Our solar switchgear in preparation for the full sale of gold this year, the high voltage switchgear upgrades have been largely completed.

This was the key work scheme ensuring the successful integration between solar and the plant commissioning. Commissioning of the solar plant in the first half of 2022 results in an $8 million to $9 million per annum saving at current fuel prices.

Lightweight truck trays, we completed the study of lightweight truck trays with our open pit [indiscernible] (18:05) where the goal was to increase pay load averages by five truck by 10%, however, even when truck trailer gains were not achieved due to material quality or loading inefficiencies, then cost of traveling speeds is on to also increase truck factors by 10% or more.

Other benefits of course include less fuel use, increase tyre life and less overloading in chasis tray. These studies were successful and we have now placed order for another 45 trays with the plan for the fleet to be fully commissioned by the end of 2021 or early 2022, whereas the saving is $2.5 million worth of fuel at current prices even before we factor in a quicker cycle time and increased payload.

In addition to these [indiscernible] (18:52) initiatives and as part of the Phase 2 of the life of asset review, we are evaluating opportunities to extract a further $30 million to $40 million. These include programs such as assessing the underground mining contract versus plant optimization opportunities, expatriate reduction program and dynamic gas blend in our haulage fleet. Once these further potential opportunities become more clear, we will [ph] work and amend with you (19:17) and incorporate them in the forecast and update you accordingly.

The company continues to exercise a balanced approach to responsibly maximizing cash flow generation, reinvesting for future growth and prioritizing sustainable shareholder returns. Capital allocation continues to be disciplined and closely qualified against value creation. Some projects include construction of our second tailings storage facility, which provides the base to extend our tailings capacity to 2030, was our largest capital project this year and was delivered on time and slightly ahead of budget. Commissioning is currently underway, which will dovetail with the closure of TSF1.

Sukari camp upgrade; our ongoing focus of creating a positive work environment for our employees saw significant upgrades to the Sukari camp, including eight new accommodation blocks, new gym, communal areas and a new football pitch. This build is today 80% complete and remains on track for completion in Q2.

As discussed earlier, in 2020, underground tonnage was almost at 50% capacity as the focus was on delivering underground infrastructure upgrades, [ph] position the underground (20:32) for the next stage of growth. These upgrades included improvements to the ventilation system to improve air quality and operating temperatures at greater depth. COVID-19 did pose a challenge in our original plan to use a third-party contractor. In the end, stage 1 of the upgrades was successfully delivered utilizing our own workforce and our onsite equipment, thereby reducing costs and also resulting in a 70% improvement in air quality.

And our solar plant; preparatory works ahead of the main solar project construction progressed well throughout the year with site earthworks 61% complete and civil engineering works for the high-voltage switchgear station nearly complete. This is a key project and is ongoing with project construction expected to ramp up through 2021, ahead of anticipated commissioning in the first half of 2022. Not only it will this reduce operating costs, but importantly, it will reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, energy intensity and greenhouse gas emissions.

New capital projects commencing in 2021 include the main solar construction and increased waste-stripping and underground development to increase mine accessibility. This includes [indiscernible] (21:45). Investment in technology, people and training are additional critical areas as the company continues to invest to further improve operational performance.

In summary, we have a strong balance sheet with $310 million worth of cash and liquids at the end of the year. We are going through an investment phase and we will be utilizing our balance sheet to finance, but we will maintain our strong balance sheet position.

We said at the beginning of the year that we plan to extract $50 million from the business in 2020, and we largely did that with $44 million extracted. We're targeting another $56 million to be extracted going forward, so in total, taking $100 million worth of costs out of the business over the three years. These are genuine identified opportunities that are sustainable and will be delivered.

We're disciplined on our capital allocation. Some projects were deferred into 2021 due to COVID restrictions. Those that could progress were delivered on time and on budget, and we'll continue with this discipline and delivery. And this will result in maximizing free cash flow where we generated $142 million for the year, and that meant we could deliver another year of reliable and consistent shareholder returns.

Lastly, and not least, we want to reassure our commitment to shareholders in reflecting our confidence in our new approach [indiscernible] (23:10) Centamin board reconfirmed its intention to distribute a minimum payout of $105 million for 2021.

And with that, I'll hand back to Martin.

Thanks very much, Ross. Really comprehensive overview there of the numbers and obviously some fantastic initiatives around cost savings and, again, discipline, as we've talked to before as well. So, thank you for that, Ross.

Back in December, at the Capital Markets Day – just to recap on that – we talked about a number of things. We talked about people and processes. We talked about rigor and discipline in our planning. We talked about improved flexibility and reliability in our production. And we talked about a focus on cash flow generation over headline ounces.

I'd like to [indiscernible] (23:56) next step on that journey and I'll take this opportunity to introduce you to our – what we're calling – our new orebody stewardship model at Sukari. In practice what does that mean? It means we're fully going to – we're going to fully explore the concession area with the aim of identifying all potential resources and then we're going to seek to maximize the extraction of any economic [indiscernible] (24:15) that we find.

In terms of geology, we've been refreshing our whole approach to exploration and orebody management under the leadership of our strengthened geological team. A concession-wide exploration effort has been reinvigorated and we've refocused efforts around orebody. Both initiatives are already proving successful in identifying new opportunities for growth, which I'll discuss a little bit later on.

As for our mining operations, [indiscernible] (24:40) an update on the geotechnical inputs that we need to use for our long-term planning in the open pit, and I'm pleased that they've been complementary, with only a minor relaxation in the overall pit slopes in the east and the west walls and actually [ph] there's an ability to steep (24:52) in both the north and the south walls as well. So, that's fantastic news for us.

More importantly, we've also reassessed the approach to the open pit and we've been able to redesign the pit to produce more cash flow while simultaneously reducing operating risk. In the underground, this revised philosophy has seen us moved to employing an economic cut-off strategy, which will focus on the maximization of ore extraction. And these changes really start to deliver into our vision of Sukari of that 452,000 ounce producer on annualized basis with a targeted all-in sustaining cost of $900 per ounce. So, our new approach to the open pit design achieves not only an increase in cash flows of the life of mine but it simultaneously reduces the operating risk; kind of holy grail of more money, less problems, which we are very pleased about.

A few things to note in respect to this update as well. That does actually represent 18 months of mining depletion. We've moved Sukari from a June to December reporting date. Therefore, the depletion associated with this change is just under 1 million ounces of production. We've used the updated geotechnical inputs as part of the planning process, and the cost control that Ross mentioned earlier, they've been incorporated into the budgeted savings and planned productivity efficiencies that we hope to get as well.

So, in essence, we've taken the decision to redesign the open pit at the northeast end of the operation and to exclude some deeper lying medium grade material that sits at about 0.8 of a gram per tonne. This material has a strip ratio of about 10 to 1 and would represent just under about $0.5 billion of waste-mining costs alone. And this [indiscernible] (26:28) be mined at the end of the operating life, which would be effectively next decade, but the associated stripping that comes with it could be starting in the near term. And this change has basically had the impact of driving better cash flows through the production of that overall waste stripping costs, which actually more than sets off the resulting reduction in revenues from the decision not to mine the gold.

I think it's important to note as well that the gold hasn't been [ph] stabilized (26:54). That gold is still available to us and we do believe there's an opportunity to bring these ounces back into the plan if future work supports that. With pit wall reduced in height and reduced interaction with historical underground mining infrastructure, we believe this plan has a lower implementation risk when compared to previous version. It's got further benefits regarding the [ph] mill feed schedule with locked stockpile (27:14) material now substantively moved to the end of the operating life.

We're going to continue to refine and optimize the schedule of the balance this year, but the change in design really starts to underpin and deliver into our of vision of Sukari as that consistent 450,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces per annum producer for the balance of its operating life. And I also believe that there's excellent potential to further grow the resource and reserve base at Sukari.

I think we've all been aware of the potential resource growth in the underground, but more recently, [indiscernible] (27:48) the areas within the open pit that we also believe have got great potential for growth. [indiscernible] (27:55) ability to bring in the deep lying ounces to the northeast of the pit back into the plan in due course and we're going to work on that over this year and next year to assess the [indiscernible] (28:05) geological potential and ability to potentially convert some of the associated waste to ore with different zone to mineralization there and further optimize operating cost.

In the western zone of the pit, we've historically seen the mining operation outperformed the ore predicted from our resource models. Put simply, we've got more gold than we planned for in certain areas of the pit. And while we're assessing the reasons for this, we believe that drill spacing is one of the main drivers for this. So, in order to addresses, we're implementing a 20 kilometer infill campaign targeting the western areas of Stage 5 and 6 pits. This has good potential to potentially convert waste to ore inside the design pit.

And it's a similar situation at the Cleopatra zone of the open pit. And while it represents a relatively low strip medium grade mining done at this time, again, it is underpinned by a relative lack of drilling data due to the topography in this area. With that opening up now, we've got an infill drill campaign, which is starting shortly, and have the potential to improve the ore profile in this area of the pit. As I said before, with both of these areas already inside the pit design, the ability to convert some of the existing planned waste to ore is actually excellent to pit economics.

In terms of the underground, we're applying that same philosophy as the open pit, and that's maximizing economic ore extraction to generate best cash flows. In practice, this means that we started to designing the underground using an economic cutoff of 1.6 grams per tonne gold, whereas we've previously used a 3 gram cut-off. It means designing stopes that mirror actual underground practices. It means [ph] planning for dilution (29:42) is part of the design and estimation process. And it means using backfills to ensure that we can maximize extraction, we can preserve the grade as best we can, and gives better ground control. Again, we believe this approach is helping to drive improved cash flows while reducing operating risk.

As I mentioned before, the underground has long demonstrated and delivered into its resource growth potential. The ore body remains open to depth in the long strike and we believe the Horus zone represents the long-term future of the underground at this time. [indiscernible] (30:16) 2021 continues to support this with some really encouraging drill results that achieved – sorry, I'll start again – really encouraging drill results achieved to support this thesis. While Horus is the future, it's going to take us some time and cost both to drill off this area and then develop the underground infrastructure and start mining from here during the middle of the decade.

As you'll note from the drill intercepts on the right hand side of the page, Horus zone continues to drive encouragement that underpins our long-term confidence with some good widths and grades demonstrating the potential of this part of the underground. As part of our new approach, we've also been looking at near-term potential. And I'm really pleased that we started to identify a number of opportunities that are significantly closer to the current mining infrastructure. We've done a reappraise of the geology in and around the existing Ptah and Bast zones and that's started to yield some excellent results in really short space of time.

We're starting to see some significant widths and grades have been intercepted over the first month of 2021 that really starts to demonstrate the potential here. For example, in Ptah 40 meters at 8.29 grams per tonne, which includes 11 meters at 15 grams per tonne; 20 meters at 5.3 grams per tonne. Over at Bast, 3 meters at 24 grams per tonne, 3 meters at 19 grams per tonne and 6 meters at 5.3 grams per tonne. All fantastic drill intercepts, but just to underpin the potential of these areas.

When these areas are converted to reserves, and given their proximity to the current infrastructure, we believe that these ounces can be brought into the mine plan in the short term and at relatively low development costs. And that's going to give us the benefit of increasing mining flexibility, which will in turn support our target of more predictable sustainable production.

And on a final note, I think it's important to understand that as we move forward in terms of our underground exploration potential, our team are now rolling out what we're terming an extensional model of exploration rather than depletion-replacement model. And again, put simply, that means that each year, we'll be trying to add more ounces to the underground resources than we deplete on ongoing annualized basis.

Highlighted back in December, we've also commenced the surface exploration program to make sure that we fully explore the concession area's potential. Initial work is focused on target generation to-date and [ph] fieldwork has (32:32) included mapping and structural analysis, grab samples and channel sampling of mineralized exposures. The aim is to generate a number of drill targets, which can then be systematically tested during the second half of this year. Early results are encouraging. A number of new targets that are demonstrating both scale and grade [indiscernible] (32:51) mine targets have been identified. We're finding [indiscernible] (32:55) in excess of a kilometer and width of 700 meters wide and grab and channel sampling indicating grades consistent with open pit mining targets elsewhere in the concession.

We continue to progress our efforts to get an airborne survey completed and we hope to have this approved later in the year to coincide with the cooler temperatures. I'm really pleased with the results emerging from the entire exploration campaign in both the orebody and across the wider confession. And I'm really looking forward to updating you over the balance of 2021 with news that the results continue to come in and support our vision to grow Sukari beyond its current 12-year life.

And speaking of growth, Ross and I were in Cairo last month, and we continue to engage with the government and we [ph] expected a good ramp (33:35). We remain hopeful that we conclude negotiations with [indiscernible] (33:39) and we're ready to commence work on this exciting opportunity.

And our review of West Africa is close to completion. By the end of this month, we'll complete with our technical, environmental and social plus legal review. And in April, I'll be making several recommendations to the board on how we take these projects forward to start creating value for Centamin. As I said before, resources are fine, but we want to demonstrate [ph] route to reserves and reserves of the (34:01) quality that commensurate of company of Centamin's quality and scale. I'm very much looking forward to updating you about these projects and our plans in more detail in the next quarter. I think these are exciting times in West Africa.

When I think about Centamin, I think back to the reasons why I joined the company. It really is a fantastic platform to build a larger multi-asset gold company from. We've got a world-class asset in Sukari, one that we believe can get bigger and better. We've got a fantastic team with the support of a strong and excellent board. We've got a fantastic balance sheet with no debt or hedging. We've got a great record of stakeholder returns over the last seven years. We've got some fantastic really interesting growth opportunities that are starting to emerge that we can realize. And we've got a clear strategy to deliver our vision of being that multi-asset gold producer. [indiscernible]

(34:55) my first anniversary, I am pleased with the progress we've made. I'm really optimistic about the future and the opportunities that lie ahead of us. I think we're really, really well positioned. I'm very much looking forward to 2021. I've got a sense of optimism, enthusiasm and confidence. And I'm really looking forward to updating on a number of key catalysts over the balance of the year that are really going to unlock and deliver that full potential of Centamin.

And with that, I'd like to hand you back to Ruby, our operator, and we'll take the questions for Q&A. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from Alan Spence of Jefferies. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good afternoon. I've got a few. I'll just take them one at a time. So, the first one, we're basically through March, can you give us a bit of an update on Q1 production, maybe a range of where you see that ultimately shaking out, and then kind of how you think about the balance of production [ph] first half versus (36:07) second half?

Sure. Thanks, Alan. Look, I think obviously two-and-a-half, nearly three months in, look, I think the guys are getting on with it. It's a good steady start to the year. So, I think in line with our – where we are going forward, I think [ph] without any (36:25) surprises or shocks coming through, which I'm delighted to say. Good progress. Capital are on sites. They've started to move dirt as part of that waste-stripping contract. That's great to see. As Ross touched on, a number of the projects are moving forward as well. And I think there's additional opportunities identified coming through there.

So, I think in terms of how we see the start to the year, very pleased with a very strong start to the year in terms of sort of operation performance, tonnes being moved sort on compliance with plans both in terms of the tonnes and grades but also volumetric compliance to make sure we focus on that stripping as a key focus for long term stability that we're looking to achieve there as well. So, I think an excellent start to the year with first quarter in.

So, obviously, we'll look forward to updating you in April on what I hope will be a very boring discussion where we say we've done what we said we're going to do and well into second quarter to repeat again the balance of that. So, I think in terms of the year, I think it's fairly balanced between first and second half of the year in terms of production profile. And then, obviously, we'll look forward to update you in subsequent quarters.

Okay. Can I try to push you a little bit to give me just a range of actual numbers for Q1 production maybe?

Look, I think obviously we said our target for the year was 400 to 430, and within that range I would say that we are continuing to track along, to be honest, on target. It's only the first quarter in, so three quarters ahead of us, so I would say at this stage, Alan, that we are in line just to stay on guidance at this stage.

Okay. Fair. One for Ross. That $46 million to $56 million of cost savings in the next three years, can that be achieved while we're kind of operating in this COVID world?

Hi, Alan. Yes. Absolutely. All these sort of projects we believe are achievable and [indiscernible] (38:29) actually think that there's more to come. I think as we've gone into, I mean, there's a raft of opportunities that in aggregate add up very quickly. And I think there's has been some [indiscernible] (38:41) there. But absolutely everything that we've got on the [indiscernible] (38:44) actually are very achievable.

Okay. And then...

I think, Ross, just to add to that point. Sorry, Alan. Just to add to that point as well. We talked in December about that. And I was always skeptical, I've been a consultant [ph] in the bank for a previous life (38:57) and management teams that talk about cost savings and when you try to [indiscernible] (39:02) them about where are they going to come from, they would just say, we'll just deliver it. But I think the thing that I'd say company does is that behind those numbers, as you say, the number of identified initiatives that we believe can be brought in as well as the other ones as well. So, I think that's right. So, I think these are opportunities irrespective of kind of the COVID environment, we have to bring in that. Sorry, I've kind of crossed you there, apologies.

No. That's fine. And I just wanted to make sure I'm understanding this slide correctly. But you highlighted the €44 billion achieved so far, but only €16 million of which are included in forecast. Is that your being overly conservative or is there a particular reason not to get that in the guidance?

Those were the ones that we had actually locked up and we were certain that we had actually committed the capital too, in order for them – for those to drop and the other ones are being investigated. And then we would – once we've committed to the capital and unfolds then that would flow through.

Which is typically...

The truck trays we had already included with budget, since we spent the money on ordering the trays, so they're already factored in the numbers.

But just to be clear, Alan, the €44 million that's identified, that's in there. There's a further €16 million layered on top of that to come in. So, actually the full amount is €60 million, taken out the cost base. In terms of the numbers of reduced, we're planning for example, it reflects the €44 million that we've achieved, the €16 million that we've on top of that that we've identified. And there's still the balance to come on top of that from that as well. And that's why...

Okay.

That's correct.

Yeah.

Okay. Yeah. Thanks for clarifying that. That makes more sense. And then just the last one from me, just around this exploration strategy update in Q3. Do you expect, you might be able to say anything about the EMRA bid round then, or is it probably going to be focused on the Sukari tenement?

I would hope we can, by then only in Q3 you'll be able to talk about that. Look, absolutely – look I think that Q3 update, obviously we're hoping will be quite a bit of actual sort of tangible results to discuss. And I think – the other thing that would be good for everybody is to actually get a chance to hear from the revised geological thing, kind of have a chance to sort of have an interaction with those guys and have them present their sort of their findings, that sort of the improvised forms, a view forward and the next steps as well. So, I think, we will be quite a bit talk to around Sukari and session wide and the ore body. I am hoping to tell you by then what actually lies on the ground in terms of the difference and then at that point as well, also looking at that figure. So, we kind of hope to treat with a fairly comprehensive review, not we call exploration, but I think it will sort of stretch across geology and give you guys a bit of insights to the new geological team as well. So, I think it'll be quite an interesting session.

Okay. Thanks very much guys.

Thank you. And we do have further questions registered. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Tim Huff of Peel Hunt. Your line is now open, please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. Good afternoon. Just two questions really. I guess, the first just regarding the shape of the the new pit shell and the open pit. That slide 19 that you put up is pretty impactful when look at it, because obviously, this morning there is a little bit of concern on removing the ore from the reserve. But actually, longer term I mean the amount of pre-strip that you guys will save on is pretty tremendous. I was just wondering, coming back to your question regarding, obviously, the ore is still being there, it hasn't been sterilized. Is there any sort of early thoughts as to which way you lean in terms of when you eventually get there to the bottom of that new pit shell. Whether you're thinking it's more likely, it gets accessed by decline or maybe from the underground?

Yeah. Look, I think that – it's a really good question. Look, I think the reality is that that deep aligned material that we've decided to basically not pursue in the current mine plant, I think, there's a number of ways that that could come back in. So, we could drill off that material and that 0.8, so the 0.9 gram sort of target grade could and improve, better drilling density we might pick up some more high grade structures in the area, all of a sudden that becomes a 1.1 type, 1.2 type target. Now, I think that obviously has the potential to sort of pick up sort of it's sort of economic attractiveness.

We understand that in terms of the waste on that northeast side that's where 300 million tons that we don't strip. We understand that there's potential there. We've seen that elsewhere in the pit, of course with the lower grade if you like, hanging more structures that sit there. They might be sitting at 0.5 off the ground, and even if they're not sort of massively remunerative in terms of sort of revenue, is that if they effectively become, it means is self-mining waste block, so the revenue we get from it covers just the cost as well we might bring that strip ratio down.

And as Ross has touched on, I think. there's good opportunity there for further cost savings as well. So when I look at that sort of northeast corner of the pit there, those ounces, I think there's a lot of work we're going to do over the next 18 months that we can start go in there. And it may be that with that revised work, better grades to identify more drilling, the strip ratio changes by converting some waste to ore and the further sort of refinement to the cost base, maybe they'll come back in.

So, I think, to my mind the prudent approach right now is to basically exclude them. But I think, it's not to say that they're gone. I do think as you say, that the next sort of [indiscernible] (44:43) if we do that work and we still not comfortable to make that turn, make that investment to really push down for those marginal ounces to the back end of the mine life is that absolutely of course with a [indiscernible] (44:54) pillar in place, we can go back into that area potentially if we identify some more high grade areas in the structures to go back in and look at taking those from the underground as well.

So, we've got a couple of options available to us about how we do that. Open pit, clearly considerably cheaper to mine ounces by the open pit. Of course, we can take more of the ounces out because of the lower cutoff rate in the open pit, but if we can't make it work from the open pit perspective, then absolutely we've got that sort of second ability to go back in our underground basis as well.

Okay. That's really helpful and good to hear that you're even going to be working on that over the next 18 months. So that's helpful. The second question was, pretty boring one, more numbers oriented than anything else, is just regarding that $10 million provision that you made towards year-end on a cost recovery basis. Ross had mentioned that there were specific items, I didn't know, if you could give us any more color on what were the specific items that the provision was focused on?

Yeah. You take this one, Ross.

No. Okay. Tim there's been – in terms of cost recovery analysis, there's a few sub areas that have been open. So, we've been closing all those areas that's just drilling up the various [indiscernible] (46:13) specifications. And we basically closed off or agreed on certain items in what is finance and what's gets recovered in some areas. So basically, we've made a provision because of some legacy items that have gone through the cost recovery model. And part of that $10 million that will get unwound over the next for the two to three years as we finance, certain amounts to come back. So, the typical thing is this the backwards and forwards and what is treated as capital and what is treated as OpEx within that cost recovery model and who finances the stuff. That's either – it's numbers that should either be claimed in the year they incurred or spread over three year period. And so, a lot of that has to deal with timing differences more than anything else.

Okay. No, no. that's helpful.

Clearing up some of the old legacy and open areas that had to be closed off again.

That's fantastic. Excellent. Thanks very much for that.

Thank you. And we have no further telephone questions. So I'll hand over to Alex for webcast questions.

Thank you. I'll give this one to you, Martin, would you buy and provide COVID vaccines for your employees?

That's a very good question. Look, I think, what we have to recognize is a number of things, is that individual host jurisdictions, where we operate and governments have different policies, different procedures they look to do. And obviously, paramount for us is that we obviously operate in compliance with local jurisdictional requirements. So, we're not going to do anything that would sort of cause us to fall foul of any local legs. I think, secondly then the next thing is around the perception of queue jumping. I think, if there's sort of vulnerable groups, more aged groups that require sort of vaccination first, I think there would be quite a challenging moral argument, say, why we would jump ahead of those groups is to sort of criticize ourselves as well.

So, I think, on a personal basis, obviously, haven't been discussed at a board level, is that the first and foremost ensure that we work in compliance with local regulations in our host jurisdictions. And secondly, from a moral perspective, it helps you recognizing sort of the rollout of so sort of up to at risk groups and vulnerable groups, so had a sort of healthier population is a key part of the vaccine program, certainly that we're seeing here in the UK as well. So, I think, I'd be quite nervous around sort of being perceived as sort of jump queue, so to get ahead. I don't think that would be a particularly sort of a smart thing to do on a long-term basis.

Okay. And this question around the new pit design. When do the benefits from the new pit shall impact stripping. And is that deferring 2021 volumes or does that save 2025 to 2030 volume?

Yeah. I think, if you think about the sequencing of when we would sort of start the final cut back to go to the ultimate pit shell, is that that's really going to start coming through, I would say, sort of 2023, 2024. As I've said in somewhere in the earlier comments that I think we've got about 18 months to really investigate this deeper material and work out whether we do want to bring it back in to the schedule or not, if we can make it work. And I think, sort of into sort of 2024, 2025 is when we're going to have to make that decision of where we set that ultimate pit limit. So, we've got a little bit of time to do that work and make a decision.

And as you say, if we decide to go for it, stripping would commence in realistically 2024, 2025, middle of the decade. If we decide not to go for it, then obviously that material won't be mined in that period and we'll stick with a slightly smaller shell as well. So, it does give us a period now to complete this work before we start making decisions. We can always go back and do a cutback and push all if we decide to purchase later, but far better if we could set the final pit limits and then mine that in proper orderly sequence on that long term basis as well. So, it's yes we'll work on this through 2021 and 2022, make some decisions on it 2023, 2024 about for the setting of the ultimate pit limit, or talk about stripping.

Thank you. Question back on Egypt. What is that your perception of the risk of the Egyptian government could renegotiate higher royalties or taxes given Egypt's fiscal situation?

So, interestingly, Ross and I have mentioned before in Cairo last month, we went down there for meetings with the minister of petroleum and EMRA, our JV partner in effect. And actually while we were there, we also the opportunity and meetings arranged. We met the prime minister, minister of finance and the deputy governor of the Bank of Egypt as well. So, we had a really good meeting at the cabinet office. And one of the statements that the prime minister made and prompted from Ross and I was that that the current government is looking not to challenge existing commercial relationships in any sector, mining, oil and gas, wherever it might be and in fact they are very keen to see contract dollars with no variation of terms from that going forward as well.

So, it was a really interesting comment that the prime minister himself made to us. So, I would take a lot -personally – Ross and I took a lot of comfort from hearing that as being the stated aim. The government is very aware of attempting to attract new foreign direct investment into the mining sector. It's keen to sort of demonstrate stability and the operating environments we can work in and I think they're very aware that varying existing contracts is not a good thing as well.

So, I think, it's always a risk. Governments change, people change, but at this stage I think where we are, what we heard at the meeting direct from the foreign ministry in Cairo on them back in February was that that's not something that they really believe is in the best interest of Egypt to this stage.

Thank you. And another question, can you please remind us of the carrying value of the West African portfolio?

I'll have to pass for that up. [Technical Difficulty] (00:52:29), a specific number.

Yes. So the carrying value or the accounting carrying value is $34 million, but this is the balance suite. That is the residual acquisition price that was carried on the – when that was purchased.

Thank you and...

...the book value and we have on the exploration, yeah, go ahead.

I'm sorry for putting you off. And it's another one for you, Ross, actually. Is it possible to discuss the change in receivables and payables. Is this a one-off benefit that will reverse or is this something that we should consider going forward?

going forward?

The key changes there are the timing of our gold sale shipment and if I refer to the financial statement, it's really the timing of various receivables and payables with the gold sales at a frequent sales time. And the bullion that we held in the Phase 3 of last year, there was this abnormally high, I think, we had 17,000 ounces that was held and the [indiscernible] (53:32). That's really again just timing.

And one last question that just knocked in and actually it's a nice teaser. For the West Africa review will be making next month, but which of your expiration assets gives you the most optionality?

Someone attempting to [indiscernible] (53:55) new information out there I think at this stage. So, it's not the front runner, it's the exciting news down the track. Look, I think that when we look at the projects is that first gating test is, can we see a potential for a project reminder, can we see these resources convert to reserve. And I think that's the first thing. And then we sort of take a step back, a few of the people that I worked with previously, we had some pretty good success in taking exploration projects into production in West Africa. And that same team was effectively, we're running the rule over over sort of [indiscernible] (54:35) ABC. So, I think, we're looking at that very much as how do we take these projects forward.

I think, once you understand that the next question then becomes can identify a sentiment scale project. Is that sort of 8 million – 8 year minimum life, can we say a 150,000 ounces to 175,000 ounces of annualized production. Can we see industry standard sort of processing techniques?. Have we got a project that's robust and is a commensurate scale for company of our scale, quite frankly.

And then the final thing to call on is that, is in the jurisdiction where we believe that we can actually then roll that forward and put that into production with confidence as well. So that's kind of the gating process we're going through, that is substantively done now across all three of those projects. And I think that's sort of, when we look at sort of the scale and potential country, long term country year as well, as I said before, I'm quite excited about sort of what is emerging from that and the potential that we can identify to roll some of those projects to that next stage as well.

But – so, I'm going to stop short there before I sort of say too much more, obviously, I've got to present to the board our finding, create a route map there, and then obviously looking forward to sort of getting that information out. But it's been a good process. And I think, yeah that's a conversation we're looking forward to having.

Right. But I've just been informed that there is actually one more question on the telephone line. So, I'm just going to hand back to Ruby, the operator, to open that line.

Thank you, Alex. Our final question is a follow-up from Alan Spence of Jefferies. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Bit of a follow up question from what Tim was asking about. You mentioned some of the ways, so that material could come back into the mine if I remember. But what is ultimately actually the material change, what's the gold price where that waste stripping is breakeven considering additional revenue from those ounces?

It would work it's base prices. So, if you could give me today's price to 2032, 2033, between now and then, Alan, you could underwrite that for me, then I think that would be fine. So, it's not a million miles away from where we are. But when we look at long-term, long term stability in the price is prudent sort of planning, long term pit shell sort of planning as well on a 10-year plus basis, is we've got to have an inherent level of, if you like, think conservative, but sort of prudent planning around that.

And I think, when I look at that I don't strictly think of the gold price is going to make it work. I do think it's going to be a contributory factors of improved grading a area if we can drill that off and prove that up, I think of some of that waste chain, you get a sense of the operating cost base coming down as well. So, I think it's going to be a number of different factors that will – if we can bring that in, that all going to play a contributory part. I don't just see it being a simple gold price gets to this. If we're comfortable for the long-term, we bring them in. So, those ounces at today's spot, yeah, I think we'd probably go for it. But I think, sort of the longer term prices we're looking at and I think it's at that stage, it doesn't make the herd right. And I think, prudence says we drop them out, improve the cash flows and reduce our risk.

That makes sense. Thank you.

Thanks.

We have no further questions. So I'll hand back to our host.

Thanks very much. Well thank you everybody for taking the time to listen in and for the questions, hopefully you've found that's interesting. Any further questions, comments to carry upon, feel free to contact us. I'm available and obviously Alex on the call as well. So happy to do that.

But as I said, look, I think 2020 was a pivotal year for Centamin. Lots of work done, lots of sort of effort put in to deliver that vision of where we see the company going. And I think, I'm genuinely sort of looking forward to 2021 and beyond to be able to deliver some upside news for you. I think, we've got a clear plan in place. I think, we've got the right people to deliver that plan. We've got some really good momentum now going with us, both at Sukari and across West Africa. And I really look forward to updating you in the future on our future endeavors and delivering some more good news as we go into 2021 and beyond.

So, thank you again to everybody, please stay safe and these are slightly changed and uncertain times. I look forward to talking to you all again in the not too distant. Thanks very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now disconnect your line.