Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Michael Stoner — Head-Corporate, Centamin Plc
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Centamin Q3 2024 results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. The phone lines and instructions will follow at that time. I would like to remind all participants, this call is being recorded.

I will now hand over to Michael Stoner, Head of Corporate, to begin the presentation. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Gavin. So, before we begin, please can we draw your attention to the disclaimer on slide 2? And as I'm sure you've all noted, on the 10th of September, we announced the recommended final offer for AngloGold to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Centamin. As a result, we're under a number restrictions in terms of what we can discuss today due to requirements of the UK Takeover Code. We'll do our best to be helpful during Q&A. However, please note, we are unable to provide any further detail beyond what is disclosed in the 2.7 announcement and the scheme document. So, please, where possible, try and keep the Q&A to the operating performance for the quarter.

And with that, I'll hand over to Martin. Thank you.

Thank you very much, Michael. And as Michael mentioned, welcome to the third quarter Centamin results presentation. Joined today by my colleagues Ross Jerrard, Chief Financial Officer, and as you heard, Michael Stoner, Head of Corporate.

So, this, of course, is a supplementary update. As Michael mentioned, on the 10th of September, we announced the AngloGold Ashanti transaction for Centamin, and at that point, we issued an interim trading update which announced the first two months of the third quarter. So, today's presentation is really rounding out the full results for that quarter, effectively adding September in to those already pre-released numbers.

I'm delighted to say that September, in terms of moving on to next slide, in terms of the results in September, they continued very much in the vein that we've seen previously through the quarter and rounded out what is a very strong performance by the asset. And at Sukari itself, we produced 131,000 ounces in the quarter, which is a great result, and actually because of the timing of sales since Q2 actually had sales of just under 150,000 ounces.

In terms of cost control, as you know, we focused as well on the cost discipline as well as production ounces. I'm delighted that momentum was maintained through September and rounded out the quarter very nicely indeed in terms of cash cost of $766 per ounce and an all-in sustaining cost of just over $1,250 per ounce. And, of course, that allowed us to maintain guidance both in terms of production ounces in our range of 470,000 to 500,000, tracking to the midpoint. And, of course, the same in terms of our all-in sustaining costs as well.

And, of course, if you produce the ounces at the right costs that allows you to take advantage of what have been some very robust and strong gold prices. And when we look at that, that generated $369 million of revenue in the period, and, again, with that focus on cost control and ounce production, enabled us to generate $103 million of free cash in the quarter, and that's a 730% increase year-on-year and nearly 220% increase quarter-on-quarter.

And when that flows through to the bottom line, it puts us in a very healthy position with the balance sheet sitting at just over $240 million in cash and liquids. And, of course, our RCF -undrawn RCF as well available to us, leaving us in a very robust and liquid position.

As I mentioned there, when we look forward to the balance of the year, gold production continues to move in line with plan, and we've seen that the momentum we've seen in Q3 will continue into Q4. And as I've mentioned at the half year, we're still tracking towards that midpoint of guidance in terms of ounces and costs. We've noted the cash cost basis around the stripping adjustments when that flows through, and we'll look at that and the all-in sustaining cost, we're maintaining our guidance range of $1,200 to $1,350. And in terms of CapEx, CapEx guidance is maintained as well. So, an excellent quarter and some excellent results as evidenced there as well.

Slightly deeper dive into Sukari itself now. Unfortunately, we've had a couple of LTIs during the quarter, which is very unfortunate and something that we're looking at and something obviously we need to provide a zero-harm safe environment for all our staff. One of those LTIs were the Sukari mine, and the second one was at our EDX, Eastern Desert Exploration, in Egypt as well. So, we're now looking at those incidents, looking to understand the causes, and looking to make sure that we can address those to prevent future issues going forward. And that leaves us with the group LTIFR of 0.65 per million hours worked and a total recordable injury rate of around 1.96 per million as well. So, as I say, operation safety remains a key focus and proactive measures are being put in place.

In terms of Sukari itself, open pit, good performance, and continued again that momentum from the first half of the year at volumes and grades moving nicely as per plan. And I think one of the highlights, of course, was the now completion of the Capital earthmoving sort of project, and that has now been completed. And as of today, Capital are demobilizing their equipment from site as well. So, they go with our thanks, and I think one of the key drivers in our ability to reinvest and reset the Sukari mine as well. So, the pit moving well.

Underground, continued good momentum within underground, focusing obviously on that ramp up that we've talked about moving to 1.1 million tonnes this year and seeing our volumes moving both in terms of stoping development terms and, of course, focus on grade as well. So, in terms of underground, steady as she goes and maintaining that on target for the full year.

And in terms of processing, again, very good processing performance, good processing tonnes, including scheduled maintenance during the period. Benefited from an average feed grade of 1.43 grams per tonne. That's an increase of about 14% year-on-year, and up 3 million tonnes, about 8% increase on year-on-year as well. And when we look at the gold recovery, obviously benefiting from those higher feed grades, sitting at just a shade over 89%, which, again, is an increase year-on-year of about 1%.

Moving away from Sukari itself, work continued, staying in Egypt, at EDX. Obviously we're looking to drill out the potential of the Little Sukari deposit some 20 kilometers, 25 kilometers from the mine site, plus generation of gold deposits in the Sukari region. Good progress there in terms of both the RC and core program. And we anticipate that work being finalized this quarter. The results there are being put through towards the end of the year as well. So, continued good progress there as we look to try and extend and understand the [ph] expanse (00:07:01) of Little Sukari to work out the ability to bring that into the Sukari mill and Egypt cost.

Pivoting across to West Africa, clear focus at Doropo, maintains government engagement around the permitting and our mining license application. We continue to engage with government to progress that process. We anticipate and hope that that will be finalized before year-end. And, of course, in the interim, as they're keep busy with further engineering works in terms of the feed and the pre-development set of opportunities while also engaging with local communities as well.

So, really a strong quarter to round out the sort of the third month within that quarter. Very happy [ph] that we maintained that (00:07:44) momentum and really set there for the balance of the year at Sukari. Pretty happy with the progress at EDX to say the least. Very happy with how that's moving. And, of course, good progress in West Africa as well.

So, all in there, Michael, a pretty positive outcome. And with that, maybe we'll hand over to questions and see if there's any questions from the floor. [Operator Instructions]

Currently, there are no questions on the conference line. I'll hand over to Michael Stoner, Head of Corporate, to address – to listen to your questions submitted via the webcast.

Thank you, Gavin. There's no questions on the webcast, so I'll hand back to Martin for closing comments.

Well, thank you very much, Michael. Actually, everyone, I'm absolutely stunned and amazed by an excellent third quarter outcome for Centamin across the group of operations. But maybe leaves me just to say thank you to everybody for taking the time to listen today, noting that, with the deal transaction, that this potentially the last quarterly report that we will be presenting as Centamin should things progress as per the published scheme documentation.

And maybe just leaves me with a final note to say thank you to everybody at Centamin over the last sort of four-and-a-half, five years that I've been involved with the business, and obviously over the people who have a lot longer. It's been a real privilege and an honor to work with a really good group of people doing some really excellent work. And I think the AngloGold Ashanti proposed transaction really does indicate the quality of that work done by the team of people here at Centamin as well. A group of very good professionals who are good people and I've enjoyed immensely working with them.

So, with that, I maybe would just like to say thank you to all. Follow-up questions available to us through the usual channels, and I wish you all very well and talk to you again soon. So, that's it. Thank you very much.