Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andy S. Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
David Haughton — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thanks you for standing by, and welcome to the Q2 and Half Year Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There would be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Andy Davidson. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks very much and hello all and thanks for joining the call. I'm joined by our Chief Operating Officer, Andrew Pardey; and our CFO, Pierre Louw, CFO. So we're here and ready to take your questions. Thanks very much. Hello, operator? Are you there?

Yes. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Haughton. Please ask your question.

Good day, Andy. Hope things are good for you. Just having a look at the CapEx, I can see that a big amount of the expansion already done. You've indicated another $25 million to be spent this year. But just wanted to understand what is the CapEx expectation in total for the balance of the year.

Hi, David. The presentation, which is on the website...

Yeah, I've looked at.

...on slide 16 and 17, slide 16 gives you a breakdown of what we've spent so far to-date by the various cost centers. And slide 17 is the expectation for the remainder of the – well, for the full year total. So yeah, we've clearly got another $25 million less on Stage 4. The bulk of that will be through the remainder of the second half. Beyond Stage 4, the expansion of the mining fleet, as we previously said, the overall budget for that was $65 million and we expect to spend in the region of about $45 million this year on that. Underground...

And how much have you spent of that $45 million so far this year?

That's around about $30 million. As it says on slide 16, it says $7.2 million in the first quarter and $23.7 million in second quarter.

Okay. So instead of maybe bouncing from slide to slide and backwards and forwards and trying to work out what's what, for the CapEx remaining, you got $25 million for the expansion. You've got another $20 million for the fleet. You got another, what, $22 million, is it for the underground left to go?

$22 million for the full year.

Okay.

We've spent around...

You've done $8 million already.

So about half of that – half way through that.

Okay. So that's $14 million. Okay. You got your sustaining. So $30 million for the whole year. You've spent $14 million so far, so that's $16 million to go.

Correct, yes.

Okay. So $25 million, plus $20 million, plus $14 million, plus $16 million, that's $75 million to remain. Is that math sound right? [Inaudible]

(03:33)

Yeah, to remain. Yeah, that's right, David.

Okay, good. Just wanted to get to the bottom of that. And then what do you think would happen for next year then? Most of your – well, your expansion's done. Your fleet is done. You've still got some ongoing underground development to go. What would your expectation be into next year? It would be considerably long.

Yeah. There will be a remaining for – the open pit mining suite expansion won't be completely done. So let's say the total budget for that is $65 million. So circa $20 million less for next year. But really on that year, you're into steady state really beyond that. There will be around about $20 million, $25 million for the underground and around about $30 million per annum from sustaining CapEx ongoing. So those are the two major contributors to CapEx on an ongoing basis.

Okay. So that's about $75 million around about?

Yeah.

And even post expansion, you're happy with that $30 million as your ballpark sustaining number?

Sorry. Say that again, David.

So post expansion, you're happy with $30 million per annum as a reasonable sustaining number?

Yeah. That's the number we're working on that. We're comfortable with that number.

Okay. And exploration, see on page 17, you got $15 million there. Is that also capitalized?

It is at this time, yeah.

Okay. So should I include that in the 2013 number, a portion of that for the remainder of the year?

Yeah.

Yes. Correct, David.

Okay. So maybe half that?

Yeah.

Yeah, maybe [indiscernible] (05:40). Yeah, about half that.

Okay. All right, that sounds all good. And now having a look at the recoveries, I saw your commentary. 90%, you've done quite a bit of work to get up to that. Is that something that you feel comfortable with on a going-forward basis that you should have a nine handle instead of an eight handle on your recovery?

David, we're confident now of being able to maintain that recovery at around 90%. We've done a lot of work in various areas and new [ph] valves (06:15) to enable more strips to be completed per day. I've done some modifications to the circuit to increase the resident time, so we can maintain that recoveries, we believe. It will be some additional throughput which will go through the circuit when Stage 4 comes online, hence the reason for the new carbon regeneration kiln.

Thanks, Andrew. And underground grade was pretty good, near 11 grams. Is that just sort of the sequencing that you've got or you feel that we should be thinking about that as something that could be obtained going forward as well?

Look, around those grades, around 10 grams a tonne, you can look at for the underground going forward.

All right. So I'll let someone else have a go now. Thank you, guys.

Thank you, David. [Operator instructions]

There are no further questions at this time. Mr. Davidson, please continue.

Right, okay. I guess David got everyone's questions in one go. That's great. But thank you for listening in and joining the call. We look forward to speaking to you next time. Thank you. Bye.

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.