Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Ross Jerrard — Interim Chief Executive Officer & Chief FInancial Officer, Centamin Plc
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Justin Chan — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Laurent Kimman — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
James Andrew Keith Bell — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Centamin Q1 Results Call. My name is Joshua and I'll be your conference coordinator for today. At the end of today's presentation, you will have the opportunity to ask a question should you wish to do so. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand over to your host for today, Ross Jerrard. Ross, you have the line.

Thank you, Joshua. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to dial into our first quarter results webcast and conference call. I must say these are extraordinary times to be living in and I do hope that you and your families are all well and keeping safe. Joining me today on the call is Martin Horgan, our recently appointed CEO, and Alexandra Carse, our Head of Investor Relations. Martin will be available for questions, but please remember he only joined us two weeks ago and is in the midst of an intensive handover. Martin, a very warm welcome to you on your first results call. Is there anything you would like to add before we actually start?

Thank you, Ross. Just to say thank you for your efforts of the last six months. I think given your role as interim CEO in a [ph] defense (01:05) situation followed by COVID and so I'd like to thank you for your efforts and an astonishingly sort of excellent first set of Q1 results as well. But really just to say I'm delighted to have the opportunity to join you and the team at Centamin. I'm really looking forward to what I believe is the sort of the next phase of evolution of the business. I think Sukari is attractive as a world-class asset. That's been the foundation of the business over the last decade. I think the team has done an exceptional job to be able to deliver and operate the mine over that time.

Look, I think as we look forward about the next decade at Sukari, as that asset matures, that will be the foundation for the business. But I'm also keen to sort of explore both the organic opportunities for development within the business, West Africa and regionally within Egypt and also potentially externally as well as we seek to sort of grow [ph] our asset (01:54) business of high quality assets to give us a diversification and growth story. Anyway, I look forward to sort of engaging more formally with everybody at the half year. Obviously, as Ross said it's only my second week in the hot seat and I've certainly picked my timing given the current COVID situation that Ross alluded to earlier, but I think I'll say just again, thank you to you, Ross, for what's been a fantastic start to the year. You've certainly set the benchmark for me to try and follow on from here. And so with that I will hand back to you for now.

Thank you, Martin. Before we get started it is important that I draw your attention to our disclaimers around forward-looking statements on page 2. So, please take your time to read these papers thoroughly. And turning straight onto page 3, our corporate strategy remains, it's clear and deliberately simple, our three core pillars which are, one, to safely and responsibly maximize value from Sukari through value over volume. In other words, driving margins on the headline ounces which translate into free cash flow generation and subsequently stakeholder returns.

We have appointed Martin who brings strong operational and strategic expertise and we have a series of optimization studies underway targeting this approach. There are also a number of cost-saving ESG and other initiatives to support the strategy. Central to our strategy is our commitment to stakeholder returns. Centamin has an established track record of delivering meaningful and reliable returns to stakeholders including corporate share dividends to our Egyptian partner EMRA and returning surplus cash as dividends to our shareholders. We have approximately $380 million of cash liquid assets with no debt. And importantly we have a six-year track record of paying dividends.

Last but not least is our growth pillar where Centamin strives to be a multi-asset producer but not at any cost. Our strong balance sheet means our internal growth pipeline is self-funded including some exciting brown and greenfield resource development across the portfolio both at Sukari and Doropo. We do look and we'll continue to look beyond our existing portfolio and are encouraged by the new bid round launched in Egypt, but all growth initiatives, organic or inorganic, has to make good business and creating value for our shareholders and more broadly stakeholders.

Turning to page 4 and our COVID-19 response, presently Centamin has no recorded cases of COVID-19 at our site and have experienced no material disruption to the supply chain or gold shipment. We took early action to protect the health, safety and well-being of our employees and communities in response to the global threat of COVID-19 and are well positioned to manage future impacts within the company's control. In line with our Severe Communicable Disease Outbreak Management Plan and in accordance with advice from government and relevant Health Authorities, while the impact and potential duration of the COVID-19 pandemic remains uncertain, we are confident in the active response framework in place to manage and mitigate future impacts within our control.

Our work force has been superb in their collective response commitment and flexibility throughout this time. We have sufficient staffing and supply through Q2. Should government impose travel restrictions be extended into the second half of the year, operations may become a bit affected, but we are well positioned and confident with the response framework in place and we'll update you on material changes. We have highlighted some of the key actions across people, supply chain and gold shipments on this slide.

Moving on to our leadership team, Centamin has transformed the board and management over the last few years as the company evolves and refits ahead of the next stage of growth. With Martin joining as CEO, we really feel like we have made one of the final step changes in strengthening the Centamin leadership team and that includes the General Manager of Sukari reporting directly to the CEO with Jeremy Langford resigning from his position as Chief Operating Officer to pursue other interests.

Over the last 18 months, substantial work has also gone into restructuring the group organizational chart, developing robust chains of command to ensure timely and effective decision-making. This has involved flattening the operating structure, expanding departments and simplifying reporting lines. These changes have meant Centamin is better equipped to respond to challenges such as those that are currently being posed by COVID-19. Specific to our COVID-19 response, we established a COVID-19 executive committee to provide oversight during the pandemic supported by multi-functional teams in a framework led by both risks and operations. At a minimum the board are updated weekly, the executive committee meets three times a week and the support team meets daily, providing workforce updates and supply chain assessments.

ESG initiatives, ESG to us means good business from conduct to decision making. And testament to the work we are doing in our business conduct, we became constituents of the FTSE4Good Index in Q1. For the past 25 years, Centamin has been building a responsible culture that values and supports people, creating jobs, infrastructure and opportunity, as well as developing our assets and delivering strong returns. The health, safety and well-being of our workforce is central to our culture and Centamin have established a reputation as a safe, ethical, local and international employer.

This stems from a clear culture of awareness and responsibility, training and ensuring processes and procedures are constantly evolving in line with the changing environment. We respect the areas in which we operate both socially and environmentally and are happy that there are no major incidents recorded and again there are no recorded cases of COVID. We continue to target improvements in recycled water. The TSF2 construction progresses on schedule and on budget. We have temporarily postponed the solar construction to minimize the spread of COVID-19 and protect our people and operation.

Strong long-term relationships are paramount to the success of any business. We have constructively worked with our local Egyptian partners, EMRA, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority since 1994 with the same shared vision of creating opportunity now and for future generations through gold mining. Since commencing mining operations, we have made a cumulative direct financial investment of over $4.2 billion in Egypt, including $500 million distributed to EMRA in profit share and royalties. Further to profit share we are proactive in our financial and logistical support both within our local communities and nationally. During Q1 we committed EGP 100 million to support the Egyptian response to combat COVID and locally we have donated PP&E and sanitation supplies.

Slide 7 lays out our financial strength and commitment to shareholder return, which is core to our strategy, and today was no different. To ensure our shareholders receive their dividend in an acceptable timeframe the board resolved to replace the financial 2019 year final dividend with a 2020 first interim dividend. The quantum remains the same at $0.06 per share, equating to $69.4 million.

Our business model centered around a high quality cost advantageous asset base gives us confidence in continuing to deliver strong, sustainable shareholder returns. You can see our track record of cumulative dividend returns against a backdrop of our cash position over the last six years which provides flexibility to deliver on our strategy. We feel this demonstration is of a good working dividend policy. As a reminder our dividend policy is two-staged, a minimum of 30% of free cash flow and secondly after assessment of growth capital, therefore thereafter excess is returned. The last four years we have returned 100% of free cash flow.

Again with just shy of $300 million of cash liquid assets in the balance sheet with no debt hedging loans or gold streaming we are in a very strong financial position to balance shareholder return with significant investment for the future.

Moving on to slide 8, our first quarter highlights. The first quarter was a strong start to the year with operational and financial performance delivered ahead of plan. Gold produced was 125,000 ounces, up 8% year-on-year and 6% ahead of market consensus. Gold sold 139,000 ounces, a 26% improvement year-on-year, reflecting a higher production and increased gold inventory we held at year-end. Both unit cash costs at $659 and all-in sustaining costs at $902 per ounce are tracking to budget. And we are 7% and 6% respectively above consensus. Net cash generated from operating activities was $110.5 million, an 88% improvement year-on-year. After Sukari profit share distribution and group investing activities, group free cash flow was $45.6 million, a 175% improvement, which underpins a good start to the year. I'll highlight that the second quarter is scheduled to be a lower production quarter, producing approximately 115,000 ounces of gold, reflecting a reduction in underground output as the key focus is development and upgrades in underground.

Investing in the future and for 2020, although the impact and potential duration of COVID-19 remain uncertain, the company has carried out scenario risk analysis of the business and believes that it is well-positioned to continue to navigate these difficult times. Centamin is closely monitoring the situation with an active response framework in place to manage and mitigate future impacts within its control. Sukari operations continue uninterrupted and as mentioned we have sufficient staffing resources and critical supplies in Q2. We expect global travel restrictions to begin to ease later in Q2. However, should global lockdowns extend into the second half, it is possible operations may be affected. But we continue to proactively work on our longer term contingency planning.

As such Centamin maintains its 2020 full year guidance targeting between 510,000 and 540,000 ounces of gold at cash cost between $630 and $680 per ounce produced and all-in sustaining costs between $870 and $920 per ounce sold. Our production is weighted 45/55 between H1 and H2. This was previously 40/60 and open pit material is contributing 80% with full year production driven by higher grade Stage 4 ore. The balance is scheduled to come from underground, specifically the Ptah as the focus [ph] remains (11:57) infrastructure upgrades. We have made the decision to defer some non-sustaining, non-essential capital, primarily the solar plants during the COVID-19 challenges.

Taking a bit of a closer look on our core asset and turning to page 11, the beauty of Sukari is that there are multiple assets all within one porphyry which provides us flexibility. There you can see the long section of the resource [ph] defined (12:22) porphyry posted effectively to five separate areas, the current open pit, Amun, Ptah, Horus Deeps and Cleopatra. Open pit is a large bolt-on operation and the underground is a high-grade system.

Underground is not yet fully defined and is open at depth and a long strike. While the underground is typically a five-year life of mine we have a 10-year track record of reserve replacement. It is important that I highlight that with the success of the underground program and particularly the Horus Deeps discovery just last year which shows mineralization up to 200 meters below the current underground, we have reassessed the scale and underground upgrades required with the future underground of mine.

Accounting for the strength of the open pit contribution this year, it is an opportune time to invest in the underground infrastructure upgrades to position for the longer term, specifically the upgrading of the ventilation system which will significantly improve the air quality at greater depth, allowing for increased future mining activity.

In order to carry out this work in a safe and efficient manner and with minimal disruption to operation, ore mining in the Amun area has reduced in 2020 with us targeting development, while Ptah and Stage 4 of the open pit will provide the ore source for 2020.

Slide 12 shows the plan view of the open pit with the Stage 4 areas highlighted, just to give some color and orientation of Stage 4, moving across to slide 13 which shows open pit performance which performed ahead of budget for the first quarter.

Looking ahead, we expect to see continued delivery of above 1.1 grams per tonne ore feed as we continue to mine Stage 4. In 2020 the open pit is scheduled to contribute 80% of the full year ounces and assessing the potential risk from COVID-19 on operations the open pit is robust, benefiting from being owned and operated with a strong open pit equipment availability and productivity, sufficient supplies and a skilled workforce sufficient for multiple rosters. During Q1 total ore mined was 4.2 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.1 grams per tonne, a 34% increase in tonnes year-on-year and a 54% improvement in grade year-on-year, of which 2.9 million tonnes was delivered to the mill at an average mill grade of 1.3 grams per tonne. Nearly 1 million tonnes net was delivered to the stockpile at 0.4 grams per tonne.

During the quarter there was a benefit from some waste being classified as low grade ore for stockpile which has optically reduced the strip ratio. The short-term mine plan was updated during the quarter to maintain efficient mining operations and support the annual production guidance while maintaining the planned waste stripping volumes. And the open pit optimization studies progressed well for the second half of the year.

Talking a little bit about underground, as we have said 2020 with underground is focused on development and upgrades. The strength in the open pit gives us the flexibility to pull back on underground mining and focus on delivering these upgrades. As such underground mining is targeting specifically the Ptah with Amun being focused with infrastructure upgrade. Total ore mined was 154,000 tonnes at an average grade of 4.98 grams per tonne. This represented 43% decrease in tonnes year-on-year and a 21% decrease in grade year-on-year, predominantly a function of the mine plant.

That being said, underground mine grade was 27% ahead of budget driven by higher stripping grades delivered in the quarter due to improved dilution controls including the use of cemented rock fill to backfill certain areas and a [ph] stope (15:48) coming in higher than expected resulting in sloping grade of 7.4 grams per tonne.

Total underground tonnes were approximately 20% less than scheduled due to restricted slope access in Ptah. Q2 tonnes are scheduled to largely be flat but at a lower grade due to more lower grade development. Touching on the processing front, 3.1 million tonnes were processed at 1.5 grams per tonne material at an 87.5% recovery rate and 96% utilization.

The focus in 2020 continues to be on optimizing tonne throughput with an emphasis on reducing reagent consumption while maintaining recoveries. We continue to maintain a disciplined focus with cost management and a focus on our bottom line with all our costs tracking in line with budget for Q1 and full year guidance. The company full costs, additional costs and cash flow associated with the COVID-19 is coming in Q2 including a buildup in working capital through increasing stockpiles and consumables is a temporary increase in payroll costs and support costs resulting from logistics planning, including quarantines and increased sterilization measures, as well as transport costs due to the government curfews in place. These cost operations are not expected to be material in the short term and are therefore not expected to affect guidance but we continue to actively manage our cost base to mitigate any future effects from COVID-19.

Slide 18 shows some of the Q1 2020 drill highlights. The Sukari porphyry continues to return excellent results, which are mineralization that remains open at depth in a long strike with some high grade structures within the porphyry which is still not defined. A total of 12,000 meters of underground diamond drilling was completed in Q1. Drilling was focused on resource conversion within the main areas of Ptah, Osiris, Top of Horus and a step-out exploration program targeting the Horus Deep structures. We have budgeted 70,000 meters of diamond drilling in 2020.

Slide 19 outlines the expansion framework to more fully understand the Horus porphyry system where we are targeting a 10,000 meters step-out program with two surface drill rigs. In Q1, near mine surface drilling commenced targeting Horus Deeps expansion, up plunge to the south and down plunge to the north, two deep holes, an 850 meter deep hole in the south and a 1,400 meter hole in the north are in progress and calibrating well within the known porphyry context. The results of these are expected to improve understanding of the structural controls and we look forward to providing future updates.

Slide 20 gives a quick update on West Africa where exploration activities continue, but the work programs have been limited due to restrictions imposed by COVID-19. During Q1, exploration activities slightly ramped up at the Doropo Project and ABC Project in Ivory Coast. A second multi-purpose drill rig was brought in on the Doropo Project in line with the increased surface exploration program. We have no reported cases of COVID-19 with a 100-kilometer radius of our licensed lease. Drilling and exploration field work is continued and uninterrupted in Q1 but is expected to be reduced in Q2 as government impose restrictions on the movement of goods and people impact activity. Double shifts have been implemented on the drill rigs at Doropo. However, disruptions experienced with receiving drilling consumables could impact Q2. We are still assessing alternatives and our geophysics programs have also been temporarily postponed.

Turning to page 20, 2020 is a budgeted year [indiscernible] (19:21) investment. Our sustaining capital spend remains stable at around the $90 million mark, but we have [ph] full cause (19:27) to reduce some of our non-sustaining CapEx. Cost mitigation and cash management are fundamental to Centamin's strategy and critical to mitigating the impact of COVID-19. The company is reducing capital expenditure for 2020 to between $150 million and $170 million. Previously we guided $190 million through short-term deferral of non-essential growth capital, optimization of capital projects and reductions in discretionary spend. Changes to the non-essential capital expenditure programs are measures taken to protect our workforce and secure the operation and are not expected to impact guidance for 2020.

We continue our growth initiatives and opportunities. Short-term initiatives are detailed on the left of the slide with the life of mine extensions and optimization studies as well as our 2D seismic programs being the most eminent. And on the right side of the slide we have the longer-term opportunities of Doropo, ABC and Batie and also including some – assessing some inorganic opportunities.

Slide 23 summarizes our position and that is to maximize Sukari and leverage our balance sheet strength to deliver consistent shareholder returns with a clear but simple strategy and position for the future. Centamin is a resilient and responsibly run business with zero debt and $379 million in cash and liquid assets at the 31st of March. I'm confident on our long-term strategy and our ability to respond quickly in this difficult environment. We continue to operate diligently and invest prudently. I believe Centamin is both well-equipped to navigate these challenges and remain positioned for the future. Our solid Q1 performance has been a small step on that journey.

Before I hand back to the operator, I did want to address the obvious question of timing of our financials. We have indicated that our financial year 2019 results will be published by mid-May. I fully acknowledge that this is unusual, but we are living in unusual times. Our delay is purely [ph] crisis driven (21:23). If there was something material, we would certainly be updating you in a timely manner. The main process to be finalized in our assessment item is the consideration of COVID-19. There is no precedent for this event and the board wants to ensure that thorough assessment is done, which is required from a going concern and a viability assessment for the full year account.

I do not want to flag unnecessary concern. Centamin are currently in a solid position as detailed in today's results and we are confident in the response framework in place. But it's still fundamental that all risks are adequately considered and documented. To that extent, we have Craig Murray who recently joined us as the Head of Risk and obviously with Martin joining as our new CEO we all collectively had been very focused on COVID and the future implications. The regulators have allowed this extended period of time for a reason and whilst we don't intend to use the full time, because our priority is to get the Q1 results [ph] after schedule (22:14) and we will get to annual accounts after as soon as we can.

And with that, I'll now hand back to the operator for any questions. [Operator Instructions]

The first question on the phone line comes from Justin Chan from Numis Securities. Justin, your line is now open.

Hi, everyone. Thanks. Thanks very much for hosting the call. Really pleased to see the good results this quarter and welcome to you, Martin. My first one's perhaps for Martin, just in your initial remarks, you mentioned growth both organic and external. Could you perhaps just share your vision in terms of what parameters drive considerations of growth assets in terms of – is that primarily driven by IRR and unit returns, is there a size cut-off in your view that's meaningful for Centamin? And I think from my perspective, your asset base is quite interesting in that you've got your production centered in Egypt, it kind of opens it up to perhaps some of the regions in Central Asia or Turkey or geographically not in relative terms that far, you've also got West Africa in exploration there. So could you perhaps give us a sense of how you view the world, what is a relevant asset in terms of size and how you view the returns that you'd like to see?

Sure. Thank you. Look, I think just as an approved caveat, let's say this is week two, three of being in the hot seat as it were. Look, I think [indiscernible] (23:48) more generally speaking as Martin Horgan's view that any sort of agreed strategy with the [ph] ExCo and the board (23:53) which obviously will flow through in time as we get into this. I think sort of first and foremost is the sort of understanding and the optimization of Sukari I think is a clear short-term focus. That's the foundation on which I think the next phase of the company or the growth will be built on.

So I think that's a clear focus and obviously we have the life of asset review which has been already initiated and is underway, [indiscernible] (24:19) to understand that. And I think importantly as well when we look at sort of growth opportunities is that one of the things I'm keen to look at is capital allocation and competition for capital and ability to diversify away from Sukari clearly has some advantages around both country and operational risk diversification. But in terms of brownfield expansions sort of competition for capital we'll have to look carefully at where we get the best bang for our buck as well.

So I think first and foremost getting Sukari right and understanding the levers at Sukari through investment, what that can return is a key focus on that. I think, secondly, West Africa, obviously I'm familiar with West Africa and I'm keen to understand the opportunities at both Doropo and Batie and how that can sort of grow from the existing portfolio. And finally to say as Ross alluded to there that the Egyptian bid round is currently open and clearly is the only commercial scale gold mine operator in Egypt. That should put us in a good position to be able to look very, very carefully with a strong operating and exploration base at Sukari to look at other opportunities within Egypt. But I think there's quite a lot on our plate in the short term to really understand, as Ross alluded to as well, discipline around sort of the investment criteria and return is going to be key to making sure we allocate capital correctly to the business.

On a personal basis in terms of – I wouldn't like to put sort of pigeon holes around or [ph] poppies (25:41) around what I see as the project. I think there's some clear sort of metric that people will probably talk about in terms of minimum annual production rates of ounces per annum, minimum sort of lowest-quartile cash costs, sort of 8 to 10 year mine life as well. I think they're fairly sort of well-established metrics that most people would understand. I think that also that I look very carefully at both political and security risk as an overlay. And I think if I think back to sort of 10 years ago in West Africa it was a very sort of opening up, opportune place to conduct business. I think today the world has unfortunately moved on in quite a significant way.

But I would also be sort of cautioning it not only looking at sort of technical merits of projects and also the financial returns or for cash returns I've been looking very carefully to ensure that we maintain a balanced portfolio both political and security risk-wise as well. And so I think at this stage happy to have a fuller conversation at the mid-year point when obviously I'm a lot further down the track with my sort of first period at Centamin here and obviously then develop those discussions with both the ExCo and the [ph] board (26:47) as well. That obviously gives you a sort of flavor of the sort of thinking around the capital allocation discipline around that on a political and sort of security overlay as well.

Definitely. That's very instructive and helpful. So, from a relatively exciting question to relatively boring one, I just have one on, my second one is related to working capital in H1. We don't know the full-year financials yet. I'm just wondering in absolute terms prices are going to rise, do you expect the levels to be relatively similar to last year H1 or should we anticipate a noticeable increase in dollar million terms?

It's not going to be materially different, Justin. But you'd build up to between $6 million and $10 million in terms of building up especially on those consumables and supplies. We've really been looking at restocking a lot of the consumables, holding [ph] fuel as full (27:43) as we can and getting in all the supplies that we could. That's maybe a 5 to 10 times increase in stock levels.

Okay. Great. Thanks. And then just two more from me, one on the solar plant, given movement in fuel prices, is there any reconsideration of that or is this just a deferral based on site activity levels and maintaining proper, call it, precautionary protocol and then, yeah, maybe I'll let you answer that one first.

Yeah. So the solar, it's really around the COVID and the limiting, we really wanted to quarantine or sterilize [ph] prices (28:15) and limit any inbound consumption as possible. That's really a deferral rather than a cancellation and that's moving things to the right from [ph] there (28:27) and then the impact of fuels...

Okay. Great. And to be honest, I've got... [indiscernible]

(28:29)

Sorry.

Sorry. No. I didn't mean to cut you off. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Yeah. Just on the global fuel, we are – the global fuel pricing has obviously gone down, but for us in Egypt, it is regulated or governed by government. So we haven't seen [indiscernible] (28:48) impact yet on our operation and in terms of how we model that going forward is basically how we set the budget which is sitting at $0.60 for the year [indiscernible] (28:57).

Okay. So just high level summarizing, the CapEx was deferred from this year, it's probably best to treat as as moving into next year?

That's right. It's pushing it to the right, the two main projects of the solar were – is the solar. We're still going along with some of our HP upgrades. So some of that spend is there, but the bulk of it, or the best part of $25 million would be pushed right into next year as we have set [ph] that solar project (29:22). And then some of the CapEx spend on the raised ore and this is some of the advantages, COVID challenges is looking at alternatives and the team at site has looked to what else, or what other alternatives could we do with the raised ore and could it be done on a staged approach. So about half of that CapEx that was allocated to the raised ore is expected to be spent. The $12.5 million that we had flagged and guided to would probably be down at $6.5 million.

Okay, great. Thanks very much. That's very clear. Thank you very much. I will clear the line but I hope all of you are doing well.

Thanks.

The next question on the phone line comes from Alan Spence from Jefferies. Alan, your line is now open.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. And welcome, Martin. Just two from my side. And the first is a little bit from the back, what Justin was asking there. Just around that CapEx deferral, is this something – I know you said it will basically get pushed into next year but will this ultimately delay the development timeline for the solar plant? Or can you kind of catch up on the timeline and if you could remind us when you had initially been expecting that to be completed?

So the preparation works are still continuing, Alan. So we'll have the electrical upgrade and the early works and the ground preparation but the actual mobilization of I guess equipment and people on to site is the big, big challenge. That was originally scheduled to occur between now and the first quarter of next year and we will be pushing that further to the right, but we've got no visibility on the timelines just yet because of COVID and it's a pretty fluid situation. But I don't expect it will make a huge impact in terms of timing. It will be a pretty quick build if it all comes together. But I'm sorry, I can't give you an exact date.

Okay, that's fine. So my second question is on the open pit. You noted in the report some positive grade reconciliation there. I was just wondering if you could tell us what was in budget for Q1 for the open pit mine grades and then what you're expecting there explicitly in Q2, please?

It depends on the areas that we were mining. We are basically budgeted at circa 1 gram a tonne top material coming off from the open pit and that's been well in excess of 1.1 gram and above. So we've actually done very well in terms of grade reconciliation there. And there's also been some of the material that was forecast or budgeted to be waste that came in at lower grade material which has also helped. And the key thing is the great profile for open pit during the rest of the year, we'll be above that or we expect to get to be above that 1.1 gram or at that 1.1 gram level.

Okay. Thanks. And actually just one quick follow-up, you mentioned kind of global travel restrictions. If they extend into the second half, then you might see some impact on guidance, the second half can also be bit of a wide range. Is this something where if this extends into July, do you think there's risk or do we need to actually see it get a little bit further into the back half of the year?

Yeah. I think it's all on timing. The critical thing for us, we've been very fortunate that the teams in site have been very supportive in terms of staying on site and extending rosters and the like, and that's basically been locked down. That opens up an ability to move people on the north site and our service providers that also have to be assessed in terms of where that goes. But from a people and a movement perspective, I think we will be okay, depending on how quickly everything opens up.

I think a number of the concerns that are really about the longer term lead items in supply chain down the track, though, we've had discussions, it's all been around the impact of supplies will probably be only 3Q, 4Q and beyond in terms of some of the long life lead items like, new liners and the like, so we're covered for the moment in the short term, but it's the impact of what that means down the track and being able to get them back on to [indiscernible] (33:16). Martin, I don't know if you got any comments in that area?

No, I think that's exactly right, Ross. I think, in terms of sort of short-term supplier reagents and consumables, I think we're well set and obviously looking at alternative suppliers and supply routes for that. I think the more interesting challenge for the industry as a whole will be you just mentioned for example things like new liners, I think we'll just do a reline if I'm correct, Ross, I've always done before [indiscernible] (33:42), but we have spares on site. But ultimately restarting of heavy industry in South Africa, Southeast Asia and the like and flow-on impacts from that extended delay there, sourcing alternative routes for those larger strategic actions I think is going to be one of the – the focus is for the business as we go forward, I think for the sector, not just necessarily for us. So I think that's right.

All right. Perfect. Very helpful. Thank you, guys.

The next question on the phone line comes from Laurie Kimman from Berenberg. Laurie, your line is now open.

Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for the call and welcome to the team, Martin. Just a few from me if I could start on the underground, how should we look at underground stoping grades for Q2?

Hi, Laurie. For underground and particularly in the Q2 I think you've got to factor in lower grade is real focus is on development there. So I think it's really having a low quarter coming and 4Q, which will then ramp up Q3 and Q4 as we move forward, but they are going to be below reserve grade in that short-term period.

Okay. Great. And then in terms of – sorry, yeah, continue.

Yeah. So then I would go back up towards reserve grade model lower Q2 ramping up in Q3, Q4.

Okay. Great. And then in terms of underground tons mined in Q3 and Q4, is that sort of a significant increase on Q1 and Q2?

Wouldn't be step change increases, it's all around how the [ph] intervention (35:18) alternatives get or what solution gets put in but it's not that it will be a step change, but – some increase but not wholesale changes.

Okay. Great. And if I could just on the plant performance I noticed a slight decrease in the recovery rate in Q1. How should we look at recovery rates for the rest of the year, is it similar to Q1 or was it sort of closer to 90%?

Recovery is one of the big areas that we're pushing in turn it's trying to get that optimal balance in terms of slowing the throughput to increase recovery and getting that balanced though. To be perfectly honest we were somewhat disappointed in the recovery rate coming through with the lowest throughput so with luck [indiscernible] (36:02) moving up again as we go through the year.

Okay. Great. And then, Martin, one for you if I can. Just on ESG, given your sort of experience and success at Toro on the ESG front and the kind of improvements Centamin has made so far and is there a particular area that you would like to focus on, on that front going forward?

No, look, again, I think early days and recognizing if you like the sort of the environmental and social setting of the Sukari operation, I mean it is a remote setting as we know, it's a fairly benign environment, but obviously has had some mixed [ph] maturities (36:43) around the COVID response. So I think the sort of environmental and sort of social architecture of Sukari lends itself, not a particularly challenging environment that you might see for example, say, in West Africa. I think at Sukari it's more the initiatives around solar and so on, social programs [indiscernible] (37:01) around that. So I think Sukari is well set and mature operation and I think that sort of the more opportunity there would be around Doropo, Batie West and sort of West Africa more generally bringing some of that sort of experience and skill set around the West African context I think is probably more applicable to my immediate sort of focus on that.

But to be blunt or to be very frank, it's, I view E&S issues as central to the business, it's sort of a bit on the side along production for us. It's inherent or it's an essential tenet of the management process here as well. So from what I've seen today the guys have been doing an excellent job. And really [ph] I have to say (37:40) what sort of experience can we bring I think probably in the first instance to West Africa but also supporting the total project from the Sukari perspective.

Okay, great. Understood. I'll leave it there for now. Thanks a lot, guys.

The next question on the phone line comes from James Bell from RBC Capital Markets. James, your line is now open.

Yes, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. Just looking at the life of mine plan sort of update you talk about there being some releases through the year. I just wondered if you could give more details on what we can expect when. And secondly, does the departure of your CLO with Martin's appointment, does that change anything in terms of the overall kind of strategic planning around the group?

Sure. Can you take that one, Ross?

Yeah. Thanks, James. I think, Martin, it's good to put some context on that.

Sure. Sure. No problem. Well, look, I think, Ken, I think the important thing to note there in terms of the life of asset review is that was initiated during the second half of last year. So [indiscernible] (38:50) have been retained and they have been given a brief and they have been very busy over the last sort of six months looking at a number of shall we say ancillary studies and where we're getting into now is that the basis of the ancillary studies should now feed into if you like this overall strategic review life of asset review both on an open pit and underground integrated basis as well.

So I think importantly that process is established, it's well underway and will continue to be delivered into as we go forward into the second half of this year as well. So that's one of the key focuses of my side, is to ensure that we have continuity in that process and be very clear about what deliverables we're expecting from it and how that can be assessed by both the company and the board before we sort of update the market more broadly on that. So I think first and foremost, no delay or change to that process. And I expect as we said [ph] probably more broadly (39:48) at second half of this year.

But again at the half year, we should have a lot more clarity around timetables, deliverables for us as well. We put no changes. And in terms of Jeremy's departure and I'd say it was an independent event to my appointment and – but I've known Jeremy for a number of years just around the industry. Jeremy has got a run-off period now and he's an, I should expect, being the sort of consummate professional that he is he's working very closely with myself to ensure we end up with a smooth transition and handover and continue on a number of those initiatives that he started during his tenure as CEO as well. So I think there's no sort of planned interruption to the life of asset review and the projects that Ross discussed earlier continuing as well in terms of their implementation. So I don't think there should be any significant disruptions to sort of previously stated plans at this stage.

Okay. That's great. And then maybe one for you, Ross, just in terms of thinking about capital allocation. Do you think in an environment where there was a slowdown of operations that the board would use the group's cash balance to continue to pay a sort of similar level of dividend to that that we've seen last year or do you feel like dividends would have to come down just purely on a ratio basis?

We do have the cash balance in buffer there. And as we've always said dividends [indiscernible] (41:12) to the core pillars. I think it would really take a lot to move the needle on that. Obviously that needs to be put back into context of operating responsibly and not doing something really outrageous. But certainly we wouldn't be looking to move our core strategy away from normal procedure and dividend is very much core to that position. So, I know the dividend policy is a function of free cash flow and things but that also is very much considered in terms of our cash balance that we actually hold at any point in time.

So you think in an environment where your free cash flow is lower the board may consider using your cash balance to top up the dividend to keep levels flat year year-over-year. Is that a fair assumption or is it just to wait and see what happens in terms of the situation?

That would certainly be part of the consideration in the absence of cash being allocated elsewhere for specific projects or operations and there's no other home for us and we've got a reasonable position. That distribution would certainly be one of the considerations here.

Okay. That's great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

It would appear that we have no further questions being registered on the phone lines.

Well, thank you very much to everybody for attending today's call. As always please reach out if you do have any questions or queries and we'll certainly look to respond as quickly as we can. But, otherwise, I hope everybody stays safe. And have a good day. Cheers.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does now conclude today's call. Thank you for joining. And have a wonderful day.