corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to today’s Centamin Egypt Q4 Results Call. Today, I’m very pleased


to present Josef El-Raghy, who is the Chairman, and Harry Michael, who is Chief Executive Officer.


And during this call all participants will be in listen-only mode during the presentation and after that


there’ll be an opportunity for any questions. Josef, over to you.


Josef El-Raghy, Chairman


Okay. Thank you and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the conference call for our


fourth quarter results for 2010. Harry is on the call, joining me from Perth. I’m in Alexandria with


also Mark Di Silvio, our CFO; he is joining on the call today as well.


Prior to talking operationally and – about the quarter and – that was, probably should mention


quickly what’s happening here in Egypt and how it’s impacted our operations at Sukari. As I


mentioned, to start with, I’m in Alex – I’ve been between Alex (sic) [Alexandria] and Cairo in the last


week. And whilst it’s not appropriate for me to make any comment on the significance or otherwise


of the events in Egypt, I think it’s pretty important to state that our operations remain unaffected at


Sukari, also the office in Alexandria. We see this being the case going forward as well. We don’t


see any threat to the safety of our employees and we don’t see any immediate or future threat to


our operations here in Egypt.


It’s also timely – it’s prudent to remind people of the way we operate here, which is under Law 222


of 1994 that was passed through the Parliament in 1995 after my father spent a year in 1994


negotiating the terms, under which we would operate here. We didn’t operate under any sort of


gentlemen’s agreement, or we’re not affiliated with any political parties or movements. It is a law


that was passed and it does cover all of our activities through exploration and mining, and there are


no points within that period where we are required to renegotiate profit shares or taxes or anything


like that. So we see our operations and our tenures as very secure and we are looking forward to


continuing here for a long period of time. And that’s the way we are operating today and we intend


to operate tomorrow, regardless of wider issues in Egypt.


So let’s move on to our fourth quarter performance and it was a good quarter for us. It was the best


quarter to-date and significantly better than the three quarters of production that preceded it. If we


look quickly at slide four of the presentation, that development plan remains intact. And if anything,


we are coming off a very good base in 2010 to launch into 2011 and 2012 where we drive for


greater production in both years, and I would say that 2013 would be an increased production


profile as well from what we have ahead for ‘11 and ‘12.


Slide five gives you the overview of the quarter. 53,000 ounces produced in the fourth quarter. The


key to that quarter was that we got the steel liner and lifter system into the SAG Mill in late October,


so from November onwards. It wasn’t immediate in November, but the ramp-up occurred in


November, and November and December were very good production months for us.


Harry will go into a bit more detail, but we saw good throughput and recoveries importantly back to


where we were expecting, with November at 89% and December recoveries at almost 93%. So


what we were saying on the last conference call for the quarter was that the very inconsistent


production for Q3 impacted the recoveries and we saw in November and December a big


turnaround from what we had in the third quarter.


With more consistent production we saw average cash cost come down to $498, and again, note


our October was not a good month given that we didn’t have the liners in. So the November-


December cash costs were $455 and $461 and both average cash cost down to $498. Strong cash


balance, no debt continuing from how we operated the business all of last year.
corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Underground development began after the decline in October, reached the high-grade Amun zone.


On the development front also, Stage 3 progressed very well. Civil works were complete in


December and structural steel erection had commenced. We still remain on track there for mid-


2011 delivery of that Stage 3 secondary crushing circuit, which will take throughput from 4 million


tons to 5 million tons.


On the growth strategy, obviously Stage 4 is a much bigger undertaking than Stage 3. Stage 4


scoping studies were concluded during the quarter. Good results from the scoping study. It now


shows that the 10 million ton project that we [inaudible] will be pursued, strong economic. And


probably Harry will go into this a little more as well, but key for that is that we are looking in that


scoping study only at the open pit material.


There’s a lot more information that we’re pulling together in the first half of this year and – apart


from the engineering open pit mine design and underground design, and we see a very strong


production profile coming from the expanded operation. Increase in reserves during the quarter to


9.1 million ounces, and another quarter of positive cash flow from the Sukari operation.


If we move on to slide six, that’s a further breakdown, and you can see in all areas a very good


improvement on the quarter, that was quarter three. So quarter four in all areas, particular focus


was the increased head grade where we saw over 2 grams achieved through the quarter, and as I


said to start with as well, one of the big improving areas was the recovery. Had recovery of 88%. In


November and December, we were doing better than that. Gold production ounces, 53,000 ounces,


record quarter for us and obviously, bringing cash costs of production lower.


With that point probably, Harry, I’ll hand over to you now and you can go into more of the detail of


operations for the quarter, on slide seven.


Harry Michael, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Josef, and good morning everybody. On to slide seven, and as you can see, there’s the


quarter-by-quarter production and cash costs in a snapshot. And as Josef mentioned, you can see


the huge impact that this quarter has compared to the other quarters, and again, the impact on the


cash costs.


Probably not as a nice a drop on cash costs as we would have liked, but if you go to the next slide


on slide eight, you can actually see that November and December, which is our true post-liner


installation months, we really come in with a strong $400, low $400 an ounce cash costs. And it


was October that really dragged that to the $498 an ounce. So, very, very good, gives us a good


feeling about where our cash costs are going to be for this calendar year and beyond, and when we


have some strong production results like that.


As you can see, very strong November and December, averaging over 20,000 ounces, partly under


the 20,000 ounce mark for November because we actually started operating with those liners


around the 2nd or 3rd of November. So we lost a couple of days of reasonable production in the


early part of November, but in December coming through with well over 20,000 ounces for that


month to finish off the year.


Moving on to slide nine, again on the mine production front, you can see a very strong sustained


performance by the mining guys, producing over 2 million tons per month here and still into –


getting into a very low strip ratio environment, which in some ways impacted our costs a little bit as


well because we had to do quite a bit of additional grade control drilling, because our strip ratios are


quite low now on the Stage 1 pit. Stripping is continuing, of course, in Stage 2 in preparation for the


2011 production year, which will be the primary feeder for our ore for this coming year.