Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Danielle Chigumira — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Justin Chan — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Centamin Interim Results Call. My name is Terry, and I'll be coordinating today's call. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand over to your host, Andrew Pardey, to begin. Andrew, please go ahead.

Okay, thank you. Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Joining me on this call this morning is Ross Jerrard, our Chief Financial Officer; and Alexandra Carse, our Investor Relations Officer.

Thank you all for taking the time to dial in to our interim results webcast and conference call. For those participating through the conference call, the presentation can be found on the website and for those who wish to follow by the webcast, the link can be found in the interim results announcement published this morning on the LSE and the TSX at 7 AM UK time this morning.

Slide number two, here you'll find the disclaimers and forward-looking statements. Please do take your time to digest these in your own time. They can be found within the announcement and here on the presentation.

Moving on to the next slide, I'd like to commence today by expressing how we believe Centamin offers a unique investment proposition. Centamin maintains a strong balance sheet of $327 million cash with no debt and importantly, we have no hedging policy. As a gold miner, our focus is on extracting processing and producing gold responsibly and cost effectively as – cost efficiently as possible, maximizing margins and subsequently offering investors purity – pure equity exposure to gold price, combined with leading market shareholder returns and attractive valuation upside.

As you all have seen today, we've announced an interim dividend of $0.04 per share equal to $46.2 million. This brings our total cash dividends and return to shareholders to $500 million over the last six years. Importantly, it's all about quality ounces and delivering free cash flow and importantly, shareholder returns. This is the sixth consecutive interim dividend declared. Again, I reiterate, we have now paid a total of $500 million to our shareholders over the past six years.

Moving on to the next slide, 2019 gold production and costs guidance. The first half of the year was a solid half, operationally, which delivered 45% of the total ounces as we guided and that's in line with our market guidance. Costs are in line with guidance and expect to trend towards the lower end in the second half of the year. We've also had further success in that brownfield and greenfield explorations programs. And H2 is scheduled to be stronger half with the open pit delivering approximately two-thirds of the ounces as the higher grade delivered for you at Stage 4; and as I said previously, on the operational update earlier in the month prove the Hapi Zone.

Okay. Moving on to our baseline three-year outlook. We've provided a baseline guidance of 510,000 to 540,000 ounces for 2020 and 2021; a cash cost of production at $630 to $680 per ounce and then all-in-sustaining cost of $870 (sic) [$880] (00:03:35) to $930 an ounce. The baseline estimates underpinned a solid foundation of the business model and do not include the impact it need to upside drivers. Baseline estimate is all about profitable ounces. Our focus and objective is on driving the upside and maximizing the output of cost-efficient ounces, driving margins, profitable ounces and ultimately free cash flow leading onto shareholder returns. It's all about quality over quantity.

Again, the three-year outlook, H1 of this year is in line with the budget, and we are on track to deliver our full year guidance on both production and costs. H2, costs are expected to trend lower towards the bottom end of the annual guidance range as we've increased production. And as forecast, declining unit all-in sustaining and cash costs through 2021 in line with the increasing production profile. Again, the operation at Sukari, it's a Tier 1 asset, it's in a very solid position to keep continuing and improving on shareholder returns.

Moving onto the next slide, the ESG review, H1 2019 we're delivering on ESG initiatives, environmental, no major incidents recorded, very, very good uses of recycling water and ensuring this continues to minimize any external water usage wherever possible, continued reduction of water levels on our tailings dam, we're in the process now of finalizing the solar feasibility study to reduce reliance on fossil fuels and reduce our CO2 emissions.

On the social side, H1 the group lost time injury rate was 0.42, which for us is disappointing, and our target is zero harm. We've also got partnerships with GIZ in Côte d'Ivoire, providing bottom-up agricultural skills and resources across the local communities where we are operating in Côte d'Ivoire.

Governance side, board succession program, we've appointed Dr. Sally Eyre as an Independent Non-Executive Director and there's a very active process underway to identify three further NEDs by the 2020 AGM. Again, board committee review, refresh and rotation is in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.

Further on, delivering our sustainable development goals, good health and wellbeing, providing access to water and sanitation across the areas that we're working in, in both West Africa and Egypt, education and workplace development, building classrooms, providing training and development, also offering university scholarships, both through the Camborne School of Mines and for the University of Alexandria in Egypt.

Importantly also, clean energy feasibility study to build a 40-megawatt solar plant at Sukari in Egypt as part of the partial power solution, significantly reducing our reliance on fossil fuels and CO2 emissions, and again, economic growth and local development with the local communities.

With that, I'd like to hand over to Ross for the financial review of the presentation.

Thank you, Andrew.

Turning to page 11, we ended the half with a strong and flexible balance sheet that underwrites our robust financial strategy. Cash and liquid assets continue to build and were $327 million at the end of the half. In a year where we flagged higher costs driven by throughputs and inflationary cost pressures, we continue our focus on cost management, improving efficiencies in the supply chain and maintaining our unit rates in light of the increased volume and material movements when compared to previous periods.

Our capital allocation, both sustaining and non-sustaining, are on track and within budget at the half. And importantly, I'm pleased to report free cash flow for the half of $36 million, which is significantly up quarter-on-quarter and in line half-on-half. This has ultimately meant that we've been able to continue to achieve our core objective of returning surplus capital to stakeholders, both in terms of profit share and royalties in our host country Egypt of $48 million and also our Centamin shareholders in the form of an interim dividend for $0.04 per share or $46 million.

Talking to some of the financial highlights, although our gold [Technical Difficulty]

Apologies, ladies and gentlemen. We lost connection with the speaker line. Please stand by, whilst we try to reconnect them.

If we're back online, I'll refer you back to page 12, and I'll go back on to the financial highlights. Although, our gold sold ounces were down when compared to the previous half, we did have a larger than normal balance of gold sales at period end due to the timing of gold shipments. There were [ph] 19,000 ounces (00:09:50) held in the safe at the end of June. With the 2% lower ounces sold and an average realized gold price decrease and the increased cost base that we had flagged predominately driven by the volumes moved as well as local cost pressures, we finished the half with a 5% reduction in operating cash flow that pleasingly had an adjusted free cash flow number almost exactly the same on the prior period. Focusing a bit more on our costs, our mine production costs were up 11%, primarily driven by a 12% increase in total material mined and a 6% increase in ore processed, our absolute cash costs were up 17% year-on-year, which I'll explain in a minute with our stockpiles. Although up year-on-year, these are within budget and we are on track.

Importantly, the capital expenditures matched with cash flows where at all possible which does drive some of the movements of variability you see quarter-on-quarter. I would highlight that whilst we have made inroads in our cost saving initiatives there are still further savings to be made both in 2019 and beyond. We are targeting a 12% reduction in operating costs in the near-term with a no-saving-is-too-small approach and we have confident in achieving these savings and our team is driving new initiatives and we'll add further momentum in this area.

Page 14, lays out our cost reconciliations half-on-half which shows the increased consumption, volume and throughput rates which are partially offset by some of the pricing gains. I do highlight the change in inventory in the second to last column of the chart. This year, we had a much – well, this period we had a much smaller credit attributable to mining inventory movements compared to comparative period. I'd refer you to the financial statements and non-GAAP measures which reconcile our mine production costs to cash costs where you'll see the movement against prior periods. But basically, we had a $20 million credits in H1 of 2018 compared to $13.6 million credit this half and therefore the $6.4 million movement half-on-half that you see in the diagram.

Slide 15, provides the volume analysis and shows how the increased volumes mined and processed affect the business. This is the rolling comparison. There is a breakdown of our mine production costs across the business with processing and open pit driving the quantum of the spin with 50% and 35%, respectively. Our quarterly unit cost metrics [indiscernible] (00:12:24) trend across these three primary areas, of open pit, underground, and processing. The standard breakdown of our cost base shows limited variability. I won't talk in detail as the percentages are very consistent. I would highlight this, the Egyptian pound has strengthened against the U.S. dollars in recent months and we will be monitoring this closely as we close off 2019.

Only a 6% of our EGP cost base is non-U.S. dollar-linked as a large part of the EGP is fuel which [ph] are lower (00:12:57) paid and EGP is priced in US dollars. With our disciplined capital, we ensure that our spend is aligned with cash flows and the self-funded organic growth pipeline.

In H1, we spent $48 million in sustaining and non-sustaining with a further $10.5 million spent in West Africa. The majority of the spend was on underground and fleet rebuild programs and our exploration spend in West Africa in non- sustaining categories.

Our outlook for the second half is consistent with this profile and we will be on track with our guided numbers. With $327 million in cash and liquid assets on our balance sheet, the balance sheet remains strong and very keen. We have no debt, hedging, gold loans or streams and importantly, we have a balanced cash flow distribution return, contributions to operating country, our shareholder returns, and allocation of funds to investing in the future. Our corporate strategy remains clear and consistent, creating tangible returns through maximizing value on current operations whilst at the same time, also progressing future growth prospects.

Slide 19, shows our cumulative dividends against the backdrop of our cash and cash equivalents and our competition for capital. With cumulative direct investment of $4.2 billion, we have paid $415 million to EMRA, profit share and royalties and equally paid our shareholders $500 million this year if you include a 4% interim dividend today.

Our strategy going forward is producing valuable ounces that maximize cash flows. We can all see the impact of volume variances that both material mined and processed and the flow on impact on consumption rates and cost base has had on us this year. We remain focused on getting the optimal balance of producing gold ounces at the best possible margins that creates the best cash flow results and ultimately support the sustainable dividend policy.

And with that I'll hand it back to Andrew.

Okay. Thank you very much, Ross. Moving on to the operational review and slide number 21. You'll see this, I know most of you are familiar with Centamin and Sukari. This is a long section to new graphic and it's really encompassing all facets of the Sukari operation. I'd like you to – to draw your attention to the current mined out pit which is that light brown-colored area and then below that there's a final stage full pit which comes down through into the, the yellow geological zone which is the Hapi Zone, hence where the underground first started in the Upper Amun areas and that Hapi Zone continues to the Stage 5 pit that comes down and that's why the open pit is a prime real source for the remainder of this year and going through into 2020 and part of 2021.

Just to demonstrate to you, mining for the Hapi Zone, et cetera, consistency in good grades to be coming out of the pit. Importantly, the diagram also stage – shows the Stage 6 open pit, the stage and then the Stage 7 longer term open pit and also in green is the existing underground infrastructure and you can see on the right-hand side of the screen, the Amun development and that's continuing to drive down towards the Osiris area and then in the central area, you got Ptah development and then those structures with further drilling to be done from Ptah and importantly up in the top left-hand side is the Cleopatra level development that is being put in for drilling access and then that decline – the Cleopatra decline progressing further down that's heading towards the Julius structure where further drilling will be undertaken.

Okay. Moving on to the next slide, operational highlights. As Ross has discussed, in 2019, volumes have increased across all sections of the operation. This has been balanced with strong cost control and as we guided at the beginning of the year, we would be mining more material, so, we've got a very stringent controls in place, so, that we're maintaining our unit costs at good – very good levels.

Okay. Moving on to the next slide. This is really talking about the open pit. Again, I talked about it on the previous call. The open pit is the foundation of the operations. It's the grade of an 15-year mine life. For 2019, we forecast quarter-on-quarter growth which is driven from the open pit as the grades improve with depths down into the Hapi Zone. And the slide above shows the areas where we will be mining for the remainder of this year and the predominant oil field is coming from the area that's circled on the bottom right-hand section of that slide. And that's really the western wall of the pit progressing down into the Hapi Zone and then you've got the two northern ones, Stage 4 and Stage 5, they are progressing down, they will drop down over the course of this year and next year to maintain further access to the Hapi Zone. All [ph] well stuff that (00:18:25) on the top part of that area Stage 5 that's – it will cut back to development that also progresses as part of the longer term development strategy for the open pit.

Moving on to the next slide. This is summary view. Pretty well talked about this already, previously. Increased mining rates as compared to previous years, the stripping that's going on and the ore delivery that's coming from Stage 4 pit and maintaining that high grades that will come through in the second half of the year through the open pit.

Moving on the underground. Total production from the underground in H1 was 580,000 tonnes at a grade of 5.53. As I said previously – on the previous call, the important thing was the stoping grades. So, stoping grades have improved. We had a stoping grade at 7.74 for the quarter. Ore development tonnes were increased. The grade was lower because there was a lot of decline and level development that had forecast to be in waste and it was actually in mineralisation above 2 gram per tonne, so it proposed to the wrong [indiscernible] (00:19:39).

Importantly, there was over 4 kilometers of decline, ore drive and cross-cut development, ensuring that the underground continues to progress forward, so, as well as stoping now, the planned development is in place for stoping for the future of the underground.

I did say during the call, the previous call as well, we've had a delay in some of the areas, the 635 and the 650 Amun – Upper Amun areas. That's only one part of the stoping where we had some – two technical issues which impacted secondary access at the end of Q2. That remedial work is underway and the work is on schedule and will be completed during Q3. Expectation is that work will be completed at the end of August. This has no impact on the guidance for the year. It delays the sequencing of four of the stopes in the Upper Amun area, but meantime we continue to stope in the lower Amun area and across in the Ptah area as well.

Moving on to the next slide. Again, this is a long-section view. It's showing the three core areas of development, mining and also drilling in the Sukari underground. Obviously, the right-hand side of that slide is showing the lower Amun areas going through into the Top of Horus development and drilling. The central area is Ptah production and development as well. And again, you can see below Ptah with a heat map that very high grade areas sitting in the Porphyry Keel. And then across on the left-hand side, the Cleopatra development and importantly drilling. We completed over another 4,000 meters of drilling in Cleopatra. Those results are starting to come back through as we're now being to over the next half of the year develop a really strong picture of that future in the way we take Cleopatra forward.

Next slide, Processing plant. We had a plant throughput of 6.6 million tonnes, plant availability was very good and head grade through to the plant at 1.22 grams per tonne. It's maintaining a throughput for 2019, maintaining a throughput at or above 12.5 million tonnes per annum. Improved head grade is being driven year-on-year, and in particular being driven by the open pit mining that will come through in the second half of the year and carrying through into 2020 as the Stage 4 and Stage 5 CapEx continue.

On the exploration pipeline, very, very quickly, we've got a organic growth profile, which everyone is aware of, where we've got Sukari exploration and development, Sukari underground drilling and development, the Cleopatra decline, access development to further drill platforms and drilling final pit shells and also testing further the Cleopatra and the Julius structures and some of the deeper drilling into the Ptah Deeps. We also have the Sukari regional work, the 2D seismic survey, that work commences on site on the 25th of August, and that's certainly going to create a new pit for us that not only targeting Sukari and the Sukari resources depth but also the surrounding areas as well. Outside of Sukari, we've got the Doropo Project. Drilling during H2 is really focused on further resource development under resource and resource extensions. And then, we have the ABC greenfield exploration project, that's targeting resource growth and it's testing at the regional scale structural extensions and further early stage exploration.

Moving on the next slide. Again, this is highlighting various – the high grade intercepts that come through from Sukari. The blue numbers are H1 results and the – sorry, Q1 results and the red numbers are Q2 results. And again, you can see that there's good consistent grades coming from various areas from both the Cleopatra area. Ptah, where you've got grades ranging from into gram 7 – intercept 7 meters at 7.99, 0.35 at 135 grams per tonne, et cetera, all both within and outside existing resource areas. And then importantly as well, the Horus intercept down at depth is 2 meters at 43 grams per tonne, it's 5 meters at 5.2, 0.5 of a meter at 14 grams, 0.4 of a meter at 69 grams per tonne, 1.7 meters at 7.31 grams per tonne. And the exciting part of that, those lower Horus results, they're all in excess of 400 meters below the current base of the Amun Decline development pointing out to the long-term sustainability of the underground resource of Sukari, underpinning also that the plus 15-year mine life we have from the open pit.

Sukari regional – Sukari deeps and regional. I have spoken briefly about the seismic survey getting a underway at the end of this month – end of August. And that will highlight a lot more both Sukari exploration on the hill itself at depth, but also the surrounding structures. And we are also progressing out and doing more exploration in the surrounding areas at Sukari, V Shear, Quartz Ridge, Sami South, Kurdeman and that's all part of the profile for further looking at further high quality [ph] in these (00:25:32) surface ounces that can be also delivered to the processing plant in the coming years. Until now, the exploration of Sukari is really – but then still is a main focus is on Sukari underground. But we've also bought in an additional two surface drill rigs that have now commenced drilling at Sukari on the surface to really get fit of the surface growth.

Moving on to the next slide, advanced exploration. We did over 21,000 meters of RC drilling, a similar number of aircore drilling, that drilling has been focusing on strike extensions of Souwa, Nokpa and Chegue and also the slide below shows the Han structure of the current model. And then, we've had further extension from that drilling extending that model further up by another 250 meters. That's always in that 7-kilometer radius, that resource work update is underway along with resource updates of the Sukari they've also commenced, and we will be in a position to provide progressed further that PEA on the Doropo Project. I've spoken briefly already about the greenfield project, much earlier stage project, but again that is progressing well, gives us strength to our exploration internal pipeline that we have.

So, in summary, our investment case is robust underpinned by strong fundamentals. We have a reliable dividend stream. We've returned $500 million to shareholders. We have a quality asset portfolio. Sukari is a Tier 1 asset, has a 10-year operational track record, has a life of mining in excess of 15 years and in a low cost environment. We have a robust financial strategy, no debt, no hedging, self-funded organic growth, reinvestment to sustain the core assets over the longer term, stringent cost management. We have growth through the value chain, results upside across the entire asset base, maximizing operational efficiencies. And we are responsible corporate citizens targeting zero-harm, a strong emphasis on workplace training and development, core ESG values, strong government relations and committed to achieving the best practices, HSES and ESG.

So, in summary, delivering performance, continuing to optimize performance in Sukari, including stringent cost management, unlocking value through the organic growth pipeline and strong – maintaining our social license to operate, continue to focus on work place safety, delivering Sukari and further project, build succession plan and employment of further NED's before the next AGM and importantly, also continuing to grow and ensure that we deliver strong returns for our shareholders.

And with that, I'd just like to close and hand back to the operator for any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Sure. [Operator Instructions] So, our first question today comes from James Bell of RBC Capital Markets. James, your line is open.

Yes. Good morning, and thanks for the call. Just a question on dividends. Obviously, you're paying out more than your H1 free cash flow. So, how should we think about the final dividend? And looking ahead, if there are no alternatives for investment, do you – how do you think about the cash above that $100 million sort of cash minimum? Should we think of that as being returned as a sort of top-up on asset-free cash flow over time?

Andrew, would you like me to take that?

You go it for, Ross.

Hi James, so firstly, in terms of interim dividend, it was above our free cash level was really this assessment of capital allocations. And basically, anything that is excess to what we believe is required will be distributed back. The important consideration on this is that it's a sustainable stream. So when you look forward in your question on the full year, I guess the answer is, well, we wouldn't expect the full year to be less than what we're paying as an interim. And it's very much results-driven. And then as we look forward in terms of our capital allocation, any excess above that $100 million that we've always spoken about $100 million plus $150 million growth opportunity, we need to put that $150 million war chest to work. And to the extent that there isn't opportunity out there in terms of investment it will be allocated back.

Okay.

But that opportunity might be short-term or near-term initiatives, both in the current asset as well as M&A.

Okay. I mean, is there a decision point around that? Because obviously it's a pretty large war chest as you say? Would there be a decision point where, say, we got to full year, next year you would say, well, actually we can give an extra X back, or is it something which you're going to basically monitor over the next couple of years? Is it sort of a longer term return on that?

Yes. It's providing opportunities and John Singleton has joined us as Head of Business Development. We're going through screening opportunities with him, but we continually assessing and monitoring in terms of as that cash builds or gets distributed in the forthcoming years. So it will be a rolling position, but there will be times where we will draw down into it in the absence of anything else and there are other times that we will build.

Okay, makes sense.

James, Our intention is not to hang on to excess cash. If we haven't got hanging for the excess cash, it will be returned to our shareholders.

Okay, very clear. And then just secondly on the baseline outlook for 2020 and 2021, does that include the 12% targeted cost saving or not? And then if you could maybe just give it a little bit of a feel of where you think the underground grade may come out for those forecast production numbers given the recent kind of volatility we've seen in the last couple of years or so?

Addressing the cost, the 12% needs to be built into that forecast, so we put off those numbers, but there is upside opportunity across our cost base and Jeremy can talk to this in due course as we exit the year, but we believe there's a lot of cost initiative and value extraction in terms of the current base as well as additional projects that will come online and the big one will be solar in 2021.

Okay. And just on the underground grades, it's forecast, we are forecasting underground grades through 2020 and 2021 in the vicinity of 6 grams to around 6.5 grams per tonne. They're not ultrahigh-grades, they're consistent grades going through modeled stoping sequences, et cetera.

Okay, makes sense. And then I guess just one more if I can on that. I mean, if you look at where your reserve grade is versus that I mean are you comfortable that that is achievable? Or are you feeling that reserve grades could [indiscernible] (00:33:40)?

It's very much safe, James, because if you remember the underground well, you've got the reserve grade from your stoping, et cetera. You have also got development continuing on all the time as well. And there's no intention to stop development as you say, if you look at presentation and you see the drill results, both within and nearby resources areas and at depth, it's important that the underground development continues for the longer term future of the underground mine.

Okay, makes sense. Thanks.

Our next question today comes from Dan Shaw of Morgan Stanley. Dan, your line is open.

Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just one follow-on from James's first question. You talked a lot about organic growth opportunities in the presentation, but you didn't touch on or so much on potential M&A opportunities, which seems to be a bit more relevant, given the smooth Stage purchase that you did during the first half. Can you just remind us how you're thinking about M&A as part of your overall capital allocation framework? Would you prefer to buy something that was already operating? Or would you prefer to buy more exploration properties that you can develop yourself? How are you thinking about that?

We have a very strong internal exploration pipeline through ABC early stage in Côte d'Ivoire, Doropo favor exploration and near-term opportunities with the Doropo project, plus we've got further organic growth from exploration. Sukari, both Sukari, Sukari Hill, Sukari underground and also conducting going back into some more regional exploration on the Sukari concession area. So internally, we have a great exploration portfolio pipeline that we can certainly with the right results can deliver as organic growth.

Other opportunities, we continue to look for other opportunities that would be a fit for the organization. And look, ultimately, it comes down to what is going to be profitable, what is going to deliver as the best returns for our shareholders.

Operationally, it'd be nice to have an ever operational coming – not far off coming into production. But it all comes down to – it's got to be value accretive and it's got to be quality, quality ounces over quantity and ensuring we are delivering on free cash flow and shareholder returns.

Okay, thank you.

Our next question today is from Justin Chan from Numis Securities. Justin, your line is open.

Hi, thanks very much for hosting the call. Just as a follow up to James' question on underground grades. Are you expecting similar grades from stoping through that period and the development grade comes up a little bit? Or can you just give us more detail on the profile there? And my second question is on CapEx within the guidance window period. I guess how much of stoping or say how much of stripping for stage 4 and 5 comes into all-in sustaining costs versus how much do you expect to capitalize?

Okay. Just I'll talk about the grade part of the underground, as I said 2021, we forecast our overall grade from the underground of between 6 grams and 6.5 grams per tonne that is predominately made up of 55% stoping and 45% development. Development is a mixture of ore drive stoping access which is high grade development because it's along the structures and then there's also cost cuts in excess which are lower grades coming through the pool free.

So when I split out, when I'm talking at about [ph] 66.5 (00:37:56), you'll see higher grades will come from stoping and the developing grades will vary depending on where you are in the sequence, but development grades will be variable between 2.5 grams and 4 grams per tonne.

Okay. And I presume the – I guess, over the two years you just average it out essentially between 2.5 grams and 4 grams per tonne.

Correct.

Okay.

Justin, on your question with regards to the stripping, we're still under strip ratios, so we're not intending at this stage to carry any of those cost on the balance sheet.

Okay. And so – I see. So I guess, what are the stripping expectations within that? I know you gave the overall movement in tonnes. So I presume just does the two years look relatively similar? [indiscernible]

(00:38:55).

Yes. Basically, it's just over 5 to 1 ratio. Sorry, I don't have the exact number in front of me, but we did not in mind, the [ph] 5.75 (00:39:05) and I think we'll be running at about 5, 5 to 1.

Okay. And that just all goes into expenses?

Yes. So the waste component will go through. Yeah, we don't capitalize anything.

Okay. All right. Great, thanks very much. That's it for me.

Our next question today comes from Danielle Chigumira of Macquarie. Danielle, your line is open.

Hi there, and thanks for the call. Just on Cleopatra, can you give some color around the amount of drilling or study or time that you'd need in order to get enough information to make a decision on how best to exploit that part of the deposit? And in the meantime, what volumes of development or a year for example should we expect from the area?

Okay. Cleopatra, as I spoke about earlier in the year, that was just over 11,000 meters of drilling that we plan to get completed in Cleopatra. We have completed just over – just under 8,000 meters of that drilling. We did over 4,000 meters in Q2, obviously waiting for those results to come in. We've got approximately another 4,000 meters of drilling to complete. As all the Q2 results start to come through, we're going to be able to start building up a picture of what is the best plan to attack the Cleopatra in both the short and medium term. So Q3, we'll be able to provide more updates as more results come in and by the end of Q3, we should be fairly close to having that 11,000 meters of drilling completed. And then Q4 is working on those results and resources, so we can provide more color on the Cleopatra development and the way we take Cleopatra forward as well.

As far as development grades and that coming out of Cleopatra, we don't expect much in the way of the Cleopatra development to be mined as ore at this point in time obviously as – because we use a 2 gram cut off, so it's below 2 grams a tonne, it's treated as waste material from the underground, if it's about 2 grams a tonne, it will get delivered to the ROM pad. So that the contribution from Cleopatra and we have forecasts for 2020 and 2021 is very, very minimal.

Okay, that's helpful. And so by Q4 we should be able to quantify the upside to the baseline production from Cleopatra?

That's right. It's about the SI results coming back from the QA/QC on the SI results then we can really start talking about them in more detail.

Okay. Very clear. Thank you.

Our next question today comes from Alan Spence of Jefferies. Alan, your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning. Most of my question has been asked, so just a couple follow-up and clarifications, please. On the baseline, can you remind or tell us what the recovery rates you are assuming? On the underground for 2019, there was a note in the slide of the forecasted quarter-on-quarter improvement in grade and tonne, but I thought at the production call you talked about sequentially lower grade in Q3 and then Q4 grade similar to Q1. If you could please just clarify that? And then lastly, are you able to perhaps quantify some of the cost savings potentially from solar power in 2021 and onward?

Okay. Just talking on the underground, we talked about the geotechnical and the access issues so part of the upper Amun areas. And just reiterating that access into secondary exit, so basically so you got two points of entry and exit from a safety point of view that remedial work is underway, and we expect to have that completed by the end of August which is a couple of weeks longer than what I said in the call a couple of weeks ago.

It doesn't impact on – all it does is push out the stoping sequence from the upper Amun area. So the stoping sequence in the grades – the underground production will be – totally ounces will be lower than what we had originally. But we still maintain the forecast because those types will come in late Q3 and then flow over into Q4. Hence that's why we maintained our guidance of 490,000 ounces to 520,000 ounces, plus all that area has restricted access at this point in time, we're still mining in the lower Amun and across in the Ptah areas.

Okay. And then in terms of recovery rate, please?

Yeah. Recovery, the recovery in the guidance is 89%.

Thank you. And then my next...

And then your question on the cost savings and then solar, I guess it's still very high level at the moment and there are hypothetical calculations going through. The key driver is building in a cost saving and it's really going to drive our processing costs which are sitting at $13 or $13.7 and reducing debt by up to 30%. So the processing cost comes down considerably, but we are finalizing all our costings on it and getting the various price in there. So I can't give you anything more granular than that, but it does have a considerable saving particularly on our processing cost profile and the payback period is basically worth about two and a half year payback.

That's very helpful. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We currently have no further questions. So I'll hand back to you.

All right. Thank you very much for joining us on this call today. Should you have any further questions, please feel free to contact myself, Ross or Alex, and we'll be happy to answer those questions for you. With that, I'd like to say thank you very much, and have a nice day. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now disconnect your lines.