Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Marina Calero — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

I will start with an apology for being a few minutes late. The joys of technology, I connected my Apple to my phone to dial in, at which point they ran out of battery and died and I happened to scramble to find an alternative headset. So my apologies for keeping everybody waiting this morning, but thank you for dialing in. As I've mentioned, Martin Horgan, CEO, joined by my colleagues today, Ross Jerrard, CFO; and, of course, Alex on Comms. We'll take you through the Q3 results, and the usual format, a bit of an overview from myself and then open it up to Q&A, for Ross and I to take you through that and then we'll wrap it from there as well.

So, in terms of the quarter starting off with safety as we like to do, look, another safe quarter delivered with no LTIs. We're now [ph] so about (00:00:51) about 7 million hours of LTI-free operation, which I'm delighted with that results. Interestingly, looking at the total recorded injury frequency rate that's published there, that is up slightly and that's something that we've been focusing on. And actually when we do a bit of deep diving to those numbers, what we recognize is that actually, although we're seeing more incidents being recorded, it's the severity of those incidents that's significantly down.

And what we're seeing is in 2020, in terms of mean time before returning to work, those recorded injuries are around 40 days and now we're down to 20 days. So that tells us that actually what we're seeing is a good reporting total, more issues being reported but actually more minor injuries. So those high potential injuries and significant injuries are reduced and we're seeing small things around like lacerations of fingers, medical injuries that allow people to return to work almost immediately, if not very quickly thereafter. It does remain a focus, we'll continue to look to work on that, but more broadly, I think we remain a safe and a good site. I honestly believe that safety stats are a good proxy for a good management team running a site well.

In terms of production, just over the 100,000 ounces for the quarter, that 101,000 ounces. Production was impacted slightly during the quarter through in September. I think [ph] it'd flat (00:02:13) as part of the life of the asset last week. As part of the routine mill reline, we undertake an inspection of the facility during that reline process. We picked up a couple of areas that we believed could warrant some preventative maintenance. So in discussion with plant management, with the OEMs or the mill provider and also management, we decided to get out ahead of that issues and perform some preventative maintenance repair as well.

I think that was the correct thing to do for the long term, is prudent management. We could have sort of left it to run and it would have been probably okay, but we decided to take that risk off the table. It's not to say that the repairs [ph] reflected in-country and (00:02:52) the mill's been running since the 1st of October, so successfully navigated. And, of course, because of the flexibility we have now, we were able to, one, keep the process facility moving, produced at about 70% of our normal rate over that repair period, and actually we maintained the mining rate as per normal that allows us to build up a good stockpile of good volume and great material on the ROM pad over that period as well.

And, of course, with the additional flexibility we have now in the mining plan, we're looking at the sort of ability to navigate Q4. Despite this mining hiccup, we're able to maintain guidance, albeit at the lower end as well. So the sort of the downside of the negative was a slight irritation on sort of what was heading to be a good year in terms of [indiscernible] (00:03:39) range of guidance. But what I'm really pleased about though is it was an issue that was identified preemptively, a prudent course of action was taken place. Plans were put in place then to navigate that and allow us to carry on and deliver 2023 as planned, albeit slightly down, but also without cannibalizing 2024 as well.

So when we look to the production numbers, of course, one of the things you then move on to is costs. And of course, we kept mining running, we kept the process plant largely running, apart from [ph] site 1 (00:04:08), obviously, and pushed on. And, of course, with the lower ounce production profile, one is then concerned about was that due to the unit costs? So delighted again to see a really strong effort around the cost base. And despite that sort of slightly lower than planned production outlook, still came in at $12 – sorry, excuse me, $1,266/oz for the quarter and yet-to-date $1,240/oz. So, really strong performance there. I think that really just reflect the focus on cost control at sites and some prudent budgeting to there as well.

And with that strong performance and heading into the final quarter, that does allow us now to [ph] reach (00:04:46) towards the lower end of our stated range of $1,250/oz to sort of $14 – sorry, excuse me, to $1,400/oz, apologizes, so the bottom half – the lower half of that range as well. So delighted with the cost, the continuing cost performance of Sukari. From a CapEx perspective, we realized some savings over the year to date, maintenance around our open pit fleet and also the strategy change there. And also, lower realized diesel prices has allowed us to perform a sort of – on a cheaper basis and reduce that CapEx. And with those savings, we've decided to accelerate some of next year's capital expenditures into this fourth quarter, allow us to maintain the overall guidance of CapEx this year and bring forward some of those key projects.

Most [ph] notably (00:05:38) is around additional fleet capacity within the open pit to deliver a new life mine plan, and that will be important for grid connection as well. So delighted with the CapEx performance there as well. Speaking of CapEx and projects, first anniversary of our solar plant and delighted with that. Lots of people talk about plans and aspirations and targets for the net zero in carbon reductions. I'm delighted at Centamin, we're actually delivering this already. 22 million liters of diesel saved over the last year. Since we're about banging on target of what we thought it would be, at about 60,000 tonnes of CO2 [ph] per annum (00:06:10) as well. So that's a fantastic effort by the team and delighted to see that project coming through, saving costs, importantly, that carbon as well.

We delivered our life of mine plan last Thursday. Really, really happy with that, I think that was a fantastic outcome and a real culmination of three years' worth of work to pull out together with our strategy of looking to put a world-class mine around a world-class ore body at Sukari. The headline numbers of ounces up, costs down at lower risk and reduced carbon, and that really encapsulates the life of mine plan. And delighted to say that not resting on the laurels there, we still see quite a few additional catalysts that we can deliver over the coming sort of 12 to 18 months as we look to further refine and optimize and build on that foundation of what is a really solid plan. It really does reconfirm Sukari's sort of Tier 1 status as a world-class asset as well.

In terms of EDX outside of Sukari now, our Eastern Desert Exploration, couple of big milestones in the quarter. Obviously, we agreed in principle the new terms of the mining code with the Minister of Petroleum, His Excellency Tarek El-Molla. Delighted to have got that work concluded over the third quarter. That [indiscernible] (00:07:16) with our industry partners of Barrick and our [ph] counsel and advice (00:07:21) with McKenzie, working with government to flesh out the code and delighted that we're able to conclude those negotiations in Q3.

In parallel with that, we've been busy in the field. We generated seven priority targets from our initial exploration work in and around Sukari Concession in the Nugrus Block. I'm delighted to say that we've just about completed our first inaugural drilling campaign to test seven, which became eight targets with further success around mapping and soil work, and that work has now concluded. So with that work done, we're now busy waiting for the assay to return from the lab. Once we've got those assay back, we look forward to updating you later in the year on the potential of EDX and the work completed there as well.

And staying on growth, Doropo, obviously, PFS delivered earlier this year, and third quarter really sort of the DFS and [ph] ESIA (00:08:08) activity step up another level. ESIA work is ongoing right now. A lot of public and social consultation goes on in the field with impacted communities and preparation and documentation around the ESIA submission for later this year. And, of course, the DFS work running in parallel with that, ready for submission and finalization in the first half of 2024.

So, another significant quarter achieved. Lots of progress made across the portfolio. Lots of sort of highlights of life of mine plan, the EDX drilling, the mining code and so on. A well navigated third quarter from an operational perspective, both in ounces and costs, and sets us fair for a solid 2023 as we look forwards to that new life of mine [ph] planning (00:08:49) next year, in 2024.

So that is the overview. I'd now like to hand over to questions and happy for Ross and I to answer any comments you may have.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Marina Calero from RBC Capital Market. Marina, please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for the call. I just have a question about the seasonality in your 2024 guidance. Can you give us a bit more color about the profile of transaction cost and CapEx next year? Thank you.

sorry, Marina. I've really struggled to hear that. So you talked about the 2024 plans. I'm sorry, I missed the question. You were looking for more clarity around what? Sorry.

Yeah. Sorry. I think my line may have been – is it better now?

That's better, yeah. Thank you.

Yeah. Now, I was just asking if you could give us more color about the expected seasonality in your production cost and CapEx numbers next year.

Ah, okay, okay. Well, look, I would say that, obviously, the 2024 numbers that we gave as part of the life of asset, it did have a range within that. And, of course, we are heading into our budget cycle for this year and for 2024 and there's a number of sort of moving parts within that. When trucks arrive, a new – when we sort of tie in the grid, some of the CapEx projects move through as well. So I think if it's okay, what I'd suggest is allow us to complete that sort of usual budget cycle where we engage with site management, allow us to get that through the board and get that approved and signed off the plan for next year.

So Ross and I are due down to site in November to run through the final iteration of that, and I think once we've got that locked in, obviously, the operational and the strategic considerations harmonize, then we'll be able to give you guys a bit more color and clarity as to where things are as well. So if you can bear with us a few more weeks, Marina, we'll be able to complete that usual budget cycle work stream and then get out there with a bit more clarity and breakdown on sort of the specifics on a quarter-by-quarter, half-by-half basis for you.

That's right. Thank you very much. And one more question for me. On the EMRA profit share, do you have any outstanding recoverable amounts or that's something you're also looking into ahead of your budgeting cycle?

So I'll ask Ross to comment. With the best of my knowledge, at – by the mid-year, we were pretty much up-to-date on cost recovery. So, Ross, I think by – obviously, we did it on a six month-by-six month basis, but as of the latest date, Ross, middle of the year, I believe we're pretty much fully up-to-date on cost recovery, of monies due?

That's correct, Martin. Marina, basically, we've said shared we're basically up-to-date for end of June. We do have [ph] announced (00:12:09) that crystallized during this the six month period which we're working on, but yeah, we're largely up-to-date from a cost recovery perspective.

Okay. Very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions so I'd like to come back to management for any closing remarks.

Oh, sorry, let me just check with Alex. Is there any Web-based questions, Alex, apologies, coming through?

There are not any questions through the webcast. Thank you.

Okay, perfect. Well, in that case, I would just like to thank everybody again during the call. My sincere apologies again for being late at the start of the call. As I say, technology is great until it doesn't work. And thank you for the time this morning for Listening. And as ever, if there's any further sort of follow-up questions that you think about over the course of the day or the coming days or weeks, feel free to reach out the usual channels to myself, Ross or Alex and we'd be happy to follow up with you thereafter as well. So I wish you all a very damp Thursday here in London and look forward to talking to you all soon again. Thanks very much.