Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andy S. Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
David Haughton — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Daniel Ross McConvey — Founder & Managing Member, Rossport Investments LLC
George Topping — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to Centamin Quarter One Results Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I'd like to hand the conference over initially to Andrew Davidson. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Rita. Hello, everyone. Thanks for joining us. I'm joined by Andrew Pardey, COO, and Pierre Louw, CFO. And I think as per normal form with these updates, we just go straight into a Q&A session.

So I'd like to throw the line open for questions as you've got them. Thanks.

Wonderful. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Haughton. Please ask your question.

Yes, good morning, Andy. Hope things are well over there. I've got a question for you in relation to the fuel subsidy and I'm just looking for a couple of clarifications here. Firstly, is that the cash costs of $556 for the quarter is inclusive of paying full price per fuel?

That's correct, David. Yes, since Q4 in the annual results, we are now expensing the prepayment – sorry, we're treating them as an exceptional item currently on the P&L.

Okay. And the $700 per ounce guidance excludes that subsidy as well. Same basis?

On the same basis, yes. We report everything now on the full international fuel price basis in terms of guidance and our unit costs.

Okay. And previously we'd been – you'd given a heads-up about the $8 million prepayment. And just tracing it through, I saw that you've got a balance sheet item for the prepayment and it's in the cash flow. But it's not reflective at this stage through the P&L? Is that the way that we should think about it and is this just a one-off or should we think about some more of these going forward?

That advance made to EMRA is against future profit share that becomes payable down the line. When profit share kicks in officially, obviously it's dependent on the gold price to a certain extent, it will go through the P&L at that time. Until then, these advances are on the balance sheet, reflective of future expense.

So, your question in terms of whether we are likely to make any more of these payments, I would say, yes. Our current modeling, say, spending on gold price – $1,600 gold price. When we looked at it then, it looked as though profit share would become officially available in 2014, next year. Obviously, if it's a lower gold price environment, that would push that to the right.

So we do expect however to be making additional advances up until the point whenever profit share becomes payable formally. So I think you probably should expect another payment around about midyear, just past the midyear, and then maybe at the same time again next year, early next year.

All right. And by 2014, are you talking about the fiscal year 2014 on your modeling or calendar 2014?

Yes, the fiscal year is, the way the operating company works...

Okay.

...year-end of June.

So, based on your modeling, $1,600, it looks like you would be paying that full participation at – well, that 60% ownership to you, 40% to the government by June of next year, that's your current modeling?

Correct.

Okay. Now the way that we would have expected the payments once you trigger that two years at 60% then 55% then 50%-50%, I would've expected it to have come out as a minority interest in your P&L and as a dividend in your cash flow statement. Is that the way that you're looking at it too?

I think I'll let Pierre answer that.

Yes, okay.

Yes.

Yes, I think if you just look at the accounting treatment, we treat the joint venture as a joint venture with a – and fully consolidate the accounts. And then the portion that we do pay over will be treated as a quasi-tax or similar to a quasi-tax, so we bring 100% of the costs in and then we will have a line where we actually remove the profit share through the government as if it is a tax payable.

Okay, as a, less minority and you would treat the payment to the government as a dividend?

I think we'll probably treat it, and we haven't got finalization on this, it's a discussion we've got ongoing at the moment with our auditors. But we'll probably treat it as above – before earnings per share, just above earnings per share. That's probably where it's going to go but it's not final yet, we have that discussion ongoing at the moment.

All righty. And Pierre, while I've got you, I noticed that you've got a loss of associate of nearly $1.5 million. What's the associate that that's in relation to in your P&L?

That's the shares. Basically share valuation that we've got in some of our companies like Nyota, for instance, where we invest and where the share prices have come down. So we've taken a knock on the value there.

Okay, all right, because it's treated as a – yes, I would have expected it as something like an abnormal item of an impairment value, of carrying value rather than the loss on associate, for instance.

Yes. It is share transactions and it is loss on the value of shares.

All right. And the last question for me, on the June 19, you've got a hearing coming up. Is this just a hearing for going through paperwork or would you expect to have some decision made by the Courts in relation to that 3-kilometer versus the 160-square-kilometer item?

It's very unlikely we'll get a decision on June 19. Our understanding is it's going to mark the first hearing, most likely, out of a number of hearings in a process whereby the Supreme Court, Supreme Administrative Courts, which is our – the Appeal Court that's hearing the case, then that process commences on June 19 whereby they hear the merits of the appeal or they consider the merits of the appeal.

So it really marks the start of the appeal process proper, and we had the last, meaningful outcome from the appeal process was back on March 20, where that same panel of judges, the seven judges that sit on that panel of the Supreme Court ruled to suspend the judgment, the original judgment, by the Administrative Court, pending the outcome of the appeal. So that's cleared the way then for the merits of the appeal hearings to commence and June 19 is the first of those hearings.

Okay. So to the best of your knowledge, it's just an administrative step, one of many to come?

Yes, yes. I guess the follow-on question, the natural follow-on question is how long is this process likely to be, and we're suggesting that it will carry on through the course of this year. So we'll certainly make best efforts to try and resolve the appeal as quickly as we can but we can't give any clear steer or guidance or promises or otherwise in relation to that. To the best of our knowledge, this is going to go through the remainder of this year.

Okay. And that non-binding recommendation that had been made by the Egyptian State Commissioner's office, how much weight do you think that carries, because I noticed that you'd made the statement that it doesn't appear to address the substantive merits of the appeal. So what's your – how important is that recommendation?

It's a recommendation that is not binding, as we've said in the release. There's no obligation by the Supreme Court to adhere to that recommendation. It's made by two individuals who are not connected to the panel of judges that sits on the Supreme Court. So it's one of a number of documents, of course most importantly, from our perspective, of course, are our package of documents in relation – as submissions in relation to the appeal. EMRA's, Minister of Petroleum's, all these submissions are made into the Court and this is another one of those submissions that go into the Supreme Court. So, it's advisory and it's content, and it's nature and it's recommendations and that's all.

All right. And is this the same office that provided the non-binding recommendation prior to going into the Administrative Court back in October?

It's part of the same office, yes.

Okay. So in that instance, it was overruled by the Administrative Court so it – I guess that does demonstrate it is non-binding then.

Correct. And there were plenty of other precedents outside of our case that demonstrate the same principle.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, David. Cheers.

Your next question comes from [indiscernible] (10:56). Please ask your question.

Hello. With regards to your Stage 4 expansion, can you run through some of the last items to be commissioned, specifically what you expect to have online in early 2014?

Well, basically the – I mean I can let Andrew elaborate on this, but the plant will be operational before the end of the year, the expanded plant. So we'll be through the commissioning process in the second half of this year.

Okay. And then just with regards to the crusher, I think that's supposed to come online last? And I guess what we're trying to get at is whether the old crusher would be able to accommodate any of the larger throughput before the new one is ramped up?

Hey, Andrew, would you like to carry on with that?

Yes, the old crusher will initially be able to, as we're ramping up Stage 4, the old crusher will be able to provide the feed for the commissioning phase and initial ramp up of Stage 4.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Daniel McConvey. Please ask your question.

Hello, Andy, Andrew and Pierre. A couple of questions in operations first, just on the underground, just reading through the press release here, there's equipment availability issues, but how would you describe things on the ground now, just between your managers and getting the right employees, getting the right skills, and your confidence level in building this out over the next year or so?

Dan, it's progressing well. While we've had issues, they weren't major issues. But we did highlight them. And we've also made the decision as well, we had the fourth truck, but one of those trucks is the old 769. We've decided we're not going to use that truck anymore and we've got a fourth truck that'll be on site in July, so we will have two brand-new trucks in the underground, and we'll have two trucks that haven't even got the ending life. So we'll have four good bits of equipment for hauling out of the declines.

And just in terms of the skills and developmental skills, underground, et cetera, and – I forget the name of your manager from Australia, he's still there and just in terms of...

Our underground manager is still there, the same contract manager is still there. The key people are all still part of the underground team.

Okay, and so your confidence in building this up is, if anything, getting stronger?

That is correct, Dan. As I said this morning as well, we now have Ptah. We have a development crew totally dedicated to Ptah. Ptah is now a separate operation from Amun. We're far enough down. We have independent ventilation. We have independent firing down there, so we don't have to clear – when firing Ptah we don't have to clear Amun and vice versa. We've also started the first cross cut in Ptah going across to the porphyry in that northern end.

Okay, good. Just onsite, you've had the issues over the last couple of years with the strikes, et cetera, and it sounds like things are as good as they have been in the last couple of years. Is that an accurate statement?

Dan, I've just come from site and I was walking around the different areas and talking to people, and the general feedback I got from everyone was very positive, both Egyptian employees and expatriate employees. No one was coming up to me and complaining about this and complaining about that. Everyone was very positive.

Andy, just on the court case, the recommendation. Thanks for your candor in just talking about this. I just wondered if it's possible if you don't have it now to try to get a list of or some kind of historical data of the – of what's happened when you have recommendations like this and how often the Court has followed those recommendations. I know this is a kind of unique case but that's the best way we can probably get comfort with this is, if it's on a lot of occasions, these things are ignored and the Court goes the other way. That's one request.

The second part of this, who are these two guys? When you read this thing, who are the two individuals who wrote this recommendation?

Dan, I think whereas if it takes a lot of time and from our lawyers to compile a list of sort of other litigations and going into sort of the ins and outs of other cases, so I think we're all pretty focused on our case. So I mean, there are precedents, pretty significant ones, maybe I'll be able to elaborate more on that as I get more information over time. But really the key thing here is that this is an advisory report, there is no obligation for the Court to follow the recommendation. The individuals that wrote this report, as I've said before, they're unconnected to the actual decision-making process, they're not part of the panel of the Supreme Court themselves.

The report when you read it, is very flowery, very rhetorical, it's longwinded, it doesn't contain any real legal arguments, nothing cohesive in there that we can really concern ourselves about. There's nothing in there that we don't address already in terms of our appeal, having talked about in court or in our submissions before, there's no need for us – we're very confident we don't need to [indiscernible] (17:17) our appeal basis or spend too much time worrying about the [indiscernible] (17:22), it's baseless in our view and contains no real legal argument.

I think we've been pretty clear before, certainly in our conversations, in most conversations I've had with people and presentations we've made, that there is an element within the judiciary that is political, a faction within the judiciary that have an agenda that's more political rather than concerned with the process of law. However – and this is clearly another manifestation of that, this report.

But the most important thing from our point of view, as we go back to March 20 and the ruling that was made on March 20; very clear. The Court found and they stated categorically that the exploitation lease was valid and there was a very likely probability that we would win the appeal on the basis of that evidence.

So that, in our view, is the clearest and most overwhelming indication as where the Court stands at the moment and we've got no expectation, no reason to believe that they will change their view from that, certainly based on this rhetorical document that's just been submitted.

Okay. Andy, that's helpful but this recommendation is a bit of a mystery to us. And I think it's a little bit of mystery to you, too. Are these judges that out with this? Are they in Cairo? Are they – and how often is this part of the procedure in such cases?

They are judges and they are involved in the judiciary. They do hold that status as judges but they're not judges in a decision-making capability. They don't hold any decision-making authority in their role as commissioners. And so yes, they hold that nominal status but they're not judges and they're certainly not involved in the decision-making capability with us.

Okay. Where are they based and is this a normal practice?

Where are they based? I believe they're based in Cairo.

Okay. Okay, and is this normal that we have a recommendation like this in a litigation case as this?

It's a normal procedure, Dan, to have this and we saw this, obviously early on in our court process this happened, there is an advisory panel. I think maybe we talk more offline on this, Dan. If we go into more detail. I think we've said really all that we want to say now on this aspect of the court case. I think it's a distraction, from our point of view, this report. It's not anything that alters our appeal, as I said before, and I think the real material event was the March 20. But I'm happy we can talk more offline, if you like.

Okay, thanks, Andy.

Thanks, Dan. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from [indiscernible] (21:01). Please ask your question.

Hi there. Could you give us some color on the extent to which you're proactive in managing your relationships with the Egyptian government? And managing the company's profile?

Well, we're not political, as a company. We never have been. We don't – what's the word, levy or use relationships within government to our end advantage and never have done. And certainly if we had done that, over the course of when we were developing the mine, we would have been in real trouble now. So it's a general policy that we're apolitical. We stick to the terms of our concession agreements, and the operating parameters that sets for us and we abide by that and we always have done and we always will do. So we don't manage anything politically. We have our relations with our government partner EMRA on a day-to-day basis and those relations are good.

That's very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from George Topping. Please ask your question.

Great. Thanks and hello everyone. So, can you confirm that you're able to repatriate any profits from the mine while this court case is ongoing?

Yes, there's no restriction in regard to the court case and the terms of the concession agreement are very clear on that matter and we have full ability to repatriate funds.

Okay, good. Then just on the underground costs, can you tell me, as per the budget, how much are you capitalizing for this year, in millions of dollars?

It's – the budget is $18 million for the year.

For capitalizing underground...

For the capital costs for the underground development.

I see. That's great. Thank you.

Thanks, George.

There are no further questions at this time.

Sorry, was that – there are no further questions? Sorry I missed that.

That's fine. Yes, there are no further questions.

Great. Thanks very much. Okay, thanks, everyone, for joining the call. Speak to you next time. Cheers. If not before. Thanks. Bye.