Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Hunter Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Centamin Q3 [Technical Difficulty] (00:03) Conference Call. For the first [Technical Difficulty] (00:06) call, let me remind you that all participants are [Technical Difficulty] (00:10). There will be a Q&A session. Please note that today's conference is being recorded.

And I would now like to hand over to Andrew Pardey. Please begin your meeting.

Okay. Thank you, operator, and good morning to everyone who has joined the call. As announced in the preliminary production results, Sukari achieved record production for the third quarter producing 156,533 ounces of gold. This was an increase of almost 32,000 ounces, or 26%, in the second quarter with a majority of this improvement resulting from an as-planned increase in the open-pit feed grade from 0.81 grams per tonne to 1.1 grams per tonne [ph] fits the (01:02) processing plant. With costs well controlled, the increase in production led to a 21% fall in cash cost to $483 per ounce produced.

Sustaining capital expenditure increased as scheduled, predominantly due to open-pit mining fleet rebuilds. This resulted in a 12% fall in the all-in sustaining costs to $732 per ounce sold compared to Q2 2017. With another strong quarter expected in Q4, we maintain our full year guidance to 540,000 ounces at a cash cost of $580 per ounce, and an all-in sustaining cost of $790 per ounce.

As you'd expect, the combination of higher sales volumes and well-controlled cost led to a sharp increase in EBITDA, rising 57% to $104 million with free cash flow after all costs and capital increasing 45% to $45 million. After the interim dividend payment of $29 million, cash and liquid assets rose to $346 million as of the 30th of September.

Looking in more detail at the operations. At the open-pit, the fleet recorded the third successive quarter of record material movement with a total of 18.6 million tonnes mined, at an annualized rate of 74 million tonnes per annum, at a cost of $1.64 per tonne. With the east wall cutback, which dominated the first half of 2017 now complete, ore production was sourced from the lower benches of stage 3B which provided the majority of the mill feed, as well as the upper portions of stage 4, which provided a relatively large amount of low-grade ox material – low grade oxide material that reported to the dump leach pads, lowering the reported average mine grade overall.

Excluding the dump material reporting at dump leach, the average mine grade was 0.92 grams per tonne, which included [indiscernible] (03:08) materials into stockpile. Mining is expected to continue in the same [indiscernible] (03:12) during the fourth quarter.

On moving up the underground operations, they again performed strongly with the second successive quarterly production rate of 1.2 million tonnes per annualized. Grades remained strong at 7.98 grams per tonne mined and a slightly higher mill feed grade given the high grade material that was mined towards the end of the second quarter, but processed during the third quarter.

Ore from stoping activities produced a quarterly record of 189,000 tonnes at a cost of approximately $27 per tonne, whilst also maintaining grades above 8 grams per tonne. The processing plant again performed well above nameplate capacity with just under 3 million tonnes processed. Whilst this was down slightly on the Q2's record figure, we remained very pleased with throughput rates and look forward to still higher levels of productivity following installation of the fourth secondary crusher, which is continuing.

Recovery rates improved from Q2 to 88.3%. This is still below our target rate and are focused on improving overall metallurgical recoveries while processing high rate through the plant continues. The projects outlined at our last results continue to be implemented. These include the installation of the VisioFroth, which is an automated control monitoring system that aims to increase the floatation mass pull; an expansion of the elution circuit and a reduction in CIL tailing losses with further improvement in carbon management and carbon monitoring techniques. [indiscernible]

(04:49) the processing plant, increased in Q3 compared to the second quarter to $13.50 per tonne. But this is in line with our forecast for the full year. The increase on Q2 reflects a high use of reagent, predominantly cyanide, commensurate with the ore types being processed.

Moving on to a brief summary, the exploration activities. Exploration at Sukari remains entirely focused on identifying future underground potential, both within the Amun / Ptah regions of the current operations, and at the potential new production source of Cleopatra.

At Amun and Ptah, drilling during the quarter [indiscernible] (05:27) at the high-grade structures at the intersection of the Osiris thrust and the top of the Horus Porphyry in lower Amun. Some of these results are shown on page 16 of the presentation, which has been updated today on the website. And clearly demonstrate the potential for additional high grade tonnes within the [ph] gap zone (05:46) between Amun and Ptah.

The drilling results from Cleopatra reported today remained internal to the porphyry and continued to confirm and define the geometry of the high-grade zones on the eastern side of the porphyry. Drill testing on the western contact of the porphyry has commenced, targeting an extension of the Antoine zone near the western contact. Initial results are expected to be reported with our full result early next year.

Moving on to Côte d'Ivoire, exploration is focused on regional target generation on the newly-granted permits of Gogo, Tehini 1 and Tehini 2, principally through systematic grid mapping, prospecting, soil sampling and auger drilling.

Resource Discovery focused on the Kalamon and Danoa permits expanding on the current Doropo resource cluster area. And then Resource Development focused on the Kalamon permit, we're drilling targeting extensions to the Nokpa, Souwa and Chegue South deposits, which will make up part of the initially reported 1.3 million ounces reported at start of the year.

In Burkina Faso, exploration continued to focus on anomaly development and extensions close to the main resource areas within the Napelepera, Konkera, Kpere Batie and Tonior permits. Focus has been on the generation of new air core and RC targets for Q4 2017 and resource growth targeting 2018. An updated resource and reserve statement for Sukari is in the process of being finalized and will be released during Q4 2017.

Looking forward, the current performance levels of the open-pit, underground and processing operations continue to give us confidence that we will meet our guidance for the year and also demonstrate the potential for future growth in annual production from existing operations. Beyond that, Cleopatra and our West African projects offer significant additional growth opportunities.

With that, I'd like to hand back over to the operator for the questions. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we have a first question from James Bell. Sir, please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, Andrew. Thanks for the call. A quick question on the mill. You obviously got a lot going on there with various little projects and commissioning with the second crushers. I just wondered if you could give a bit of color on what you're targeting in terms of a headline throughput potentially for next year and going forward at Sukari?

First of all, it's about consistent milling rates of a minimum of 12 million tonnes per annum and with the fourth secondary crusher coming online, we believe that this opportunity [indiscernible] (08:43) milling rate up to around 12.5 million tonnes or even slightly higher. Obviously, [ph] we're going to (08:49) get that fourth secondary crusher up and running and then increase the throughput [ph] for the circuit (08:55).

Okay. That's great. And then just on Cleopatra, again, sort of good numbers in the report from the drilling on the eastern side. I mean, you've confirmed the geometry so far. Are you guys happy with the sort of thickness that you're seeing on mineralization there? And I guess leading on to that, if we have some good results from the western zone with full year results, what's the sort of next steps if you like through 2018 in terms of milestones for that decline? Thanks.

Cleopatra, the initial result from the eastern side are encouraging. They're not showing the same grades that we've seen on the western contact, but the drilling that we've seen to-date on the western contact is very, very encouraging, but obviously waiting for assay results to confirm what visually the [indiscernible] (09:44) has shown it.

The way I see Cleopatra developing is obviously we'll continue to drill, increase the drilling, but also continue on with [ph] decline (09:55) development, as we've drilled areas to approach this target with the potential [ph] of being out and swing it (10:00) into some production coming up towards the end of 2018 or into probably realistically in 2019.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

We have another question from Mr. Richard Hatch from RBC. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you very much and good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for your time. And just following up on Cleopatra. Sorry if I missed it. Are you able – what's your thinking about an eventual timing for resource? Understand that you're going to drill it more and it takes time, but are you in any kind of position where you can think about when you might be looking to try and put some rough numbers together?

And then secondly, can you just remind me what expectation of profit share rates you expect to pay in 2018? I know that your fiscal year is different to the profit share year. And then finally, when – is there any kind of – I know you're working on your plan at the moment to try and get that recovery rate up to about 90%. Andrew, should we be kind of expecting that to sort of come through by about so second half of next year or what's your view there?

Okay. Look, just Cleopatra as I said on the call, we will have a resource and reserve update out for Sukari during Q4. I expect a small portion of that resource update will include Cleopatra. It won't be that big, but there will be some [indiscernible] (11:36) Cleopatra included in resource update. As far as the recovery work that you're talking about in the [indiscernible] (11:43), I'd like to think that that's all delivered by the second, by the end of Q2, 2018.

Regarding your question on cost recovery, I'll hand that to Ross on that one.

Hi, Richard. I guess, in terms of profit share, so we've got June 18 – June 17 and June 18, which are our first two years, and that gets to [ph] 60-40 (12:07) in each of those years. And then following that [ph] grant would start 55-45 (12:11). In terms of [indiscernible] (12:13), we've modeled between $100 million and $110 million that we would pay [indiscernible] (12:18) in each of those particular years.

Okay. And it go a price of?

So, that's [ph] all $12.50 (12:25) price. [ph]

$12.50 (12:26). Okay. Cool. Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks.

We have a next question from Mr. [ph] Tom O'Hara (12:36) from Exane BNP Paribas. Sir, please go ahead.

Thanks very much and good morning, gents. I think it's been mostly covered actually just on Cleopatra, but a few further comments would be appreciated. On the site visit a couple of weeks ago, I mean, it seemed – I came across that I think the team is quite excited about Cleopatra. In terms of on our side as a sense, choosing the right moment to start building in some assumptions for Cleopatra. I guess it's important to sort of try and pin down when we'll get a good indication of this thing being viable and no significance in scale.

So, as I understand it, the drill results will come through with full-year results early next year. And then, Andrew, you said that probably by the end of 2018, you swing it into production. Is that a sort of a binary outcome? Is that no tonnes from Cleopatra processed before that point or do you actually anticipate being able to start running more ore from Cleopatra through the plant actually from potentially early 2018 and then it becoming a significant amount of tonnes by the end of 2018?

Tom, what's going to come back with – we've got a backlog of [indiscernible] (14:09) Cleopatra. We're going to get those [indiscernible] (14:09) back. Diamond coal looks encouraging. We've got to get the [indiscernible] (14:16) results to confirm what the diamond coal, which you saw in the diamond site visit was very good.

Then you'd see as development continues, and we start to develop [indiscernible] (14:27), you'd start to see some ramp-up in development tonnes coming out of Cleopatra. I would say more towards the middle of next, we have potentially some stoping coming online later in 2018. Obviously, as more results come in there could be an opportunity to bring it forward slightly, but I'd prefer it to be on the more cautious side until we get more results and more development in.

Okay. Thanks. And this is potentially a little bit of a cheeky follow-up, but in terms of the quantity and the development tonnes that you might be able to expect before the stoping tonnes come through in late 2018. Are you able to sort of give a ballpark estimation of that at the minute? [indiscernible]

(15:22) looking at development rates for Cleopatra as we develop them, it's going to be between 200 meters a month and 400 meters a month. Depending on what that development is going through, you could start seeing tonnes, 20,000 tonnes, 30,000 tonnes of development all coming out. But, again, it depends where the development is going through. It could be going through low-grade porphyry before it's driving along possible identified structures. It's really better – let's get full year results out and we can have this discussion again when we've got FAs confirming what we have in Cleopatra.

But the other thing is, just stepping away from Cleopatra, the other thing we announced during Q3 as well with the results is, some of the drilling in the gaps are in between Amun and Ptah. That was an area where we'd always earlier on we said we had some structural complexity, et cetera. Now, with the Horus decline going through the area and the drilling that we've done, that has shown some very, very attractive results. And that's basically sitting next to existing infrastructure, the Horus decline, as it goes back down into lower Amun. And that's an area that offers opportunity in a relatively short period of time to provide additional high-grade material from the existing underground.

Okay. That sort of prompts another question, if I may. And obviously [indiscernible] (16:46) underground grade guidance has proven to be relatively conservative, 7.3 grams per tonne, and you've been consistently exceeding that. Does the new [indiscernible] (17:00) results from – between Amun and Ptah could give us greater likelihood of the underground continuing to exceed that 7.3 grams per tonne guidance?

Well, until the geologists finish modeling what's in there, I can't firmly comment on that. But I can say the results that we're seeing there are very, very encouraging.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much for your time.

We have no further questions. [Operator Instructions] And we have another question from Mr. Richard Hatch from RBC. Sir, please go ahead.

Thanks. Thanks for your time. Just two quick follow-ups. Firstly, can you just remind me what your forecasted strip ratio is for the open-pit for 2017? And how that compares to your expectations for 2018? Should we be expecting to see any adjustment in the strip?

And then secondly, a question on West Africa, I mean, over $100 million invested. What is the – I know you sort of talked in your report about sort of looking to try and get the sufficient resources and reserves. Can you just remind me what kind of number you're looking for in terms of resources to take that project forward please?

Well, Richard, just a quick one. Strip ratio for Sukari is generally going to be around – it's going to be around 4.8:1 to 5.2:1. That's the strip ratio. West Africa, as I said, earlier this year, we had our new group exploration manager, Norm Bailie, come in. Norm's done a full review of everything we have in West Africa. He's reshaped Burkina Faso. And we're now in a position where Norm has started new target anomaly extension in Burkina Faso around Napelepera and Konkera. We have that current resource.

Obviously, with the air core drilling that's now commenced in Q4, if those results come back encouraging, it could potentially lead to a further resource increase, which is what we really need to see to be able to make a firm investment decision in Burkina Faso.

But then also, at the same time, across the border in Côte d'Ivoire, around that Doropo cluster, where we got the [indiscernible] (19:39) inferred and indicated resource of 1.3 million ounces continuing drilling on those areas, and anomaly identification is also coming up at this stage very positive.

Okay. Do you ever kind of looked to put a hard number on kind of minimum resources available to you to sort of at least get over your initial hurdle rates Andrew?

We don't publicly give any sort of hurdle rates. But [indiscernible] (20:10) production as – at least 150,000 ounces through at least seven years.

Okay. Super helpful. Thank you very much,

Thanks, Richard.

We have another question from Hunter Hillcoat from Investec. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I never thought we'd see the day where Egypt is a lower risk jurisdiction compared to your neighbors, but that's the way things appear to be transpiring. Clearly the Egyptian government must be happy with the $35 million paid in the last quarter to them. Can you just give me an idea of your relationship with them? The sense that they're getting now that the cash flows are coming their way and confirmation that there's no issues across any other government revenue channels currently?

Hunter, our relationship to the government of the Egypt are very strong and very good. I mean, they always have been as well. I mean, there's always been this perception versus reality. Production, Sukari has been – it's eight years of production growth. If we had major challenges with partners or anything like that, we wouldn't be able to achieve those goals. And now, last year we recovered all our major CapEx, we've now moved into profit share with the government of Egypt and those checks that they're receiving, they're gratefully receiving those. We do have a strong positive relationship with the government of Egypt.

Yeah. Okay, great. Thanks.

We have no further questions.

Okay. Thank you very much, everyone, for joining the call.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you, all, for your participation. You may now disconnect.