Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andy S. Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
David Haughton — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Stuart McDougall — Analyst, Jennings Capital
George Topping — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.
Bart Jaworski — Analyst, J&E Davy
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Full-Year Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2012 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There'll be a presentation, followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker today, Andy Davidson. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Misha, and hello everybody. Thanks for joining us. Firstly, I think we should apologize for any confusion there was with EST time and Daylight Saving, as we appreciate some of you tried to dial in an hour ago and we weren't there. So, apologies for that, and thanks for coming back again.

I'm joined on the line by Andrew Pardey, our Chief Operating Officer; and Pierre Louw, our Chief Financial Officer. And I'll just kick off I think with an overview and the highlights; and then, we can have a Q&A session at the end. Apologies, again, for people who've heard this one already this morning on the 8:00 U.K. time call, but just bear with me.

So on the operations, the highlights for the year were we had clearly a strong performance from the operation. Production was a 30% increase on 2011. We produced 263,000 ounces and the operation continues to run very well. And I think first and foremost, we have to say well done and congratulations to the operating team, who deserve great credit as Josef has said in his Chairman's statement in the release today, for operating under very challenging and difficult circumstances through 2012.

At times, obviously, we had several disruptions. But nevertheless, the team pulled through and we've clearly ended the year very strongly indeed. Not only that, we did that with safety in mind and we had a marked improvement in our LTIF rate during the year on 2011. Guidance for this year, we released a couple of weeks ago, and 320,000 ounces indicates another year of growth on the way towards our long-term target of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces from 2015.

Obviously, the key driver of that in the next stage and the next significant step up is going to be the delivery of the Stage 4 expansion. We still expect to complete that before the year-end – that running before the year-end, although as we announced again a couple of weeks ago, we did have some delays to the commissioning and we brought that to the market's attention, essentially delays due to local suppliers and local issues within Egypt as much as anything.

CapEx, the balance of Stage 4 will be primarily put through this year. We spent $228 million of the Stage 4 total $325 million by year-end 2012; and we'd expect, as I say, to spend the majority of the balance of that this year. Underground budget CapEx is $20 million this year. So, that's the operations. On the financials, cash cost of production in 2012 was $669 at international fuel prices as beat of guidance of $700. Clearly, a function of the higher production ounces that we delivered in the year.

On a like-for-like basis with the subsidized fuel in, we would have been at $530 an ounce compared to $556 an ounce in 2011. So, again, indicating very good cost control. And we're expecting on the 320,000 ounces guidance basis to be at a similar level of around $700 at the international fuel price level this year. On the earnings, we had EBITDA up 10% to $233 million; PBT and the earnings per share are up 2% to $199 million and $0.183 cents per share, respectively. All of that is, in essence, an exceptional item, which I'll discuss in a moment.

The other key item in the financials side of things was the prepayment that we've made this year -sorry, in the post period – post year-end period, prepayment in respect of profit share. Now, there's no – important to note here that the year-end for the operating company, Sukari Gold Mines, is June 2013. And for the June 2013 period, we do not expect profit share to be due. On our current modeling, we're expecting profit sharing to be due for the year-end June 2014.

However, as an initiative that we have made on our own, i.e., through no – there's no sort of negotiation or push from the EMRA or government side of things. We've made that prepayment in order to demonstrate goodwill, a prepayment of $8.2 million. It's essentially an advance against future profit share that becomes due once profit-sharing profit kicks in, as I say, in the financial year 2014. We may be in a position where in the middle of this calendar year we make a similar prepayment. We'll judge that as we go along.

But the objective here is to continue to demonstrate goodwill and to essentially smooth out the profit share payments as they come in over the coming years and ramp up towards their full level once we're at full production and the cost recovery process has worked its way through. Other matters on financial, balance sheet, we still have no debt, no hedging. Our cash position, including bullion, receivables and liquid assets at the end of 2012 was strong, remains strong at $220 million or thereabouts. So, that's the financials.

On the exploration front, we continue to make progress at Sukari with the regional prospects outside of the Sukari Hill deposit itself. We have a gravity survey that we've recently completed in order to try and see some porphyry deposits below the wadi sediments. The results of that should be in, in the coming weeks in the second quarter, and we're looking forward to interpreting that data and continuing to target regional prospects, particularly with a view to looking for the high grade zones around the Sukari Hill deposit.

In Ethiopia, we continue to advance our exploration stage projects there. And elsewhere on exploration front, you all have noticed, I'm sure, that there's been no resource reserve update in this release. At this point, we are intending to do a resource and reserve update early in the second half this year and that will be the timetable essentially in the year going forward. So we kind of shifted our timing of when we do our resource and reserve updates this year, so something to come on that front in early second half.

So, then onto the other corporate matters, which of course occupy a lot of attention at the moment; we've got two court cases ongoing, one in respect of the Diesel Fuel Oil and the removal of the subsidy from January last year and then the attempt at the end of last year to retrospectively hit us with a claim.

Those items are being contested in court; as is our appeal against the October 30 Administrative Court ruling. We've discussed those things openly of course in our press releases and then on the Q&A. I would just point you – I'm not going to discuss those in great detail now, but I'll just point you to Note 20 of the financial statements, if you haven't seen them already, that discusses those court cases in detail.

The main points here, we continue to contest both of these cases as strongly to the best of our ability. Both appeals are ongoing. Both appeals may take some time to resolve. Ultimately, we believe, in both cases, we've got a very good chance of success; and particularly with the – of course with the October 30 ruling against our exploitation lease, we believe we've got an extremely good chance of success.

A few points again worth noting in respect of all of those or both of those court cases; in regard to the Fuel Oil, the diesel cases, the case – we've recognized this – in the results an exceptional item, $41 million, as we made a full provision essentially against the prepayment we've been making since January 2012 last year in respect of funds advanced to Chevron for the full international fuel price. That's really in recognition of the challenge we will face, the practicalities of re-claiming funds for those advances made to Chevron, given the current political environment in Egypt.

Nevertheless, as I say, we continue to contest the decision that was made in the court case. We have not made a provision against the illegal retrospective $60 million claim that was made at the end of last year. And that's based on a legal advice, a strong opinion, that we have a very good prospect for a favorable ruling there.

With regard to the Administrative Court case, there was – clearly we've made an update last week with regards to the ruling on March 20. That was a positive ruling in the case. It was an important step forward in the process. There was an assurance by the appeal court that operations will continue during the appeal process. It wasn't the end of the case. Clearly, some people did expect that. We've never said anything like that. We've always said that this appeal process will potentially take some time to complete, and that's still the position that we hold today.

However, again obviously last week's ruling was a clear positive. It does provide the appeal court's stamp of approval that we can continue to operate and further assurance that that will remain the case while the appeal runs its course. Also, I'll just highlight; it's important to note as we've announced previously that EMRA and the Ministry of Petroleum both lodged appeals in parallel with us and we, therefore, use that as a strong basis for asserting that we have their full support behind that matter in particular and in general.

So in summary, 2012 was a year where we had strong production, a beat of guidance on ounces and cash costs, despite the challenges and the several temporary stoppages in the period. Despite the unwelcomed distractions that we had during the year, we continue to operate. We continue to project growth with another step-up this year and then beyond, as Stage 4 is delivered; and we continue to invest in the completion of Stage 4 before – as I say, that will kick in before year-end.

So with that wrap up, I'd like to open it up now for Q&A. Thanks very much. Hello, operator?

Thank you and I'll begin the Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Haughton [BMO Capital Markets (Canada)]. Please go ahead.

Good day, Andy. It's David Haughton. Thank you for the update. I got a question for you with regards to CapEx 2013. You've suggested that it would consist at least of $100 million for Stage 4 and perhaps $200 million for the underground. What else should we be thinking about for 2013 CapEx?

Hi, David. Yeah, I don't know if Pierre is on the line now. Are you there, Pierre?

I am, yes.

All right, Pierre. Have you got those numbers? Do you want to take that one?

Yeah. I think for the year ahead, we've got the more or less $100 million for Stage 4, the completion of Stage 4. Similar levels to last year, exploration, we're looking at about – around about $12 million to $14 million. Underground, we're looking around the areas we did last year around about $20 million, maybe just over $20 million; and sustaining capital, around the level of $40 million.

Okay. Thinking about the Stage 4, should we start to see some contribution of that in the fourth quarter of this year, do you think?

We are definitely starting to – well, that's probably a question for Andrew, if he's on the line. Andrew?

Are you there, Andrew?

Yeah. I'm still here. The line is pretty bad. But yes, we're expecting to be commissioning Stage 4 in the second half of the year or during the – realistically towards the latter part of the year. So we will see some contribution from Stage 4.

Okay. So for the production guidance of 320,000 ounces, we should see a better second half than a first half as a consequence of that Stage 4 contribution?

If all goes according to plan, yes, that's correct.

Okay. And your continuing work with the access for the second underground decline, when do you think that you would be mining ore out of that decline and what do you think the overall underground production rate could get to?

With the Ptah Decline, we're still developing that and driving that towards the north [indiscernible] (0:15:55), which is [indiscernible] (0:15:58) that is why we [indiscernible] (0:15:59) for 200 meters, which we – where we should start to hit the first of the [indiscernible] (0:16:06). Now, we expect to be there at about – by the end of the second quarter, we expect to be hitting the development ore in the Ptah Decline, because in the meantime, we've also got development going on – further on Amun, where the [indiscernible] (0:16:23) crosscut is, we'll also hit the decline driving north as well.

Okay. So is it reasonable to expect that, perhaps not in the 2013 but certainly in 2014 that your underground production rate could exceed 0.5 million tons per annum?

That's a reasonable assumption to take.

Okay. But perhaps for conservatism... [Inaudible]

(0:16:49).

Sorry, Andrew. So perhaps for conservatism, just wait and see instead of really kind of pushing it?

That's correct. I would stick to the 500,000 for the present time.

All right. So just thinking about the production, you had during 2012 more production than sales. Do you have an expectation of additional sales in the first and second quarter of 2013 as a catch up and what sort of size should we be thinking about of that, if any, Pierre maybe?

Yes. Yeah, definitely, we've been in a situation where we had a big receivable at the end of December; and we have started selling that gold off in January, February. And coming to the end of the quarter, we should not be getting that kind of receivable again, and we should be back to our normal rate or about one to two shipments worth that's in the pipeline.

About how much gold would that represent, Pierre?

I would say 14,000 ounces maybe.

Okay. And just to be clear, your guidance of 320,000 ounces is production rather than sales. So this additional shipment could be in addition to that level?

That's correct. It is in addition to that level. In our P&L, you would see that we've recognized the revenue. But in the cash flows, obviously, the money was not in there.

Okay, that's very good. Now, Andy, you've mentioned in your preamble that the reserve update would be maybe mid-year. Can you remind me, with your previous reserve calculations, did that include or exclude the fuel subsidy and what impact might that have in your recalculation?

Okay. I think this one is for Andrew. Is he on the line?

Yes. That's – previously we had the fuel that's subsidized fuel price. When we run the optimization, [indiscernible] (0:19:08) going to be running the fuel at the international fuel prices [indiscernible] (0:19:12). So, it is going to imply an impact in the optimization process.

Okay. Well, it might be [indiscernible] (0:19:25) is to, whether that additional, whatever it is, $100 per ounce to $120 might be offset by a higher gold price. Would we expect to see any trimming of the reserves as a consequence, do you think?

I don't think we will.

So I think, David, as I think we've settled on that. But what exactly world gold price we're going to use, there for those calculations, but I'm sure the net effects will be very much mitigated.

Okay. And perhaps I've taken up some time here, so maybe my last one, perhaps for Pierre, if you don't mind, Andy, is thinking about D&A, depreciation and amortization, would we expect to see that move up in the second half of 2013 to reflect the contribution or the depreciation of Stage 4?

As that asset base area in Stage 4 is completed and we take that onto the asset register, we've started depreciating it this year. I would think though that the bulk would actually only come in the latter part...

Yes.

Because basically the process plant, we look at one unit rather than the different sections in the process plant. It's for the mining equipment and so forth that we will start picking up during the year when that comes online.

Thank you very much, Pierre. I'll let someone else ask some questions now. Thank you.

Thanks David. Cheers.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Mikitchook [GMP Securities LP]. Please go ahead.

Andrew, are you there?

Your line is open. Andrew Mikitchook, your line is open.

Hello? Is it just me? I can't hear him.

No, same here.

This is the operator. Would you like me to go into the next question?

Let's just – let's move on, please, yeah.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Stuart McDougall. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Hi guys, just a couple of quick questions on cost side, if you would. With the Q4 mine site G&A, I noticed it seems to have gone up by a notable amount, 20-odd-percent. Now I'm wondering if there was something extraordinary in there like the annual bonuses or something like that or should we assume that going forward?

It was definitely the allowance for the annual bonuses that was in there and it should not be there in the next three quarters. Again, at the end of the year, we will see that bump coming.

Okay, thank you for that. And secondly, if you can, for the dump leach, can you give me some color on the allocation for the cost in the dump leach? I know it's pretty much immaterial, but if you have that available, I would appreciate it.

Unfortunately, Stuart, I don't have that offhand but I can assure you that it is really immaterial. It is only paying for its direct cost of – through the process plant and the dump leach itself. The capital portion is fairly small. Only basically the distribution of the piping that goes on there and then there's this [ph] solution (0:23:41) that's using the reagents or chemicals that go on it; very, very minor cost. Unfortunately, I don't have that with me straight off. Maybe something we can adjust in or address in a future quarter.

Okay, fair enough. Thank you very much. That's all I had.

Thank you, Stuart.

Thank you. Your next question comes from George Topping [Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.]. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks operator. Hello, everyone. Say, Andy, perhaps or Josef, if you're on. Sorry, I missed the start of the call, but was there any restatement of the previous nine months, because we're obviously backing that out to get the Q4 numbers? Any restatement of any line item?

Pierre?

We have not restated the previous quarters. We've taken back the number in – I'm assuming that you're talking about the fuel restatement.

Well, yeah, fuel restatement and...

We've taken [indiscernible] (0:24:53) into the fourth quarter basically. But we have – throughout the year, we have published both numbers, both including and excluding fuel.

Okay. We're looking at the administration side of it and the Q4 number comes out at $9 million, which...

Yeah. There's...

Is a lot more for the G&A. So we're just wondering if there was a restatement or anything else in there that could cause that.

No, George. As I was just answering a little bit earlier I think to David's question as well, maybe it might have been Stuart's question, that in Q4, we've actually made provision for bonus payments and that would always be in Q4. The rest of the year, Q1, Q2, Q3 would go back to previous levels.

I see. Good. Then, secondly, the $8 million advance payment, how was that calculated? I know that was dealt with in the London call, but the transcript is not clear.

I think it's important to note that we initiated this process. The actual modeling, the cost recovery model that comes behind is part of the – is sort of put together under the terms of the Concession Agreement is what it is. It hasn't changed. We haven't changed any of that. We're essentially here making a goodwill gesture in advance against future payments that will be made. So this is an initiative really that we've instigated. It's not a sort of point of discussion or negotiation.

Yeah, there's been no change to the Concession Agreement certainly or any drive to do that. So that's an important sort of aspect to point out upfront. But in terms of actually getting to it, it's a question of deferring essentially some cost recoveries into later periods. So we've, at our own discretion, provided a little bit of latitude in terms of what costs are recovered at what stages in the process over the next few years, as we build up towards the full profit-sharing level.

I see. So there's no set formula that you're following there as a percent of profits or whatever?

No, no.

Fairly arbitrary?

It's pretty arbitrary. As I say, those one-sided arbitrary that we just simply applied some movement due to those cost recoveries and come up with that number at the end and settled on that.

Right. I apologize if you've dealt with this before. But in Note 20 concerning the court case on the mining license, the area of dispute is outside the three square kilometers. What – could you give us more information on what infrastructure and the use there of dumps or whatever that [indiscernible] (28:01) about?

Yeah. These three square kilometers is something that we don't recognize really. We don't recognize as three square kilometers. It's not an agreement that we have assigned. There is no exploitation lease with our signature on it that relates to a three square kilometer area. And really we've never been officially notified of where that three square kilometer in actual fact is. So in an official sense, we don't have clarity. It's pretty certain that the mining operations and all the infrastructure take up considerably more area...

Sure.

More footprint than that. But it's unclear whether they're talking about the whole mining infrastructure or whether it's just the deposit that we're mining, and in fact, where that three square kilometers is, as I say.

What I would say is that in this whole court case, if we play devil's advocate for a moment and sort of think about what the worst case scenario might be if we're forced, we lost the appeal, we went to this three square kilometers, then we revert back to the situation where we – as we said before, when all these broke out that the enforcing agent for any of this, for any sort of action or suspension of operations or whatever, through the courts the enforcing agent would have to be EMRA or the government through EMRA.

And frankly, there is no desire by them to change anything to upset the boat. And you've seen that demonstrated by the fact they've launched a strong appeal essentially on the day after that we lodged ours. And then that was followed up in the early part of this year by a separate appeal again by the Ministry of Petroleum, so quite the opposite. The Government, the Ministry, EMRA, they all want to see this operation continue as normal. There's no desire to change anything or reduce any areas, renegotiate any terms under the Concession Agreement.

They want – well, at the bottom line, they want to get towards a full profit-sharing over time; and we're working very well with them to ensure operations continue and we remain along that path. So, to an extent, this three square kilometers is a bit of a moot point in all of this. But as I said right at the start, it's not an area that we recognize or really have any definition over in a formal sense.

Okay, good. Thank you.

Thanks George.

Your next question comes from the line of Bart Jaworski [J&E Davy]. Please go ahead.

Hi there, guys. Andy, can you hear me?

Hi, Bart. Yes, I can hear you.

Hi. Yeah. I just wanted to clear up the 320,000 ounces that you guys are guiding, how much of that is Stage 4, if any?

Well, as Andrew said, there is an amount that comes in towards the end of the year. It's pretty back-end weighted. I don't have the actual figure in terms of what the percentage feed through is to the ounces. But it's kind of – it's very much a tail-end effect.

All right.

And it's not hugely significant, I would say.

Okay, okay. So sort of under 20,000 ounces, I could assume would be Stage 4 being in the ballpark?

Yeah. Like I said, I don't have that number in front of me.

Yeah. And just a little bit of color then on the commissioning and I guess when within the second half you expect the bulk of the commissioning to start, because I was a little bit surprised that you guys didn't just say the third quarter. You kind of kept it open through the second half. Can you give us a little bit of color as to when within the second half that work should start?

Sure. Well, it is a process and we've got various items that are ready to commission now, such as the power station and the seawater pipeline; it won't be long hereafter. It's not quite ready now, but it won't be very long. I don't know, Andrew, do you want to expand on that, if you're still on the line?

Look, we're being quite conservative in the buildup of the Stage 4, because we have experienced these delays, the issues in the country. And so we'd rather be conservative than going in and being aggressive. Obviously, we're going to be doing everything in our power to commission as soon as possible. But just with the impacts we had last year, various strikes in the country, outside the country, ports, et cetera, we don't want to create false expectations.

And are those issues still at play in the country in terms of strikes in the ports and – with some of your suppliers, et cetera? is that something that's going to continue to happen do you think or do you see a curtailment of that in the country?

It's difficult to say. Some of the – Safaga Port's been on strike again recently. Alexandria Port has been [indiscernible] (0:33:29). So it's better to be conservative than get beaten up later on.

Yeah. Another aspect, Bart, is the fuel supply issue that our suppliers are facing, so okay, we are okay; we've got a good steady supply of fuel to the operation. We're paying the full international price to – that obviously helps to ensure that. But subsidized fuel domestically within Egypt is in pretty tight supply at the moment. So we're finding we're getting into situations where some of our supplies are not able to bring supplies and materials, services, whatever to site, because they can't get access to fuel for a period of time. So that causes – it's another sort of small issue that causes delays.

Okay, thanks for that. And on the ammonium nitrate permits and the blasting supplies that you need to deliver for the Stage 4 expansion, you mentioned in the note this morning that you'll need some permits for that. Can you just elaborate as to how big a – is this a very minor issue or could this be potentially be something of concern?

Well, it's something that needs to be done, Bart. It's – but it is a process and we have been through that process before. So there's no indication at the moment to just do anything other than something that just needs to be sorted out with the relevant authorities. And we're in that process. We have [ph] an agreement (0:35:03) at the moment on the amount of explosives – the ammonium nitrate that we're able to use daily, and that needs to be increased. So I guess we'll just flag in there that we are in the process there and that's just...

But will the regulators say, look, we're going to wait until the appeal process is finished before we issue any new permits to you guys or have you heard anything with that?

No, there's no hint of that.

Nothing like that? Okay.

No.

Okay. And then last question, I guess, is on the $33 million net exceptional item with regards to the fuel. Is that going to be spread over or is it just a one-time hit in the fourth quarter? Is that going to spread over the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2012? How is that going to be dealt with?

Pierre?

That will be for me. That hit we've taken in the fourth quarter, and obviously, we would not like to carry any of that forward. We're waiting for the court case. So we would be dealing every quarter going forward with the additional price we pay in a similar way, and so we brought the court case out of the way. So we would be reporting it in the quarter and we will take it through the P&L.

Right. Okay, so – okay, perfect. All right. Thanks very much, guys.

Thanks Bart.

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] And we have a follow-up question coming from the line of David Haughton [BMO Capital Markets (Canada)]. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you, Andy. Can you just give us an outline as to what the next steps are for your two court cases? Is it just simply a matter of waiting until you get a date in court or is there some other steps that you will be undertaking in the not-too-distant future?

Yeah, thanks David. Look, the Egyptian legal system is not like ours and we don't have a timetable laid out as to how these things will pan out. It's a case of, do you have a hearing, and then at that hearing you tend to find out when the next hearing will be. And more often than not, these hearings are procedural in nature and the net effect of them is for an adjournment to a subsequent date.

So that's been the process that we had really up until the March 20 hearing, where we had a series of hearings, and I'm talking now particularly with relation to the Administrative Court issue, the exploitation lease court case. We were simply – we were having one hearing after another, but nothing material was coming out of them. And then we've got to a situation when, in early March, we were told that there would be a judgment on the 20 of March and that was coming. So yeah, we do get a bit of a heads up in terms of when something material may come out of these court cases.

In terms of the next steps, we're back into procedural mode. I think from here the – with regard to exploitation lease court case, the next hearing will be in June. But again, it's a procedural matter where it's a – there's a technical subcommittee to the court who sit down and consider the merits of the appeal. That committee is then going to go and deliberate. They'll probably come back again and then they'll make a recommendation to the court. The court – now, I'm supposing here, but then the court I presume will go away and then come back again several times.

So this is really the getting behind why we're cautioning investors to the fact that this may take some time, because it is a fairly bureaucratic process. And quite frankly it frustrates us as much as it frustrates our investors, because it is a simple, for us, black and white issue but we call this exploitation lease signed and – the original copy and we can just – we should be able to just turn up and present it and have it all finished. But unfortunately, that's not the way of the Egyptian legal system.

And the fuel court case is similar. The next hearing is a procedural one. There's one at the end of April. And with all these court cases, we'll take the view with releasing to the market material information. We make an update when something material comes out of this process. We don't want to get bogged down in these procedural elements to the process.

Well, thank you, Andy, and good luck.

Thanks David. Cheers.

Your next question comes again from the line of Andrew Mikitchook [GMP Securities LP]. Please go ahead.

Hi, I apologize for apparently not knowing how to use my own phone earlier. Just a quick question; this mining underground and the split between development ore and obviously higher grade actual stopes, is that more or less going to remain constant? Or once you have essentially two mining areas in operations simultaneously and more development completed, eventually would you imagine that the development ore amount would decrease, which would, A, increase your head grade coming out of underground and maybe even have lower costs hopefully?

Andrew, are you there, still?

Yeah. Yeah, I'm here. Yeah. Look, Andrew, for this year, I'd stick pretty closely to the 50-50 between development and stoping because [indiscernible] (0:40:46) a big focus on advancing developments. But going forward, longer term, yes, we are going to start to see an increase in the amount of stable, consistent development ores.

And all those being equal, it would make sense that that you might get slightly better grades and or slightly better costs when that happens?

Correct. Because with the stopes, we're concentrating on the high grade materials and there'll be less of the lower grade development ore to get out of these areas.

Okay. Okay, and just last question for me is for Pierre. It might already have been asked. But is there a simple answer to where the $8.2 million prepayment will show up on the financial statements, just so that we have an idea of what to expect?

Because it's a prepayment for the time being, we treat it as such as a prepayment and it will be carried on the balance sheet until we do get into a situation of cost recovery or profit share at least when we will then take it off that amount that would be payable through the P&L.

Okay. So for this year, it will just be an accrued line either separate or included with other payables on the balance sheet?

It's sitting on the balance sheet, correct, yes.

Okay. Thank you very much, and I'll sign off.

Thank you, Andrew.

Thank you. Your next question comes from [ph] Hisham Halaldeen (0:42:14). Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thank you for the call. I just have a quick question regarding your expansion plans in the pipe. Do you expect any reserve additions coming from the expansions which you have in the other pipe locations into the reserve number coming up this year?

Hi, [ph] Hisham (0:42:38). I'm sorry. I'm unclear on the question. Are you asking further expansions at Sukari or...?

Yeah. For the expansion of – you are looking at the other hills as well, right? So I was wondering what's the status on that, on the expansion. Have you – do we expect any additions to reserves coming from the other hills other than the Sukari?

Yeah. I think, Andrew, you could take that one.

Sorry, can you repeat that? The line is breaking up.

I think [ph] Hisham (0:43:14) there is asking regarding the other prospects within the Sukari license and their potential for additions, increments to the resource and the reserves.

Okay, okay. Look, what we've got the exploration team doing as well as focusing on Sukari at depth, we've also got them now focusing on some of these other smaller prospects that are within around seven kilometers of the processing plant, looking for higher grade material that we could use to supplement the feed into the Sukari plant. So that is one of the focuses which they've never really had before, but now it's what they're doing this year.

Okay. My question is what kind of timeline are we looking at? Is it going to be impacting the resource numbers which are going to come this year or is it going to be something next year? [ph]

Hisham (0:44:13), I think, I'd say, there will be – there's a drilling program that's ongoing. There are two or maybe three prospects that we've drilled over the last, I don't know, six months or nine months or so; and one of them in particular seems to be offering good potential to add some incremental high grade material to the mill in the shorter term. So yeah, sure, we've been doing drilling there and they will go into the resources bank and the mine plan schedule.

So there's kind of a – we're in an operational frame of mind now, where our exploration sort of strategy around Sukari is to really target those higher grade zones that could potentially displace some of that open pit low grade material in the near-term, because we're not going to be doing another major plant expansion in the near-term. So it's all going to be about grade in the near-term. So that's where the existing underground expansion and continued resource and reserve expansion from underground comes into play and also some of these other prospects come into play as well.

Understand. Thank you. My second – the other question that's probably unrelated is – probably I've asked this question. What kind of – what's the plan on dividends, et cetera, regarding the shareholders?

Well, dividends, I think we've stated for a while now, maybe not publicly but certainly to people who've raised the questions, that it is something that the company wants to consider in due course at the right time. Obviously, we're getting closer with regard to profit share, and the advance that we've made now sort of helps in that respect insofar as we were never intending to start paying dividends to shareholders before we got into profit share with the government. From a political aspect; that would've been shooting ourselves in the foot quite frankly.

So we're getting closer on that front. And then obviously, the other thing is we need to sort of make sure Stage 4 is well and truly in and the bulk of the investment is out of the way and we've commissioned the operation. And clearly, we'll be getting – well, we'd be through that process over the course of this year. So I would say yes, the dividend question is something that over the course of this year, the Board will be considering. I can't say anymore really than that at this stage.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks [ph] Hisham (0:46:57).

Thank you.

Your next question comes from [ph] Alan Probst (0:47:02). Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. I was actually – it was more of a question that was just answered that had to do with dividends. So we can just cancel that because you just answered it. Thank you.

Thanks. That's great.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Stuart McDougall. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Guys, with the recovery improvement in Q4, is that something we should expect going forward now?

Andrew? Andrew, are you there?

Hello?

Okay.

Yeah, yeah. Sorry. Can you repeat the question, please?

Just on the recovery side, should we be looking for the 87%, 88% range in 2013 onwards?

Well, that's certainly what we're trying to achieve. We've been doing a lot work in that area to try and maintain those levels. Obviously, we're going to have the new carbon regeneration kiln coming up over in the year as well, and the main reason for that will be increased [indiscernible] (0:48:15). There'll be a lot more going through that circuit, so it's going to be – we'll have to be turning out of the carbon a lot quicker. But yes, we're fairly confident with what we've got now with the recovery, we can maintain those levels.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Stuart.

We have no further questions at this time. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Barry Lake (0:48:53). Please go ahead.

Hello, Andy. Many congratulations on a very good year for the company despite all the difficulties that you've encountered in Egypt. I just wanted to come onto this appeal court hearing that's going to be held on the 19 of June. I wonder if you could just explain why you think this would just be a procedural meeting and not a decision-making meeting.

Hi, [ph] Barry (0:49:20). Thanks for the question and thanks for the comments as well. Yeah, what we've been told by our legal advisers, and this is not really a point of opinion; this is the fact of the matter of what happens next. That's the – now that the sort of appeal process proper is underway, we've had this ruling based on our application to suspend the judgment, all the papers have been lodged across, the notices have been served, et cetera, et cetera. We're now moving to the stage where the court considers the merits of the appeal.

And as the first stage in that process, the matter moves really to a technical subcommittee of the court who sit down and deliberate over the various arguments put forward and the original judgment. And then, well, over a period of time – we only know about the first sitting, and as I said before, there may be a number of them. But they will eventually come up with a recommendation to the court. So that's why I say it's procedural. We can't expect any – they're not a decision-making body. They're an advisory body. So we will not get a decision as of that process.

Okay. So you're expecting the technical committee to produce their recommendations on the 19th?

Well, no, we're expecting them to sit and to start considering them.

Okay.

So when that process ends? We don't know.

Okay, okay. Next point, the business is of course highly cash generative. Could you just tell us where the cash is, which banks are you using and in which countries?

Sure. That's one to Pierre, I think.

Cash balances for the Centamin Group is basically held in our Australian companies – our Australian companies in the Australian bank account; with the SGM specific funds being held in Egypt and that is used for funding the Stage 4 project as well as the operational expenses every month. The bulk of the money obviously, because there is Centamin Group money, is held offshore or held in Australia basically.

All right. With which bank?

Our bankers?

Yeah.

Well, I don't think we need to really disclose our bankers.

Okay. Well, these are very material questions these days, I'm afraid.

Okay. Well, it's a major reputable bank.

Okay. Well there's a lot of those around that proved not to be so reputable when things are looked at more closely.

I think, to put your mind at ease, we have our money held in three different banks at this point.

Okay. Well, I don't know if – is it possible if I communicate with you privately, you can actually give me the names of the banks?

I'll take some advice on that. No problem.

Okay. All right, thanks for the update.

Thank you. Thanks [ph] Barry (0:52:45).

Your next question comes from [ph] Hashim Bonim (0:52:48). Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Excellent quarter; great numbers, I just had a question for Andy concerning the court case. Now, my understanding was that the case was presented in front of this technical panel last year on May the 22 of 2012 and they gave in their opinion on June 19 of 2012 without even having a signed contract. And they stated that the Administrative Court does not have the right to or jurisdiction to invalidate the exploitation license. So now that after the appeal and after the appeal from EMRA on your side and the Ministry of Petroleum as being referred to the same technical panel again, shouldn't the outcome be known? [ph]

Hashim (0:53:39), thanks for that. I don't think it's the same technical panel, but I may be wrong in that respect. But you're right, the original – going back to 2012 May, June and into September when we had the opinion expressed to the court that it did not have jurisdictions to hear this case. Now, that was our understanding of where we would end up in the October 30 ruling last year.

Exactly.

And it's one of the reasons why we were taken aback by the fact that the court essentially overruled that and made a ruling anyway, and then we get on to the subject of the ruling itself, but that's by the by. But certainly, the argument that the court – the Administrative Court in the first instance did not have the jurisdiction to hear the case is one of the thrusts of our appeal.

Obviously, the main point of the appeal is regarding the documentation, the fact that we have this exploitation lease signed and executed original copy. But we are also making that argument that the court did not have jurisdiction to hear a matter relating to a Concession Agreement, which is an article of law and that the Administrative Court is essentially a court concerned with matters regarding contracts. And our argument is that it's not – it doesn't have purview on this and that was certainly supported by the technical subcommittee that the court itself leaving us October 30, so yes. They are supporting arguments, really in our favor.

Okay. One other point; it was first presented to that court on May 22, 2012, and then they came up with their decision on June 19. So it basically took one month. Do you expect the same process to go on, because the same date this year, it's also June 19 the next hearing? Should it take one month or should it take several?

I would hesitate in drawing parallels. We're dealing with the -look, and I'm not a lawyer and I haven't specifically asked them this question in relation to comparing one set of hearings with another. But my own gut feeling would be, well, there's no reason to logically assume why they should take the same amount of time because they're substantively different arguments and cases. One could potentially take longer than the other or shorter than the other. But anyway, we're dealing with an appeal that's – we got three parties appealing us, EMRA, Ministry of Petroleum and one plaintiff, regional complainant. So yeah, I don't know the answer to your question is the sure answer, [ph] Hashim (0:56:23).

Okay. Anyway, thank you. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Cheers.

We have no further questions at this time. Please continue.

Well, if there are no further questions, then I just like to thank everybody for being on the call and thanks for your time and attention and see you all next time. Thank you.

Thank you. That does conclude the conference for today. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.