Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Jonathan M. Guy — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Bart Jaworski — Analyst, J&E Davy
Maurice J. Mason — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by. And welcome to Q1 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] I must advice you that this conference is being recorded today Thursday 15th of May 2014.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Andy Davidson. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning everyone, thanks for joining. It's just myself today on this call due to travel commitments from my colleagues. And as always, of course, though any questions that I can't answer I'll make sure we get a response to you, if it needs to go my colleagues. But I'll just briefly go over the highlights and then we'll have a question-and-answer session at the end.

As announced on the 9th of April, gold production was slightly down on our forecast levels at 74,241 ounces and the impact was felt as some mechanical issues in the underground which affected our equipment availability within our high grade stope, which is slightly below where we expected to be. Those underground issues were resolved within the quarter, and we retain our full year guidance of 420,000 ounces at $700 an ounce.

Cash cost was slightly above that full year guidance at $744 an ounce, which is basically in line with the slightly lower output than we forecast that will come back on track as production ramps up through the year with the Stage 4 commissioning. That Stage 4 commissioning is in process, first ore was put through the new plant in the quarter. CapEx is complete and on budget at $331 million.

So, as we said, we've a progressive ramp up through the remaining quarters of this year as we proceed to the nameplate 10 million tons rate of that expanded plant.

We generated solid cash flow during the quarter despite the lower gold price environment and those minor issues that I mentioned earlier. EBITDA was $34 million and cash from operations was just shade below $28 million. So still generating good cash flow, as I say, and that free cash generation will progressively increase from here as production ramps up and the expansion CapEx requirements diminish.

The balance sheet remains strong, $138 million of cash and liquid assets and that all places us well to fund ongoing exploration, which focuses on three main fronts, which is at Sukari, predominately, at Sukari underground high-grade extensions, of course, at Ethiopia and in West Africa.

In West Africa, the Ampella acquisition is now complete and we started a systematic exploration program. And we'll obviously report on further progress and details of that as appropriate.

In terms of the legal proceedings in Egypt, the court proceedings in relation to the fuel case and the Supreme Administrative Court appeal are both in process and continue as inline with our expectations.

We did note recently a new law was passed in Egypt in late April, which restricts the capacity for third-parties to challenge contracts between investors and the government. And we do believe that we'll benefit from this new law based on our legal advice. And we continue to discuss with our advisors on how that law may be applied in our case.

So with that brief summary, I'll hand over, operator, please for any question. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from the line from Jonathan Guy. Please ask your question.

Andy, hello.

Hi, Jonathan.

Can you just comment on the explosives permit and where things are with that and how quickly you expect it to be resolved and when it will become an issue for you if it wasn't resolved?

Yes, thanks Jonathan. I think our disclosure on this has been pretty clear, at the year we've highlighted that as a deliverable through the course of this year. It's not something that's going to impact production this year. Obviously the earlier we get it, the better. It has impacted to the extent that we haven't received it so far this year. It's impacted some of the waste stripping that we plan to do.

But as I say, it's not going to impact this year's production. We do continue to expect it shortly in the coming months or several months. And as say, it's deliverable for the course of this year. So that's where we are.

Okay. Yes, well I mean I guess so – do you expect it over the next quarter or you expect it over the next half or there's no fixed timeline on it?

Well, Jonathan, of course, the challenge with this is that – with the – in the political part of the process where the final stage where it requires signoff. And I would suggest generally that the political environment in Egypt is stabilizing quickly now. And particularly of course, it's not a related issue of course, but we are in the election process in Egypt. But generally, I think we're seeing decisions being made, progress happening on the political front generally in Egypt. And I suppose that it's also related to the investment law that I pointed out earlier that the government is taking proactive decisions now which is not always been the case over the last two, three years. And we're confident we are going to receive the authorization shortly.

Okay.

I can't say weeks, months or whatever, but certainly this year.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line from Cailey Barker. Please ask the question.

Good morning, Andy. Just I haven't really got any insightful questions, but sort of couple of more boring ones. Just in terms of your costs I see they'd come down quite a bit on this quarter on a unit basis dollar per ton, especially your mining costs has comes quite slightly down and your underground costs have dipped below $50 per tons. Could you just give us a bit more color on why that is and what you expect through the course of this year?

Yes. Hi, Cailey. I think well unit costs are coming down generally as efficiencies come through the operation scale. I mean that's a sort of a broad theme that we continue to expect particularly as Stage 4 continues to ramp up and we get those efficiencies of scale. And I think possibly unit costs on mining pretty much in line with where we would expect them to be. So it's a little bit less, drilling and blast of course this quarter because as we've highlighted and it's related to the last question to Jonathan, slightly lower than we expected waste stripping during the quarter. So there was positive impact there, but that is fairly minor. But generally cost coming down as we expected.

I think possibly the fourth quarter in terms of the mining cost that you mentioned was slightly higher than in the past where we thought they would be for the fourth quarter. So perhaps if you're looking on a Q-on-Q basis that might give you a false impression that, yes, things have come down dramatically in one quarter, but generally in line with where we expect them to be.

Thanks. And then just a final question on some of the exploration stuff, what do you actually – the exploration outside of Egypt that you're hoping to do and especially the Ampella stuff, what are you sort of targeting and hoping to get out of those initial programs?

Yes. Well, with the West African Burkina Faso, Cote D'Ivoire, as we said at the time of the takeover it's an exploration driven deal that acquisition and we plan to initiate a two-year systematic exploration program spend in region of $10 million to $15 million a year on those properties and that's where we started, we started with that in earnest in March and you know that substantial exploration program in process. So there we've done a descent amount of drilling on one prospect and moved on to another one.

The objective there really in a general sense is to unlock the potential for further resource growth of the near surface ounces in the multiple prospects along the trend within that license at Batie West or suite of license at Batie West. It's a 100 plus kilometer trend of regional [ph] shale (10:26) zone and prospects all the way along it and offset.

And the key aspect that we can bring to this is obviously we are not capital constrained to focus on one small area as Ampella possibly where. We have the resources to do the full justice to all those prospects and thereby essentially define and unlock the optimal path to development and that's the objective over the next couple of years, is to define what is the optimal route to development. So there is a lot to do and we are excited about the prospect for resource growth and a good operation profitable operation at Batie West with good return to shareholders.

Ethiopia you asked about, generally Ethiopia is earlier stage and lower spend, joint venture properties in the west and south of the country, joint venture with Alecto Minerals. Their main focus at the moment particularly the southern license where we have started drilling we haven't had any results back from that initial drilling yet, but progress going along as we expected there.

Right, okay. Thanks very much, Andy.

Thanks, Cailey.

Your next question comes from the line from [ph] Robert Bonta (11:57). Please ask your question.

Hi, Andy. It's a [ph] Robert (12:03) speaking. Just wanted to follow-up on the grade that you expect from the open pit going on through the year and what should we be expecting with it from the coming quarters?

For the grade, the open pit grade is essentially coming down to the reserve average as mining rates and processing rates go up. So it will come down to the region of 1.0 gram a ton – 1.1 gram a ton.

Okay. That means in terms of – because in 1Q you processed 0.61 gram a ton – sorry you processed 0.85 gram a ton and so then that should be then rise over the remainder of the year, yes that's the processed grade?

Yes, it's below the average in the first quarter in terms of ore – grade mined of ore and that will progressively rise over that. Yes that's a natural function of the scheduling in the pit. Obviously there are slightly higher and slightly lower grade areas within the open pit, and that's just natural sequencing. So we do expect to see some normal variability within the mine grade in that, but, yes, in a life-of-mine sense, we're now moving towards the reserve average.

Yes. And on the – in terms of how many tons can we expect to be processed through the mill in second quarter?

Well, we don't give guidance on specific tons milled.

Yes.

But I would say, expect to see a decent step up this quarter and then progressively towards the 10 million ton nameplate I would suggest by the end of the third quarter and going into the fourth quarter. And then thereafter we will be seeing well how far above the nameplate we would be ultimately with that expanded plant. Obviously, we have shown and demonstrated since the beginning of 2013 that the existing 5 million tons plants run between 15%, 20% above nameplate.

So with this new plant, which is fully optimized, we'd expect to be at least at that kind of level above the 10 million nameplate. Nameplate being just a number and the ultimate processing level will be a processes of initial commissioning and then further optimization as we go along.

Got you, got you, got you. Okay. Now in terms of the underground grade you say in the release that you'd expect it to be up again 10 tons to 12 tons in the remainder of the year – sorry, 10 grams a ton to 12 grams a ton in the remainder of the year and that presumably you fixed that problem with your underground machinery so that's going to be already evident from second quarter that 10 grams to 12 grams, yes?

Yes, yes. Sure. That issue is fixed. And we've got access to that high grade material and that will come through to the remainder of the year. I think the average for the year that we would expect to be around about 8.5 grams a ton and that's a pretty good ballpark figure I think for this year and next year and the medium term, as a sustainable sort of average grade, with the higher rates of throughput. But, yes, certainly we've got access to that 10 grams a ton to 12 grams a ton material. Obviously, we didn't mine as much as that portion as the orebody in the first quarter due to those mechanical issues, but it's still there.

Yes. Okay. And then the throughput, I mean, the sort of the total funds that you hoisted from the underground just keeps on growing more and more I think this quarter we had 200 – over 200,000 tons up from 120,000 tons, 1Q last year, almost 15% Q-on-Q just on fourth quarter. Are we going to – is that going to able to – are you going to be able to continue to grow the volume from the underground?

We've got the potential to keep growing the volumes from the underground. The target for this year is 800,000 tons for the year. We're slightly above that rate now. We were slightly above that rate in the first quarter. I would suggest we probably be at and around those levels therefore for the remainder of the year. Ultimately the underground can handle more. It can handle probably the region of 1 million ton per annum of ore from the underground.

But we're not guiding towards that level of production yet, because we need to just complete that reserve definition drilling and mine planning to be able to have confidence to project that kind of number out for a sustainable period of time. So that's the sort of ballpark capacity of where we could be, but for now we're saying 800,000 ton is target for this year.

Yes. In terms of the ratio the underground stopes to underground development, in this last quarter – last couple of quarters they've always been – each been about equal, but are now at a place where you can do more stopes relative to development of the underground?

We can and we will continue to be able to do that progressively as the development increases and we get – we open up these stoping areas. I think roughly 50:50 is a good ratio to think about going forward. And opening up those high grade stopes gives you the additional flexibility to maintain the grade at the right level as you go forward. But I think yes, 50:50 is a reasonable assumption going forward.

Yes, yes, yes, yes. And in terms I mean you said a step up in the underground – sorry, the open pit tons. Are we half the way there to the full nameplate, so if this quarter was 1.3 million tons and nameplate is 2.5 million tons should we put second quarter somewhere in the middle sort of or else put the difference 1.9 million tons?

Sorry, [ph] Robert (18:30) you are talking about tons mined?

The tons processed then the phase – and phase for expansion?

Tons processed in the plant?

In the plant, yes.

Yes, look, I answered that earlier we don't give this sort of quarterly update on total tons processed. We'll get to the 10 million ton rate progressively I would suggest by the end of the third quarter that kind of area and thereafter upside from there.

Great. Thanks for taking the question. Thank you very much.

No problem. Thanks [ph] Robert (19:08) .

Your next question comes from the line from [ph] James Allington (19:11). Please ask your question.

Hi, good morning, Andy. I read somewhere recently that there was some intention to start paying dividends some time this year, do you have any comment on that, please?

Hi, [ph] James (19:24). Yes, we announced in the full year results that we would have more clarity on our policy during the course of this year and that remains the case until something more on that fairly soon.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line from Bart Jaworski. Please ask your question.

Hi, good morning, Andy.

Hi, Bart.

Quick question on commissioning what remains to be done there and I guess over the last two weeks what kind of recoveries have you been getting as you run the ore through the new circuit, if you can say?

In the last few weeks, I don't have those numbers at hand. But, generally, the key things that remain to be fully commissioned would be the primary crusher and the kiln those are two main areas they are in commissioning, but being ramped up to full capacity in this month and next I would suggest. So, yes, those are the key areas, obviously the kiln is going to be a beneficial positive on the recovery at the expanded rate. But I think we are at 88% 89% in the first quarter and those are kinds of levels where we would expect to be longer term. So obviously, the kiln is important in order to maintain those kinds of levels as I say going forward.

Great. And I guess the type of ore that you are going to be running through some of the open pit from the underground is not expected to change at all, there's no different phases of the intrusion or anything like that we're expecting or different alteration types?

No it's a nice homogenous orebody in that respect...

Yes. All right. It sounds good. And is there any updates or any color to provide on the profit-sharing, any updates on that front?

No. I think we've guided previously the current gold prices – it will be in the financial year to June 2015 for the subsidiary that the operating company. So at the end of this calendar year, early next is our expectation is of when that profit-sharing should kick in.

Super. Okay. Thanks very much.

Thanks Bart, cheers.

Your next question comes from the line from Maurice Mason. Please ask your question.

Good morning, gents. A quick question on the court case. The gazetting of law 32, does that give any additional legal avenues in terms of mounting separate appeals or applications for the case to be dismissed or is it a case of having to wait for the courts to judge, using that as an additional piece of legislation to inform their judgment?

Hi, Maurice. Yes, I'm not really in a position to be able to sort of expand more on this sort of legal tactics or strategy, I should say, with regard to that new law, I mean really from the point of view that it is a new law and we're waiting to see how it is executed in the court system. So that is something we continue to take under advice. Obviously we're very focused on it with our advisors in terms of reaching that understanding and we will – if we need to modify our strategy with regard to the appeal based on the outcome of those discussions then we will, but as we stand, the next hearing is later this year and we're ready for it, on the basis of the appeal that we've lodged and, yes, we will modify appropriately as we go.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Maurice.

There are no more questions at this time. Please continue.

Thanks very much, everybody. Thanks for joining the call and look forward to speaking to you next time. Thank you.

We just got one question in from [ph] Charles Bishop (23:41). Do you still want to take it?

Yes, sure.

Yes, okay. [ph] Charles Bishop (23:48), please ask the question.

Good morning, Andy.

Good morning.

Andy, good morning.

Hello, yes.

From your website page, your very first page, it says, our operating experience in Egypt gives us significant first-mover advantage in acquiring and developing other gold projects. Last winter I think to think that there was going to be auction for the four further projects or gold mines, but [ph] sentiments line (24:19) wasn't mentioned in any of them, does this still hold?

Well, its still holds that we are the main operator in Egypt, the only sizeable operator in Egypt and we have the advantage therefore of being in the best position to take on any further projects that may be attractive to us to acquire in Egypt, as and when they come up. And to the extent that we haven't done that to-date, we haven't acquired any additional projects to-date is a function of getting the right framework for those projects. And we await really more clarity on that in that respect from the government.

But, obviously, the Egyptian government's gone through a huge amount of change over the last two years and three years. And we've got a new government now that's forming and it will focus on policy, as I said earlier, as it forms through the course of this year. And we would hope a clear and stable open framework for the further mining investment in Egypt will be part of that, but we don't have that clarity at the moment.

Okay. I was just wondering whether the auction process was the new way of obtaining projects.

I don't think that we can say what is the new way at this stage. As I said that the political landscape is evolving rapidly. And I'm sure the new government will make itself clear and what the process is going forward at the appropriate time in the future.

Okay. Andy, thank you.

Thank you.

There are no more questions at this time.

Thanks very much. Again thanks to all. And speak to you all next time. Thank you.

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.