Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer, Centamin Plc
Brock P. Salier — Analyst, GMP Securities Europe LLP
James Bell — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International
Yen Voo — Analyst, Nomura International Plc
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Rita Guindy — Analyst, CI Capital Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Q3 Financial Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode, and afterwards, there'll be a question-and-answer session.

Today, I'm pleased to present Andrew Pardey. Please begin your meeting.

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Just do a quick overview and then we'll go back to questions. Q3 gold production was up 13% on the same period last year to just about 105,000 ounces and comparable with our Q1 and Q2 production for 2015. This is in line with our expectations and we have maintained our full year production guidance of 430,000 to 440,000 ounces.

There is a highlight that during the period we reached our priority target of zero lost time injuries at Sukari. We are particularly pleased to see our employees continue to develop a strong culture of safety and professionalism in the workplace, and this is all the more pleasing given Sukari's position as the first modern gold mine in Egypt.

And on the operations. Three quarters of processing comp remained 7% above the nameplate 10 million tonnes per annum capacity. We continue to expect throughput to reach an annualized 11 million tonnes per annum rate in Q4 this year with a potential thereafter for further increases as we continue optimizing the expanded plant. The focus of that process during Q3 was improvements in secondary crusher liners and screen configurations.

There's also some scheduled work on the CIL circuit, and this had a slight impact on the overall plant recovery which returned to the 88% level after hitting 90% in the previous quarter. We expect to return towards the higher levels during the fourth quarter as this work is completed.

Underground mining rates increased again to an annualized rate of almost 1.25 million tonnes per annum or 25% above their best case forecast of 1 million tonnes per annum. Importantly, this productivity was achieved with average grade of 6.5 grams per ton, in line with the mining plan. The focus of the operation remains to consistently deliver ore at an average grade of at least 6 grams per ton. For the open pit, material movement was up 5% on the previous quarter, and mining remains on track towards a sustained delivery of reserve average grades from the fourth quarter onwards.

Production rates are therefore expected to pick up in the final quarter of the year to reach and stabilize in the 450,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces per annum range. Okay. The Q3 cash cost of production of $767 per ounce was an increase of $706 per ounce in Q2. This is partly due to a reduction in ounces, but also due to a slight increase in the open pit mining costs.

We expect these costs to reduce again in the fourth quarter, which, together with the grade-driven production increases, means we are well placed to come in below the $700 per ounce full-year guidance. All-in sustaining costs were $918 per ounce, remaining below the $950 per ounce guidance, although up from $853 per ounce in the previous quarter due to an increase in production cost.

While we expect high sustaining capital cost expenditure in the fourth quarter, we continue to expect to come in below the $950 per ounce full-year guidance for all-in sustaining costs. Despite a 5% drop in the realized gold prices, Sukari's strong operating margins translated into a third quarter EBITDA of $31 million.

This reflected robust cash generation with a $16 million increase in cash and cash equivalents component during the quarter. The balance sheet remains healthy with no debt and $216 million of cash, bullion, gold receivables and liquid financial assets.

Therefore, even in the current depressed gold price environment, we continue to build cash up to self-financing both the standout dividend return and our exploration-led long-term growth strategy. Sukari's outstanding cash flow returns are expected over a minimum 20-year mine life, allowing Centamin to stand out as a long-life and low-cost producer. This expectation was served and supported during the quarter as we announced an update of reserve estimate for the operation.

The 8.3 million ounce open pit reserve increased net of mining depletions by 0.5 million ounces over the previous estimate due to a combination of a reduction in the recent fuel prices and also the continued drilling from the underground. The underground resource and reserves continues to grow, and with increasing development drilling, we continue to expect further material increases over the coming years as we progress a long strike and a depth in underground.

On the exploration side, results from our exploration in Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire continue to encourage with momentum building the numerous prospects within our extensive tenement package. Some of the recent drilling results are outlined in today's report and we will continue to update the market over the coming quarters on progress towards our ultimate aim of establishing a low cost and high return project in this region.

That's a brief overall summary. With that, I'd like to hand it back over to the operator and open the line up for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Brock Salier from GMP. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, gents. On the underground, I know you've given some guidance there, you set 1 million tonnes as a base case. But you're pretty consistently hitting these 1.2 million tonnes rates. Is there any view on the sustainability of that in the long term or the desire to sort of sustain at these levels? Or did you just want to sort of leave it as 1 million base case and see what happens above that?

The best thing to do, Brock, is leave it as a 1-million-tonne-per-annum base case. I mean, with some of the decline development for both the Amun and the Ptah declines, which was scheduled as waste, that's been going for a mineralized porphyry. So that has lifted the development ore tons.

Yeah. Understood. And just coming back to your comment on your cash consistently rising there, can you give any sort of – I mean, I know there's no answer until next year, but can you give any kind of view on willingness to pay above policy dividends as a one-off if you don't have any development projects – doesn't strike me there's anything in the pipeline for next year? Are you willing to start distributing that cash above the 15% to 30% guidance?

That's a range that we've said to the market, and for the time being, that is the range we will stick to that 15% to 30% range for the dividend payments.

Understood. Thanks very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of James Bell from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi gents. Just a quick one on sustaining CapEx. You reiterated $70 million with your Q2 results for the full year, but it seems like your run rate is below that. Could you just comment on what you think the full-year number is going to look like and what items are being deferred into next year?

The items that we have deferred are items relating to the [indiscernible] (07:22) equipment. We have not met the machine usage hours, and therefore, we've – the results will move into a later period or into the fourth quarter and over into next year. However, that doesn't change our profile looking forward that just pushes out the hours, as you know. They will come up as the hours come up. We're looking to reduce that $70 million. I think we're looking at between $40 million and $50 million at this point where we will come in for the year.

Okay. Thanks for that. And then, just a sort of follow-up really on Brock's question which is looking at the underground grade, obviously, year-to-date, you're at 6.26 grams per tonne, next year's guidance is for 6 grams. Do we think about the grade coming down early next year?

Yeah. We should – we remodeled, you should work on the 6 grams per tonne.

Okay. Thanks, gents.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Yen Voo from Nomura. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning. My questions on open pit, you have previously guided at the Capital Market's Day on 66 million tonne of material movement for this year. With the expectations on lower open pit mining cost in Q4 from the high number that was just in Q3, are you still expecting the 66 million tonnes of material movement? And if it's lower, is that going to affect material movement for next year?

Material movement for the year is coming below 66 million tonnes. Principally, because where the CapEx strategy is now we had some issues, some of the quality of the ammonium nitrate which slowed the digging rates down, that's being fixed. And we've also had – we had an increased tire usage so we had to take trucks out of production while we were replacing tires. That was the function of the tires that we had. We had a combination of radials and what we call rag tires. We've run out all those rag tires and we're now running on the Michelin tires where we're seeing tire life in excess of 8,000 hours.

So, production rate will increase and the operating cost will reduce.

Okay. And that's not going to affect any of the material movement for next year?

No, it's not.

Are we still targeting at that 66 million...

We're still targeting -next year we'll be moving 66 million tonnes. Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Richard Hatch from RBC. Please go ahead with your question.

Thanks and good morning, all. Just a couple. First one, just to follow up from your sustaining CapEx comment, so does that mean we should build an additional $20 million of sustaining CapEx for next year for that third this year?

And then secondly, just from a fuel supply case, I saw in the Financial Times a couple a days ago that the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources had noted that they're looking at – the Egyptian government seeking to cut fuel subsidies. I just wonder how that tallies with your sort of comment in the release that you don't expect [ph] instant moves (10:36) to international fuel prices to be a reasonable outcome. Thanks.

We are paying international fuel prices.

I'm aware of that yet, yeah. I just wonder whether that means – how – you mentioned that you wish to challenge both international payment. Is that not right? Do you not – are you not also pursuing a case [indiscernible] (11:01)?

Richard, its Andrew here. The court case in relation to the fuel subsidy ongoing, there's a carrying value in terms of the value of the subsidy that we've effectively had removed since the beginning of 2012.

What you're seeing with the increase in the floor price, if you like, the subsidized price in Egypt has been coming up as that effectively has been removing the subsidy. And then at the same time, of course, the international price, which we've been paying since the beginning of 2012, has come down. So, in effect, the value of the subsidy quarter-on-quarter has been steadily reducing.

There's the differential between the two prices has narrowed. So that's the effect on the value of the claim. It's been increasing at a lower rate, effectively. The claim is still there. It's an ongoing discussion, really, with government more than anything.

Okay.

And just to answer you on the capital, no, we do not put any additional amount in for next year. Next year, we're looking at around $70 million to $80 million. As we said at the Capital Markets Day, we are still looking at those to date. The deferment was a delay basically, not a permanent delay. Once the machines come to the hour, we will do the [ph] rebuilds (12:23). It's just they are not at those hours, and therefore all machines – machinery goes on moving forward at the same rate.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Robert Montief (12:53) from Visium. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, everyone. Just want a quick, quick follow-up there. Can you – maybe I didn't understand it quite right. Can you give us a bit of a sense on the progression of the grade in the open pit from here or now? I think it was a bit – the quarter was a bit light versus what we're expecting at the Capital Markets Day. I was wondering what confidence you have in 4Q next year and how we should we thinking about the development there.

Well, the development is pretty close to what we've had in the Capital Markets Day. And as we've always said, Q4 would be the – when the grades for the open pit will return to the reserve average grade and in the mining schedule moving forward, again, with the schedule, it's the same as what we've had in the Capital Markets Day. So you will see reserve average grade from the open pit moving forward.

And that's 1.05g/t or 1.0g/t? Remind me.

1.05g/t, 1.03g/t.

And that's including 4Q, so 4Q as well we should put it at 1.03g/t?

Correct.

Wonderful. Thank you very much. And in terms of the – just a follow-up on Richard's question, in terms of the fuel discussions, shall say, with the Egyptian government, do you have anything on your balance sheet for that or how much is the overall sum in the best-case scenario?

Right. So, Robert, it's passed through the P&L as expense. We pay the full the international price on the cash flow basis and it's expensed through the P&L. So we don't carry anything for it on the balance sheet. It's broken and the value that we paid effectively is broken out in Note 4 of the financial statements. You will see the special item there and the cumulative value of that special item since the beginning in 2012.

Okay. And you have the cumulative value as well because I didn't find the cumulative value. That was my question really. What is the cumulative value?

Yeah. It's in Note 4. I think the number is about $197 million.

It's $198 million cumulative number at the moment. For the quarter, it was about $32 year million, year-to-date $68 million.

Wonderful. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Robert.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rita Guindy from CI Capital. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning. With regards to costs, I see you meeting your old and sustaining cost target of $950. But cash cost of $700 or below $700 that means 4Q should be below $620 which is the reduction of $150 Q-on-Q.

I just wanted you to please shed some light on how exactly are the measures you will take to reduce, as I know you expect 4Q production to be higher and that costs should normalize from the high levels of 3Q. But do you think you will be able to meet the $620 cost target for 4Q to meet the full year?

Yeah. Your calculations are correct. With that increased production in quarter four, we expect the cash cost to be below $650 an ounce that is the rise that we've seen in Q3 specifically in the mining area. Those areas have been rectified, and we should come back to our normal cost per ton right in that area. We're also looking at the all-in sustaining number of below $950 an ounce.

Okay. So you think it's still realizable?

Yeah. We will come in below $950 an ounce in all-in sustaining, and our cash cost for the year will be around $700 just below $700 an ounce on the calculations that we've done.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. We have a follow-up question from the line of [ph] Rob Montief (16:38) from Visium. Please go ahead with your question.

Yeah. Hi. Sorry. Just to be 100% sure about the grade from the 1.03g/t, 1.05g/t grade that's an ore process I assume, not more mined but processed on the open pit?

Correct, [indiscernible] Robert (16:53)

Wonderful. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And as it appears to be no further questions, I return the conference to you.

Great. Thank you very much, everybody, for joining us on the call and speak to you next time, if not before. Thanks very much.

Thank you. This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may disconnect your lines.