corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to today’s Centamin Egypt Quarter Three Results Call. Today, I’m


very pleased to present Josef El-Raghy, Chairman; and Harry Michael, Chief Executive Officer.


During this call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode, and after the presentation, there will be


an opportunity for questions. Josef, over to you.


Josef El-Raghy, Chairman


Okay. Good morning and welcome to our Q3 results presentation. The quarterly report, which was


released half an hour ago, don’t intend to go through it point by point and word by word, because I


imagine you’ve had a chance to digest it a little already anyway. There is a presentation that goes


with the report today and we’re going to step through that rather than the report itself.


We’re going to start on slide six, given that the first five slides are slides that you’ve seen before,


and they’ve been in our previous presentations. Slide six covers the main points of the quarterly.


30,000 ounces produced in the quarter. The main reasons for the production being lower than


expected, which were forecast or were telecast to the market back in early September when we


readjusted our guidance for the year, and it’s primarily to do with the SAG Mill liner failures that


impacted steady-state production.


That saw production for the quarter or tons through the mill at only 600,000 tons, as opposed to


something that should be closer to 950,000 to 1 million tons in the quarter. The previous two


quarters saw 920,000 and 850,000 tons, so the 600,000 tons through the mill in the quarter was


really the reason for the low gold production. With that impacting – the impact of steady-state


production, we also saw lower gold recoveries, and Harry will go into that a little as we go through


the presentation. Those lower recoveries primarily due to the stop-start nature of how we’re running


the operation through the quarter.


With the lower production costs and the higher use of SAG Mill liners, we saw a higher cash cost of


production through the quarter at $638 an ounce. However, I would say that the unit costs of


production did not blow out and we don’t see any danger of being a low cost $400 an ounce


producer once we start to deliver the tons through the mill on a consistent basis.


What was pleasing through the quarter though was the mining, both open pit and underground,


progressed very, very well. Harry will go into more details on that. The underground actually, post


the quarter in October, where we did put out an update a couple of weeks ago, we did hit the


targeted area off the Hapi Zone after almost a year of development work.


Ore drives have begun in that underground area and ground conditions are good. We’ll be doing


development work through the – through this quarter, delivering some high grade tons to the run


pad, with production from the underground kicking off next year. Stage 3 and Stage 4 on the


development of the expanded project continues, with Stage 3 construction work having kicked off in


the quarter.


We had a reserve increase during the quarter, where we took it from 7 million to 9 million ounces,


and importantly, those ounces will be good mine ore ounces.


If we flip over the page to slide seven, those quarterly comparisons, that table came from the


quarterly report as well, and we have talked about that as a snapshot already. You can – probably


the main things to draw your attention to are the third line there where you see the real dropoff in


tons through the mill, the ore processed tons getting down to 600,000; well off where we were in


the first quarter, where first quarter we had no SAG Mill problems. Second quarter, it started to


impact, but third quarter was very tough to keep that mill going.
corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We see that turning around, and turning around well in this quarter. We have put the steel in the


mill, and it was a four-day shutdown, which we’ve just completed and we would now be hoping to


run that right through to the end of the end year and well past it.


What – some of the good and the bad in the quarter; head grade starting to pick up as we forecast,


as we’re getting into that better sulfide material, so a good kick up in head grade. We should see


that again this quarter with a delivery of 1.9 grams to 2 grams through this quarter.


Recoveries dropping off due to the stop-start nature primarily that Harry will go into a bit more detail


on that. Gold production, as we guided a month ago, in line with Q2, and costs higher due to this


stop-start nature.


At this point, it’s probably prudent to hand over to Harry who will go into more of the operational


challenges and what we’ve done on the rectification through the quarter, which will give you an idea


of where we’re placed today to take on the balance of the year.


Harry Michael, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Josef. Good morning everybody. As Josef mentioned, moving on to slide eight, coming out


of the back of a tough and flat [audio gap] for the reasons we alerted the markets earlier in the year,


but very well-prepared for a strong finish this quarter four coming up now that we’re in.


We did a lot of nursing of the liners throughout the quarter and you can see there the impact of our


production and the upward pressure on our cash costs that’s occurred as a result of that nursing


the SAG Mill liners. That was offset by the high head grade that you saw in that snapshot that Josef


gave for the quarter. And – but the lower availabilities and the intermittent and regular stoppages


that we had to undertake for the polymetallic liner is obviously causing the same type of


performance for quarter three as it did for quarter two.


Moving on to slide nine, you can see the impact there being very visual now, seeing quarter three


with around 600,000 tons, but also seeing the – keeping the feed grade with full sulfide exposure


that we have now and the full sulfide feed going into the plant. This was offset by the availability


and throughput delays with the liners throughout this period.


On to slide ten, this is the same slide that we showed last [audio gap] process plant optimization.


As Josef mentioned, we have just finished the replacement of the polymet liner system with steel


system, and we are operating today and we are right on budget performance for the first hours of


operation and it looks very, very good. We’re very, very pleased with the job the team did. They’ve


had a tough few months and they put through multiple changes, and everyone is very, very happy


with the way the plant has started up and is performing right now with the steel system.


So, we’re hoping that’s going to continue to at least [audio gap] the steel system again. Second


bullet point and third bullet point, the spillage skirts and the redesign of the trommel screens have


all been completed. The fourth bullet point on the additional [audio gap] done a lot of work in that,


and that was in place at the beginning of the quarter. But, the regular stoppages that we had


throughout the quarter meant that the air sparges and the feed system going into those – the west


side of the plant effectively got blocked at the location, so it didn’t make for any – an effective and


impressive recovery that we were looking for. So, whilst the additional air is demonstrating an


improvement in the recoveries, the regular stoppages that we had as a result of the liner changes


that we needed to undertake for the quarter really impacted those recoveries throughout the


quarter.