corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Josef El-Raghy
 
– Executive Chairman


Harry Nicholas Michael
 
– Chief Executive Officer & Director


Other Participants


Andrew Mikitchook
 
– Analyst, GMP Securities LP


Charles R. Cooper
 
– Research Analyst, Oriel Securities Ltd.


Daniel Lian
 
– Research Analyst, Merrill Lynch International Ltd.


George Topping
 
– Managing Director, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome ladies and gentlemen to your Centamin Egypt Q1 Results Conference Call.


Throughout the call, all participants will be on listen-only mode and afterwards there will a question-


and-answer session.


Today, I’m pleased to present your host, Josef El-Raghy. Over to you, Josef.


Josef El-Raghy, Executive Chairman


Okay. Thank you and good morning to everyone. Also on the line today with me is Harry Michael,


who will take the bulk of the presentation today. With that, just introduce the quarterly results, we


have a presentation on the webcast and the web site.


We’ll go straight into slide four, which is our development plan, and it’s important for everyone as I


guess that our guidance remains intact. Our development plan we are pretty much on the second of


those three arrows now. Certainly calendar year 2010 behind us and a good year for us, getting the


plant back up running and gold production coming out of Egypt for the first time. We now have – we


announced yesterday that we should be able to see the 5 million ton per annum plant has


commenced so we’re bang in the middle of opening now and the thing for us is moving towards the


right and moving towards what this project should be, and that’s a plus 500,000 ounce per annum


producer.


The snapshot of the quarter, for us a good quarter, 45,000 ounces produced. We would have


expected somewhere 50,000 to 53,000 ounces from the quarter though. That’s obviously


interrupted during the quarter with the events in Egypt, but all things considered, we’re very happy


with the quarter. The plant is running well and the interruption to our project was really fairly minor


considering the events in Egypt for the quarter.


Average cash costs were $525 per ounce. They are above where we guided for our guidance for


the year at $450, and that is due to the lower ounces for the quarter. But unit costs certainly were


on track – in check, sorry, and we see $450 per ounce as being very achievable for the quarters


going forward.


A very strong cash position for us, we’re at $186 million. Still debt free, hedging free, and we will


remain that way. A record for the quarter in terms of operating profit of $56 million and for us the
corrected transcript


Centamin Egypt Ltd.
 
CEY.GB
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


continued evolution of the company. So the appointment of the new non-executive directors and


the retirement of a couple of our longstanding directors as well.


With that brief introduction, I think I’ll hand over to Harry now who has the bulk of the presentation


and the details of operational results.


Harry Nicholas Michael, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Good morning, everybody. Thanks Josef. Moving on the next slide, slide six, everybody, again that


gives you a nice snapshot and puts a bit more meat on what Josef mentioned as the – as part of


the overview and gives us now a view of year-on-year results, tailored by the fact, of course, that


quarter one last year was a little lopsided there going into there into the Stage 1 plant rather than


the Stage 2 plant, which [indiscernible] (0:03:39), which is why you see quite a difference in ore


throughput year-on-year.


Total mined material, again on year-on-year results, is still a little bit better than that, but obviously


we were expecting a lot more and we were getting a lot more prior to the explosive delay that we


got late last quarter.


Head grade of course significantly better, but still affected by explosives issues near the end of the


quarter, which basically deferred what are the high grade material both from the open pit and the


development or in the underground, which impacted our head grade for the quarter, particularly late


in that quarter.


Gold Production at 45,000 ounces, as Josef mentioned, good sales price, of course. And cash


costs reasonably in check considering the lower gold production prior fall because of the lower


grade.


If we move on to slide seven, you can see again, a little bit more meat into those. Those numbers in


comparisons with the previous quarters, not as strong a result as against the previous quarter, of


course, because of the revolution in the country and the results of those supply delays that we had


on the sensitive materials like explosives. But cash cost reasonably stay in check around that $450


to $500 mark and just pushed up a little bit because of the lower production.


On slide eight, again stronger sales, stronger gold price, gold exports continuing and as a result


that created little bit of a hangover that we had at the end of last year because of the Christmas


period. We’re seeing a big push there in the last quarter of substantial sales at a very, very strong


gold price and obviously strong cash flows as a result.


On slide nine, again, you can see there the impact on the mining activity where the mining area in


particular has been performing pretty well over the course of last year. That’s been arrested a little


bit because of just the supply issues that we’ve mentioned. But that’s now slowly getting back on


track as supplies are reaching again into the project and the impact of the ore unit cost and strip


ratio as a result.


Decline development on the next slide, on slide 10, similarly affected although we continue to


progress decline development as well as ore drives and cross cut development and firing of our first


load. Again, all of that was slowed late in the quarter because of supply issues.


Slide 11, ore processed, two main impacts there which didn’t give us as a good quarter as last


quarter was the liner change out late in the quarter, which was a little bit earlier than what we would


have liked, probably about two weeks to three weeks earlier. But still the steel liners that went in


there were – gone very, very well. It gave us about four to five months of life, which is around the


area we expect to draw them, the four to five weeks we got with the poly- metallic liner. So that