Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Josef El-Raghy — Chairman, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
David Haughton — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
George Topping — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.
David Hove — Associate, Research, Stifel Nicolaus
Daniel Ross McConvey — Founder & Managing Member, Rossport Investments LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to today's Centamin Second Quarter Results Call. Throughout this call, all participants will be in listen-only mode and we will be going straight to a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this call is being recorded. Today, I'm pleased to present Josef El-Raghy, Chairman; Pierre Louw, Chief Financial Officer; and Andrew Pardey, Chief Operating Officer. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from Andrew Mikitchook of GMP Securities. Please go ahead, sir. Your line is now open.

Good morning gentlemen for the second time.

Good morning, Andrew.

Good morning, Andrew.

Good morning.

Just two fairly short follow-up questions, somewhere near the back of, what is this, the Chairman's notes or something like this, Chairman's statement, it says your Chief Executive Officer appointment process is being reassessed, I think, is the correct wording that you're using or that you've chosen to use. Is there anything you can add to explain that?

Yeah, look, we appointed a headhunting firm here in the UK, that's a global firm that presented candidates to the board. We reviewed various candidates over the last few months and we reviewed the business that we're managing and the business that we want to grow. And at this point in time, with Andrew Pardey, with Pierre Louw and now with the appointment of Andy Davidson in business development, the board's view is that those three individuals can drive the existing business and drive the company forward for the business that we want to run over the coming years. And at this point in time, it's not a press – there's no pressing urgency for us to appoint a CEO.

Okay. And my second question was with the expansion that's coming, I'm not sure if it's more towards Andrew or what, but what level of impact on the existing operations would you expect, are you ever going to find yourself completely out of a primary crusher and down for one week or two weeks or something, which would have a real impact say on Q4 or Q1 of next year or something similar to that?

Well, let me just start and Andrew can talk about the detail of the tie-in of the two plants and where that overlaps. But our guidance for next year in that mine plant does incorporate a pretty, I think, moderate or conservative view of tons throughput for next year at 6.1 million tons. So we're saying that there's a fairly extended commissioning period next year. When you look at the plant that we've got now running at five million tons and commissioning starting early next year, maybe Andrew can talk about areas that there will be tie-ins and shutdowns or...

Yeah, with the tie-ins of the existing plants and the new plant, any of the major tie-ins we're trying to schedule with when we'll have relined going under paved – underway in the existing circuit, so there is minimal disruption to the existing operation. We're also installing a new primary crusher which will come in next year, but in the meantime we will have the conveyors going to the new [ph] core four stockpile (04:14) installed before that time and we do have some capacity to crush extra material on top of what we're feeding to the existing circuit to that [ph] core four (04:24) stockpile. So if there was a delay in the crusher, we would still have feed for the new plant.

So you are fairly confident you could minimize the outright impact by scheduling, is what you're coming back with?

That is correct. The operations team on site and the construction team are working very closely together for all the tie-ins to ensure we minimize disruption.

Right. I think that's it. I'll see if anyone else wants to ask any questions behind me. Thank you gentlemen.

Our next question comes from the line of David Haughton of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead, your line is now open.

Hi, Josef and Andrew. Thank you for giving us the opportunity for another go at you. Got a couple of questions just on the underground, I could see that during the quarter you had a combination of development ore and stoping ore, that the production that you're reporting, is that from a combination of both the development ore and the stoping ore, are you putting that development ore through the mills in other words?

Yes, everything that we haul out of the underground is put through the plant, David.

Okay, that's good. That's what I had presumed. Behind your guidance of the 10 to 12 grams and you're commentary said that you're happy to stick with it. What are you seeing that makes you confident of getting on average that double-digit grade for this year?

Well, if you saw the presentation, you'll notice the amount of stoping dirt is starting to increase; in fact we had more stoping dirt than development dirt coming out for the last quarter. And in the last month of the quarter, that's when we started to get into some of the higher really consistent higher grade stopes.

Okay. So I'm looking here at the long section of the underground on Page 16. Is that the one that you're referring to?

I was referring to page – this is the record underground material movement, Slide eight.

All right.

Breakdown in the graph between development ore and stoping ore.

Yes, I see. All right. And from that stoping ore, what kind of grade you're seeing coming out of that? Are you differentiating between the grade that you're seeing in the development versus stoping?

Yes, we record those grades separately.

So what you're seeing then coming out of the stoping is clearly double-digit grade?

In the stopes that we're going into now?

Yes.

Yes, that's correct.

Okay, good. And now thinking about that long section that I'd mentioned on Page 16 previously, what kind of timing do you have to get development and stoping ore out of that additional decline out of the Ptah decline? Would you expect to get something out in 2013 there and what should we be thinking about as the kind of underground mining rates once you get both declines in full operation?

Ptah will still be in a very major development phase next year. We should hit the first part of the ore body later this year. But then we need to get in there and drill it out and really understand that part of the ore body. So I'd rather be conservative on how we go with developing that northern part of the ore body.

All right. So – but the location of that decline had been driven by your initial sense of where the better grade was in the underground. Is this the kind of stuff that we're seeing at the Hapi Zone where you have the intersection of the flat line structures and the steeper structures? These are sort of things you're also looking at at the Ptah development?

The amount of – the small amount of drilling we have available out there is implying the same features are going on with geology.

Okay. And should we be able to see 0.5 million tons per annum coming out of the underground once you get these two declines in operation?

Well, the declines will have the capacity to be able to haul out over 0.5 million tons...

Okay.

...with the existing decline, existing ventilation.

Okay. That's good for me for now. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of George Topping and Dave Hove of Stifel Nicolaus. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Great, thanks, George here. So, Josef, if you could or, Pierre, if you could just drill down on the costs for mining at the open pit and underground, the direct mining costs, the milling costs and the G&A. and I'm trying to ascertain if there's – what – how many dollars have been sent into the capital account?

Yeah, I'm not sure whether you've gone through the report where we explained that we've now adopted IFRIC 20 adjustment for stripping. At this point, we are under-stripping, so we have no money going onto the capital account. So – and then looking forward for probably the mining plant the next I'd say 12 months from now probably still under-stripping before we're getting into stripping where we can start recognizing an asset. So at this point, there's nothing in there. There was – although there was the last amount of money from the previous asset that we – the deferred assets that we had that we wrote back in this quarter that was reported in the cash box.

And how much was that?

It was about US$5 million.

Just US$5 million, okay. And our models are cash-based, so just looking at the mining cost on a per-ton basis for open pit and underground, what were they... [indiscernible]

(10:57) in front of me at the moment, the ounces numbers, I mean it's just a simple calculate back on the ounces and...

Yeah, I can get the total; obviously, I can work out the total cost per ton. But to break it up into mining and milling, so as I can apply different cost inflations to those different parts of your operations, would really need to split it out into direct.

There we do so open pit mining tons, we show underground mining tons and mill tons and we show the cost per ounce for every item. So it is open. It is there.

Okay.

If you're looking at the title on Page three, you should be able, George, to get the numbers you're looking for.

Okay. Well, I would rather go to detail on Page 16.

Page three, I think you've got a table there that covers your tons and costs, cost is per ounce, but you should be able to get there.

All right, what's...

Dave Hove.

Yeah, this is Dave Hove on the line. For underground, how much did you capitalize for underground?

Sorry, what was that?

On the development cost?

In terms of – for underground, how much in terms of millions do you capitalize for underground costs?

We capitalize the sections that we are developing, that's pure development sections. We capitalize that amount under work in process and so, we have an ore body that that relates to and we will bring it back to the income statement over those ounces that it relates to.

So how much for the quarter?

We have capitalized during – yeah, we have capitalized – during the six months, we've capitalized the underground, I think if you look at the depreciation schedule, note number nine, you'll see there that we've capitalized about US$54 million in mine development properties for the underground which we are now writing back on the ounces that we declared in January.

I see. That $54 million is up for the six months?

Yeah. And we had – it's there in Q1 and we back that out, can we?

Yeah, if you just look at the growth that we've put in, in the mining development, there's a portion there of that $53 million, $54 million that belongs to our previous exploration. And also there's a portion in there that belongs to capital. So those items have now come out of work-in-process and we are now writing them off. On the ounces, the exploration of the ounces of the ore body and then the underground capital that we've spent we are writing back on the underground ounces.

All right. Well, we can try and take – we'll try again and take this off line as we did Q1 because it's quite – can be difficult to get to the actual cash basis which is the basis for our valuation.

Can I just ask one more question and that's on the labor disruption at the mine that was subsequent to quarter end, just wondered how was it settled, was there additional compensation or benefits that are to be paid?

We don't ever want to go into the real specifics apart from to say that the 30 people that caused the trouble to start with have been suspended and are being investigated by the Ministry of Labor. Our employees have received the government instructed 15% increase to salary and the majority – well, have 1,100 odd employees, apart from the 30 that are suspended, the rest are back at work and happy to be working.

Right. So it's just a 15% in Egyptian pounds and no additional benefits or anything like that that would add to cost in the back half?

Nothing material, no.

Great. When does that 15% take effect, Josef?

July.

July, okay.

All other allowances are being paid in accordance with the law.

Great. That's for me. Are you done, Dave?

Yeah, just one last question on underground mining. When I back out the Ptah cost, I'm getting like, sub $30 – and I remember from the last call, you're saying they are like hundred or so dollars. What's – am I understanding it correctly or are you capitalizing like $70 of it?

No, I think there might be an error in that calculation. Our guidance has always been around $70 to $80 a ton. I think there might be something there, Dave, that we need to have a look at.

Okay, all right. Great, we'll take that off line. Thanks, Pierre and Josef.

Why don't you shoot through your cards to Pierre and he can have a look at them.

Right up, will do.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Mikitchook of GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, gentlemen. Unfortunately my question has escaped from me. I will – I'll email it through and we'll sort out.

All right, Andrew.

Have a good day.

Thank you.

That happens when you're up early. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Damien (sic) [Daniel McConvey] of Rossport. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, everyone. Just – and I might have missed the beginning of it, but just – wouldn't mind going through what has to be done phase two cost wise with all the – as you can appreciate this concern about CapEx in a – and being there in March, you're waiting for the contractor to get started, I think in a building one of the plants there, can you just give us maybe a more detailed description of what's going on and what exposure there is for any CapEx escalations in completing phase two?

You've got the breakdown of the cost areas right and if we're talking about stage four...

Stage four, sorry.

Yes, US$138 million – it's on page six of the quarterly. We're $138.7 million into stage four. We have broken down for you where we're at in the four or the three main areas. At the moment, US$287 million is the budget. We see it's still a fairly valid estimate. Contingencies are generally 10% over and above that budget. We haven't seen the contingency threatened or use of the entire contingency threatened as yet. We'll regard at the end of the quarter, that's Q3, how we see our budget to completion. But at the moment, we see the main, the big ticket items are either there or on the way there. And budget will probably be or performance versus budget will probably be driven by the timeliness of delivering the project. If we're still constructing in Q2 and Q3 next year, that's when we'll be going past budget.

Until what?

Rather than any single items being above budget.

Right. Well, that's where my main concern is, just timing of the, just tell me where have they – they were behind when we were there in March in terms of getting started, just what's happened since then and if we saw pictures here, what would they kind of show us?

You'd see the major concrete works having come out of the ground. Mill pedestals being completed, raw order pumps down, the power stations complete and approaching commissioning. So April, May and June were very good months for construction.

And in terms of the underground cost, I know Egypt's depressed right now, so it should be helping out from a labor standpoint, but are you getting many – much escalation from what you expected in terms of the local contracts?

No.

Okay. So your confidence level in bringing this in roughly in-line is the same as it would have been a few months ago?

Look, April, May and June were the months that we needed to have to get the construction, some momentum beyond construction. It's always difficult to gauge exactly how you're going when you're in the middle of summer and things were pretty tired and look badly. But I think we're there or thereabouts from beginning commissioning in Q1.

Is there are any key items, I think you have them all in advance, but is there any key physical items that you're waiting for?

The critical path items, the order pipeline, but that's more execution rather than delivery of pumps and then delivery of the primary crushers is not scheduled until – well, we won't actually get that in and completed until Q2. But we are able to crush ahead of where we need to be with the existing crusher that can actually run up towards 10 million tons. So whilst it's critical to get it completed, that's something that stuff is commissioning the second plant.

Okay. In the contract you were waiting for some response from, the main contracts, the British one, they have responded now and are – satisfactorily – you're satisfied with what you're doing now?

I'm not sure what you're referring to. I mean...

Well, there was one main British general contractor, I have to get the name of it and we...

We used JBM for – on the – we would initially engage them for EPCM contract.

Right.

That has become more of a – that's been re-styled to be more AMP and less CNM and we're doing more of the CNM.

Okay, all right. Thank you very much, Josef. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of George Topping and Dave Hove from Stifel Nicolaus. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah, great. Thanks. Hey, Josef, we took the time there just to recheck the calculations. Maybe you can help us with it. So that's US$50 a ton – US$50 an ounce underground mining times the full production of 67,422 ounces. So that gets US$3.3 million for the underground. So if we divide that by 116,000 tons, which is the underground development, and the underground stopes, that gives us US$29 a ton. Are we making a mistake somewhere there or what are we missing?

It just sounds low. I'll have to look at that number, George. It does just sound – doesn't sound right. And I would think it'll be more than double that.

Yeah, if you took just the underground stopes and excluded the underground development, it would be US$52 a ton. But then the total gold produced wouldn't be the right number because the underground development ore is going through the plant.

Okay, maybe the information you have there is not sufficient in calculating the underground, but we can have a look at that when you send your email through.

Perfect. Thanks, Pierre. Thanks, all. Bye.

Okay.

Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Mikitchook of GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, sorry, just one more question. Somewhere in here there's a note about the dump leach and saying that you are conserving carbon capacity I think is the conclusion that came out of that. So obviously, we should imply for at least the balance of the year until your new carbon regeneration kiln shows up that you will have less production from the dump leach?

Yes, Andrew. That is correct. We've restricted the flowback from the dump leach. So the numbers that you're seeing reported in there use those.

And sorry, restricted the flows, so you're just accumulating gold and solution?

Correct. Yeah, that is correct.

Okay. And this is still just all oxide right, there's no – there's been no transition material or significant amount of sulfides being...

No, oxide material that goes onto the dump leach, Andrew.

Right, so – and there's no opportunities with the transition sulfides, with the dump leach?

No, no.

No, okay. Thank you.

As there are no further questions, I'll hand the call back to Josef El-Raghy for closing comments.

Okay, thank you. We've rounded up a pretty good operational quarter with a sound financial performance as well. We'd say that despite – or see that sort of setting up us for a good second half of the year with performance both on operational and financial front should exceed what we did in the first half.

The fuel discussion has gone back and forth amongst quite a few people today. I think the bottom line is that you know what the best and worst case scenario for the company is with the cash costs that as you've seen in this quarter being US$565 million and US$729 million, very much in line with our full-year guidance of US$550 million and US$700 million. We'll resolve the way we sit within that range over the back end of the year. It will change our margin, but it doesn't change the projects that we're working on and it doesn't change our ability to place stage four and complete stage four out of cash flow.

So we should exit the year in a far better position than we entered it, both on production profile outlook and cash balance, which is how we intend to continue to manage the business and we will look forward to updating you further at the end of Q3. Thank you.

And this now concludes our call. Thank you for attending. Participants, you may disconnect your lines.