Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Nick Hatch — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
Rita Guindy — Analyst, CI Capital Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us on our Q2 Results Call. Joining me on this call is our new Chief Financial Officer, Ross Jerrard, and our Investor Relations Manager, Andy Davidson, who will both be available afterward for the Q&A session.

Going on to the results, the strong start we've made to the year has continued into the second quarter, with a 12% quarterly increase in production to just over 140,000 ounces and a continued downward trend in our costs.

The higher production and lower costs were given a further boost from the continued rise in the gold price, resulting in EBITDA of $101.6 million, a strong 51% increase over our previous quarter. Strong free cash flows were highlighted by our cash and liquid assets payments, which has increased by $56.5 million to just over $332 million. Centamin will remain debt- and hedge-free at – for our longstanding policy.

Reflecting on this solid first-half performance, I'm pleased to report the board has approved an interim dividend of $0.02 per share. Whilst it's in line with our dividend policy, this payout is more than double the previous year interim payout of $0.0097. Furthermore, this highlights both our commitment and our ability to provide highly competitive returns to our shareholders.

The Q2 cash operating cost of $461 per ounce was a material 24% reduction on the previous quarter. This strong performance was driven partly by the higher gold production, but also improved cost efficiencies despite an uptick in both processing rights and an increase in the steel price during the period.

All-in sustaining costs of $669 per ounce were also down significantly on Q1, with a reduction in operating costs, slightly up offset by an increase in sustaining capital expenditure. The Sukari operation continues to perform well in all areas. Processing rates are 2% higher than Q1, remaining above our base forecast of 11 million tonnes per annum, and average head grade were 11% up on Q1 driven by increased grades from both the open pit and the underground mines.

Operating safety remains our absolute priority. And although we did not manage to sustain the first quarter zero-harm rate, we continue to view our safety risk order as one reflecting the strong culture of safety and professionalism amongst our workforce.

In light of the strong production and cost performance in Sukari, we have updated our full-year guidance with forecast production of between 520,000 and 540,000 ounces at a cash cost of production of $530 to $550 per ounce and all-in sustaining cost of $720 to $750 per ounce.

We have delivered a solid first half of increasing production, reducing cost and solid cash flow. Furthermore, the potential for significant medium and longer term growth remains supported from our ongoing exploration programs. At Sukari, we are commencing a new exploration decline within the northeastern Cleopatra zone at Sukari Hill that's at the northern end of Sukari Hill. This is an $11.5 million exploration project, which will test the potential for the northern portion of Sukari Hill, and potentially have the ability to deliver additional high-grade tonnes to the processing plant in the future.

Exploration is also continuing in Burkina Faso with results building evidence of a number of potentially economics high-grade mineralized structures, and our first-pass drilling in Côte d'Ivoire is also delivering early encouraging results. Although, [ph] a first-pass Côte d'Ivoire drilling (04:00) drilling is required and before we can start [ph] commenting (04:03) and developing a resource in Côte d'Ivoire. We will continue to update the market over the coming quarters on progress towards our ultimate aim of establishing a low-cost and high-return project in this region.

With this, I'd like to hand back over to the operator and open up the lines for Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from James Bell, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning, gents. Just three questions for me. Firstly, on grade – the underground. Obviously, we saw it very high in Q2. I wonder if you could give some guidance on what we might expect in H2 from there? Secondly, on the acceleration decline in terms of fitting that out for production, what sort of CapEx would you expect in addition to the $11.5 you're spending, and how quickly could you potentially bring that online?

And thirdly, in terms of your 2017 net production profile, obviously it was lower than what you've guided to for this year. Can we expect sort of similar production rates and cost profiles for 2017 as well? Thanks.

Okay. Andrew, maybe you'd like – well, I'd just say, first of all with the underground grade with our – that first question [indiscernible] (05:50) James. The range we've guided through the second half is 6.95 grams to 7.65 grams a tonne, and that is progressively coming down Q3 to Q4 towards the 6 grams per tonne reserve average. And perhaps, Andrew can expand on that, and then talk about more about your question regarding Cleopatra. Andrew, are you still there?

Okay. Just – yeah. I'm still here. I'm still on the line. Just referring to the underground grades as well, I mean, during the quarter, part of the ammonium [ph] nitrate, we have nine high-grade states (6:28) in the first half, and what was in our initial results from reserve numbers, some of that mining has come from within the published reserves and resource.

We've also had high-grade area that is developed and being stoped, which were high grades and publically reported. and that's allowed us to deliver those high grades coming through from the underground in Q2. We expect to see a slight fallback in the grade coming through Q3, but still expect Q3's underground grade is going to be above the 6-gram-per-tonne rate that we have in the published resource and reserves figures.

Referring to the Cleopatra's decline. Cleopatra is an exploration decline. It's basically – it's being down on a similar model for how we initially started the underground at Sukari. We put in an exploration decline to go down and determine what we really had there rather than attempt and try and just drill it from surface, which is difficult [ph] with the geographies (07:25) of Sukari hill.

And then, once we get down, we see nine months of development. The first four months to five months since the initial decline to get down to where we can establish the drilling – first drilling platforms, and then from there, we have another four months to go down to get in further on the target areas, but drilling will be undertaken after approximately four months to five months of the initial development.

When we expect this to come in to production? At this stage, it is solely to exploration. And once we determine what we've got down there, [ph] We'd be able to (07:58) give you more guidance [indiscernible] (07:59) contribute to additional ounces at Sukari, but we will be building these declines similar to the [indiscernible] (08:06) with a [ph] 6.6 meter (08:08) decline. So, we have the capabilities of handling in excess of 1 million tonnes per annum.

Yeah. And then, James, sorry your last question there was about 2017 onwards. We haven't changed our forecast. Our forecast to 2017 onwards remain valid on the assumptions that was laid out in those forecasts essentially as you'd be aware of the open pit numbers based from the reserve schedule. The underground grade, 6 grams a tonne is based on the last reserve grade, and we've also announced, you'll see in the results today, that we are in the process we expect to, and as an update to resource and reserve statements in the second half of this year. So, we'll update those longer-term forecasts as appropriate as after we've gone through that process and announce the resource and reserve update.

As far as the plant processing rate in those forecasts goes, we stated clearly, I think, in those assumptions that the 11 million tonnes is a base case, and we've got upside towards 12 million tonnes we feel. Ultimately, once we complete the debottlenecking optimization process, which we're in the middle [ph] of now starting we're (09:25) starting to see that come through. So, again, you can use that. Your own modeling can work on an assumption from that. We were pretty clear in those assumptions on those longer-term forecasts where we're working from as a base case. So, yeah...

[indiscernible] (09:47)

Sorry. Go ahead.

Yeah. James, during that first half of the year, we have achieved three months, but not consecutively where we've milled over 1 million tonnes through the processing plant. As far as the grades in the processing plant, it's [indiscernible] (10:02) getting consistency in that performance and getting that processing plant up to a 12 million tonne per annum throughput rate.

Okay, understood in all of that. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, James.

Thank you, and our next question comes from Richard Hatch of RBC. Go ahead, sir. Your line is open.

Thank you, and morning, gents. Thanks very much for the call. A couple of questions. Firstly, on Cleopatra underground, do you expect to include that in your reserve and resource update for the second half of the year? And secondly, thanks for the guidance on the underground. Are you able to give the guidance for the open pit for the second half?

And then thirdly, I mean, given your strong cash position, I appreciate you have a dividend policy in place and interest in compelling exploration projects, but would you consider a special dividend given your strong cash position in no debt? Thanks.

Thanks, Richard. Just to jump in quickly on the forecast in relation also to the previous question on our second half forecast. If you download – there is a results presentation that you can download from our website, it breaks down the production guidance there. As per our normal disclosure, we do break out the production guidance into tonnes and grades, and you'll see that there for the second half.

But the answer to your question, Richard, is 1 gram a tonne, we're expecting is an average mill growth for the second half, which pretty much in line with where we are now with mining and the reserves average as we've forecast all along. This year is about getting the open pit to steady state the reserve average of the expanded production rate, but that's the expectation for the second half in the open pit.

Okay. Thanks, Andy.

Thank you. Again...

[indiscernible] (12:02)

So, in relation to the Cleopatra decline being in the resource and reserves update come due, but we plan to get in the second half of this year, so there'll be no information on that. It's still very much decline being developed and put down in drilling [indiscernible] (12:21) just be commencing four months or so from this period of time. So, there won't be – nothing to mention to provide any updates on that section regarding resource or reserves.

Great, okay. Thanks, Andrew, and then just the last one on the special dividend? Thanks.

Well, look, we're a gold mining company. What we do is we produce gold. We're not a bank. We have no intention of holding on to excess cash that's greater than our needs, but that's not a smart move. That's not good for us, but we have shareholders. As far as the idea of special dividend, I mean our dividend range that we've paid out now in this interim is still within the range what we said we'd do. And at this point in time, we've continued to follow those sort of guidelines, but we won't be building up excess cash. That's not a wise thing either, but we're a gold producing company, not a bank.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a follow-up from Richard Hatch of RBC. Go ahead, sir. Your line is open.

Thanks. So, what I've got in there is the last of my questions, so two more. Firstly, just in terms of the $11.5 million spending on Cleopatra, is that the bulk of it in the second half, or as Andrew [ph] alluded to, (13:59) does it come and some of it slip into 2017?

And then, secondly, do you have a guide as to when you hope to hit your 90% recovery rate? It's very encouraging to see you hit 89.5%. So, do you hope to hit it by the end of the year, or are you able to put sort of like a rough time line on your hopes or expectations? Thanks.

Okay. Look, the $11.5 million spend on the Cleopatra decline, look, three quarters of that expenditure – approximately three quarters of that expenditure would be undertaken this year if development goes as planned, with the remainder in the first quarter of next year.

Thanks.

As for recovery rates, well, I mean, yes, we want to deliver the 90% recovery, but we're also – we're doing a significant increase in throughput through that processing plant as well. So, yes, we will eventually hit the 90%, but we're also pushing a lot more tonnes through that processing plant. So, it's going to take more fine-tuning, obviously, [indiscernible] (15:03), consistent ultra-fine grinding first to go on and produce and achieve 90% recovery.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Nick Hatch, Canaccord Genuity. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

Morning, guys. Just a quick question on the legal disputes. First of all, over the concession agreements and then the diesel fuel subsidy. I was just wondering really whether you had any guidance you could give on when you expect the next hearings on those two cases to be, and how do you think things may unfold for the rest of the year there?

Hi, Nick. The consistent agreement case, the process, the review process has been officially stayed with the result of the last hearing, pending an outcome of the Supreme Constitutional Court review as we all referred you to, which is this new law that would sweep the decks clean of all these cases, not just us, but there's a number of others similar to it, as you're aware. We've talked about this law previously.

Yes. So, we can't guide on when that will happen, obviously, we're not party to that process, and it would be speculation if we could tell you when process is going to be complete. What we can say is our continued expectation is a positive outcome remains. We continue to operate. We continue to enjoy a positive relations with the government and all those things. Nothing has changed in that respect.

The fuel process officially we're waiting for state commissioner's report to feed into that core process. We don't have a date on that in terms of an expectation. So, again we can't guide on time lines, but that's been the case with all these court cases. We can't provide any clear guidance on the time line.

Okay. Thank you.

No changes effectively since the last time we talked.

Okay. Thanks, Andy.

Thank you, Nick.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Rita Guindy of the CI Capital. Your line is open. Please ask your question.

Hello. First of all, congratulations on the result. I have three questions. The first two on costs. Now, I understand your full-year cost guidance is just above the average for the first half of about $530, but here I have two questions. How sustainable are the costs of the second quarter of about $460? And what are the possibility of them recurring in the second half of the year?

And also, going into 2017, do you still think the $550 level would be sustainable? And then, my next question would be on the profit sharing but maybe we can tackle these first.

Hi, Rita.

Hi.

Thanks. I'll hand over to Ross, our CFO, just in a second, but I'll just briefly say that, again, those cost guidance numbers for the second half were in the presentation you'll get in the website. I mean, the fact that we're guiding $530 to $550 an ounce for the full year implies that we are expecting a slight uptick from the $460 an ounce, $461 that we delivered in Q2. And then the range for the second half is $532 to $573, probably driven by lower [indiscernible] (18:44) but I'll hand over to Ross to talk more about that.

Thanks, Andy. Rita, a lot of the costs have been driven by the fuel price and the impact of fuel. We've really enjoyed the benefits of a much lower fuel price. And importantly, that lower fuel price and the timing of when that actually flows through and how that gets to our results, so this is essentially a three months lag between net pricing and when it actually hits our ledgers. [indiscernible] (19:13) in terms of where we're going with it, the fuel has started to increase slightly, but we're still enjoying a much better position than we originally forecast. So, yes, the prices will go up, but still very achievable over the next six months and into the full year.

Okay, thank you. And then on profit sharing, just based on the updated guidance you published today, did you expect it now to kick in earlier than 2017 calendar year?

Rita, well, I'll take that. It's Ross again. Yes, it's very much in terms of our delivery of what happens in the next six months. Corporate share and depending on the results and the run rate, it is certainly going to kick in the calendar year for June 2017, and certainly by the end of our calendar year, we're expecting that we will be in that position. It's right at the cusp now, so it's quite exciting for all involved. But just the exact timing of when that trigger point rolls over will depend on gold price and the cost profile as we go over the next quarter.

Well. Thank you.

Just to clarify that, Rita, you'll be aware that the operating company in Egypt has a June year-end. So, we're not going to be talking about audited profit share payments before June next year, then.

Okay. So, even if they would be due, let's say, January 2017, you wouldn't make an announcement on that [indiscernible] (20:49) except on the financial year closing.

Yes. We can do our calculations and I guess have a position that we have to run that – run through the actual auditing process with the Egyptian processors. And the profit share is for the first full year, that profit share actually applies. So, [indiscernible] (21:10) kick in, let's wait towards the back end of this year. It's only applicable for their June year-end.

Understood. Thank you.

Thank you, Rita.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Okay. At this point, there seems to be no further questions. So, I'll hand back to the speakers for the closing comments.

Okay. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us in our Q2 results call. If you have any more further questions, our contact details are available on the presentation that's [indiscernible] (22:05) on the website. And please, over e-mail or contact us by a telephone, and we will answer the questions accordingly. Thank you very much.

Thank you. This now concludes the conference. Thank you, all, very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.