Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Nick Hatch — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Centamin Q3 Financials Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode, and afterwards, there'll be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, the conference call is being recorded.

Today, I'm pleased to present Andrew Pardey, CEO. Please begin your meeting.

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Centamin Q3 2016 results call. Joining me on the call today are Ross Jerrard, Chief Financial Officer, and Andy Davidson, Head of Investor Relations.

Okay. The strong start we made to the year was consolidated in the third quarter with a 6% increase in gold production made in quarter two and a record quarterly gold production of 148,674 ounces.

During the second quarter, we delivered a strong reduction in unit operating cost, and this was carried through into a Q3 cash cost of $466 per ounce, as higher grades and hence productivity from the open pit offset an increase in the mining rates.

Our all-in sustaining cost of $644 per ounce were $25 per ounce lower than Q2, again reflecting the highly competitive cash margins at Sukari. Therefore, it is no surprise that higher product levels combined with low cost and a further boost from the continued rise in the gold price translated into a 20% quarterly increase in EBITDA to $122 million.

The strong cash flows fit directly through to a healthy increase in our cash and liquid assets balance, which now stands at almost $417 million, up almost $85 million during the quarter. We have made no changes to our formal guidance for the full year, but we highlight that production will be towards the top end and cost towards the lower end of the guidance ranges. This would translate into production close to 540,000 ounces of gold at a cash cost to production in the region of $530 per ounce and all-in sustaining costs of $720 per ounce.

Aside from the strong operational performance, the key highlight for the quarter is the commencement of profit sharing with the Egyptian government. The timing of profit sharing has been brought forward from our estimates at the start of the year due to stronger than expected cash flows brought principally about by higher levels of gold production, lower operating costs and a positive gold price environment. Centamin can now proudly note that it's recovered in excess of $1 billion of a capital expenditure its shareholders had invested in Sukari. This is a landmark achievement of both Centamin and for Egypt and the operation is now set to deliver 20 years or more of strong cash flow return for the continued benefit of all of our stakeholders in the project.

Furthermore, the potential for significant medium and longer-term growth remains supported by our continued exploration program. Results from the underground drilling at Sukari continue to impress and we look forward to delivering an updated resource and reserve estimate in the fourth quarter of this year. Again, at Sukari, the new Cleopatra exploration decline to the northeast of Sukari Hill is progressing well with the establishment of the portal and development having progressed over 200 meters to-date. This is an $11.5 million exploration. Project is designed to test the potential of this area of Sukari Hill deposit to deliver additional high-grade tonnes to the processing plant. Exploration drilling in the Cleopatra decline is expected to commence early in Q1 of 2017.

For our West African projects, we are currently reviewing data from the various drilling programs, and look forward to updating the market in the coming months on our outlook for these areas.

Again, before I close off, I would like to highlight Sukari has now recovered in excess of $1 billion of capital expenditure that its shareholders have invested in Egypt. This is a landmark achievement for Centamin and for Egypt, and the operation is now positioned to deliver 20 years or more of strong cash flow returns for the continuous benefit of all the stakeholders in the project.

With that, I'd like to hand back over to the operator for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Richard Hatch from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Good morning, Andrew. Good morning, team. Congrats on a very good quarter. Once again, just a couple of questions. Firstly, just on grades. I wonder if you're just able to give any guidance on your Q4 grades for the underground and open pit, and whether you see upside potential to your 2017 guidance that you previously published.

The second one is just on the diesel fuel oil case. And just on that, if you do lose your case, which I hope you don't, is there any financial impact on yourselves for that one? I suspect not, but just – could you just clarify?

And then, thirdly, just on the profit share, on that one, should we not just be booking 40% profit share from now on or are there any capital items that you can still claw back on? Thanks a lot.

Okay. Just as far as Q4 production goes, we're expecting the open pit and the underground grades and obviously then gold production to be slightly lower than in Q3 of this year. Underground, we're producing around 250,000 tonnes at a grade of approximately 6.5 grams per tonne and the ore coming from the open pit will be just around 1 gram per tonne to 1.05 grams per tonne.

Okay. Thanks.

Hi, Richard. It's Ross Jerrard here. In respect to your DFO question, that's all been fully accounted for, so there won't be any negative impact on the financials that's already been flushed through the P&L. And with regards to your profit share question, although profit share has commenced, cost recovery still continues. So there is a claw down of CapEx as a spend, that will continue to unwind over the following years. And as we spend further capital, that will be built into the cost recovery exercise.

Okay. Thanks, Ross. So, just on that basis, is there kind of a more broad brush percentage that we should use rather than the 40%. Is there any kind of way to accurately model how much profit share you're going to pay?

There's approximately $30 million that still sits within the cost recovery model that is formally approved. And as we close off a particular period, further costs will be allowed. But at the moment, you're probably looking at more like a 68% percentage share coming across to ourselves rather than 60% in the earlier years, and that drops down in years two and three quite considerably. Because we're just clawing back the final 2014 CapEx that was quite significant, the 2015 and 2016 are reduced quite significantly.

Okay.

But it's about 30% that will unwind pretty quickly over the next two years. And if you work on 68%, 32%, that's probably a fair basis.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Nick Hatch from Canaccord. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys. A quick question on the Supreme Administration (sic) [Administrative] Court and the stay on the Concession Agreement appeal. Do you have any sense of timing of what the next developments there may be?

Nick, hi. No. In short, I'm afraid, we're not involved in that case, so we don't have a timeline for it. We're awaiting – the actual process in that Supreme Constitutional Court is awaiting an opinion from the State Commissioner, which is a normal part of the process. But I'm afraid I can't give any timing on – expectation on timing for that.

Okay. Another question, Andy, please. In terms of 2017 guidance, I'm presuming you're going to be giving that in a few months' time with the Q4 production numbers. But is there any sort of hint that you can give us now over how that may have changed from the guidance you've given earlier in the year?

Nick, look, we're going to have a Capital Markets Day very early in the New Year. It's going to be – the timing is first of February. We'll give detailed guidance then for 2017 and update on it. In the interim, yeah, we're going to have a resource and reserve update, and we're clearly working through that now. So, difficult to give you anything really meaningful in between those two events.

So, yeah, best case is you work off the current guidance that's out there, the base case, and we've always indicated that the 500,000-ounce longer term production number is a base case, and we give the touch points on where the upside is from there in terms of processing rates getting to 12 million tonnes from 11 million tonnes in the base case. We clearly made a lot of progress towards that ultimate objective so far this year.

And then the other touch point on the upside is the underground getting potentially upwards of 1 million tonnes from the existing infrastructure towards a theoretical maximum of 1.5 million tonnes and in grades, there's upside on grade and we've delivered some of that over a couple of quarters so far this year. So, yeah, as I say, those are the upside regions and we've always pointed to that. But as I say, we'll have more detail on 2017 guidance on the first of February.

Okay. Thanks, Andy.

All right. Sure, Nick.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Anthony Didley (10:46), a private investor. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning and thank you for working so hard for us all throughout the year and very good results. But a thing that does concern a few of us private investors is the length the court case has been going on, or length of time, and the fact that it's been put on hold till there's a ruling on Law 32, but it seems that there now are a number of politicians that actually want to create a new mining law which would mean that Law 32 wasn't applicable.

Now, if the Egyptian politicians are going to talk about a new mining law, how long is that going to take? It could be a decade before this is settled and really, Centamin don't have a case to answer. You've complied with the original contract fully. The guy that made the accusations against Centamin has been proven to have based his case on a pack of lies and inaccuracies. And we all feel that the court case is having a serious effect, detrimental effect on this share price? I mean, certainly, I would think that the share price should be £1 more than this in the moment were it not for the court case.

Now, we hear that a number of politicians are due to visit the mine to see what's going on and, hopefully, they will report back with some very positive opinion. So, really, what happens is if Law 32 is forgotten and there's going to be a new mining law negotiated, where do we go then?

Okay. There's a couple of things. Thanks for that. There's a couple of things in there. First point is that our Concession Agreement is an act of law in itself and it's not subject to any new revisions as the mining law that Egypt brings out. It's its own law and the terms of that agreement under that law will not change, and they're not dependent on the wider mining law or any other codes or law.

Second point about Law 32, if that folds away, if that's deemed unconstitutional by the Supreme Constitutional Court then technically, we fall back to the merits of our appeal. In that case, we have always said and it remains the case that we have an extremely strong appeal. And we are very confident that the court will rule in our favor in that case. But the stay, if that Law 32 was ruled unconstitutional and the law fell away as a result of that, then the stay on our appeal process would fall away, we assume, and the appeal process itself would restart. And that is the same for us. We're in the same situation as a number of other companies and appeal processes in Egypt. So it's not just ourselves. It's a number of other cases that are in this situation. Hope that answers your question.

And – no, no. You didn't mention the politicians' visit. Are you aware that there's a number of politicians that are going to visit the Sukari mine?

Yes. Yes. We are. We are aware. And we welcome the visit. We're happy for different politicians to come down and see the site. And I'll tell you what with the visits we've had, when they've been to Sukari, they've been pleasantly surprised, they've been amazed at the size and the significant contribution that it's really making to Egypt. And when they see in excess of 1,400 Egyptian employees in a large scale operation, they all leave visibly impressed and very happy with what they see.

I think this is a key point, that – now, again, especially – I mean it's always been the case that we contribute and have contributed significantly to the Egyptian economy. But of course, that's now increasing again with the initiation of profit share, and we've become much more visible – directly visible as a result of that in the wider Egyptian context.

But nevertheless, we continue to engage very positively with government and the more we're seen to contribute, the more we are able to voice our message and get our message across that we'd like to do more in Egypt and that remains the case.

We would like the government to reform its mining code and into something that you would see in other jurisdictions around the world where you have advanced mining industries. We think and we believe very strongly that Egypt is a great place to operate. And it's got fantastic potential to develop a number of other Sukari scale mining operations and we'd love to be at the forefront of that. So, we're very actively engaged with very positive discussions with the government to try and get towards that ultimate aim. So, yeah. I think that's all we can say on that.

Yeah. The other point here is that a friend of mine who lives in Egypt at times often e-mails me lots of information and links to TV programs, one of which was where the Chairman Josef spoke on TV for quite a length about Centamin, and this was after the politician had made accusations against Centamin alleging that they were only giving the people of Egypt the crumbs off the table, and your Chairman spoke – well, I couldn't understand what he was saying. It appeared to me a very passionate speech and from what my friend told me it was all good reliable information. But obviously, investors such as we can't understand what's being said. Now, is there no way that Centamin PR could organize something so that there's an interpretation for people, lots of us people in other parts of the world that unfortunately don't understand none of it.

I think we have to recognize that our disclosure into the UK market is the company's disclosure.

Yeah.

Whatever goes on from a PR point of view in Egypt is directed at the Egypt audience. And, I mean, we can't translate everything. There's a lot of media attention on Centamin. You as investors and we as a company in the UK and in the English-speaking part of the world have all the relevant information to make investment decisions and that's our prime focus and requirement.

But we don't...

I would say, I think we should pass over to the operator for any other questions, please? Thank you. Thanks for your comments though. Much appreciated.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of James Bell from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Morning, gents. I just wondered if we could talk on cash. Is there a sort of minimum level of cash balance you want to maintain sort of going forward given that you've obviously got the exploration decline, potentially projects in West Africa. And in terms of that, how will it impact your expectations around dividends?

As far as cash goes, we've always categorically said we're not a bank. We're not going to hold on to excess cash. It's not our right to hold on to that excess cash. Though we've always felt, given the fact we don't have debt, we don't have hedging. From a company's perspective, we need to have in the vicinity of $100 million to $150 million that's basically there as a backup contingency/war chest. And if we make a development decision to go ahead with another operation or similar, we need in the vicinity initially of approximately $100 million to $150 million. Anything above that is really excess to our needs and we would look at returning that back to our shareholders.

Okay. Thanks. And then just in terms of initial economics perhaps around the project in Burkina. Is that going to be at the Capital Markets Day early next year or do we expect that to be with full-year results or might we get an update before the year – end of the year?

At Capital Markets Day, we'll provide a full exploration update of what we're doing in both Sukari, Cleopatra Sukari underground, Burkina Faso exploration, Côte D'Ivoire exploration.

Okay. Fine. And just, do you see these projects in West Africa as having to compete with, say, a second decline or development options at Sukari in terms of return?

Now, James, we could do both. I mean, the Cleopatra project is not capital-intensive, and we have ample cash flow to be able to handle that and West Africa. And obviously, Sukari operation is fully manned up and staffed, and we wouldn't need any capacity there – additional capacity there either.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

No competition between those two projects.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, James.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a follow-up question from the line of Richard Hatch from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Ross, just a quick one. Your working cap move. I see you had a bit of a working cap inflow this quarter. Should we expect that to reverse Q4 or not?

Sorry. Your question again is talking about movement in the working cap?

Yeah. Working cap movements, yes. Should we expect that to – so obviously, the decrease in pre-payments was the profit share, right? So, that's the bulk of that.

Yes.

But the – just the receivables decrease. Should we expect to see some sort of commensurate increase?

That's right. That'll really just be timing and will flush out over the next quarter.

Right. Sure. Okay. So, thank you.

Thank you. There appear to be no further questions. I'll return the conference to you.

That's great. Thank you very much everybody for joining on the call and for your questions. And I look forward to seeing you or speaking with you again soon. Cheers. Bye-bye.

Thank you.

Thank you. This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for your attending. You may now disconnect your lines.