Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Brock P. Salier — Analyst, GMP Securities Europe LLP
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Patrick Morton — Analyst, Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd.
Alexandra Slattery — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Alison H. Turner — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Centamin Q1 Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode, and afterwards there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

And today, I am pleased to present Andy Davidson. Please begin your meeting, sir.

Hi, there. Thanks, operator. Thanks, everyone for joining us, and welcome to the call. And Andrew Pardey is traveling at the moment. He's in the field. So, he sends his apologies. I've got myself, and Pierre Louw, our CFO. So, between us, I'm sure we can answer your questions.

If anytime – so I'll just give a brief overview before the Q&A. Q1 gold production was up 46% on the same period last year to just over 108,000 ounces. That's driven by the expanded production rate following completion of stage 4 last year. As expected and forewarned in previous announcements, quarterly production rates were down, and the reason for the 16% drop from 128,000 ounces produced in Q4 was the progression of the open pit mining through the upper portions of the next stage of pit development, which are below reserve average grade.

The production rates are expected to pick up again in the second half to reach and stabilize at the 450,000 ounce per annum to 500,000 ounce per annum range as those open pit grades return towards the reserve average. So, 2015 production guidance is therefore maintained at 420,000 ounces. The process plant performance in Q1 was good. Right, it was right to the nameplate, 10 million tonnes per annum capacity.

We completed a SAG mill reline in the quarter that was brought forward, and that also allowed us to install redesigned lifters and grates, which are expected as part of the ongoing optimization process to help lift overall productivity. Against the scheduled drop in grades, the open pit mining rates continued to improve, and we reached the target annualized rate to 66 million tonnes per annum in the month of March. And we expect to maintain at least that level of productivity going forward in order to make the planned mine schedule.

Underground mining rates were down slightly on Q4 although still slightly ahead of our expectation for the full year of 1 million tonnes. The mine grades were up from around 5.5 grams a tonne in Q4 to 6 grams a tonne in Q1. And we expect grades to remain in the 6 grams per tonne to 6.5 grams per tonne range for the remainder of the year.

We continue to get positive results from the underground drilling program, which is ongoing, and they're highlighted in the release. And we anticipate releasing a resource and reserve update for Sukari in the third quarter of this year.

With regard to the financials, the Q1 cash cost of production of $717 per ounce was marginally above the $700 an ounce guidance. And with grade driven production increases expected in the second half of the year, we're well placed to meet that $700 full year target, which we maintain again.

All-in sustaining costs were $858 an ounce, which is well below the $950 an ounce guidance, albeit with expenditure on sustaining capital expected to increase during the remainder of the year. So, we therefore also maintain our $950 an ounce guidance for the full year.

So while the gold price remained weak, the solid production rate and low costs were reflected in the financial results, with cash from operations of $56 million and EBITDA of $53 million, earnings per share of US$0.025 was down 16% on Q4, which was in line with the production rate.

The cash flow is clearly positive and reflecting this is the strong increase in the cash balance with a more than $30 million increase in the three – over the three months to end March at $196 million of cash, bullion, gold receivables and liquid financial assets.

So, it's a clear demonstration of the potential for Sukari to generate significant free cash flow, now that the main CapEx phase of the project is complete. We look forward to the AGM on Monday for our shareholders to approve the proposed final dividend payout, the full year payout equating to a yield that we believe is well in excess or in excess of all our direct peers. So, with further production increases ahead of us in Sukari and with the commitment to an exploration linked growth strategy, together with a strong balance sheet and significant capital returns to our shareholders, we believe Centamin remains in a strong position for the future even in the currently depressed gold price environment.

So, with that summary, I would like to hand over, operator, please for any questions. Thank you.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Brock Salier from GMP. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Morning, Andy. Could you give us some guidance on the underground grade going into next year? You've been clear on the 6 grams per tonne to 6.5 grams per tonne now, but you've got some new development going in now. What's that looking like in the medium term?

Hi, Brock. Yeah. We're forecasting 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne going forward. We are [ph] confident (5:54) and in fact, we've delivered grades higher than that in the past, exploration drill results are indicating there are high grade zones continuing as we go along with the exploration program. But I think, the expanded throughput rate, output rate of 1 million tonnes per annum, we're happy with that 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne guidance for the time being. Obviously, as I said, we've had – we have a reserve update during Q3, so we'll modify our outlook again at that time once we've completed that process.

But I think any potential which is certainly there to deliver higher grades in the 6.5 grams a tonne in periods will sort of be reflected probably more in an average more like, 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne for the time being, and when we look at sort of yearly averages, sort of, may go up above that from time to time, but I think, we're comfortable, as I say, with the 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne in average.

Understood. And just on your exploration portfolio at the moment, do you see again in the medium term future anything shaping up to be a new mine or should we look at that as an exploration cost rather than development for the time – for medium term?

That's – no, like I say, it's exploration at the moment, so we haven't got anywhere to making a decision on development side of Sukari, and for example, Burkina Faso, they're our most advanced projects. So that hopefully will be a decision point for next year as we work through the exploration process.

Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brock. Cheers.

The next question comes from the line of Cailey Barker from Numis. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Morning, Andy. Just had a question on the cash costs, do – are we expecting a jump in or a ticking up in Q2 given that you're going to hit the higher rates on the open pit and yet strip rates are still pretty high?

Hi, Cailey. I'll let Pierre answer that one.

Hi, Cailey. I think just with our operating costs, I believe, at the moment, our cost per tonne, I don't see that we will see any increases there. Obviously, the cost per ounce would be coming down as we go into the higher grade areas.

I think, the biggest cost driver or change in cost drivers we have at the moment is the fuel price, which we see coming through. At the moment, we've got quite significant savings compared to last year. Yeah. And but it still remains within the guidance which we calculated in our $700 an ounce number and $950 an ounce all-in sustain.

Okay. So there the profile through this year should be a fairly smooth decrease. Is that a good assumption?

What – you're talking about cash operating costs rather than all-in sustaining. That – it depends obviously on the production in Q2 whether it's similar or slightly below. If it's slightly below Q1, then it will be a bump up. But as Pierre said, the unit cost per tonne is the measure that's flat through the year – expected to be flat through the year relatively.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just on CapEx, obviously, it's lower this quarter and you said it was going to come up. Is the sort of $80 million you previously indicated, is that still a good number or are we looking a bit lower than that?

Yeah. We're looking at around – between $70 million and $80 million on our last discussions with the guys on site. They had a slow start to the year on the CapEx front, which is good for cash, I guess, but we will catch up a bit later in the year.

Great. And just a final question. Just given the production in Q1, the 420,000 number looks a little bit light here, if you're going to keep ounces coming up with grade. Do you expect that 420,000 to be quite a conservative number?

Look, if we're talking about a range, it's probably, you could say it's at the lower end – towards the lower end of the range, but in so far as we have potential to do better. But I think, the forecast that we've got on grade, a realistic grade from the open pit realistic and in line with the schedule, then the mining rates and processing rates slowly ticking up as we've guided towards that – to the 11 million tonnes per annum rate by the fourth quarter, which is sort of the number going forward in our estimates. There's potential for the processing plant to do better than that, but we're not factoring that into our forward-looking estimates at the moment.

The underground grade, as I said, we have sort of relatively flat 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne. We could potentially do better than that, which would mean a beat, if we do on the 420,000 ounces. It will be a good key driver of that. But that was the same, if you're looking averages going forward, 6 grams a tonne, 6.5 grams a tonne is the average. So, I think, we're comfortable with the assumptions behind the guidance.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much, guys.

Thanks, Cailey.

The next question comes from the line of Patrick Morton from Macquarie. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Sorry to dwell on the grade issue here, but more from stopes in the underground, 4.9 grams a tonne there in the quarter, any specific reason for that kind of slightly lower than estimated grade?

No. Patrick, hi. No, it's – no, that's some scheduling of stoping. These ores are not taken in development, the orphan development. You get that from time to time some variation. I mean, a lot of development is within the ore body, of course, and the grades reflected from the development are reflected on this sort of on average basis on a longer term period are reflective of the overall average of those higher grade zones that we're mining underground. So, no, it's normal scheduling...

Okay.

...and normal variation.

Okay. Sure. Thanks. And then on the exploration, I mean, continue to see some pretty substantial high-grade results in those two zones, Amun and Ptah. I would've thought there's upside to the underground grade of this mine considering this high grades you're reporting in exploration. Can you give us any guidance on that?

Well, there certainly are some good high-grade zones down there, but in terms of forecasting an impact on the average grade for the reserve, I can't – obviously can't say anything at the moment. We're working through the resource and reserve update process at the moment, and we'll have more on that later in the year. But there is grade variation in some significantly high-grade areas.

I think generally the more of those higher grade areas that we're able to unlock over time, with development affords us greater flexibility in managing the underground operation and sustaining grades around the average. So, I think that's the sort of positive that we can expect over time from those high grades. But you'll see what the impact is on the reserve, I think, when we release those numbers.

Thanks, guys.

Thank you, Patrick.

The following question comes from the line of Alexandra Slattery from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, Andy. I just had a question about the profit share. I was wondering if you could tell me what the accumulated loss was at the end of the quarter. And you mentioned you expect payments in the fiscal year ending June 2017, but I was wondering if you could just give any more color on when you expect to be making these payments.

Hi, Alexandra. I'm not sure what you mean by accumulated loss. I presume you mean the balance of costs yet to be recovered.

Yeah.

Look, I'm talking – well, maybe I'll talk off the top of my head. The number at the end of last year was about $50 million, but we have costs to add to that balance in terms of stage 4 this year and next year in terms of unrecovered portions of that CapEx stage 4. So, that's behind the assumptions that go into the timing of the profit share. But Pierre has got a little bit more.

Yeah. I think just as a baseline, the way that the cost recovery works, we've done investment over the period of time until stage 4 capitalization last year. As soon as we capitalize, we can then recover those amounts in first of our total investment in Egypt, so about $1.2 billion, so we've been recovering those at various stages, but obviously there's not enough money. So some of the money gets carried over. That process is the process that we manage with our partner, EMRA.

So I'm not quite sure what I can – how I can put it at the moment. It's – yeah, it's not something we've disclosed before but we would get into a position with our current gold prices and our current ounces that we'll producing to be in a position to profit share in 2017. And I'll predict that on $1,250 an ounce at about between 420,000 and 470,000 ounces, as we look forward.

Okay. Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

The following question comes from the line of Alison Turner from Panmure Gordon. Please go ahead.

Morning gentlemen. I just wanted to ask you about as you go forward increasing the stripping, the extent to which that might be capitalized versus expensed, so I'm just trying to get a feel for how much of that as you could do go forward into the rest of this year and then next year, if any will come through in CapEx rather than OpEx?

At this point, our average life of mine strip ratio is around about or probably just at the top of my head, I think, 5.7, 5.8. So, the last time we've done the 43-101 I think that was sort of the number that we had. We're running at the moment below those and we have not got anything in capital at this point. Once we start over stripping, if the quality we have in place is [indiscernible] (17:40) capitalization, which as soon as we start over stripping, we would start putting money on to the balance sheet. The last numbers we've been running just our short-term planning, I haven't seen any strip ratios above – averages for the year above this number in the next two years, three years, so I don't see anything going on to the balance sheet in the short-term.

Sorry. Just to clarify, you're not expecting the stripping to be above 5.8 in 2016 or 2017 because I think, that does represent a change from where you were previously saying stripping might get to in those years?

That's right. What we are seeing as we're working through the numbers at the moment with the new scheduling and the new reserve that we are working on, is that possibly would push out in the future.

Alison, this is not – it's just current work-in-progress, okay? So with regard to capitalized costs, we can't give any guidance on actual strip ratios at this time. We have a Capital Markets Day on Monday, and we're working through what we're going to talk about there at the moment. So, there's various numbers sort of that are being discussed at the moment.

And there's an ongoing scheduling process as well with the open pit area, the existing reserves. And we continue to optimize and revise the mining schedule going forward as we produce. That's normal for a large open pit mining operation such as we've got at Sukari. It's a continued process of refinement and optimization. So now we're talking about an update.

But the numbers you are discussing, I think, probably date back some time and are possibly outdated, yeah, outdated at the moment.

Okay. Perfect. I mean, let's talk more on Monday.

So we'll talk more about this at the next Capital Markets Day, yeah.

Okay. Super. Thanks.

Thank you, Alison.

As there are no further questions registered, I will return the conference back to you.

Thanks very much, operator. And thanks, everyone, for being on the call and for your questions and speak to you soon. Cheers. Bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.