Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer, Centamin Plc
Brock P. Salier — Analyst, GMP Securities Europe LLP
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Richard J. Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Alison H. Turner — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.
Hunter A. Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc (Broker)
Yen Yee Voo — Analyst, Nomura International Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to Centamin Full Year Results Call. Throughout this call, all participants will be in listen-only mode and, afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. And just to remind you, this call is being recorded.

And today, I'm very pleased to pass you over to Andy Davidson, Head of Investor Relations. Andy, please begin.

Thanks very much and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us on the call. I'm joined by Pierre Louw, our CFO; and Andrew Pardey, our CEO. I'm not going to talk very long. I'm just going to give a very brief introduction to Andrew for those who are yet to meet him. He's a geologist with over 25 years experience in the mining and exploration industry. Much of that was in West Africa, and he's been with Centamin since 2008 having previously been COO and before that, the General Manager.

So, without any further ado, I'm very happy to hand over to him for the intro.

Okay. Thank you, Andy. Good morning, everyone. I'm here today to talk about the 2014 results, and we'll just run through. First of all, our Q4 gold production was up 37% on Q3 to just over 128,000 ounces, bringing in the total for the year to just over 377,000 ounces and continuing the stretch on the year-on-year growth since production started at Sukari in 2010.

On an annualized basis, Q4 production was slightly above the top-end target of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces per annum rate, a positive indication of the rapid and successful Stage 4 commissioning process with the plant throughput reaching and exceeding an expanded 10 million tonne nameplate capacity and open pit grade increasing in line with the mine plan.

The Q4 production is indicative of production levels expected to be maintained at the second half of 2015 onwards. It should be noted that during the first half of 2015, open pit grades are expected to be below the reserve average as mining progresses for the upper portions of the next stage of the pit development as per the mine plan. 2015 guidance is set for 420,000 ounces with annualized production rates returning to the 450,000 to 500,000 ounce level from the second half of the year onwards as the open pit grades return to the reserve average grades.

During 2014, a key governmental approval was secured in the fourth quarter, so there required increase in ammonium nitrate usage. This is the requirement for blasting operations to scale up as required for the expanded operation. And, therefore, the open pit is now on a secured footing going forward.

2014 saw the underground mine continue its strong ramp up in tonnes mined. There were periods during the year where the grade particularly from development ore fell short of expectation. Now that the mining rates are at the levels required for the expanded operation, the focus for 2015 is on reducing grade volatility and, thereafter, leveraging the potential for additional productivity increases.

Positive results in underground drilling program continued throughout the year with some of the latest results in today's release. Not only do the results received during 2014 support our expectation for long mine life, they also give confidence in the ability of the mine to sustain higher grade ore delivery at the expanded production rates.

Okay. Moving from the operation side on to the financials, 2014 cash cost production was $729 per ounce with marginally above $700 per ounce guidance figure with Q4 2014 cash cost of $655 per ounce, pointing to the potential of the higher rates of production.

Our 2015 guidance remains at $700 per ounce cash costs with the all-in-sustaining costs of $950 an ounce. And costs are expected to reduce gradually over the year with the increase in production rates toward the 450,000 to 500,000 ounce per annum level in the second half of 2015.

Cash flows and earnings were clearly affected by with continued weak gold price. EBITDA of $165 million was down 29% on the prior year and earnings per share of $0.0721 was down 57% in the prior year. Despite the weak gold price, cash flows are clearly positive and reflecting this, there was a solid increase in the cash balance during the fourth quarter with a plus-$20 million increase to year-end balance of around $163 million of cash, bullion, gold receivables and liquid financial assets.

So, with 2014 being a year that Sukari looked back on its investment phase and started to look forward to free cash flow generation over a long life, it was appropriate for the company to commence its dividend policy, which we initiated in the middle of the year with a $0.0087 per share interim payment. We are pleased to propose a final dividend of $0.0199 per share which takes a full-year dividend to $0.0286 per share and a payout of around 30% of our free cash flow in line with our dividend policy.

So, to wrap up, Centamin is in strong financial position, is generating free cash flow and had a clear policy to pay a substantial portion of those cash flows back to its shareholders. Having delivered on these objectives, the company's strategy is to continue delivering on its exploration with growth strategy to ensure continued growth and return to our shareholders.

Thank you. I'll now hand over for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is over the line of Brock Salier of GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Morning, gents. I noticed you gave some guidance today of getting the mills to 15% to 20% above nameplate in due course. I was just wondering if you could give us any color on potential timing for that, or in more detail, what you need to do there other than just general de-bottlenecking.

Well, Brock, it's a case of understanding how the plant operates and, as you said, debottlenecking. The timeline will be in the vicinity of 12 to 18 months if we go on the previous experience we had with the initial plant.

Okay. Perfect. And just on the dividend, you've obviously paid out above your 30% free cash flow payout ratio in this maiden year. If you through 2015 calendar year with a production dip, are you able to speak at all about the potential to continue dividend current rates, or is that something that you have to sort of wait until you get to...

Brock, just on the dividend payment, it is in line with the policy at 30% the calculation on – our definition of free cash flow. Then, for 2015, obviously, the dividend policy is in place, and depending on our results for the year, we will apply the policy.

Okay. Thank you. And finally, on the underground, you obviously saw a bit of a dip there in the fourth quarter as you reported previously. What's it looking like going forward over the calendar year? And should we expect the growth to recover towards the reserve level over the course of the year?

We've seen the drill results that we released over the year and those latest ones that are in our report, we're expecting to see an improvement in the grades from the underground.

Thank you.

We now go to the line of Cailey Barker at Numis. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Morning, gents. Just a question on the production through this year, obviously, you said your second half of the year you're going to get through to your longer term target rate, but just how will you expect to see it especially in Q1? Are we going to see it dip down a bit and then come back as we progress through the year?

That's correct, Cailey. As we've said all along, it's part of our mine plan, where we're mining through in a sequence. And we've said with the latest schedule is particularly at the open pit, we had lower grades in the first half of the year and then we have returned to the reserve grades in the second half of the year. It's all part of a scheduled mine plan. It's nothing untoward or unexpected.

Sure. Okay. And then, a question on working capital. It looks like you had caught a negative lump come through in Q4. What can we expect for working capital through this year?

It's basically driven by production. So, I don't foresee any lumps and bumps over this year. I think we'll have a fairly smooth cost year as long as the open pits keep producing at the same levels and our throughput to process plant remains flat.

Okay. So, we can assume as sort of pretty neutral balance for the year. Is that a good assumption?

That's correct. Yeah. That's a good assumption.

Okay. That's helpful, mate. Thanks very much.

We're now over to the line of Richard Hatch at RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks very much. Good morning, guys. Thanks for the call. Just a few questions. Firstly, just off the back of Cailey's question on production, I wonder if you might be able to be a bit more – give a bit more color on the weight of the 420,000 over the course of the year, whether that – how's that weighted between the first and the second half and [ph] colors (10:22) if possible.

Secondly, can you give your CapEx guidance for the year? And then thirdly, are there any – what are the next key dates for the court cases, please? Thank you.

Okay. As we've said with our guidance, we've said all along, the first half of the year would be lower gold production. And then we'd see an increase in the second half of the year as per the schedules we've got from our open pit. We're sort of saying Q1 is around 90,000 to 100,000 ounces, Q2 is starting to increase, and then we see returning back to high levels in the second half of the year.

Great. Thank you.

We now go to the line of – I'm sorry. Richard, carry on.

Yeah. Sorry. And then one on the CapEx, and one on the next court case dates?

Sorry, Richard. It's Andy here. I didn't catch the one on the CapEx, sorry. Maybe the line cut out [indiscernible] (11:27) But the court case, I'll just do what I briefly did. We had a hearing recently. It was adjourned as per expectations. We don't have a timeline or a time table, sorry, or an expected final date of resolution as per previous – so the court case continues. We're in a merit circuit as we were previously. So, we're near the end of the process than the beginning, and that's really all we can say at the moment.

The law, you recall there's this new law 32 of last year that would apply to us and would provide an exit when it's declared constitutional as we expect, and that's in the supreme constitutional court at the moment undertaking a review – undergoing a review. So, again, we don't have a timetable on that either, but we'll have further progress through the course of this year. But we just can't give you dates.

Great. Thank you, Andy.

Thanks. And sorry...

It was just can you – do you have guidance for your CapEx number for this year?

Yeah. I think we said the CapEx guidance is $80 million to $100 million a year from here on as sustaining CapEx.

Cool. Thank you.

Some will be this year, the lower end of that range.

Cool. Thanks.

Yeah. Sure.

Right. We'll now go over to the line of Alison Turner of Panmure Gordon. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks very much. I just wanted to get some indication from you on what you expect the strip ratio to look like this year and next. And also just given that also the difference between how much you expect to actually mine in terms of [indiscernible] (13:19) milled because of the way the strip ratio is expressed as a percentage of what is mined?

The strip ratio in the first half of the year is higher because they're going through the schedule – with the mine schedule bringing the hill down to the north and the east. And then in the second half of the year, the strip ratio comes back down again as more ore is mined.

Sorry. Can you give me a little bit of a sense of those, what to expect from those absolute numbers?

All of them, because the open pit, we're going to be mining around 67 million tonnes for the year, and it's going to be in the vicinity of – that'll be 17 million tonnes of ore mined.

Thanks very much.

We now go to the line of Hunter Hillcoat at Investec. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning. It looks there's been a big jump in depreciation and amortization this year, not greatly important in terms of your cash flow. But can you give us an idea given the reduction announces that you're having this year, how you expect your D&A to look relative to preceding year?

Hunter. Yeah. Just the reason in – for the jump, obviously, we've completed Stage 4 and that is now capitalized. By doing that, this mine life is then coming in from where we had previously along 45-year mine life down to about 20-year mine life. Your depreciation rates would then change accordingly. And going forward, you'll see what the numbers that you've seen in the last part of the year, we'll be looking at around about $25 million per quarter going forward in depreciation. Hello?

Okay. We now go back to the line of Richard Hatch, RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thanks. Yeah. Sorry. Just one more follow-up. The exploration expense you were saying this year is about $20 million. Can you just give a guidance to how much of that you're going to capitalize, and how much will go through to the income statement, please?

The exploration is close to $30 million for the year. [inaudible]

(15:46) Sukari.

So, there's $8 million at Sukari and then the rest is spread out. Predominantly in Burkina Faso, it's going to be around $12 million and around $4 million to $6 million in Côte d'Ivoire and $2 million to $3 million in Ethiopia. Again, very much going to be results driven.

Okay. And I'll take it because you'll put most of that to the balance sheet rather than the income statement. Is that correct?

It's correct. We'll be carrying that on the balance sheet until we have final results. At which point we take a decision to continue with the asset, keeping it as an asset, or whether we write it down to the P&L.

Okay. Thank you.

We now go the line of Yen Voo at Nomura. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. It's Yen from Nomura. I had a question regarding what is the expected savings from the lower oil prices given that the guidance last year of 420,000 ounces was at $700 an ounce, and this has been repeated again for this year. So, what is the incremental cost there? Is there any cost savings from the oil price?

Yeah. Yen, it's equivalent to about a $40 an ounce saving that we've seen between the change in pricing – as a result of the change in pricing from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. We have – the fuel price is set quarterly, and that's the quantum of decreases being passed through to-date. There is a lag because of that quarterly pricing mechanism between the drop and the international spot price and – when we see the follow-through.

So we could expect to see further potential gains through the course of this year. But the $700 an ounce cash cost guidance is based on the reduction that we saw between Q4 and Q1. There may be some further benefits to come on that but...

And are you looking to hedge the position of the oil prices to lock in the amount of benefits you can get?

No. We are not looking at any hedging instruments at this time.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Gentlemen, at this stage, there seem to be no further questions in the queue. So, may I please pass the call back to you?

That's great. Thank you very much. Thanks, everyone for joining the call, and speak to you all next time.

This now concludes the call. Thank you all very much for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.