Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Jason Fairclough — Analyst, Bank of America
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS AG (London Branch)
Yuen Low — Analyst, Liberum Capital Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. I would like to welcome you all to the Centamin Full Year 2022 Results Announcement. My name is Brikka and I'll be your event specialist running today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. And after the speakers' prepared remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to hand the conference over to Martin Horgan, Chief Executive Officer. So, Martin, please go ahead.

Thank you, Brikka. Good morning, everybody. As mentioned, Martin Horgan, CEO of Centamin. I'm delighted to be here this morning and [ph] a couple of (00:00:56) my colleagues, Ross Jerrard, CFO and Alex Barter-Carse, Corporate Comms. As mentioned, it's our 2022 full year results. And the usual format will be followed and [ph] no surprise (00:01:07) to everybody. I'll give a quick introduction and overview of the year. Ross will then take us through a bit of a deeper dive into some of the financial metrics and the balance sheet management. And then we'll finish off, we're looking at future prospects for 2023 in terms of growth and opportunities. We'll then open up to Q&A. Delighted to answer any questions you might have. Then we'll wrap up from there as well.

So, if we move on to the next slide, please, Alex, our usual disclaimer, which I'll refrain from making usual [indiscernible] (00:01:36) you're reading it, I'm sure. And then maybe move on to the next slide around sustainability highlights. I think it's really framed the year [ph] for us (00:01:44) when I look back it. I think it was a fantastic year for us in terms of our ESG and sustainability highlights. I honestly believe that some of you know the safety metrics of any operation, any company, I think, a really good proxy for managing capacity and capability. I'm delighted that last year saw a fantastic result both in terms of our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate and our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate as well. And I think this really is a real indication of the quality of management we have now down at Sukari and their ability to hit these records.

That's LTIFR of 0.08, an 83% improvement on 2021. And that was really driven and underpinned by [ph] the site (00:02:29) setting a new record for lost time injury frequency man hours worked. Previously, we'd manage 5 million hours and by the end of last year, we'd actually gone to 8 million hours. And as of today, I can tell you that that record continues to be set. We're now north of 9 million hours worked to our Lost Time Injury. And I think that really is a testament to the quality of that team, of the focus of the work around safety and that real sort of dedication to ensure that we have a safe working place for all our staff.

In terms of total female workforce, 160% increase on 2021. There are 174 females employed across the group now. And that itself is fantastic but I think what sits behind that, which I think is even more impressive is at Sukari itself where, actually, we went from zero female employment to having 34 professional females employed across the organization within Sukari. And I think that's a fantastic result. We saw a change in the Egyptian law that allowed us to, basically, now really commit to bringing female sort of gender recognition into the workforce. And we pushed out through with full binding support from the operation team down at Sukari and I think that's been a huge success.

So, delighted at that change of 34 professional female employees with Egypt now as well and I think that's a superb bit of work. And we've also seen that trend across our EDX portfolio, also taking place in Egypt as well. So, I think that's a fantastic result and one that we hope to build on and continue into 2023 as we really look to try and push our targets around this area.

And speaking of workforce in Egypt, I've long said that I've been super impressed with the quality of the team that I found down in Egypt. It's my first time working there, the last three years and really been surprised to the upside about the real ability and the hunger to [ph] move (00:04:12) the workforce down there. We've added 62% improvement over 2021 in terms of workforce development hours [ph] booked at (00:04:19) 44.3 hours now, up from 27 hours in 2021. And the real focus as we look to really develop that talent that we have. And in doing so, of course, that links into our workforce where we've been able to go from 94% to 96% at workforce of nationals within Egypt as well. And that's something we're going to continue to focus on [ph] into (00:04:36) this year and beyond as we really look to [ph] indigenize (00:04:38) that workforce.

And finally, in terms of Sukari decarbonization, obviously, it's been well flagged but our 36 megawatt solar farm was commissioned late last year, now fully operational and already contributing to both cost savings but also carbon abatement as well. The thing I'm delighted about there, of course, is that lots of people are talking about road map to decarbonization, setting targets for 2030 and 2050. What I'm delighted about at Sukari is the fact that we're doing it. This is real. It's not talk. It's not a plan. It's [ph] not (00:05:06) a future aspiration, this is something we've delivered and having a material impact already.

But we're not stopping there. We think there's more to do. I think solar expansion can be looked at, which we'll do this year. And also importantly, the ability to connect to the grid [ph] within (00:05:18) Egypt recently expanded and upgraded grid their network and has great opportunity there for further cost savings and, of course, that carbon abatement. So, I think it's a really great year and I think it really sets the tone for the rest of the year for 2022.

Moving on to the next slide, in terms of operational highlights. Well I think one thing to say about last year was that the mine reached an amazing milestone, it produced its 5 millionth ounce. Very few operations get to produce 5 million ounces in their totality and at Sukari, we report that [ph] we ran about the (00:05:48) third quarter last year. And what's even more surprising, of course, is that we've still got 6 million ounces currently in reserves so we're not even at the halfway point at Sukari and that really gives you an indication of the quality of the orebody and the operation at Sukari. And, of course, that [ph] 16 (00:06:02) ounces we believe is further upside to come in terms of reserve growth.

Away from that milestone, again, a year of delivery, a year of working to plan. Production came in midrange, delighted with that. Continued to build back that confidence and that operational stability that we're looking for. And I think in terms of the cost, again, within guidance, albeit at the top end of the guidance but I think it's important to understand why. This time last year, we announced our cost guidance for 2022. I think it took a few people by surprise at the time that we seemed to be guiding higher. I think, of course, that meant that we'd been prudently budgeted for the year and I think we're one of the few groups that didn't have to re-guide during 2022 and I think that's a testament to the work that Ross and the team have done around forecasting.

I think, importantly as well, is given those inflationary pressures that we all saw, globally, across 2022, also by the teams operations to basically try and offset those headwinds of inflation but to bring that guidance and to set a prudent and sensible budget, to then deliver into it despite the headwinds and inflation, I think that was a great [ph] result (00:06:59) by the team, both in terms of the accounting, the budgeting team, but also operationally.

Moving on to the actual sort of physical operations, another big year in the open pit, a record year in terms of tonnes moved in the open pit – combination, of course, of our contractor as they continue to move through what is now [ph] this year (00:07:16) will be their final year of full contract of moving. But also our own team moved record number of tonnes as well with our own fleet. And that's all part of that reset plan to have that flexibility and that consistency in the open pit.

In terms of the underground ore mines, again, a step up in terms of tonnes brought to surface with the underground – high-grade underground ore, a 12% improvement on 2021. And that's fantastic because it's high-grade underground ore that really helps to drive that grade and hence those ounces. What was more important about that, of course, is that it is part of the reset year from – our contract [indiscernible (00:07:47) first quarter. We bedded down at the mining in Q2 and then we delivered those tonnes of and [ph] have (00:07:52) improvement over the second half of the year. So that's a great improvement [ph] internally (00:07:55), especially against the complex – with the complex of that contract [ph] to swap out (00:07:59).

And, of course, the feed grade, 6% improvement year on year in 2021 and I think that reflects a couple of things. One is that that sort of improvement of operational flexibility in the open pit, which is linked back to the stripping, which has given us more operational flexibility but also access to high-grade areas. And, of course, that contribution of the high-grade underground ore and that gave us that [indiscernible] (00:08:19) bump on free trade as well. So I think a really good year for us last year in terms of operational performance, stability, consistency and confidence and moving that into 2023 now.

Next slide please, Alex. When we look at 2023, it's another step-up again, where we've got that production gains increased on last year, now 450 to 480koz. In fact, we moved [indiscernible] (00:08:44) guidance from 475 to 480koz given our confidence where we can go with that.

In terms of cash costs, again, looking at the improvements, looking at those inflationary headwinds being central around things like diesel pricing – Russell will touch on consumables and diesel pricing later and the impact of inflation. I don't think we're seeing inflation roll off yet but we're not seeing [indiscernible] (00:09:07) change that we saw over 2022, I believe, at this stage.

In terms of CapEx, [ph] it was (00:09:14) big last year of CapEx when we think about our key growth projects in that full year of stripping from – remaining to go with the contractor and hope and expect that to roll off next year. And in terms of exploration spend, we're committed to the drill bit. The drill bit really creates value. We believe in that. We added 2 million ounces of reserves to Sukari. We've got our EDX program on the way, we've got Doropo as well. So we believe in the drill bit, it's a really great value for all of us. And we're committed [indiscernible] (00:09:39) $30 million spend, the majority of which is around Doropo to finish off the [indiscernible] (00:09:44) as well.

And in terms of the dividend, Ross will take you through our revised and the strengthened dividend policy later and how that works. Maintaining that, I think, is key here as we seek to balance both growth and returns for our shareholders and stakeholders. Next slide, please, Alex.

We've put this in now. This slide is really just a bit of a sort of a reel – a highlights reel of the last couple of years and those key projects [ph] there on (00:10:12) the right-hand side. We've done a huge amount of work. It's when you sort of stop and pause and look back, you realize about how much ground you've covered in what, I think, is a relatively short space of time. I'm delighted with the outcome of that work, the way that's moving forward for us and I think on the graphs on the left-hand side, we can see the results of that.

That gold production stepping up year on year as we take Sukari back to that [ph] 500,000 ounces (00:10:32). The quality management we've put in, the systems that we're working to, seeing those Injury Frequency Rates reducing to come lower – to be lower and where we want them to be going forward. And so that underground material mined, seeing that step up from where we were to where we want to be and where we're going to take the mining in terms of the back to steady state at this stage and then underpinning that expansion case. And into the open pit material mined, having that flexibility and that confidence back into the open pit as well.

So, I think it's been a great couple of years for us and I think it really sets the tone for 2023. I think it really sets the platform of what Centamin can be. And the question is, where do we take Centamin from here? I think we've created a platform now at Sukari. We've got a clear direction into our West African portfolio, and we've got some exciting plans as we move [ph] forward in (00:11:18) 2023 and beyond.

So, with that, maybe I'd like to just pause there. I'll hand over to Ross who will now take you through some of the financial aspects of the business and I'll come back a little bit later to talk a little bit more about the future prospects. So, thank you, Ross.

Thank you, Martin. And good morning, everyone. I'm delighted to talk you through our 2022 full year results where Centamin, what I would term, delivered a resilient financial performance. Importantly, it is in line with our expectations and guidance metrics that we had outlined for the year. And this, I feel, was a great achievement and the group's results were significantly affected by movements in gold price and various input costs, particularly in consumables and diesel fuel prices.

So, delivering on guidance published at the beginning of last year in what was actually a very volatile market for everyone was a credit to the team. And I'll go into a bit more on how we delivered this in a moment. But let me talk you through some of the highlights. Revenue for the year was $788 million, up from $733 million the previous year, generated from sales of 438,000 ounces at an average realized gold price of just under $1,800 per ounce. And the increase was driven by those increased sales ounces.

Importantly, EBITDA margin was maintained at 40%, despite the global inflationary pressures and gold prices remaining relatively constant year on year. During our second year of investing for sustainable production at Sukari, we delivered on several key CapEx projects both on time and on budget and in line with expectations at $224 million. And importantly this year, we have guided another $225 million as our peak year before we start to see that profile come up – come down from 2020 – 2024. Excuse me.

It was really [ph] pleasing (00:13:16) to close 2022 with $43 million worth of gross cost savings generated during the year. This gives us a cumulative $116 million total savings delivered to date on the project while on track to meet our $150 million cost saving target. The board has proposed a final dividend of $2.5 per share equating to $29 million to be distributed subject to shareholder approval. This brings the total distribution to shareholders for the 2022 financial year to $58 million. Again, in line with our guidance and commitment for 2022.

We closed the year with a strong balance sheet with cash and liquid assets of $157 million, excluding the $150 million sustainability-linked revolving credit facility, which was announced on the 22nd of December and which now provides us with increased financial flexibility to fund our pipeline of growth opportunities. Overall, it was a strong set of results in line with expectations.

Probably one nuance that I would highlight is the movement in our non-controlling interest in the statement of comprehensive income. This is essentially our cost recovery/profit share arrangement with our Egyptian partner, EMRA. And as you'll recall, we had previously reconciled the cost recovery through a 10-year period, 30th of June 2020. We've now closed off the following two years, so the period from 1 July 2020 through to June 2022. And that's what you're seeing in the income statement in terms of that movement in the reconciliation process.

The movement allocated to the NCI represents the reconciled position. So, while it does look high on the standalone period-to-period basis, over time it's fully reconciled. And importantly, going forward, now that we've normalized the sign off of these periods and basically quarter, those outstanding periods, we don't have a lag and we're well positioned going forward. And you're not likely to see the movements that we've seen during this last period.

So, despite the persisting global supply side issues and inflation, our plan was always to focus on what we could control, and this meant that we have to ensure a disciplined compliance to plan and instill a thriving culture of continuous improvement across the business. And as you know, we launched the program targeting $150 million worth of sustainable cost savings to achieve by 2024.

I'm glad to report this program has really matured and we are now at $116 million of that $150 million cumulative target. And specifically, as mentioned, for 2022, it resulted in $43 million worth of savings being extracted from our cost base that went a long way in offsetting the inflationary pressures we experienced. Some of those initiatives are shown on the right-hand side here. High performance truck trays, switch to owner mining in the underground and solar power, are all significant contributors in addition to the raft of other smaller initiatives.

We really need to stay focused and continue with this culture of improvement. And as you can see, we have numerous initiatives either under review or in progress that we continue to drive. Connection to the grid power and the gravity circuit are two examples of projects that will have meaningful impact on the cost base going forward. Importantly, I'm confident we will meet our $150 million target by the end of this year.

So, what does that all mean and how does it reflect on our results across the business? You can see the impact on this slide across the four main areas of operation. Starting with open pit on the top left, you can see the cost trended broadly flat. This is in spite of the significant 74% increase in fuel prices experienced during 2022, being mitigated by better truck productivity, cycle times and other operational initiatives, which include those lightweight truck trays and tire bay projects, for example. That fuel price increase also had a significant impact on the processing costs, where over 30% of our cost comes from our diesel-powered station, compounded by a further 30% increase in consumables. Again, being able to keep these costs in check was a credit to the team.

On the right-hand side, you can see the decrease in the cost profile of the underground as the transition from contracted to owner mining was embedded during 2022, resulting in a 15% decrease in contractor costs, but also an increase in the material move during the year. And our overall G&A costs were also well managed under this challenging global inflationary environment, which saw labor cost increasing 4% in dollar terms, as well as significant increases in transport and logistics.

Talking a bit more about foreign currency and how that affects our business. This is an area that we've received several questions about over the last several months with regards to the changes in Egypt. And as you can see from the graphs, we are largely a US dollar-exposed business and US dollar-denominated business. We have seen an increase in the EGP component as we continue to increase our domestic supply chain and also those higher fuel prices we have experienced, which are paid in EGP. But labor is not a significant portion of our EGP exposure but an important one. The man on the streets in Egypt is feeling the pinch with this hyperinflationary environment and we have given two lots of pay increases and continue to monitor the cost of living changes in Egypt.

The Australian dollar component has reduced significantly, which reflects the move to owner operating in the underground as our previous contractor was paid in Australian dollars. And so, whilst we have seen an almost halving of the Egyptian pound over the last 12 months, we are equally conscious of the high local inflationary environment that we are seeing in the domestic market. For us, as a business, operating largely in US dollars, this has not made a material impact yet, but we do remain vigilant with both monitoring and managing the cost base.

Turning to the balance sheet, Centamin closed the 2022 financial year with cash and liquid assets of $157 million. As announced on 22nd of December, we secured the first piece of the corporate debt. And on 13th of March 2023, all conditions precedent were met regarding this $150 million facility. This significantly increases the financial flexibility to fund growth projects across the portfolio. Initially, the focus will be Sukari, as under our terms of the concession agreement, growth capital invested is recovered over three years, making these investments ideally suited to the structure of the RCF. We envisage using the RCF to bridge those growth investments to match with repayments in line with the subsequent cost recovery, effectively so not to penalize shareholders and cash flow distributions in a particular period.

The RCF is a facility across four major banks with an accordion provision that provides a total potential $200 million facility across a four-year term. Importantly, it has sustainability-linked targets across carbon emissions, workforce deployment, and gender diversity. This is a big work stream not only because it was our inaugural debt facility, but having now completed the process and effectively having been due diligenced by four prominent international banks, who, obviously, take a prudent approach, means that we have confidence in our mine plans, our business models, the financing structure and our approach for the future. Having the RCF in place was the key step needed before finalizing our capital allocation review. And let me address that with you now.

Whilst capital allocation continues to be disciplined and closely qualified against value creation, the key challenge presented was being able to exercise a balanced approach to maximizing cash flow generation, investing for future growth and prioritizing sustainable shareholder returns. The company's now strong liquidity and strength of balance sheet across both treasury and debt creates that platform to provide both growth and returns.

Centimen has now strengthened its dividend policy, which is to continue use the group free cash flow generated and applying a 30% minimum priority payment of dividends from those cash flows that now calculated before growth project CapEx, which will be funded by debt and any surplus cash flows. Thereafter, any surplus cash flows should be assessed against both the balance sheet requirements and the application of further shareholder returns, maybe special dividends or share buybacks. The intent is that the growth project CapEx would be funded by balance sheet treasury or debt, which is this RCF facility. This would put the SGM concession terms where these projects are cost recovered, as I mentioned, and therefore the RCF facility would provide a bridge that would result in shareholders not being penalized from cash flow in a particular year.

Importantly, the rules of treasury management now include no uncovered dividends, debt is to be used exclusively for this growth project and the balance sheet would be assessed against a minimum liquidity requirement of $100 million. As well as the standard evaluation metrics that you would normally expect when assessing the growth project, they will continue to be assessed against ESG criteria and we believe that this is now a balanced and sustainable platform.

Let's talk a little bit more about that CapEx profile in a bit more detail. In 2020, we set our bold capital investment plans, which were required to sustain our business and drive higher production and improve margins over the longer term. And for the last few years, we have delivered on those plans. You can see on these charts both the sustaining and non-sustaining profiles. The major part of that elevated profiles during the periods are the waste stripping costs where we are in the last full year now and expect this will decrease by mid-2024. The main growth projects include the construction of hybrids – the hybrid solar plant, the ongoing construction of the underground paste-fill plant, north dump leach and construction of the TSF2 lift.

Impressive progress was made across all those project deliveries, meeting some important milestones and also creating large business improvements. It is specifically these growth projects that will be funded by RCF facility and would be added back into the dividend calculation we have just discussed. So, for example, it could be that $37 million currently flagged on the right-hand side of the chart that would be added back in the free cash flow calculation. This would obviously – we would obviously update you if there are other projects added and this would be highlighted when the RCF is drawn.

In summary, I think it's been another year of delivery against our stated plan. And we continue to build on that track record and deliver the results. We remain fully focused on managing the bottom line of the business to drive margins. As we look to maximize the value of Sukari, deliver both growth and diversification combined with sustainable stakeholder returns. Our strong balance sheet now across both cash and the RCF, underpinned by resilient business for the long term, gives us the flexibility and strength to deliver our objectives of growth and shareholder returns.

And with that, I'll hand back to Martin.

Thanks very much, Ross. Fairly modest there given the work you and your team did over the last year. It's fantastic in terms of being able to navigate those headwinds and continue to move forward around delivering guidance. So, thanks very much.

Now a quick look at Sukari value maximization there. And we'll start with the open pit operation. I really think about the open pit, really, has been the engine room of Sukari. I know the underground grabs a lot of headlines, getting grades and production and so on. But that open pit really is the bedrock of the operation here. It's 4.6 million ounces of our reserve base. It's a significant contributor at Sukari. I'm delighted to say we replaced reserves at the depletion last year, which I think was a fantastic result. Obviously, we see lots of reserve [indiscernible] (00:26:01) in the underground but delighted to see that the geological work and the mine planning allowed us to basically hold a flat total proven and probable reserves for the open pit last year, which is fantastic work.

And I think we've seen, of course, the benefits of that accelerated stripping program. A big year last year in terms of tonnes moved that allowed us into – back into those high-grade zones and also gave us a significantly increased operational flexibility. I think as you can see from the graphic there, back in December 2020, we were pretty much constrained to working at the Stage 4 and 5 north end of the pit, which is a medium grade sort of area. But over the course of 2021 and then 2022, by pushing back that eastern wall, by getting that operational flexibility back into the pit there, we now got four working areas available to us as well. And I think it's that availability to give us a more operational flexibility which allows [ph] us to – gives us (00:26:57) more confidence in guidance in terms of being able to deliver [indiscernible] (00:27:00). And of course, [ph] allowed (00:27:01) to those high-grade benches as well as we go forward as well. So, I think that's [ph] fair, a great fair (00:27:05) – a great bit of work.

It is our – 2023 is our final year of the full accelerated stripping program. We expect in 2024 to see the stripping start to roll off in [ph] succession (00:27:16) of the contracted period with capital at this stage. I'm looking forward to continue to push that forward in terms of the open pit performance as well. And I think one of the things that we talked about, of course, is – as Ross talked about, [ph] that would be (00:27:31) the ability to hold those open pit costs relatively flat despite that significant uptick in diesel price. Diesel accounts for about 30% of our – open pit mining costs given the use in the mobile equipment. And I guess the question is that how [ph] we've (00:27:47) been able to basically sort of maintain those open pit rates as well.

And if we step onto the next slide, we'll have a little look at that [indiscernible] (00:27:55) while adding less flexibility back into the pit. And so really, it's all around with sort of those marginal gains and those sort of focus on operational delivery. And this slide really neatly encapsulates how we've been able to navigate some of those headwinds around the open pit operating cost as well.

We've talked about the high performance truck trade. I think they're well [ph] flagged (00:28:15) now. I think their [ph] trade (00:28:16) initiative in terms of being able to improve the productivity of the open pit fleet, more tonnes to be moved by the same truck over the same distance. That gives us some carbon abatement benefits as well. We've got a lighter load on the back haul when returning back to the working area, less [ph] tire wear (00:28:34) for example as well.

So, delighted to see those now fully installed and coming through last year as well. We've focused on things like – just something like haul road maintenance, making sure that the roads are properly well graded, allows us better running speeds, better cycle times, better tire life as well in terms of the operational performance of that pit. And then just that cycle time, just that scheduling of how and where we work, just [ph] sharpening (00:28:59) of how we operate in pit to move that dirt.

And when we look at that, that takes us from the monthly moving average back in August 2020. We were about 300 tonnes an hour on our own fleet and this doesn't include the contract fleet. This is just purely the SGM fleet. So, we're about 300 tonnes an hour. As of December last year, that has gone up to 30 – sorry, 354 tonnes per hour. That's about an 18% increase in terms of their productivity. And great, you know, but what does that mean in real terms? It's an abstract number [indiscernible] (00:29:28) what does 18% mean?

The way I think about that of course is that as we talked about last year and this year – is 130 million tonnes total material move from the open pit using just round simple numbers on a simple [ph] math (00:29:41) at $2 a tonne moved. That's about $260 million of expenditure in the open pit. And what we're saying now is that we've been able to drive an 18% productivity gain in that open pit. And when you apply that to [indiscernible] (00:29:53) $60 million of annualized cost of this pit-stripping period, you can start to see that those materials – those changes in material and they have a direct impact on [indiscernible] (00:30:02) bottom line as well.

So, those sort of initiatives with that investment in the truck trade and investment in people and then the investment in effectively optimization of the operations starting to see some real benefit and starting to navigate – hope to navigate those headwinds that we saw there as well.

Maybe move on to the next slide. Underground, I've said the open pit is the engine, the bedrock of the operation. Absolutely. But the underground, really, is where I think there's been a lot of excitement over the last two or three years. And I think it's been one of the real notable successes of the last couple of years and certainly in 2022. We have some ambitious targets to grow the resource and reserve base there. I think we said those back in 2020. I'm delighted that they've come through. That real focus on the geology that we started back in 2020 has really paid significantly forward as well. We see a tripling of the reserves from 2021. We're now up to 1.2 million ounces of proven and probable reserves from the underground. And that reserve base as well, of course, creating value, it unlocked a couple of other opportunities for us as well.

As we know, it supported that transition away, that confidence it gave us to move away from contractor mining and go owner mining. And as Ross implies earlier, you've seen the benefits that we're able to drive now on unit cost on the underground. Would we have made that decision to move to owner mining if we didn't have that reserve base? I think that would have been a struggle to justify. But with that reserve base, it certainly has been able to do that. And of course, flowing on from that, [ph] that is our confidence (00:31:30) in the expansion is that that [ph] they're fully grown (00:31:32) and those reserves tripled and we do think there's more growth to come. And with that additional growth and that extended life there as well and as we announced last year, the ability to move that underground from an ore mining rate of about 1 million tonnes a year to about 1.5 million tonnes a year as well. And we'll look to do that work this year and announce that from there. And that really is sort of the key [indiscernible] (00:31:51) and taking us back towards that 500,000 ounces of production.

In terms of that though, I don't think that that is the end of the underground. It's not a case that we can set back now but we think there's more to come. We still think that the ore body is open to [ph] depth (00:32:04) from potential [ph] strike expense (00:32:05) as well. And we've got about a 90,000 to 100,000 meter program in the underground this year of drilling. And we sort of see that split sort of into thirds. About a third of those meters go into grade control, so pre-production sort of drilling to give us additional confidence. About a third of those meters will go into resource conversions, taking things from inferred, measured and indicated, so we can then convert them to reserves, potentially. And about a third of those meters go into growth to continue to extend the ore body limit, to continue to generate those targets that we can chase down to ultimately bring in to resources and ultimately reserves as well.

So, I think reserves – I think the underground has been a great success. I think we've really sort of kicked on in 2022. I think that underground expansion, that conversion to owner mining has been a bit brilliant for us but we still think there's more to come. And this year, looking forward to delivering that to fully-engineered underground expansion case and potentially further resource, reserve growth as well as we go forward.

Moving on to the next slide, the broader Sukari mining concession. We've talked about this of the last sort of 12, 18 months and we've been pretty busy in 2022. Obviously, we did full reinterpretation of existing drilling dates and geological data we have. We added significant more data through our soils and mapping program. And of course then, we go on with the business with the drill rig and [ph] cut (00:33:25) the number of holes across a number of these targets as well. Delighted that those are now starting to come through. And we've got some priority areas that we're looking at, Quartz Ridge and V-Shear for example are [ph] two the focus is at (00:33:36) this stage and the strategy there, of course, is to get these drilled off, get them into – with our Mineral Resource Management team on site, get resources evaluated, hand that across to the mining team and then have the potential to bring those into the mine plan going forward.

That MRM work is ongoing as we speak. Resources that are being generated internally for a number of these targets before we hand them over to mine planning team as well. And I think what that leads us to then is the potential for some of these resources to be included in this year's resource, reserve statement that we publish in Q4 this year and then of course, [ph] pull (00:34:10) into the mine plan as well.

I think just to stress, these are going to be smaller targets like in the order of tens of thousands of ounces, but they're likely [indiscernible] (00:34:20) good grade like shallow, [indiscernible] (00:34:23) low strip ratio. And I think they're going to give us some really good operational flexibility [ph] in and (00:34:27) around the [ph] main (00:34:27) pit as well. So, delighted that work has moved on.

And of course the highlight of the whole work this year was the airborne survey that we completed over that concession back in the year – early part of the year. It gave us great information around the Sukari Concession itself but, of course, importantly, gives us that real sort of advantage of having a sort of an airborne geophysical data set, which we can understand about Sukari and then apply to our broader EDX portfolio as well.

And on that EDX portfolio, we'll move on to growth and diversification. [indiscernible] (00:35:02) with the slide here around our land holding in the Egyptian, Arabian-Nubian Shield. I think [ph] I've spoken as before about our (00:35:09) two strategies. Two strategies to find [indiscernible] (00:35:13) feed for the Sukari operation and hence [ph] a ground around (00:35:15) the Nugrus block and then [indiscernible] (00:35:17) opportunities in the [ph] conversion match (00:35:19).

I think in 2022, we saw the Nugrus block handed over to us in May when we received that final [ph] closure (00:35:27) to start operating there from the government. We formed a dedicated EDX or Eastern Desert Exploration team in [indiscernible] (00:35:35) separate from SGM, that is staffed predominantly with Egyptian team members and a good proportion of those female representation as well. So, we're continuing to live and breath our strategy around that.

We got busy. We've obviously done a lot of proprietary work around the blocks and we're able to get moving pretty quickly into Nugrus initially and on to Um Rus, and then started our field programs in earnest with boots on the ground. We've yet to move up to Najd. We're planning to do that this year. But, of course, [ph] initially (00:36:05) the focus, given that proximity to Sukari or Nugrus.

And maybe we step on to the next slide. Now, we'll have a look for – sort of a deep – bit of a deeper dive on Nugrus. So, a lot of work done. Moved through the gears relatively quickly on this priority area. First [ph] part of (00:36:21) work was a BLEG survey and really looking to sort of do that reconnaissance scale regional work. That was completed. Full analysis of those results, it's sort of obviously a chain of process there to take those samples, to prep them, to get them out of country into [indiscernible] (00:36:35) lab results back. So, that kind of proof of concept of how we work in the [ph] Eastern (00:36:38) desert work very well, kind of allowed us to then focusing on priority areas and that led to a detailed soil and mapping campaign across a number of priority areas, which was completed.

And that, of course, then distilled itself down into the identification of five priority areas. So, as we sit here today, we have those five priority drill targets identified. We've mobilized the rig out to the Nugrus area and the plan is to start drilling in earnest on these five targets [indiscernible] (00:37:08) end of April, early May, by the time the Holy Month finishes and the associated Eid festivities are wrapped up. We intend to be in the field and start to drill test [ph] at these targets across (00:37:19) starting in May.

I can imagine that, over sort of Q3, to continue to drill and take these samples, get them offshore, get them into the lab and to come back, it sort of says to me that we can start to see results coming through end of Q3 and into Q4 of the drill campaign as well. So it's really excited and delighted to be getting moving on this strategy.

Obviously, it's potentially accretive to the Sukari infrastructure. We did a little bit of work internally just to understand and help the geologists understand what type of targets we should be looking at. We did some desktop exercises around sort of [ph] capital (00:37:52) assumptions for establishing a satellite deposit. We looked at [ph] all these (00:37:56) distances. We looked at our cost base at Sukari, understanding how and what it costs. [ph] And do a bit (00:38:00) of analysis as we move further away from Sukari mill, what sort of minimum ounces and grades do we need to see in order to make them value accretive to the Sukari mine plan.

And, of course, having that infrastructure in place means that actually the barrier to success or the hurdle to success for us in this area is significantly lower. You know, we think something in the order of 300,000 ounces at 1.3, 1.4 grams starts becoming value accretive to Sukari. I would start [ph] to trip around again (00:38:27). So it just tells us that that, certainly, we're clearly looking for big deposits and sort of large, incremental sort of increases but actually smaller deposits of – I would consider the moderate rate become very value accretive to Sukari as well.

So armed with that mapping and screening tool on top of the geological data, we're going to get those rigs moving, we're going to get into Nugrus and [ph] we'll look (00:38:49) to report back second half of this year. Hopefully, we start to build on that financial [ph] and (00:38:54) success across Nugrus.

If you pivot across now to West Africa, Doropo, we did delay things last year. We pushed the PFS out by a few months but I think for very good reasons. And I think that project's really kicked off. I'm delighted with the progress that's been made versus the PEA outcome. We obviously announced the resources back end of last year to help [ph] the announcers (00:39:20) in the resource category after the in-fill program constrained in proper resource [ph] pits (00:39:25) now.

So, we're happy with that. And I think the key there, of course, one was the confirmation of the ounces. The orebody didn't break up or the orebody didn't break up when drilled. And what we're really delighted with, of course, was the increasing grade from about 1.2 to 1.3 to about 1.5 grams in a resource average grade as well. So, a really nice pick up in grade that we saw there.

We've done some mining work. I think the key to mining really has been focused on making sure that we are environmentally and socially sensitive in terms of sequencing of these multiple pits. And we've done a lot of work to make sure that we're able to effectively sort of operate these pits in a socially responsible way, such that we're able to sort of dovetail our social engagement plans around the mining sequence to make sure that we've actually got something that's realistic and can be implemented, not a sort of spreadsheet NPV maximization exercise which sometimes happen. So that's moved through. Again, seeing results are consistent, slightly better than the PEA numbers.

I think processing was the big upside that we saw and hence the reason for the delay. We have considered a float and a fine [indiscernible] (00:40:31) circuit as part of the PEA. I think test work that we did during the PFS stage identified the ability to [ph] drop (00:40:36) that and we've been chasing that down. And obviously, given the fact we're on the remote power generation in this part of the world, moving away from [ph] a fine grind and floats to the whole leach (00:40:46) has got significance both capital but importantly OpEx savings as well. I'm delighted that that work has continued over the last quarter and coming together.

So, we see a number of opportunities for both technical and economic enhancements compared to the PEA. There will, of course, be some inflation baked in – will have to be baked into those numbers from the PEA. But we're pretty comfortable and confident and actually excited around what we've been able to achieve to basically offset potentially those headwinds that we're seeing around inflation, around that as well.

So, putting all that together, we're going to finish off the work, we're going to get that out, and we're planning for a June release for that PFS. I think importantly though, given our confidence in the project, we actually have started the DFS field work program in terms of the infill drilling, in terms of the geotech and water, in terms of the environmental and social impact assessment baseline.

So, although we'll finish the PFS around the middle of the year, I would suggest that sort of around about the same time, we will have substantially finished the DFS feasibility, so there's going to be feasibility field work will have been completed that time as well. So, it's not a case that we have to finish the PFS, think about it and then start the fieldwork for the DFS. We'll have that mostly in the bank by the time we start that, then we can move quickly on to the DFS evaluation.

So, I'm hopeful and confident that the DFS delivery will move along at a pace, given the heavy lifting we did during the PFS stage as well. And with our license renewed last year, we've got until the middle of 2024 to make that mining license application submission. So, I think we're well on track to be inside that and take that [ph] program (00:42:24) as well. So, really looking forward to updating everybody towards the end of the second quarter. I think there's some good news to come there. I'm looking forward to taking that on [ph] the DFS space (00:42:34) as well.

Moving on to the summary. We've got our growth in action slide, which is [ph] not a grandly (00:42:42) title, I quite like that. But really, I think that 2022, we delivered a huge amount of news flow. Obviously, in the background, we got on with delivering guidance. But on top of that, it was almost – it seemed in the second half of the year, there was an announcement per month on some aspects of optimization or improvement around the operations that we have as well.

And really carrying that momentum into 2023, we see the same. We're going to look at our solar plant. Can we upsize that? I think the first [indiscernible] (00:43:09) 36 megawatts has been a huge success for us. And the question now is that, how do we take that forward, can we expand that, what's the potential to further increase that? And potentially, during [indiscernible] (00:43:20), completely displaced diesel consumption or thermal power generation on that basis as well. So, we're moving forward on that. Studies are underway as we speak, and we'll look at that going forward as well.

Jumping around those boxes slightly, linked to that, of course, as I mentioned before, is our ability to connect to the Egyptian national power grid as the tender has been launched in Egypt, and we've got a date from April for submissions of tender bids and looking to move that initiative forward fairly quickly and significantly. Huge opportunity there again for further cost saving, given the fact that we're still on a combination of solar and diesel. And the opportunity there, of course, is to completely remove diesel from the thermal energy mix and move to a combination of solar and grid.

And part of that solar expansion is to be, of course, is linked back to the grid connection study and also the ability to harmonize those two systems. And I think that even with sort of improvement we're doing now still says that solar makes a huge amount of sense for us even with grid connection. It's just a slightly longer payback time as well. So, we'll continue to move those two opportunities along, recognizing the sort of opportunity for significant further operating cost reduction and also carbon abatement opportunities as well.

Underground expansion, we're busy now engineering that out. Looking forward to bringing that engineered case back to everybody. Having a look – [ph] looking at a little tradeoff (00:44:39) study with the open pit underground interaction as well and looking to optimize that, pulling together a next iteration of our sort of ongoing and improved life of mine planning as well. And I think that combined with the gravity circuit work that we're doing and that north dump leach extension that we've got underway at this stage as well, I think a combination of those initiatives really that takes us on that next leg back towards that sort of 500,000 ounce level from there.

I mentioned even the exploration, getting those holes into those priority targets. Obviously, it's speculative at this stage. Exploration is, by nature, risky. But those results should start flowing through second half of the year. I'm looking forward to seeing those myself, of course, and then potentially communicating – and actually communicating those to market as well.

And finally, at Doropo PFS, getting that finally put down and put away and then moving quickly onto DFS and keeping momentum going there as we seek to get that into a mining application phase as well. So, I think a lot more to come in 2023, really building on our momentum of success in 2022 and a number of catalysts to come through there as well.

So, onto our final slide, we'll probably hold this as our holding slide for Q&A. Our strategy has been the same. It's been clear and consistent. We're going to look to maximize Sukari's value. We're looking at growth and diversification. We can add in to EDX and Doropo. And, of course, as per Ross's outline in terms of our financial flexibility, our balance sheet strength, our enhanced and strengthened dividend policy, looking to maintain that commitment to stakeholder returns as well.

So, look, thank you very much, everybody, for listening. Ross and I have sort of banged on there for about 45 minutes. We'll pull back there and what I'd like to do now is open the floor to questions. Ross and I are happy to take those. [ph] Before then (00:46:29), a quick wrap-up as well. So with that, I'll hand back to Brikka and open the floor to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question we have from the phone line comes from Jason Fairclough of Bank of America. You may proceed with your question.

Thanks a lot for the presentation, guys. Super interesting as ever. Look, I have two questions, please. One on Doropo and one on Nugrus. So first on Doropo, I'm just wondering, could you talk a little bit about the timeline beyond the PFS. So, is it the sort of thing where the PFS is being done to a degree that you can actually do a feasibility study quite quickly, and then take this thing through to board approval?

And then, just on Nugrus, so you're going to start drilling in the second half of this year. How quickly could we see ore from Nugrus ending up in the Sukari mill? Is this two to three years away still?

Good morning, Jason. Thank you. Let's take it in reverse order. So, Nugrus, yeah, look, I think from a technical perspective, the furthest extent of Nugrus is about sort of 30, 35 kilometers away from the mill. And so reasonable distance but not silly distances. Yeah, we've done a little bit of work on what would it take to establish – on the assumption we had geological success. Look, if we found something that was significant in scale and size, then clearly you're going to have to do a lot of drilling, a lot of evaluation work to work out how to best tackle a large or a significant resource find as well.

So, if it was something that was pretty exciting and sexy, it was probably going to take a little bit longer to fully drill it off, do the met test work and then do the mine planning around it. On the assumption it was, say, a 300,000 to 500,000-ounce type satellite target, yeah, you could drill it off pretty quickly. So, I think that getting the rigs turning relatively quickly, you could bring that into resource category pretty sharpish. In terms of sort of the mine planning, relatively straightforward. We've clearly got a significant sort of cost base understanding, but also then technical execution capacity.

So, it's pretty easy for us to move on opportunities there. It was an open pit sort of target as well. Obviously, the harmonization of terms between bringing sort of a target under the current new sort of the mining regime into the concession agreement. Although, we have broached that with the Minister in previous meetings and he's quite comfortable and relaxed. So, that's relatively easily done in Egypt. [ph] We've got precedent (00:49:19) in the oil and gas sector.

So, look, I would say that a small to medium target, absolutely. Two to three years with the following win, we could get on that. If it was a bigger target that required more drilling and evaluation, then possibly longer. But that would be a lovely headache to have, Jason. So, yeah, I think that would not be beyond the realms of possibility given the infrastructure we've got in play.

In terms of Doropo, yeah, look, it's that kind of philosophical approach to sort of [ph] study work (00:49:46) is that pre-feasibility should be about assessing all the various options, doing lots of work, to evaluate lots of different configurations and so on, finalizing a sort of preferred configuration. And then, the DFS is about then engineering and cost accuracy to DFS stage of the preferred option. And we very much followed – people kind of think that PFS and DFS means you just get more accurate. That's not the approach we've taken. So, we've done a lot of the heavy lifting during the PFS stage, where we looked at lots of different options and opportunities. And that means, of course, that when you get to DFS is you've got a high level of confidence that you're then engineering the optimal or the preferred outcome. So, we very much taken that approach. Hence delaying the PFS while we chase down this processing opportunity.

So, there's two ways to think about it. One is that we have to have a license application in by the end of June 2024. That's the hard stop for us. So that's the backstop to it. But I think the reality is that given that sort of heavy lifting during the PFS stage, I would hope that sort of given the fact we've done a significant portion of the technical field work for the DFS now – we're using the current dry season to do that – I would hope by sort of year-end, in the early part of Q1 next year that DFS is done. So, that's a sort of a six- to eight-month window post the finalization of PFS to get the DFS where we need it to be as well. So, I think that heavy lifting we've done now will pay dividends down the track for us in terms of timeline.

And then, in terms of moving to the [ph] gear (00:51:12), look, we've got a regular technical committee that meets alongside our [ph] system (00:51:17) as well. We have regular updates with that. We're keeping them informed on a step-by-step basis. So, by the time it came to decision points, we're not going into our board calls with, hey, this is the [indiscernible] (00:51:27) like to do it. They're pretty much up the curve on what the opportunity is and what the risks are associated with that, how we look it from that as well. So, we worked very much hand-in-glove with the board to take the long-term journey, so that when it came to final presentation of the recommendation to move forward is that they're doing that from a fully informed basis and move forward as well.

So, I can see we can expedite the sort of the technical work program timeline quite quickly and by the time we get to present that to the board, yeah, I don't think it will be a large deliberation around whether we go forward or not. I think we'll be sort of reaching that sort of decision point pretty much with a decision done, positive or negative as it may be. But that's how we kind of work with our board and the various committees as well.

So, just to make sure I get that, Martin. So, Doropo, assuming things are favorable, go, no go mid-2024 or end of 2024?

No. I would say go. No go would be sort of first half of 2024 from a board perspective in terms of taking the project forward. From a regulatory perspective, we have to have the application in terms of mining licenses by the middle of the year. So, I think that sort of first half of next year, as a management team and a board, we'll have a very clear idea of whether it's going forward or not. And then I think then it's – then obviously with the regulation process.

If the board are confident and the board is supportive and the board backed the decision that management gave, our assumption is positive. And we believe that we're going to get sort of the permits, then, of course, it'd be sort of first half of 2024 that you're confident to move forward, we can actually start to do things like really push on with the [ph] front (00:53:04) and engineering design. You could even start putting deposits down on long lead items. You can start doing a little bit of preparatory work onsite in terms of preparation of construction camps, access roads, small water dams as well.

So, that's the approach we've taken in West Africa before is that it's those types of things that you'll add to project construction timeline, the actual – the time to build a mine in terms of – or a process at the right time around it. If you've got your camp in place and all the infrastructure and services in place, it's about 12 to 14 months. It's the kind of six months of putting an accommodation camp, putting in a large [indiscernible] (00:53:38), having light vehicle workshops to support a larger fleet of vehicles, all those types of things that take your time. But if you're confident with the board support, you'll be prepared to put the risk capital in there and you're confident you're going to get your permits, you could start there as well. So, we'd look to sort of shorten that timeline.

So, I would say first half of next year, management and board will be able to sort of understand that we want to take this forward. Regulatory, you'd sort of expecting midyear to get the government approval to take it forward. But then, depending on your risk appetite, you could put few single digit millions at risk to – [ph] at risk-inverted commerce (00:54:11) just to get some of those [ph] softer, early (00:54:13) things moving, so you will hit the ground running when you get the final green light to move forward with all permits in hand.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you, Martin. Thanks for the color.

Thank you.

Thank you. We now have Marina Calero of RBC Capital Markets.

Hi Marina. Are you on mute still or?

Unfortunately, we have got no audio from Marina's line. So, we will move on to the next question. We now have Daniel Major of UBS. You may proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Can you hear me okay?

Loud and clear, Dan.

Hi. Thanks. Yeah. A few questions for Ross around the minority interest in the P&L dividends and then the CapEx guidance. Firstly, on the – just the EMRA profit share and just being clear on some of these elements, can you just quickly walk us through the difference between $98 million P&L charge and a $35 million cash outlay in 2023? What the outstanding balance is on the cost recovery and therefore what we should be expecting for those two line items in 2023-2024? That's the first question.

Okay. Hi, Dan. Yeah. So, I'd refer you to that [indiscernible] (00:55:52) in the financial statements but basically in summary, the outstanding cost recovery as we said at the end of December 2022 is that number that fits within that note of $22.5 million so that's pure cost recovery. That is due and payable as at the end of December. There's a further tail of $80 million that is in the cost recovery model but that will be recovered over future periods over the following tail periods.

So, in aligning or truing up these two-year periods from 1 July 2020, through to June 2022, that charge that went through effectively in the income statement was to align those numbers going forward. So, in summary, you got your $22.5 million that's due and payable immediately and you've got a further drip feed of that $80 million, which will unwind roughly $24 million to $25 million every six months [ph] underway (00:56:50) going forward. I'd say roughly because there's further investments as we contribute further cash calls or contributions that obviously tops up that profile as you go forward.

So – and then with regards to your profit share, if you look at the cash flow statement, that's $35 million of profit share that's paid. That's profit share that's been paid to both partners but you're only picking up on the EMRA side. That's profit share that goes forward. We've basically modelled circa $24 million, $25 million a year that would come through in terms of normal profit share in the absence of outperformance and things. So, that's the type of number that you could reasonably expect on a go-forward basis, conservative prices. If operations and cash flows obviously generate more, we would – we'd distribute it a bit more than that.

And that's the – I guess that's the balancing position in terms of – because if you refer to the note, you'll see that we've – we continue to pay profit share, notwithstanding that there's cost recovery due [indiscernible] (00:57:57) maintaining our relationship and position with our partners but also ensuring that we've recovered the costs that are due to us. And we've done really well in terms of recovering those historic balance over those areas, yeah.

Yeah. So, just to kind of circle back on that, the cash flow item, the $35 million this year, am I correct in saying you've got $22 million that's due in Q1 and then you have a lack of residual requirement to still pay? I think it's about $7 million per quarter on the EMRA profit share whilst you're drawing down that residual balance. So, what should we assume – because that balance should be large enough to last you through 2023. So, what actually contributes to your cash flow should be $7 million a quarter plus $22 million, is that correct?

That's correct. That's correct, yeah.

Okay, perfect. And the P&L charge, just to be clear on that again, is that – would that be comparable to the cash charge or would that be 50% of reported pre-tax profit?

All things being equal and without any time lag on signed-off accounts and if it all worked perfectly, it would basically be 50%. So it would be aligned to a 50/50 type split. So if you added those [ph] NTIs (00:59:20) over time that would all equalize. But it's out of sync in particular periods because of these catch-up of historical areas. But over a period – over a period of time or over life of mine in your model, you would reasonably expect those to true itself up and basically be equal-equal.

Right. So in 2023, we should just take 50% of reported pre-tax profit effectively goes to EMRA and goes to your EPS and we should take a run rate of about $35 million to $40 million in the cash flow statement.

That's right. That's right.

Okay. Perfect.

And if there's any absence of that, we – it's for us to update everybody in terms of the timing of those sign-offs. The hope is that we keep everything current now. We're current up until June 2022 with our partners. But if that starts to lag, that's obviously [indiscernible] (01:00:14). So I guess [ph] our (01:00:15) exposure, but try and keep it current and that's the plan going forward.

Okay. That's clear.

There will be some variability but it won't be the significant peaks and troughs that we've seen recently or volatility.

Okay. Thanks. And then just on the CapEx side, I just want to clarify the difference between kind of what you guide and what your real CapEx is because you real CapEx is $275 million last year, not $225 million. The difference being a sustaining element of waste stripping capitalized. I guess the first point, what is the explicit guidance on your actual CapEx, not this adjusted CapEx? And do you not think it might be prudent to guide on this to the market because, obviously, that's what actually feeds into your financial statements?

Yes. You're absolutely right. The adjustment between the $225 million and the $275 million or $280 million is that basically the transfer of waste stripping that comes out of OpEx and goes into CapEx. We've always viewed the CapEx as both discrete, the true traditional CapEx [ph] numbers (01:01:25). This reallocation of accounting adjustment is really a reclassification in terms of the various requirements of the accounting interpretation [indiscernible] (01:01:37). But I believe both numbers are true. But your point taken in terms of guiding and giving you line of sight in terms of both those numbers in terms of how that should be modeled.

Right. So, what is the guidance on the full CapEx number, the $225 million plus what?

Yes. So, it will be a similar number. So, it'll be a similar number in your models if you're adding back and putting in $55 million or $60 million to that number, you'll end up with a similar number, similar profile. And that's...

Right.

And again, we will guide you on that in terms of where the [indiscernible] (01:02:15) [indiscernible]

(01:02:18)

Commensurate reduction in OpEx as well, Ross.

That's right. Yes. That portion then is the reallocation from OpEx to CapEx.

No. I understand that. But obviously, you're showing the total cash cost excluding the recapitalization and stripping but you're guiding on CapEx, reducing, stripping that out, it kind of feels slightly inconsistent. But that's clear. So, $275 million and $280 million is the CapEx number we should be thinking about. Yeah. Okay.

And just a final one on that for the adjusted free cash flow to calculate the dividend. You've indicated that $37 million is the kind of adjusted add back. Is that versus $275 million $280 million or versus $225 million to calculate this kind of adjusted free cash flow number for your dividend?

Yes. So, that's why it's going back to $225 million. So, we're looking at discrete projects, so there's waste stripping and the operation of our fleet, we for us – we view this cash and OpEx and those discrete growth CapEx projects that are excluded and funded by the RCF that we would add back. So, certainly waste stripping wouldn't be included in the add back. It would be those positions that we – or those projects that we're financing out of RCF.

Right. So, it's $275 million, $280 million less $37 million is the CapEx number to calculate your kind of adjusted free cash flow for the dividend?

Yes. [ph] All the added back (01:03:52) the other way and say free cash flow plus those discrete projects [indiscernible] (01:03:57) almost an add back rather than stripping it off.

Okay. All right. Thanks for that. Cheers.

Thank you. We now have Yuen Low of Liberum. You may proceed.

Hi. Good morning, Martin, Ross. Congratulations on being in line in your financials. I have a few questions and I think I'm going to take them one by one. The first is, can you speak to recovery leads? Because in the last [indiscernible] (01:04:34) review, you were targeting 89.5%. And my understanding was that was going to come from existing plan optimizations so before gravity recovery. But the recoveries have generally been in the 88% range. And I wonder whether how much [indiscernible] (01:04:54) you're putting through? I know [indiscernible] (01:04:56) in Q3?

Morning, Yuen. Yes. We did some little bit of pass-through late last year in Q4 and that did have a minor detrimental impact on recoveries. While that material is working its way through the plan, given the nature of the ore feed. Look, in terms of the plan optimizations they're ongoing, they're nearly finalized now. We've been looking at some flotation reagent changes to help the flotation circuit, looking at some reagent mixing and dosing control systems as well as [indiscernible] (01:05:37) through there and looking to put it all [ph] together (01:05:39) as well.

So, still targeting to be up to that sort of 89.5 number. We have been a little bit down on that with strategies in hand to take that forward and hoping to bring that back up. And of course, as we all know, recoveries are a function of head grade. It's a fixed [ph] tail (01:05:57) relationship. So, as we see sort of grade improving as well, we're hoping – and non- [indiscernible] (01:06:02) material with that grade improving. Hopefully, between the improvement in grade and also those operating initiatives, we can get that back towards the 89.5 type number.

In terms of the gravity, that will come through, we think – well, the test was planned to be finished by the middle of the year. A little bit of engineering and procurement. We can start construction sort of Q4 this year and have the gravity circuit online as sort of that first half of 2024. I think that's going to have some pretty good operating benefits for us in terms of making sure we capture full value of high-grade [indiscernible] (01:06:37) ore body but then also in terms of improving overall recoveries as well.

Okay. That's great. Thank you. On a related note, the bonanza structures, the Bast structure, [ph] 5105 (01:06:52) there's been no mention of that since they were brought up in the [indiscernible] (01:06:58) review. Sorry, aside from the – there is still a bit of Bast materials through the plant. So, how much Bast material has been delineated and how much of it have you actually [ph] sat through in (01:07:13)? So, how much is left?

Right. Okay. So, in terms of the Bast material, that continues to be drilled off and added to the both the resource and the reserves statements. So, there will be a further Bast material added into last year's December resource, reserves.

In terms of what we've mined, very limited amount. It was a bit of a trial mining exercise last fourth quarter. So, the substantive part of the Bast material remains in inventory for mining. And of course, we want to do two things. One is that we believe, given the sort of the very high grade nature of the Bast material, that we believe that there's a risk that if we try to push that through the processing plant as it's currently configured, that we either sort of risk that coming out to the tail at the back end or just a heavier gold sort of sinking and getting stuck and effectively sink to the bottom of the [ph] system (01:08:06). Larger nuggets, they get flattened out by the comminution process, and they sort of effectively settle [ph] in the bottom of the (01:08:11) process plant. So, they're not lost but you can't really recover them.

So, we believe that the gravity circuit will have a significant impact on being able to effectively scalp out that high grade nuggety gold before the balance of the material goes into the back end of the processing plant. So, in terms of accessing the Bast material as we go forward, first consideration is that we want that – we want the gravity circuit in place before we do that.

Second consideration is that we're working through now on the underground life of mine plan expansion case is that we're looking at a number of scenarios. But two of the tradeoffs we're looking at – I think I've mentioned this before, is that the first one is we could – as we build up our tonnage capacity from the underground, as we move from 1 million to 1.5 million tonnes per annum of ore brought to surface, one could continue to sort of effectively mine to, say, approximately average grade of the underground, plus/minus, and you will see the ounces increase in time as the ore tonnes increase as well. [ph] Another factor (01:09:09) we could look at is to preferentially take some of the higher grade materials sooner. So, while your tonnage is moving from 1 million to 1.1 million, 1.2 million, 1.3 million tonnes per annum, you could mine the sort of the high-grade material earlier. That gives you a bit of a bump on ounces.

And then as you then basically come through the – and getting up to the steady state revert back to the mean average grade of the orebody. So, it's a way to effectively try and flatten out the ounce profile increase from the underground expansion case as well. So, we're currently looking at the gravity test work, which we believe is – I would say, essential – what would be a significant value enhancement for Bast material. And then looking at how we schedule that Bast material in within the connection of the underground expansion case as well. So, it sits in inventory. We mine very little amount of it. It basically requires the gravity circuit, we believe, to fully get it – maximize value out of it. And then we're thinking about how we feed that material into the expanded case schedule. So, that will all come together when we do the life of mine plan update, probably H2 this year, around that optimization work.

Is that updated mine plan likely to be early or late H2?

Well, look, we've got some internal deadlines that I'm working to with the team, depending on the results of those and whether we want some external review and validation of those. Look, let's say, Q4 pre-release to market. And if it's sooner than that, we're all happy.

Okay. Now moving on to a different topic. On the subject of debt, is there still an intention to get any projects [indiscernible] (01:10:56) or is it just going to be the [ph] RCFN (01:10:59)? Is Sukari cash flow still going to be ring-fenced for dividends?

So, I think that when we think about the order of magnitude of the Doropo CapEx, we guided $275 million in the PEA. Let's use $300 million as a number and I'm just putting it out there, Yuen, is that no, I don't think the RCF would be of sufficient scale to fully cover the Doropo construction. I also don't believe that sort of Sukari cash flows and balance sheet would also [ph] then (01:11:34) from the $300 million CapEx if we wanted to continue to pay dividends. And to be clear, we want to keep paying dividends.

So, with that, the construct that we're looking at – and we'll start a discovery process once the PFS is finished is that we would look at having an asset-level project finance facility ring-fenced against Doropo, and then sort of effectively owners' contribution, the balance of that – say, that was two-thirds or 70% of the project – of the CapEx [ph] build would be (01:12:02) project finance against Doropo. The balance of that then would come from Centamin treasury. And that Centamin treasury, it could be a combination of the RCF, cash on hand, and also Sukari cash flows.

And one of the specific terms of the RCF facility is that it has been set up and documented such that it can be harmonized with a project finance at the Doropo level. So, we would imagine that Doropo would have an element of ring-fenced-finance – I'm saying project finance, it could be PF, it could be a stream. It could be some of [ph] that (01:12:35). But there would be, let's say, an asset-level piece of funding required. And then the Centamin contribution to top up the construction funding would come from our enhanced balance sheet between cash on hand and debt facility and cash flows from Sukari. But importantly, we would – it would enable those Sukari cash flows to remain available for dividend payment as well. And that was the whole point of balancing growth and reserves.

Sorry. I had a little bit of interference with my line. Did you say that Sukari is available for dividend, but it's no longer ring-fenced for dividends?

No, I didn't say that, Yuen. No, no. I said that the – there would be an asset-level ring-fenced funding for Doropo, so that we would see either a project finance [indiscernible] (01:13:26) similar. And the equity, if you like, or the owner's contribution to the Doropo funding requirement away from that asset-level funding could come from a combination of our RCF facility, our balance sheet, cash on hand, and/or Sukari cash flows. With the point being is that by having that debt facility at the RCF – at the corporate level, having our balance sheet strength is that we believe that we can use those two. And we can make a decision on the cash flow in order to then basically continue to fund the Doropo development but also leave cash flow available for dividend payment.

And to be clear, the 30% of corporate free cash flow ring-fenced for dividend, that policy doesn't change. So, at the very least, you're going to get that. But we believe with the financial flexibility we have now is that we can continue to develop Doropo and pay dividends as we move forward. So, there's no change to the policy, 30% of free cash, minimum will still be applied to the divi, and that would be before Doropo financing. But with that additional flexibility we have now, we believe that we can secure a full funding package for Doropo without the need to basically go and tap equity markets, without the need to cut the dividend to zero while we go through that [ph] growth phase (01:14:41).

All right. Thank you very much. And just going back to Sukari. I think you mentioned that the ore body was opened along strike. Do you mean this underground or do you mean that you think that the open pit can actually be extended along strike?

Well, I would say that from an underground perspective, the team are seeing sort of strike extent towards the northeast. And of course, historically, we've known – we have some drilling into what's referred to as the Cleopatra zone, which is again to the north and northeast of the open pit. Now, there is historically limited drilling available in that area, mainly because of the topography when the initial drilling was done. It was on top of the Sukari hill. It was quite difficult to get rigs up there.

So, we know the mineralization does continue through the Cleopatra zone that is striking towards the northeast. We know that's where the regional structure heads off to the northeast, the whole Sukari. We do have some drilling indicating there are resources in that zone. But now that we've basically got the top of Stage 7 flattened out, now that the pit is opening, we can now [ph] both from (01:15:54) an underground open pit perspective, do some drilling in these areas to understand where does the mineralization go to the northeast. Is there sufficient volume that would drive either open pit or underground economics, we don't know.

But certainly, I would say that we are aware of mineralization. We are aware of the general sort of geological striking to the northeast and we now – because we've basically taken the top of the hill, we now have the ability to get rigs in there and start testing that as we go forward. So, it's not an immediate priority for us as we continue to sort of push down to the deeper levels of Sukari. But it certainly remains, to my mind, open in that direction. It hasn't yet definitively been closed off either geologically or economically to say it doesn't work.

Okay. And finally, just going back to the Bonanza structures again, that was mentioned previously of visible gold in the – I think it was [ph] hanging wall or free wall (01:16:45), I forget which now. Have these been followed up? [indiscernible]

(01:16:51) all over the place, Yuen. It's an amazing underground deposit. As you go to various parts of the ore body, we see in Ptah. We've seen in Amun. We see it occasionally in Horus as well. So, look, it is a high-grade nuggety ore body. We do get these zones where we have the super high-grade areas where we see [indiscernible] (01:17:10) as well. So, I would say that we don't chase high visible gold. What we chase is the mineralized structure and then, we take those high grades...

Oh, no, no. Sorry...

Yeah?

Sorry. I meant in the open pit.

Oh, yes. In the open pit. Yes. Look, absolutely. Obviously, the open pit was not [ph] nearly as selective (01:17:32). Yes, from time to time, we do have high-grade structures that – they're normally sort of quartz veins, sort of [indiscernible] (01:17:41) fairly narrow, thin structures but they sit within an overall panel within the open pit as well. But if you're designing a 50,000 to 100,000 tonne panel, they just basically get taken with the overall sort of panel as well.

So, we just took it during open pit mapping and around the production areas. We're still seeing these structures that sort of sit there within the overall mineralized package. We do occasionally see these high-grade structures sitting there. And it just gives us that indicator – we'd expect that to be the case given what we've seen in the underground. But they're not selected to be mined in the open pit. They're just taken as part of the panel and taken [indiscernible] (01:18:19) and they're processed.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. I'd like to hand it back to Alex for any of the webcast questions.

Thank you very much. Only two, actually. The first one, Martin, for you. Is there any possibility of grid connection or solar power at Doropo?

I would say grid less likely. Solar yes in the short term. Very quick answer just conscious of time for people. Yeah. Look, too far north I think the grid, solar yes.

Wonderful. Thank you. And then the other one is with your revised dividend policy, how should we look at 2023 dividend?

I'll pass that over to my world-leading CFO, Mr. Ross Jerrard. Pressure on you now sir.

Yes. So, I guess in terms of the construct that we've described and the modeling, if we're looking at those projects as we've shown and looking at gold price, so I think a gold price depends on your inputs. But the gold price is $1,700. And the project that we've described, you could reasonably expect a $0.03 dividend or something in that type of range. If gold prices are going to go up to $1,900, it would be more akin to a $0.05 dividend for the 2023 year. But that's the type of range I think we'll be looking at sort of minimum or general percentage being 3% – $0.03 per share up to $0.05. But very much performance based.

Wonderful. That's all for me. Thank you.

Lovely. Well, thank you very much, Alex. Well, look, maybe to wrap up fairly quickly then. Look, I think, 2022, a great year, delivery across Sukari, delivery into our projects and growth opportunities. Some great strides made across our ESG front. A big step forward around our – in terms of our balance sheet and the application of the debt and the fact that we've been through that external validation process by the bankers to enable them to lend against our mine plan [indiscernible (01:20:38) background there that we have been diligent and lenders are prepared to indicate that as well.

So, I think a really good year of delivery. Another year into the reinvestment program and we're through that kind of hump down and tailing off into that now as we get back towards steady state at Sukari. And lots of opportunity still to come, lots more to deliver this year to keep that momentum and a real sense of expanding the business. We've really created a platform now. We tend to think of this as not the finish line but actually the start line. And then we've built this foundation and the question is, where do we go from here? I think that's the excitement for 2023.

So, I think lots of – lots more good news flow to come, lots of focus on delivery against plans [indiscernible] (01:21:20). I'm really looking forward to engaging everybody over the balance of the year as we continue to drop the new slope around the various – Sukari, solar expansion, the grid connection, underground expansion, Doropo PFS and so on and so forth. And then of course, that potential exciting news from EDX, should we get that positive news from there as well.

So, I'd like to thank everybody for their time this morning. Thank you for the questions and I look forward to catching up with you individually. As ever, we remain open. If you want to catch up offline, the usual channels by myself, Ross or Alex to get in touch and we'd be happy to talk from there as well. So, thank you, everybody. Wish you all the very best. Have a good day and talk soon. Thank you.

Thank you.