Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
James Bell — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Michael Stoner — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Centamin Results for the Quarter Nine Months and Ended 30th of September 2018 Call. Throughout this call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. And afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

I'm now handing over the word to Andrew Pardey, CEO. Please begin your meeting.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking the time to dial in. Today, I'm joined on the call with Ross Jerrard, our Chief Financial Officer. This morning, we published our detailed Q3 results. Copies of the announcement can be found on the company website under the Investors, along with our results presentation which we'll be going through in a moment.

But just an overview, we maintained a solid balance sheet. Ross will go into more detail around the financials in a moment. However, you'll be aware that the company maintains a minimum cash balance of $250 million to $300 million. This quarter, we finished with $292 million after having paid out our interim dividend of $30 million.

The quarter was unique in that we recorded negative group cash flow of $1 million bringing year-to-date free cash flows at $35.1 million. A number of smaller factors played into this, but the most significant was the meaningful differential between the ounces produced and sold resulting from the calendar timing of final gold pour and routine weekly sales. Importantly, we expect Q4 to be highly cash-generative.

We progressed our exploration programs across the group maintaining an active pipeline of potential organic growth opportunities, including upside at Sukari. And also importantly, we've made progress in resolving the temporary operational challenges faced at Sukari. I'm not in the position to say that we've returned our Sukari operations to where I would expect them to be.

However, the team on site is doing an excellent job in turning around the operation and in particular where we faced some major issues in the underground. Some of the underground challenges implemented in Q2 have taken longer than expected to fully materialize, and we really didn't get to see the impact of those major improvements until the final month of September in the quarter. As per our preliminary production results from the 5th of October, this led us to revising the final quarter guidance to 145,000 ounces bringing full year guidance to 480,000 ounces.

If you can now turn to slide 3 of your presentation, we can then run through this. But whilst all this was going on with our lost time injury frequency rate, we had one LTI over the period. And again, I emphasize our strong focus on ensuring a health and safe work environment. But if you look at slide number 3, gold production for the quarter was 117,000 ounces, cash cost of production $619 an ounce, and all-in sustaining cost of $889 an ounce with full year guidance being re-guided to 480,000 ounces at a cash cost of production of $625 to $640 an ounce, and an all-in sustaining cost of $875 to $890 an ounce.

In headline numbers, we produced more at lower all-in sustaining cash and cash costs, not the prettiest picture but the [ph] casing is (00:03:39) we're showing where the results are and where the improvements have been materialized. As you can see going back from May, in particular gold production, 28,800 ounces; and in June, 30,000 ounces; July, 32,000 ounces; and then August, 37,000 ounces. Improvements continuing for the open pit; underground took longer. We expected that to improve in August – July into August. And in September when we exited the quarter, we had the underground producing 23,300 ounces and the open pit 23.6 million (sic) [23,600] (00:04:18) ounces.

Okay. Moving on to slide 4, here we've updated our full guidance and what that equates to for Q4 2018. Alongside this is our Q3 actuals and also the Q4 schedules to get us to that 480,000 ounces. So Q3 actuals, you can see there open pit, 19.9 million tonnes. Total ore mined was 6.6 million tonnes as we exited out of the transitional into the sulfide. Overall grade 0.64 grams per tonne and open pit feed grade of 0.81 grams per tonne.

For Q4, we're forecasting total movement of $19.7 million (sic) [19.7 million tonnes] (00:05:00) with ore movement, obviously, that's coming down as we enter the true sulfide, 4.6 million tonnes at a overall grade of 0.81 gram per tonne and an open pit feed grade to the processing plant of 1 gram per tonne. Underground, total ore mined, 300,000 tonnes at 5.2 grams per tonne from Q3 with 61% made up of stoping and 39% made up of development. For Q4, we're forecasting 300,000 tonnes at a grade of 6.5 grams per tonne with that split being maintained at 60% stoping, 40% development ore.

And plant throughput, the plant performing well, 3.1 million tonnes for the quarter at a grade of 1.29 grams per tonne. And for Q4, we're forecasting 3.2 million tonnes at a grade of 1.51 grams per tonne. Obviously, their increased grade is due to the high feed grade from the open pit and from the underground. And that will give us our 145,000 ounces for the quarter and for the full year production of 480,000 ounces with a cash cost of production of between $625 and $640 an ounce and an all-in sustaining cost of $875 to $890 an ounce.

Moving on to the next slide, slide number 5, board and senior management structure, during the quarter we welcomed Dr. Fawzy. Dr. Fawzy is a very well-respected advisor to the Egyptian public and private sector on the development of the industry, particularly in relation to foreign investment. Our primary mission is unchanged. Centamin wants to be a leading operating company to grow Egypt into a globally recognized gold producer.

At the operational, we've also got succession process under way for our nonexec chair. This process is still under way. We have identified some candidates. However, we don't want to rush the process. We're going to ensure we appoint the right candidate. And in the meantime, Josef El-Raghy agrees it is important to find the right chairperson and will remain as an active Chair until the succession process is completed.

At the Sukari operating level, we also appointed a new general manager in the quarter, Raitt Marshall. He's now the General Manager of Operations at Sukari. Raitt joins us from Kinross, where he was previously the General Manager at the Tasiast Gold Project in Mauritania.

Okay. Moving on to slide 6, the investment case, you're probably all familiar with this slide. I'll just emphasize again asset quality. Sukari is a large, world class, top 10 Tier 1 asset by cost and production. We have the financial flexibility, $292 million in cash and liquid assets at the end of 30th of September. We have an active growth pipeline. We have the Sukari underground Amun and Ptah reserve replacements, Sukari underground Cleopatra exploration and development, the Doropo pre-feasibility under way, the Batie West scoping study under way, and ABC in Côte d'Ivoire to a greenfield target generation coming up with some very interesting results.

We also have stakeholder returns, meaningful contributor to our host country/partners. We have a current dividend yield of 9.5% as of the 30th of October. We maintain our minimum dividend policy of 30% of the company's free cash flow and maintain a social license to operate.

Moving on to slide 7, again just emphasizing Sukari is a world-class asset. It's a top 10, global Tier 1 asset by 2017 all-in sustaining costs. This chart shows single assets with productions greater than 500,000 ounces a year and with a greater than 10-year life of mine. But I must emphasize Sukari has a open pit life of mine that's greater than 20 years. And our all-in sustaining cost is in the lowest half of the global cost curve. So when you look at this chart, this ranks Sukari number three based on all-in sustaining cost.

Okay, again, slide number 8, we have a proven operational track record. We have technical expertise. We've built a 12 million tonne per annum mine. Investment in the country at $1.2 billion all recovered. Direct investment pay, $350 million in profit share and royalties. We're a training ground, first mover, first modern gold miner. We have a well-educated workforce bringing – we have a well-educated workforce that has been established in helping to develop Sukari further.

Okay. Slide number 9, long-term sustainability. Just cumulative production to-date at Sukari has been frequent to 1 million ounces of gold produced. If you look at the chart on the left, you can see the Sukari resources and then you can see the resources coming in from West Africa. And then at the top of that, you can see the cumulative production to the end of 2017. Sukari and Centamin has grown its resources while also increasing production and output.

Again, on the right-hand side, the Sukari open pit reserves has been – since production has started and since 2013, open pit reserves [audio gap] (00:10:42) cumulative production of just over 1 million ounces from 2013. Replacing the reserves has been just over 500,000 ounces. So there's been a 50% reserve replacement in the underground only open pit.

And then, if you look at 2013, underground reserves started off at 520,000 ounces. 2013 to end of 2017, the underground has produced 900,000 ounces of gold. So there's been 130% reserve replacement. And at the end of 2017, reserves were 800,000 ounces.

While we're talking about resources and reserve at Sukari, the resource and reserve prices is underway. The key team of people that currently working in purpose are consultants to finalize the resource and reserve statements. And as soon as they complete it, we will be releasing those to the market.

Okay. Now, just moving onto operational overview, slide number 11, in the open pit. The open pit performance was solid. Note that the tonnes are coming down in Q4, but ore tonnes as a grade increases as we are in – going into the [ph] proper (00:12:01) sulfide material.

We had record movement of 19.9 million tonnes. Record ore tonnes mined over the quarter, 2.7 million tonnes at 0.81 grams per tonne was delivered to the mill. This is a 26% increase in the mine grade on Q2 with September averaging overall grades mined of 0.64 grams per tonne.

Again, the outlook for the rest of year, Stage 4 sulfide material is the primary source of open pit ore for the next three years. Updated guidance schedules for the full year 2018 overall open pit feed grade to the mill of 0.78 grams per tonne for the year and 1 gram per tonne in Q4. And overall mined grade of 0.6 grams per tonne, including low grade material going to stockpile and overall mined grade of 0.81 grams per tonne in Q4.

Okay. With the open pit grades improved and has improved slightly ahead of expectations, the ultimate response to the record mining was to get through the transitional zone as quickly and efficiently as possible. We have achieved this as we say we would, demonstrating the operational ability to move tonnes at these mills. And also importantly, through optimization of the mining fleet, we actually ran 10 less trucks than we had originally scheduled to run through improved load and hauling from the open pit.

The open pit is in a good position. It's in good shape, and it's into the sulfide to deliver grades. And it's a prime where Stage 4 is now – it's a primary ore source for at least the next three years.

Underground. The underground, we've had the issues of the cascading stopes in the underground and the influence in those when they're identified was greater than we've initially realized. And it has taken us longer to turn the underground production around. And we really started to see the best benefits from the underground in September.

July and August, improvements were being put in place, but they weren't really recognized until we came through with September's gold production, which you can see in the previous slides highlighting the improvement month-on-month.

We had good equipment and utilization rates. We've reduced the total tonnes mined from the cascading stopes, down to an overall average of 34% at the end of the quarter. And as at September, tonnes mined were 100,000 tonnes at 7.4 grams per tonne, of which production from stoping was 55,000 tonnes at 10.4 grams per tonne.

We maintain for the rest of year those grades and the updated guidance schedules for the year, 1.2 million tonnes at 5.8 grams per tonne.

The underground on slide 14, this is just showing the turnaround of where the improvements have come from that we had – earlier in the year, we had the long hole drill rig, that issue is gone. That's closed. The impact of the cascading stopes, that has been reduced quarter-on-quarter and as I've said, we exited the quarter at 34% influence from cascading stopes. And for Q4, we expect the influence from the high dilutions stopes to be less than 20%.

We've had multiple new technical appointments, both for engineers and geologists in the underground, and modifications are continuing. And as I've said, the September production results are starting to reflect those changes that have been put in place.

Okay. Slide number 15, the processing plant. The processing plant has performed and has continued to perform well, exceeding at 12.5 million tonne per annum annualized rate. Plant throughput of 3.1 million tonnes in Q3, a head grade of 1.29 gram per tonne, a 31% increase quarter-on-quarter. Improved metallurgical recovery rates to 88.7%. We also had the Cleopatra material produced 3,200 ounces and the dump leach operations also produced 3,894 ounces of production.

As I've said, the charts saw the improvement in recovery and now, from Q2 to Q3, the improvement in the plant feed grade coming through the processing plant due to high grades from the open pit and September as well delivering higher grades from the underground.

With that, I'd like to hand over to Ross for the financial review.

Thanks, Andrew. Turning to page 17. From a financial point of view, it's been maintained through robust financial position with $292 million cash and liquid assets at the end of September. This is after the payment of the interim dividend of $28.9 million, although the group had negative cash flow for the quarter, driven predominantly by the timing of gold sales receipt and payments and the reduced realized average gold price of $1,206 per ounce for the quarter.

Our fourth quarter outlook remains highly cash generative. We have managed and continue to manage our costs, especially in light of the increased mining rates and volumes. Mine production costs have increased for the quarter and this is mainly being due to both volumes variances as well as continued cost pressures.

We have reduced our CapEx spend rate on the non-critical items and expect it to be approximately $10 million lower than the spend for the full year. I draw your attention to the increase in the profit share percentage, which has increased to 55% Centamin and 45% EMRA, and this is effective from the 1st of July 2018.

Important to note is the build-up stockpiles during 2018. This has benefited our cost base, and these costs are being carried on the balance sheet is all stockpiles. You will also notice in the financial statements that there's been a reallocation of some of the ROM stockpiles to non-current. I refer you to Note 7 of the financial statements for more details on this.

Turning to page 18. As already mentioned, we have managed and continued to manage our costs. I've mentioned the benefits of the stockpiles, but we have also focused on minimizing cost pressures including, for example, the fuel cost impact and fleet usage, as well as improving our systems and controls, managing our procurement processes and our ongoing inventory reduction program, which has been successful.

We do have a high CapEx profile, primarily driven by our rebuild schedule and underground development program, but this is being well managed and is in line with our cash flows. Importantly, our 2018 outlook shows a downward trend in all-in sustaining cost per ounce and we believe that we can still achieve our unit cost per ounce metrics for the full year.

Slide 19 shows our cost breakdown with percentage split being consistent per cost centers quarter-on-quarter. Importantly, our fuel prices remain flat from Q2 into Q3. And we have received our fuel pricing for Q4 at the same price of $0.61 per liter, which gives us some good visibility for the final quarter barring any retrospective adjustments. And although prices stay flat, the volume of actual fuel usage increased on Q2.

We do flag that our labor costs will go up for – in the final quarter with local salary increases being effective from 1st of October 2018.

We've also been successful with locking in improved commercial terms with some of our long-term supply contracts which again gives us good visibility on future periods.

Slide 20, I've included for illustration purposes and really shows the breakdown of our mine production costs as well as the quarterly profile for open pit, underground, and processing showing a consistent to reducing costs per tonne metric.

I refer you to slide 21, which shows our group free cash flow actuals to date and our 2018 projection. Please note that this is for illustration purposes only and is not a forecast, but merely provides a bridge to our revised full-year guidance and application of our definition of free cash flow.

Based on producing the 145,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and depending on the gold price and cost assumptions applied, our free cash flow would build by approximately $35 million, effectively giving a free cash flow of $70 million for the 2018 calendar year. This free cash flow [ph] forms part (00:20:41) of a potential dividend build for consideration by the board at the end of the year. And we note that $29 million has already been paid.

Slide 22 provides the breakdown of our dividend policy and track record of dividends over the last five years. We are committed to our dividend policy and prioritizing returns to our shareholders. Over the last three years, more than 75% of free cash flow has been paid in dividends.

In conclusion, we maintain our high financial flexibility and robust financial position. Our balance sheet remains strong, clean, and simple with cash and liquid assets at $292 million. We have no debt, no hedging, loans or gold streams and very importantly, we have a balanced cash flow distribution across our investing [ph] for new growth (00:21:28). Our payments to host country was regular and consistent profit share and royalty payments and having a sustainable dividend stream.

With that, I hand back to Andrew.

Okay. Thank you, Ross. I'll just give a quick overview of the exploration. So, if we can just move slide 25 and just a quick summary, the group exploration pipeline. Exploration has continued to return very strong results across the portfolio, maintaining an active pipeline of potential organic growth opportunities.

We have the near-term exploration in the Sukari underground and in particular, the Cleopatra decline. And going through and testing and drilling on the contact zones. Some of those intercepts have included 1 meter at 111 grams per tonne, 1 meter at 11.5 grams per tonne, 1.4 meters at 12.82 grams per tonne. This is self-funding exploration and development from pre-production revenue generation as the developments are all taking place in mineralized porphyry at Sukari of Cleopatra.

Then the sustainable side, Sukari underground, Amun and Ptah declines. Resource extension drilling continued to return excellent results. Results include 3 meters at 428 grams per tonne, 43 meters at 8.2 grams per tonne, including 15 meters at 12 grams per tonne, 6 meters at 26 grams per tonne. This is all underpinning the long-term sustainability of the Sukari underground.

Medium term, we've got the Doropo Project. It's near surface resource, oxide material with positive results including 37 meters at 6.4 grams per tonne, 40 meters at 2.7 grams per tonne, 13 meters at 11.2 grams per tonne, 15 meters at 8.4 grams per tonne. The expectation is we'll have an updated resource and preliminary reserve expected in the first half of 2019.

Then longer term, we have the ABC Project and we attack on the western side of Côte d'Ivoire and we are targeting a maiden resource in the first half of 2019. We also have the Sukari regional exploration where we're undertaking all the test works and moved into the second stage for the 3D seismic studies.

Okay. Just moving on to slide 26, unlocking Sukari's full potential. You can see with this slide, I'll just highlight some of the near-term grades, and the Cleopatra. On the Cleopatra side, you can see those grades there. On the Cleopatra structure, 3.7 meters at 5.12 grams per tonne; 2 meters at 6.3 grams per tonne; 0.7 meters at 9.3 grams per tonne.

Then on the Antoni structure, it's 3.2 meters at 5.5 grams per tonne, it's 1 meter at 110.94 grams per tonne, it's 2.95 meters at 4.7 grams per tonne. This is all near-term project development.

Then you have on the sustainability side, we've got the Ptah Stockworks and the Ptah Keel areas. You've got a grade of 43 meters at 8.2 grams per tonne; 23 meters at 4.2 grams per tonne in the Porphyry Keel.

Then on the Western Contact zones, examples include 3.6 meters at 8.7 grams per tonne; 0.75 meters at 106 grams per tonne; 3 meters at 428 grams per tonne. Then you've also got the Stockworks Zone, you've got 2 meters at 13.9 grams per tonne, you've got 3.9 meters at 20.35 grams per tonne.

And you've also then got the Osiris Zone, the [ph] flat pit (00:25:23) in Osiris structure includes [indiscernible] (00:25:25) 0.9 of a meter at 287 grams per tonne; 8 meters at 180 grams per tonne. You can see we have good results through that.

And then longer term is of the – first of the drilling into the Top of the Horus zone, which is a continuation of that and one porphyry below the Osiris Flat. Again, drill results coming back there, 0.7 meters at 213 grams per tonne, 0.8 meters at 25.8 grams per tonne, 6 meters at 26 grams per tonne, again showing Sukari with the drilling development work unlocking further potential.

If you look at slide 27, that shows the example, the Amun and the Top of Horus cross-section, the Q3 drilling intercepts. You've got the Osiris, which is the flat structure. I have talked about some of those grades there, 0.9 of a meter at 287 grams per tonne, 8 meters at 180 grams per tonne, 1 meter at 259 grams per tonne.

And then going below that, back into the Top of the Horus, which is below this thrust, this is outside resources and longer term future to the underground and testing the depth of the porphyry itself to the South at depth, but it's very encouraging drill intercepts. I'll bring those out before, but you can see them in that pop-out box.

And moving on, slide number 28. Again, with the – Sukari is a world-class mine in the Arabian-Nubian Shield. The Sukari deposit sits on a 2.7 kilometers strike length of our concession, which is [ph] 16 kilometers (00:27:00) north-south, by 10 kilometers east-west.

There are several surface prospects, which have been identified early on, where there hasn't been a lot of follow-up work on, but all are within tracking distance of the processing plant. And importantly, we're unlocking further potential through the seismic studies that we started in this year and we're doing further test work on the core. And the expectation is we'll undertake a complete traverse 3D seismic study across the operations early next year, which will give us depth potential in excess of 1.5 kilometers and have the potential of targeting new Sukari-style porphyries.

Okay. Moving on to slide number 29. We have an active exploration program and potential development pipeline in West Africa. In Q3, we spent $4.7 million on West African exploration. At Doropo Project, we did 22,500 meters of drilling, targeting resource expansion ahead of the updated resource, which is due in Q1 of 2019.

Currently, feasibility study is also scheduled for the first half of 2019. And then across on the Western side, we did 8,800 meters of drilling, including 100-meter space drilling on the Southern zone of the ABC Project. And again, that's come up – although broad space, that's come up with some very encouraging results. And we expect to also have a maiden resource out of that in first half of next year.

With the Batie Project (sic) [Batie West Project] (00:28:46), we're completing an internal scoping study to determine what we will do with that project.

So, moving on to slide number 30. For Doropo Project where we've been at and what we've been doing, we've done the geotechnical and hydrological studies. Metallurgical studies is scheduled for completion in Q4. Environmental and community studies are underway and scheduled for completion in the first half of 2019. And updated resource estimation, including a maiden reserve, is expected in the first half of 2019.

During the quarter, again, there's been some very encouraging – further encouraging drilling results, both step-out and infill on the Doropo area. Some of the results from Nokpa include 37 meters at 6.4 grams per tonne, 10 meters at 6.4 grams per tonne, 6 meters at 9.4 grams per tonne, 40 meters at 2.7 grams per tonne. And I'll just remind you, these results are all relatively shallow and are in oxide material.

Again, Chegue South, we've also had further good results, which you can see from the pop-out box. And then across on the right-hand side, Enioda, again there's been further good results coming out of that from – during Q3 drillings. Then at the bottom, Kekeda and Hinda, again all very encouraging results. And understand, all of these are within a 7-kilometer radius off the central point. And we had the initial resource, which we announced [ph] at the start of the year (00:30:21), 1.35 million ounces Indicated and 0.9 million ounces Inferred.

Okay. Moving on to slide 31. Again, this is an example of some of the sections. The left-hand from the Nokpa deposit, again, you can read those numbers and see for yourself, but the results continue to be very encouraging. Infill drill programming targeting the maiden reserves is underway as part of this continuing work. Again, reemphasize it's all near-surface, shallow dipping, oxides.

Okay. Moving on to slide 32, longer term growth opportunity, the ABC Project in Côte d'Ivoire. It's greenfield exploration. We have the Kona permit and the Lolosso structure. Geographical mapping confirm the structure extends greater than 60 kilometers along the FarakoNafana permit and preliminary met test work shows there are no issues.

We did this early because when we saw some of the drilled hole, we noticed very fine disseminated sulfide material. So, before we progress any further, we did some detailed met test work to ensure there would be no metallurgical challenges. And that all came back and showed that any gold could be recovered by conventional [indiscernible] (00:31:38) type treatment.

So moving on to slide 33, again, wide-spaced systematic drilling, reconnaissance drilling over 100- and 200-meter spacings. But it's identifying a very encouraging mineralized zones and follow-up and infill-spaced drilling is underway in Q4 on various parts of this 60-kilometer strike length. And the plan is we will have a maiden resource here. So the ABC project in the first half of next year.

So for Centamin, moving on to slide 34, key catalysts: continue to deliver the operational improvements in Sukari and get Sukari back to what everyone expects Sukari to be. So delivering on the updated guidance of 480,000 ounces at an all-in sustaining cost near the top end of the range of $875 to $890 an ounce sold, return excess cash flow generated to our shareholders, deliver on the Sukari solar project feasibility study, continue on the downward trend of the group lost time injury frequency rate.

Then unlock potential of organic growth to carry underground updated reserve and resource statement is underway and we will release that as soon as it's completed. The Doropo Project PEA, updated resource and maiden reserves; ABC Project maiden resource and significant exploration target generation continuing across the portfolio.

On the governance side, the appointment of a non-exec Chair. The proposal of a new remuneration policy to shareholders will also be taking place.

With that, I would like to open up the questions to Q&A. And I'll just reemphasize, Q3 has been a challenging quarter for us. The performance of the underground, the turnaround in the underground did take us longer than expected. July and August were still challenging while the team was implementing the changes, but we did start to see those results in the final months of September.

With that, I'd like to open up the floor to Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of James Bell from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Good morning and thanks for the call and taking the questions. The first one is really for Ross, just around the changes to the CapEx and the deferrals into 2019. Can you just walk us through a little bit more detail on what the items are specifically that you're deferring on? And should we just mathematically assume 2019 is going up or are we actually finding sort of real CapEx savings on a go-forward basis?

Thanks, James. Yeah. The real savings are some of the bigger projects and the main one is really the North TSF build in terms of pushing up some of that project spend. That does need to occur, but the profile of that then will happen over a three- to five-year period and we'll just push out some of that profile. But it needs to be done, but it's the spend rate that will be pushed off.

In terms of normal spend and our rebuild schedule and everything like that, that remains on track.

Okay. That makes sense. And then just in terms of the production profile. I know you obviously – you can't give any guidance until Q1 next year. But if I look at consensus, it's at 560,000 ounces for next year, which is well ahead of the top end of your original guidance even for 2018. I mean, are you comfortable with the sort of numbers consensus has for 2018 and 2019 at this time?

I mean, look, the important thing for us is to ensure and prove to everyone that we've got the underground back delivering where it should be at the usual operational level, and then getting out the updated resource and reserve statements for Sukari. And then from that, we can deliver the life-of-mine schedules for the Sukari operation. But, yes, Sukari is in excess of the 500,000 ounce per annum producer. I'd like to think it's in the vicinity of at least 540,000 ounces annualized production.

Okay. That makes sense. And then just one more, if I may. So, in terms of the guidance you're going to give in Q1, are you planning to give two- or three-year guidance or are we just going to get 2019 at this stage?

At this stage, it'll just be 2019. I hadn't planned on the thing any differently.

Okay. Perfect. No problem. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Stoner from Berenberg. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, Andrew and Ross. On the Q3 production update call, you indicated the grades from the underground staying broadly in line with September. The updated guidance shows higher open pit grades, lower underground grades. Can you give us any detail on where you're at through October and why the September kind of 7.4 grams from underground doesn't sustain through Q4?

Sorry. Q3 actuals from the underground were 5.2 grams per tonne?

Yeah. But on the production update call, you indicated that it was going to be – that the September numbers, which were obviously high grade, were likely to – or you're going to try to sustain those through Q4. And you said today, 6.5 grams from underground and then a much higher 1 gram from the open pit. Just wanted to understand how – why that shuffled around a bit.

Well, we are forecasting stoping grades of around 7.6 grams per ton coming from the underground and development grades of 4.9 grams per tonne to 5 grams per tonne. So we've got a high stoping grade but a lower development grade.

Okay, perfect. And then from the open pit, that's kind of a [ph] reason being (00:38:14) meaningful step-up. We were expecting about 0.9 feed grade, [ph] pump feed grade (00:38:18) from the open pit. So on that 1 gram for Q4 you've guided in the presentation, are you already delivering those kind of numbers in October?

Well, we're still waiting for the final results for October, but the mill [indiscernible] (00:38:32) as I'm seeing have been very encouraging.

Perfect. Okay. Then just looking at the EMRA profit share, can you remind us when the next step-on to the – towards 50/50, when that comes through?

Another two years, Michael. So this ratchet started 1st of July and another 24 months, and we need to go to 50/50.

Okay, perfect. We've seen some news on kind of potential changes to the license terms on new ground in Egypt. Are you now seeing a bit more opportunity for you to do a bit more in Egypt on the back of that? Because you previously commented that the kind of last round of licensing terms didn't make it compelling for you.

There's been a lot of speculation floating around in the last few days in the Egyptian media about some changes. But at this point in time with the discussions we've had – discussions ongoing, it's still a long way off before there's going to be any real progress on a modern day mining code coming through in Egypt.

Okay. Thank you. And then, finally on Doropo, obviously, you're moving towards the study in H1. Can you give us any guidance on what subject to that being kind of economic and attractive? Can you give us any guidance on the workflow from thereon towards a construction decision?

So... [indiscernible]

(00:40:02) would you do high-level studies?

We've got to do the studies to make sure it's going to be robust. I mean we're not going to develop something just for the sake of adding more ounces. It's got to be quality. So we're going to get the updated resource numbers done, which is under way with the drilling that's been going on. And then from that, we've got to do the updated economic studies on those resources to ensure that the project will be able to pay for itself and return its capital. As I've said, we won't rush in to develop something just for the sake of getting another mine on the book. It's got to be quality over quantity.

Okay. Thank you very much for your time.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Dan Shaw from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. The first question for me will be on buybacks. Can you just remind me what the limit is in terms of you being able to buy back shares without shareholder approval? And with that in mind, what's stopping you from buying back shares at these levels, given you still have a decent buffer on your cash balance above the $250 million figure that you talk about and also in the context of the underperformance of the share this year? That's the first question.

Then just secondly, if I could push you again on production, in September, you hit the 48,500 ounce mark which if you times that simply by 12, you get to about 580,000. I just want to understand how achievable is that on a 12-month basis or was there something particularly good about September that we should be aware of? Thank you.

Just, well, first issue, share buybacks. I mean there is approval that we could go out and do 5% share buyback. Have we discussed it or are we thinking about at this point in time? No, we're not.

Why is that?

We've got – look, with the cash balances and what we have and where we are, we feel we've got better uses for those funds and also, importantly as well, returning excess cash flow to our shareholders as dividends.

Okay. And on production?

On production, September was a very good month. I agree. Obviously, we've gone through the issues with both the open pit and the underground. And when you have those sort of hiccup, it's better to be cautious than go out and be overoptimistic. And the important thing is ensuring consistency of delivery from Sukari and showing that Sukari is that plus 500,000 ounce [indiscernible] (00:42:47) producer in the vicinity of at least about 540,000 ounces. Now one month is only one month. We need to demonstrate and show consistency. We need to update the resources and the reserves and the schedules so that we can then demonstrate what the long-term production profile is for Sukari.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And as there are no more questions registered, I now hand back to our speakers for any closing comments.

All right. Thank you very much, everyone, for joining us today on this call. If you do have any further questions, please feel free to contact either myself, Ross or Alexandra Carse, our Investor Relations lady, and we'll get back to you with those. As I said, we had a challenging Q3. We had – particularly with the underground, July and August, the changes took longer than we expected them to take through. September, we saw a significant improvement. And now, we've got to make sure that we maintain and deliver those improvements to get the confidence back with everyone that Sukari is back on track and where it should be operating. With that, I'd like to say thank you very much.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.