Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Kevin Kerdoudi — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Timothy Huff — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP
Raj Ray — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.
Tyler Broda — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody. I hope everybody is well, and thank you for taking the time to dial in and listen to this first quarter update result from Centamin. As mentioned, I am Martin Horgan, CEO of Centamin. I'm joined on the line today by my colleague, Ross Jerrard, our CFO; and Alex Barter-Carse who is Head of Comms.

And this morning, as you know, we published our first quarter results. I think as you may recall me saying that the last quarter and at the Capital Markets Day before that back in December, what we really aim to do at Centamin as we go forward is to just map out what we believe are robust high-quality plans and then consistently deliver into them. I think that today's results are the first step along that path. I think the first quarter was another excellent operating performance from the team and I think it marks a really good start to 2021.

On production, we produced 140,000 ounces which is in-line with plan. And operationally, our focus remains on improving mining flexibility and delivering improved operating efficiencies and productivities. And we'll continue to make good progress across all areas of the operation.

In terms of COVID, we're pleased to report that we've still not experienced any material disruptions from COVID to production sales or our supply chain. Obviously, it remains an evolving risk and one that we take very seriously. We've got strict health and safety measures in place, and we expect to keep them in place for the foreseeable future. We're currently monitoring staffing levels, rostering and fatigue management, and remained the key focus for us especially given then in light of ongoing international travel restrictions from certain jurisdictions.

From a financial perspective, performance is strong as well. Total cash costs of $733 per ounce and all-in sustaining costs of $1,091 per ounce gold. Healthy revenue generation of $190 million which led to free cash flow generation of $9 million which is after $37 million of capital and $27 million distributed in profit share and royalties to our local Egyptian partner, EMRA. That then, we finished the quarter with $331 million of cash and liquid assets and no debts with no hedging on the balance sheet.

As we look towards the balance of the year, guidance remains unchanged and we can provide an overall granularity today. Production remains between 400,000 to 430,000 ounces for the year, and that's a bit approximately between the first and second half of the year, marginally in favor of the second half. And now search for the second quarter production is expected in the range of 95,000 ounces to 100,000 ounces.

Cash cost for the year remained in the range of $800 to $900 per ounce and all-in sustaining costs of $1,150 per ounce to $1,250 per ounce. CapEx remains unchanged to $225 million for the year with a spend weighted towards the second half of the year approximately 45%/55% split between the first and second half of the year, and that's driven really by the project timeline such as solar and paste-fill plant which will really kick off the second half of the year.

We continue to have discussions with the government with respect to the Egyptian bid round. The West African review is close to completion and the planning for Life of Asset Phase 2 is progressing well. After challenging 2020 [indiscernible] (02:59) looking forward to 2021 and beyond as we continue to unlock the full potential of Centamin on behalf of all of our stakeholders.

And with that, I'd like to hand back to the operator and open up for any questions. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Alan Spence from Jefferies. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Two questions from my side. So let's take them one at a time. The first one, Martin, the strip ratio in the open pit was relatively low compared with the kind of full year number you provided us. But should we be thinking that that number from a $5 to $6 rate has been into the coming quarters? Should we average out or can you give us a bit of a sense of how that all moves?

Yeah. Sure, Alan. Good morning, Alan. Look, I think on the strip, I think a couple of things to consider around that. So, that strip ratio is adjusted for the reallocation of waste tonnes below grade as well. So, that does have the impact of visually to lowering that strip ratio from a tonnes basis.

What we found in Stage 5 North and in various areas of the pit is that as we grade control certain areas that are defined as waste, we are actually picking up zones of low-grade material. They can then [indiscernible] (04:26). They're above the stockpiling grade. They go straight to ramp. But if not, they're placed on stockpile. So, of course, you can imagine that reduces waste tonnes and increases ore tonnes. And there are the sort of double impacts on the strip ratio. So, that number that you see there published today does account for that reallocation of these waste tonnes below grade tonnes as well.

I think from a compliant, if you like, volumetric perspective, we're exactly where we want to be in terms of our own fleet for the quarter. So, we've moved the volume, if you like, from the locations that we plan to. So, I think if you take away the various grades and the grade controls reallocation of the low grades, waste to low grade, that's closer to 8. And importantly for us as well, capital have made an excellent start to their license at Sukari on the waste shipping contract as well. So, they mobilized early and have got moving early. And in fact, they're slightly ahead of the curve as well.

So, I think as we look at the balance of the year, clearly, as capital come on stream and continue to sort of ramp up from this great start that they've had, we will obviously as second half-weighting to the stripping as that continues, ut certainly in terms of our plans from our own fleet, we had record productivity out of our own fleet this first quarter and capital ramping up. We're certainly where we want to be, and in fact slightly ahead of where we thought we would be at the state because the capital really start as well.

So, yes, it will increase over the course of the year but we're certainly not behind where we thought we would be. In fact, we're slightly ahead of where we would be in this first quarter. So I'm really pleased with both our own performance but also our capital as well. It's going well.

Okay. So it's great in kind of the waste ends up being a little bit better as you can see and you expect maybe visually, we end up below 8%, but from material move is in-line with expectation. Is that kind of a simple conclusion of what you said?

Yeah. That's right. So when we look at sort of the strip ratio and monitoring that from a peak compliance perspective, we look at it volumetrically. If you've got to move a certain amount of dirt from a certain area, have we moved that volumetrically, yes. And then within that sort of volume, is it waste that's always planned or are we seeing obviously more of cut-off and less waste because of that reallocation. So we look at it both ways. Volumetrically, we're in compliance and then it's still to waste ratio. That's slightly changed because of this reallocation but, yeah, we're where we need to be. It's not something – as you could imagine, it's a key focus for us and it's something we're watching quite carefully. So I'm very happy that way that's going at the moment.

Okay. Great. And, Ross, one for you. Costs were really good especially if you consider kind of the run rating at production at play your guide costs well below the lower end. I did note, there was a comment about kind of the benefit for movement in inventory. Can you perhaps quantify that if you have that available?

Right. Yeah. I don't have the exact numbers in front of me, but certainly from a cost per ounce perspective, we've come in nicely and on track in terms of where we sit. I would caution, from a working capital perspective, we have the slightly increased sort of investment into working capital as the number of these programs have sort of rolled out. I guess, a lot of it in terms of timing, in terms of what was budgeted and what is actually hit in the first quarter in terms of how that's coming through. So some of the lightweight truck trays, for example, we've put in the order. We've actually invested in that earlier in terms of how that's come off. But a consequence of earlier in terms of how that's come up. But a consequence of sort of the unit cost that ounces per the absolute cost number have certainly benefited and we're on track. But it's that working capital that we've just got to watch and monitor as we go forward and make sure that that's released as planned.

Okay. Appreciate you don't have the exact numbers in front of you, but I mean, is it fair to assume that the majority of the – let's call it outperformance just relative to full-year guidance, but majority of that was just the underlying performance rather than one-offs?

Yes, they are. So, in terms of the absolute cost, we're hitting those metrics in terms of our operating efficiencies and underlying performance. It's not a one-off thing that I can highlight to say, well, we overall [indiscernible] (08:50) that particular operating cost element. And then, from a CapEx perspective, we are behind in terms of our CapEx spend versus budget, but that's really around the profile of some of the projects that they actually delivered.

Okay. Great. Thanks so much, guys.

Our next question comes from Kevin Kerdoudi from Bank of America. Your line is now open.

Good morning. So, you said that like you mined in Q1 Stage 5 North of the open pit and you ended up with more low-grade ore than expected. How much confident are you with the information that you have from this part of the open pit? Because I believe that this is a part of the open pit that [indiscernible] 00:09:41 the prediction downgrade two years ago or so. Am I right?

Morning, Kevin. Look, obviously, I was in Senegal two years ago so I shall probably defer to Alex and Ross on that. Look, what I can talk to though of course is one of the things that we've identified, Kevin, is that certain areas of the pit we have less drilling than we would like, obviously for more drilling the better.

And what we do, of course, is that we infill those areas ahead of production as well. So that is a function of the topography when the ore body was first drilled and sort of led to difficult drill platforms from tricky terrain. So when we look at that, we do know there are certain areas that we need to sort of – that we will drill off on grade control before we get into it, and Stage 5 North is one of those areas.

I guess what we're seeing is the general bias on the upside where we're finding more low-grade zones, so areas that weren't captured in the drilling. We're finding that sort of the device, it's the upside that those ounces are – we get more ounces than planned. But what we're seeing is that the areas that were sort of drilled off are performing relatively well. So that is really a focus of the sort of geological review that we're doing and we've flagged a number times now with the sort of the reinterpretation there of making sure that we can better sort of plan in terms of the geology for underlying mine planning. But as I say, we have this, if you like, sort of persistent bias with a low-grade material that's there as well.

So, look I think we recognize that the Stage 5 North it's just generally a low-grade area than the Stage 4 West and Stage 5 East at this stage. But actually in terms of our reconciliation where we are performing in line with expectation, I would say with a slight upside to the bias around the lower-grade material being get more of it than we thought.

I can't comment on the situation a couple years ago whether that was part of driver for that point. But certainly we're comfortable with our plans for stage 5 at this stage. We – and I think – I don't think there's any other concerns around the grade at this point as we move through that area to pit.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Tim Huff from Peel Hunt. Your line is now open.

Thank you very much. Yeah. I just had two follow-up questions just regarding a couple of statements that you made. The first one, obviously you've talked about the stripping being ahead of schedule. It's a great news. But I was just wondering if that's just because capital started early or even since they started a bit on the early side, have you guys made any additional gains in the rate of stripping itself?

Yeah. Well, actually, Tim. So that was one of the questions that the board posed. So there was like to make sure management don't get ahead of ourselves but the question was, oh, you just got more trucks on site. So, well, yes, we have got more trucks on site. So the [ph] towing part (13:06), absolutely. We said for the first quarter budget, we set a record material moving target for the operation. Now, we split that down. Part of that is due to capital. So capital has got onsite ahead of schedule, got moving. Our teams are working very well together and they're working, they're doing an excellent sort of start to their life, let's head to waste stripping, so delighted with how that's going and they are ahead of where they thought it would be both in terms of mobilization and dirt move.

So, certainly some of the outperformance is on, I'd say, is around capital. But I'm also really pleased with that we've been looking very carefully at productivity for our own fleet, and actually within our own operations, non-capital, we've also hit a record number of their tons moved for the quarter. So, in terms of the number of issue we looked at, we looked at fragmentation and we've looked at sort of how we've lasting and controlling that better and with better fragmentation, it means we're getting better productivity out of the shovels, better productivity out of the fleet. And actually that's been a big contribution to record move.

So actually within that overall sort of outperformance for the first quarter or record movements out for the first quarter, yes, in part capital but with our own fleet as well, we've actually sort of had a record year on fleet. So, we're really delighted with how that's going. And again part of this sort of you know I was going to say marginal gains begin what happened to [ph] sky cycling (14:25) recently with all the medical [indiscernible] (14:27) move away from the marginal [indiscernible] (14:30) keeping this context.

But in terms of those sort of – we talked about those marginal gains in there. There's a few one examples where a focus on fragmentation that led to better digging, better productivity from our own fleet and that record move and material move in the first quarter as well. So it's a bit about outlook, yeah. Both sets of teams are going well. And the [ph] GM (14:50) site is actually sort of warned there, [indiscernible] (14:52) he said, look, if capital outperform you, I'm going to bring capital into all of the open pit work, boys, so the pressure is on us, so a bit of healthy sort of some competition with the capital [ph] boys (15:02) versus our own fleet to see how they can get on against each other.

That's good to hear actually. Okay. Well, that's fantastic. And then the only other question I had was one on the underground. You also noted in the release that that you're dealing with the contractors with the reduced staffing levels underground. And I was just wondering, I don't know if you could give us a little bit of color around how significant the reduced staffing is? And you know if there are I guess what are the challenges besides the obvious one are there specific challenges that you were just dealing with during the quarter or do you expect to be ongoing throughout the whole of 2021?

Yeah. Sure. So, look, so we clearly – under COVID, I've been working closely with all our contractors, and certainly obviously Barminco from the underground site. And as you can appreciate sort of Australia and New Zealand has a pretty strict quarantine requirements of travel and two weeks in isolation on the way back and so on. So, look, we've been working quite carefully with Barminco to make sure that we can sort of meet them or they can meet their staffing quota requirements and therefore allow us to sort of meet our production targets.

So this is something we've been at for the last year coordinating with them. And over the first quarter, obviously, we've got our COVID sort of PCR monitoring screening program in place before people get to site as well. So, really, it's just it's something that we've proactively been managing for the last year during the first quarter. We had a little bit of a blip and there was a – we had a few less bums on seats than we would have ideally liked. That led to a little bit of a reduction in terms for the first quarter on the underground.

We were able to – we talk a lot about operational flexibility. And I'm really pleased that we've been introducing that over the last year and recognizing where we were with Barminco. And we actually sort of also discussed the sequencing slightly that allows us to basically work our way through the first quarter without any disruption. And then, we're working closely with Barminco now for a, if you like, a catch up plan for the balance of the three quarters to basically make about that little bit of a shortfall from the first quarter on that as well. And so that includes sort of staffing where Barminco are rolling out now as well.

So, look, I think it's business as usual, I would say, in the sort of a COVID context. The situation is there. We've worked closely. We've managed it. We've got ahead of ourselves in terms of being able to deal with it. And we've got a continuing funds for the balance of 2021. So, to me, it demonstrates some flexibility, an operational redundancy in the mine planning in our operations, flexibility around sort of working with our contractors, and that partnership approach to making sure we know where we need to be as well. So, just an everyday issue. We live in a sort of coexisting with COVID world and navigated well by ourselves and Barminco as we roll forward. So, yeah, as we mentioned, something that we look closely at all the time and make sure that we can navigate it.

That's great. Yeah, I was just trying to identify whether it was external logistics which it is or whether there were specific underground issues which it doesn't [indiscernible] (18:14).

No.

No. Okay.

But I think the technical expression is bums on the seats with – in my conversation with the CEO of Barminco is that looking and then chatting. That's not an SGM issue, a Sukari issue. I think that's anyone that uses Australian and Kiwi expats now is it's a challenge – just those travel logistics in and out there and so on and so forth.

Okay. That's brilliant. Thank you.

No problem. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Raj Ray from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, Martin and team. Just a quick follow-up question on the underground. So, good to see the grades go up in the quarter. What should we expect in terms of the underground grade volatility for the remaining three quarters in 2021?

Hey, Raj. How are you doing? Congratulations by the way as well. I've not spoken to you since. So, congratulations on that news.

Thank you. Yeah.

Look, I think as flagged as sort of the guidance last year, look, for the year the forecast is still just a shade on before. So, that's 3.9 to 4 grams for the balance of the year basically. That's our base case. Look, as we mentioned in the 2020 results as well is that obviously we're looking to target near mineralization to existing infrastructure. And that work is going well as well. So base case is at 3.9 to 4 grams, but where we can identify that near-term available better grade material from that new resource drilling campaign is that we can all potentially try and follow that on there. But I think it's safe to assume that 3.9 to 4 grams is the target for the year.

And for Q1, that 5.84 grams, is that as per mine plan or was it above better than you had expected in the quarter?

We had a couple of high-grade stopes in the time of the quarter and the high-grade stopes come in sometimes – certainly at Sukari high grade come in higher. So, we find that sort of [indiscernible] (20:25) effects in some of these areas as well. So they were in there for the timed schedule and they came in with a nice surprise to the upside. But that tends to happen with the way you've got a higher grade and stope. From time to time, it does come in higher than planned as well [indiscernible] (20:41) and you know how that goes, Raj, as well but that was as scheduled yet.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And then just wanted to get a sense of what to expect for the upcoming exploration strategic review and also if you can provide any visibility on the new concessions that Sukari did that you got post the auction.

Sure. Sure. So, look, within the current tenement, that continues to go well, I think, as we flagged the 2020 results day. Look, the underground exploration program continues to go well. Look, I think that's a focus on sort of the targets close to a dipping infrastructure as well as the longer-term debt extensions, and that's going to [indiscernible] (21:22) force as well as we highlighted back on last month.

Concession-wide on the surface – sorry, in pit, the upwork continues to fill in some of those areas where we think there's good upside in existing pit shell. And then obviously on the concession-wide area, that work rolls on as well. So I think we flagged that last month what works well as well so I think we flagged that last month and that continues to progress. In terms of the broader bid rounds, yet still in discussion with governments, looking to try and finalize the last few terms around how we take that forward.

Look, we've made some good progress through March and into April and the outlook continue to push on with that as well. So, hopefully we can get that buttoned down. I think we're ready to go from our side in terms of the field programs, staffing, and also funding for that. So, we're just looking really to try and get that finalized with government, get those signed up, and then sort of get moving with that as well.

So, yeah, look, we're all impatient to get moving but obviously got to get these things right because obviously these are long-term agreements. And if we are successful, we want to make sure that we have everything mapped out for an event that we are successful in finding its satellites to [indiscernible] (22:33) standalone operations as well. So, yeah, so still progressing and sort of ever decreasing circle as they say.

Okay. Thanks, Martin. That's it for me.

Thanks, Raj.

We have a question registered by Tyler Broad from RBC. Your line is now open.

Yeah, Martin. Thanks for the call. Just actually I was trying to get out of the queue. I had [indiscernible] (23:00) questions were asked by Tim and Raj. So, yeah, all good [indiscernible] (23:06). Thanks.

Thanks, Tyler. No problem. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions if you'd like to continue.

Thank you, everybody, for taking the time to dial in. I appreciate it's a busy day with a few companies reporting, so appreciate your time, won't take more on that. And, look, any further questions or comments, please feel free to get in touch with us and myself, and obviously Alex is available. And, look, we're looking forward to getting out our strategic review of the West African work probably into May now, we'll be able to update the market, looking forward to that. And then obviously we've got our Life of Asset Phase 2 and the exploration update as well later this year as well.

So, thank you, everybody. Stay safe. Have a good day [indiscernible] (24:09). Thank you very much.