Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS AG (London Branch)
Raj Ray — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, everyone, and welcome to today's Centamin Q3 Results Conference Call. My name is Emily, and I will be coordinating the call today. [Operator Instructions]

I now have the pleasure of handing the call over to our host, Martin Horgan, CEO. Martin, please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. I hope everybody is well. And thank you for taking time to dial in this morning to listen to this presentation. I'm Martin Horgan, as you know, the CEO of Centamin. And on the line today, I'm joined by Ross Jerrard, our CFO; and Alex Barter-Carse, Corporate Comms.

I think today, we're delighted to please – I'm pleased to announce another solid set of quarterly results – I'll put my feedback in, apologies – and I think it's important in terms of the messaging as we look at this year as we look to reinstate our operational consistency at Sukari as we look into sort of build back that record of delivery to restore investor confidence.

I think when we look at the quarter, importantly for us both production and costs were delivered in line with our schedules and budget. We produced 104,000 ounces at an all-in sustaining cost of $1,266 per ounce, bringing the year-to-date production for the nine months to just about 308,000 ounces at an all-in sustaining cost of $1,197 per ounce.

In terms of our full-year guidance, that remains unchanged at the range of 400,000 to 430,000 ounces. And as we look into Q4, we'd be targeting the midpoint of this range at around 415,000 ounces.

On the cost front, we have seen some inflationary pressures coming through. But importantly, all of these cost increases have come within inside our produced limits.

Also, operationally, we have mined more tonnes than planned, which is positive, but it does come at a cost. Nevertheless, we remain firmly on track to meet cash costs and all-in sustaining guidance, and with our continued progress across the cost-saving initiative program, we are targeting the lower half of our 2021 guidance range, which is $800 to $900 per ounce cash costs and $1,150 to $1,250 per ounce all-in sustaining.

Both free cash flow and revenue generation we had a budget, driven by stronger gold pricing at [ph] gold price (02:11) and higher gold sales. With Egypt coming off the red list for the UK, both Ross and I have just spent a very productive couple of weeks on site and across in Cairo with various ministries.

Operationally, alongside delivery, our focus remains on improving the mining flexibility and delivering our improved operating efficiencies and productivities across the asset. And of course, we've been made some good progress against our stated plans.

Firstly, we are always striving to create a zero-harm workplace and this quarter, we're delighted to announce there are no recorded LTIs, resulting in zero LTIFR across the group.

The open pit performed well. We continue to outperform budget and over the quarter and the year-to-date, the collective owner-operating contract mining team is 17% ahead of the scheduled planned for waste-stripping program. We're really pleased with the performance of our own team and fleet, and the speed in which capital have ramped up to steady state that they find themselves at now.

Underground performed in line with plan, and we continue to make good progress with the independent underground contract tender process we're undertaking. And we're assessing that from both the risk and cost standpoint, and also against an owner-operating model.

On the processing front, this will improve feed grades, driven by an increased contribution from the higher grade Stage 4 West section of the pit, while milling terms are down on our average quarter at 2.9 million tonnes. This is because we carried out scheduled realigning and some maintenance works during the quarter.

In terms of the capital and strategic projects, they're all moving forward as planned. You'll note the uptick in CapEx during quarter three, which is on schedule, and good progress should be made across our key projects, which include the solar plants, the paste-fill plant and TSF2, which will remain on schedule.

In terms of COVID, we retain a watching brief. Our full COVID protocols remain in place and we're pleased to report that Centamin has not experienced any material COVID-related disruptions to our production sales or supply chain.

And as we look forward, our focus remains on completing the Life of Asset Phase 2 work streams, the results of which we look to announce on Wednesday, the 1st of December. And that'll include an updated Resource and Reserve statements, visibility beyond the current three-year outlook, and areas of further optimization expansion potential forward.

I think as you all heard me say repeatedly, I genuinely believe Sukari is a world-class asset with an excess of a 10-year life of gold production ahead of us. The conclusion of this extensive independent work have identified areas for improvement, but importantly provides us with long-term base for long-term planning decision to be made, looking to maximize those operating margins and driving free cash flow generation.

And with that, I'd like to open up [ph] the Zoom (04:33) for any questions that you may have.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Alan Spence from Jefferies. Alan, please go ahead.

Thanks, and good morning, Martin. I've got two. I just want to take them one at a time. And the first one is the throughput in the processing plant didn't really improve much in Q3 despite the fact that Q2 had that 10-day shutdown. You highlighted in your opening remarks some additional maintenance work that went on during the quarter. So did that effectively offset the 10-day shutdown or can you just speak a bit more about the plant performance during the quarter?

Sure. So Q2, and that was a fairly major piece of work, that was the girth gear swap-out and it's been on the books for some time. And that was the sort of the extended shutdown in Q2. So, that was a fairly significant piece of work, as you can appreciate, that have been sort of slated to do for the last couple three years. So we sort of [ph] graft the metal (05:49) in Q2 and got on with the girth gear.

Q3 was around the standard reline. That was the main piece of work that we did. And we've also taken the opportunity, Alan, to remove the rubberized lining at the back of the mills and replaced this with a poly spray, which gives us better sort of the long-term durability and operational performance than the rubberized back for the – traditionally used in place as well.

So, in terms of the Q3 shutdown, that was for a safety standard sort of reline, but also with this additional poly spraying as well. Once that's done now, that sets us up for the medium term as well. So, again, it's about sort of putting the time in now, taking a small flat nock at this stage, but it does obviously then have significant benefits down the track as well.

So, look, I think in terms of the overall plant performance during the quarter outside of maintenance sort of our planned maintenance shutdowns, I think it was good. Lots of work being done around pre-optimization to look at both increasing gold recovery and reducing cyanide consumption, look at sort of return water, air quality and how that can be improved to sort of their improved flotation recoveries as well. So some good initiatives on that basis. And also looking at some other initiatives around sort of captive oxygen supply and potentially looking at that as a project down the track as well.

So I think the processing plant – operationally, the guys did well on number of sort of optimization studies and opportunities that are being investigated and continues to perform well as well. So pretty happy with processing at this stage, Alan.

Okay. Is there anything for Q4 we should be thinking about?

No. We've got one reline scheduled for December, and we're looking at that. We'll obviously monitor the wear rates as well, and that may either happen in December or may be pushed back into January, but that'll purely be driven by how we see the wear on the plate as well.

Obviously, we're not going to bring a reline forward if it's not necessary because the [ph] wear of plate – there, the wearing is not at that point as well (07:48). So, that's the only thing in terms of the processing plant from the sort of you like a bit of optionality is that when will we decide to basically pull the trigger on that reline. But otherwise, it should be a fairly sort of vanilla quarter from the processing plant perspective.

Okay. Thanks. And the second one is just around the contractor tendering. Can you just remind us of the time line when you expect to have a decision around that?

Sure. So, it's a process we kicked off during first quarter this year. We've put together the tender pack with the support of an independent third-party contracting expert. We went out to three accredited well-known international groups during the end of the first quarter, site visits; submissions of tender offers, clarifications back and forth around that. And we anticipate pulling that all together with a preferred tenderer and then taking that from both Centamin, but also importantly from our partners at EMRA the asset as well during the fourth quarter as well.

So, I would anticipate at the end of this year, early the start of next year, we'll be able to sort of lay out the report in terms of how we're going on the underground. And as I say that sort of the two options are continuation of the contracting model using an internationally recognized and respected contractor or potentially looking at moving to owner mining as well and obviously, the implications as far as our capital cost, risk allocation, execution, flexibility versus sort of outsourcing as well.

So we'll look at those in the whole and look at those as a trade-off, and we should get that done by the end of this year and then we'll look to update early next.

Okay. So probably not a final decision around that for December 1 then.

No...

No. I think that that'll flow into early part of next year as well. We've got a board meeting – to be blunt, Alan – sort of planned for the middle of December and that's one of the topics there as well is to – we've been keeping the board up to date all the way through this last eight, nine months as we've gone through the process. But in terms of laying out the final sort of trade-off and recommendation, that'll be done mid-December. And so, subject to that, then also discussing it with our partners at EMRA. And I could [indiscernible] (09:51) sort of early part of next year, we'll be able to update the market as to which way we go.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Alan.

Our next question today comes from Daniel Major from UBS. Daniel, your line is now open.

Hi there. Yeah. Thanks for the questions. Firstly, can you give us a reminder of your energy exposure within Egypt in terms of exposure to electricity, energy costs, any hedging or diesel exposure, and the cost pressures you expect to face in the coming quarters from the sort of global energy squeeze?

Sure. Sure. So, look, from a technical perspective, we're currently wholly reliant on diesel. So we use diesel obviously to power the mining fleet, both open pit and underground. And also, we use diesel for power generation as well. So, if you like it, when we look at the energy mix today at Sukari, it's entirely linked to diesel.

You're probably aware we're building the – a solar plant, 36-megawatt solar plant, which will come on stream middle of next year. And that obviously will take a significant part of our power generation as sort of their – both cost and dependency on diesel out of the equation from there as well. So, at this stage, until the middle of next year, we are wholly exposed to diesel for both power generation and fleet operation as well.

Ross, in terms of our annual diesel spend in terms of either liters or cost, Ross, maybe you want to just sort of touch on that and how we budgeted at the start of the year for sort of – anticipating some cost inflation in this area.

Sure. Daniel, we spend or we consume about 160 million liters of fuel across the mine on a annual basis. We have seen some uptick in fuel price. So we started the year at about $0.44 per liter. That has been increasing. This year, we're currently spending at about $0.54 per liter. That's a government-stipulated price, so we aren't able to influence that price in terms of input costs, but it does fit within our budgeted ranges for this year.

But it is a watching brief for us in terms of price increases on fuel. But as Martin mentioned, when solar comes online next year, we've got the ability to offset some of that. So the solar plant will save us well at those prices in excess of $10 million a year against that fuel spend.

More broadly, there are inflationary pressures. The inflation has been increasing gradually. We have built in 5% in our budget. That has been increasing in Egypt, 4.5% up to 5% in the September quarter, saw a 6% inflation rates.

So again, cost pressure is on the business, we are watching it closely, offset by our cost-savings initiatives. But we are seeing some pressures come through the supply chain, but nothing that's sort of alarming us or not – we believe we'll be able to hit those cost metrics for this year and are within those budget metrics.

And if you think them out – last two questions, follow-ups, when you get the solar plant online, what proportion of the diesel power will that account for?

So...

So that's the...

Ross, do you want to...

Sorry, Martin.

Sorry. You carry on, Ross. Apologies. Carry on.

Yeah. So that's just a partial offset. So, we'll only be able to run it for that eight-hour day, so there's no battery storage or a very limited...

Sure. Yeah, yeah.

...battery storage solution. So it's basically a sort of 15% reduction that we'll see.

Yeah. Any sort of sense of – out of your 160 million liters of diesel consumption, how much of that come down by, all else equal, because of the solar plant?

Yeah, sort of 15%. So your 20 million to 24 million liters...

15%, okay.

...will come off that 160 million. Yeah.

Got it. Okay. Thanks. And when we look at the costs in 2022, given I guess the delayed transfer or some of these inflationary pressures, is it fair to assume we won't – relative to the previous guidance, it would be towards the upper end of the range in terms of costs for 2022 if you look at it now, looking at those increase in inputs?

I think that's going to be well-managed. We're currently working with our suppliers to lock in longer-term visibility on some of these costs, and that's part of these cost-saving initiatives. So, there's nothing particularly out there that I'm concerned at this stage.

I think the big one that we're really watching is the freight costs and transport. We've seen a big uptick in containers and the shipping costs that are coming through. So that's one to be managed. Again, probably not big on the cost base, but that's the one cost center that really we're seeing a major uptick.

The longer-term supplies and things, I think we're going to be able to navigate that. So nothing that will push us from the lower quartile to top quartile, but we're certainly going to have to manage that. And that's why the cost-saving initiatives are so important across the business to be able to extract a big portion of costs out of that base.

Okay. Is it fair to... [indiscernible]

(15:20) that helped us in terms of the local suppliers. Sorry to cut you off there.

Yeah, yeah.

You know we've been able to move a lot of the international suppliers into local supplier base, which has been good and that's also been able to help us. But at this stage, nothing that's going to change our previously stipulated cost guidance.

Okay. So it's fair to assume certainly costs won't be rising next year, should be sequentially lower. Is that fair on an AISC or a total cash cost basis?

That's right. So together with the – another increase in ounce profile and the lowering cost base in absolute terms, that per ounce...

Yeah.

...metric remains on track. Yes.

Great. Thanks. Oh, sorry.

Yeah, thank you. Yeah.

Our next question comes from Raj Ray from BMO Capital Markets. Raj, your line is now open.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, Martin and team. My first question is on the open pit. We did see a 34% improvement quarter-over-quarter in terms of grade. Now this, you mentioned, came from contribution from the Stage 4 West. How much of that contribution you're expecting in Q4 and going into 2022? And also, with respect to the open pit, can you give us an indication on what your per tonne cost is – per tonne moved that you're currently tracking?

Yeah. Yeah. So in terms of Stage 4 West, Raj, obviously, we've accessed some of that during Q3 and we'll continue to access some of that material to Q4 as well.

In terms of the area itself is that – obviously, that's part of a larger sequence as we push back the west wall and cut back from there as well. So as we look at that, I don't think we're going to basically sort of fully deplete the Stage 4 West area by the end of this year. We'll take some things this current quarter as well. And then as we sort of push back that west wall as well and expose more of that west wall structure, that will come in through to 2022 as well.

Look, I still think you should just note that predominantly the Stage 5 North area will still be making up a significant portion of the tonnes next year as the main mining area, with an ability to sort of – [ph] to document (17:40) Stage 4 West as we push the wall back and as we then sort of bring the [indiscernible] (17:44) down at this area as well.

So, it will sort of – the Stage 5 North area will continue to do the heavy lifting this year and into next year. But, obviously, as we push that west wall back, expose the Stage 4 wall and ultimately Stage 5 West area, as we do the same on the East area, starts to bring some of that high-grade material back in and expose that with this stripping. That'll come into 2022 and into 2023. But really, the balance of this year and next, that Stage 5 North, still represent the sort of the significant portion of the – in terms of volume in tonnes will come to an area as well.

In terms of cost per tonne, Ross, I mean, I'll let you to take that one, but in my head, it's about $2 for the contract per tonne and it's probably around about $1.50, $1.60 for our own fleet. But, Ross, you're probably a little more accurate than I am in terms of my sort of slightly bigger arm-waving CEO-type picture.

Yeah. That's right. So the long-term rate, Raj, is $2 a tonne. We're currently running at about – I think it's $2.40. Initially, with the ramp-up costs, we're up at $3, but that was during the ramp-up stage. So that cost per tonne number is dropping, but long-term rate is $2. We're currently sitting at about $2.40.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And then, my next question is on underground. The ore tonnes mined and the grade decreased slightly quarter-over-quarter. Can you talk to the underground development, give us some visibility on that? And when do you expect any pickup in ore tonnes mined and grade?

Yeah. Yeah. Well, look, I think in terms of the underground sequence, that remains on track and in line with plan as we look to this year. And I guess the balance for it, Raj, is sort of stoping terms now versus development to be able to sort of develop additional heading and giving that operational flexibility as we go forward as well. So, it's always a balancing act for us as we look to that.

Also, we're going to recognize sort of where we are in terms of contract to performance, which the [indiscernible] (19:52) sort of stay on top of that and work closely with the guys to make sure we could push them through there as well. And I think we'll discuss at the Life of Asset Phase 2 in December where that's taking us on a medium- to long-term basis. We'll be able to lay that out for you as well.

So, look, I think Q3, in line with where we thought we'd be at this stage. And this is much about doing what we need to do in the current period, but also looking forward to sort of the medium to longer term to make sure that we continue to push that out and start looking sort of on a six-month basis and start making sure we've got that sort of three- to five-year view ahead of us as well.

Okay. And then, Martin, lastly, with respect to your recovery, it was a very slight decrease quarter-over-quarter, but your bridge were up almost 10%. Now, the price is great. You mentioned that you are kind of undertaking recovery improvement initiatives. What's the target you expect to – that you have in mind at this point?

Look, I think from my understanding is that the early test work done back in the dim distant past is that that sort of 89% recovery is sort of where this thing should be operating at. And I think if we can get back to that sort of steady state sort of 89% recovery with the current flow sheet that we have, I think that'll be the sort of target.

Now, as we continue to look at that and it's – when we look at sort of the orebody on the underground basis, it's quite nuggety. It's an opportunity to put gravity in there. How do we look at this in terms of backing up sort of mining – more selective mining versus bulk mining in certain areas of the pit and how that impacts the grade, things like suppression of cyanide in the water, returning water from the decant. That obviously has a suppressing effect on the [indiscernible] (21:30) as well.

So, I think there's a number of initiatives that we believe that we can look at that's going to give us, one, a potential to increase and get us to that steady state 89% sort of type recovery, but also then to reduce the input costs around things like reagent and their consumable use as well.

So I think there's a number of areas that we can tweak to look at that as we go forward as well. But I think that sort of 89% number is what we should be targeting on the current configuration, and then see what we can do from there.

Okay, Martin. Yeah. That's it from me. So it's really good to see that your waste-stripping program is well ahead of schedule. That's very important as we continue to build flexibility within the mine.

Look, absolutely, Raj.

Thank you.

Thank you much, and I appreciate your comment. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, we have no further telephone questions. So I'll now hand back to Alex for any written questions.

Thank you, Emily. Martin, Tyler at RBC had a similar question to Raj's on the underground performance. But taking it one step further, he just wanted to understand how to expect the underground grade and tonne profile will evolve, particularly in the context of our better orebody understanding as we detailed at the Capital Markets Day.

If Tyler can be just a little bit more patient, just a few more weeks, Tyler. It's a bit like sort of heading into Christmas and looking at the Christmas tree, the presents underneath there as well. Look, I think on the 1st of December when we look at the Life of Asset Phase 2 update, I think that's the best opportunity to be able to sort of look at how we see the underground today, where we see it evolving to, and what potential upside from there as well.

So, Tyler, if I could beg just a little bit more patience from you as I think we'll be best placed to sort of go into some detail around that from there.

Great. Sorry. Would we consider hedging against the gold price?

Oh. A very pertinent question. Look, I think the company has a policy of no hedging and has had for some considerable time now. And, look, as we look at the business today with an asset that we're looking to push at the bottom end of the cost curve, with a pretty robust balance sheet at this stage as well, I think at this stage, we feel that we've got sufficient sort of operational financial robustness that it's not necessary.

The only caveat I would add to that is that as we look forward to something like Doropo, if that comes on stream and we put a piece of that against, say, for example, a Doropo construction period is that, personally, I would, at that point, be motivating the board. It's something to consider in respect of specific piece of debt against a development opportunity like Doropo.

If you've got construction ramp-up, commissioning risks, all those other types of things that you have around a project construction when you've got your maximum leverage out there, then certainly a hedging program against a specific piece like that would be something, I think, could be considered as part of risk mitigation strategy.

So I think outside of that sort of very defined and very specific use. And I think Ross and I have chatted about, we've discussed it at the board level, as you'd expect, these types of sort of risk mitigation strategies. But I think the feeling is, is that we're sufficiently robust and comfortable as we are today that it's not something we'd consider [ph] corporately outside of one of those (25:10) defined uses.

Great. Thank you. And then just stepping back to the solar project, we've had a question saying, assuming successful commissioning, is there a scope to expand?

Yes, absolutely. These things are scaler – or scalable, I should say. And, look, once that's commissioned middle of next year and integrated and working is that the ability to expand the footprints and look at that I think is something that we can certainly consider once we've got through the commissioning phase next year.

And also, [indiscernible] (25:43) other alternatives within Egypt as well as we look at that is can we connect to the grid? Can we look at use of gas as well for power generation? So there's a number of opportunities that we can chase down. But certainly from a solar perspective is that, yes, both scale and the potential introduction of battery is something that we've built sort of redundancy into the system that we can bolt those in or bolt those on at a future date, if necessary.

Great. And actually this one last question, which I think might be for me to answer strangely, is that would we consider future analyst visit? And in short, yes. Just respecting safety measures around COVID, but we would hope to maybe resume visits next year.

Oh, absolutely. We'd love to host a group down there as and when it's appropriate, as you say, from a travel perspective. Look, Egypt's off the red list now. So Ross and I have spent the last couple of weeks down in both site and into Cairo. And it would be great to get people down there and sort of can we have an eyeball of the place and see what we're doing, where we're going with it. Understand that in sort of real time, there's a potential of where we're taking that as well. It's always a very useful exercise if we can organize that.

Great. That's all the questions I've got from online.

Perfect. Well, thank you, Alex, and thank you everybody for taking the time this morning to dial in. Really appreciate you listening.

And look, just to reiterate, as I say, I think it's been another quarter of delivery against stated plans, which I think is very important for the [indiscernible] (27:21) as an important aspect to 2021. So we're delighted that another good quarter put away and a good look to Q4 with that sort of midpoint of guidance.

Project's progressing well. The Egyptian bid round is now inked, the deal in Cairo last week, and looking forward to start on that basis. And the West African project is moving forward nicely in terms of their stated plans around the PFS at Doropo and the continued exploration in ABC as well.

So, yeah. Look, I think satisfactory quarter from our perspective. Lots more to come. I'm really looking forward to engaging everybody in the 1st of December around the Life of Asset Phase 2 update as we look to the longer term as well.

So thank you again. And as ever, any further questions or follow-up, please feel free to reach out to myself or Alex or Ross. I'm happy to take it as well. So, we just wish you all a very good day and thank you once again.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. This now concludes our conference call. And you may now disconnect your lines.