Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Josef El-Raghy — Executive Chairman, Centamin Egypt Ltd.
Harry Nicholas Michael — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Egypt Ltd.
Jon H. Bergtheil — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Louise E. Collinge — Analyst, Evolution Securities Ltd.
Hunter A. Hillcoat — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Tim P. Dudley — Analyst, Collins Stewart Europe Ltd.
Alexander Millar — Research Analyst, Numis Securities Limited

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Good morning and welcome to the Centamin Q3 Highlights and Presentation of the Results as we had for the quarter. I'm going to kick off just with a brief overview and in short, a good quarter for us. Solid operating performance on all fronts with the mine, the mill, getting back to where we would expect and pushing on for what should be a good fourth quarter for us.

The production figures were pre-released a couple of weeks ago, so no new news there with the Q3. What we did release, though, is with financials, cash costs of $635 per ounce, operating profit of $43.4 million and we closed the quarter with cash and liquid assets of $201 million. A strong position to be in and something that we should improve quarter-on-quarter as we move forward.

On the expansion, progressing well, the plant continuing to ramp up towards that 5 million tons per annum, with Stage 3 starting to bed down now. Stage 4, which we are well into now, with the ordering of all long lead time items and this quarter will see the commencement of construction activities onsite with the first civil works kicking off. The expansion for us also does entail expansion of the underground operation, with the second of the declines coming off the initial Amun Deeps decline, the Ptah decline going North to what will be underneath the center of the Sukari Hill and accessing further high-grade from beneath what will be the eventual open pit.

Regionally, we had some good success with follow-up drilling that we're doing at V-Shears; that has encountered good mineralization and close to surface. We have rigs still working out there and we envisage that to be ongoing through this quarter and the next.

No work has kicked off yet in Ethiopia through quarter three, but the planning and implementation for first drilling is underway and that drilling will commence in this quarter.

Corporately, we're also setting up here in London with the office to open, I think, within the next couple of weeks and the first couple of appointments having been made there.

When we look at Slide 4, and hand over at the moment now to Harry, but in the snapshot, you can see improvement in all sections there, with open pit; ore processed, head grade being stable; gold recoveries pretty much where they were with quarter in quarter two and with room for improvement as we go into quarter four and beyond.

With that, we'll hand over to Harry to take you through the details of the operational performance.

Thanks, Josef. Good morning, everybody. If you move on to Slide 5, which has our key physical performance in quarter three against the corresponding previous periods in both gold production and cost per ounce, this slide clearly demonstrates our strengthening production profile, driven in this last quarter by improved process plant and underground production. This growth rate was partially offset by the lower than expected open pit feed grade, which we alluded to last quarter as a result of the restrictions placed upon us on blasting production, which were fully resolved in late July. This resulted in the open pit feeding an average of around 1.3 grams for the quarter, which we would expect to continue throughout the fourth quarter. Similarly, we'd expect continued strengthening of both the process plant throughput and underground production in the fourth quarter, with the open pit providing a consistent material movement around 6.5 million tons to 7 million tons for quarter four, the combination of which will deliver on the guidance provided earlier in the year.

Open pit cash cost per ounce for the quarter came in at around $843 an ounce, which was higher than normal due to lower feed grade than previous quarters, one-off costs associated with opportunistic maintenance costs in July while some equipment was took down and the yearly insurance cost being incurred. And while certain peak grade is expected to stay approximately the same in quarter four, additional plant throughput, a full quarter of efficient operation and the absence of those one-off costs is expected to significantly reduce open pit cash cost. Conversely, the underground cost per ounce for the quarter of around $280 an ounce is lower than what we can expect longer-term, but has still provided management with a good indicator to the long-term robustness of this part of the operation.

Moving on to Slide 6, this slide shows the strong rebound in open pit production rate, with activities normalizing from late July, as well as the continued strengthening of underground production rate, with importantly stored production becoming a more significant component of our ore production. We would expect this to continue into the fourth quarter and into 2011 as the underground operation matures.

Slide 7 demonstrates the process plants consistent improvement quarter-on-quarter, with overall feed grade remaining strong at around 1.8 grams per ton, with the underground contribution strengthening in support of the lower open pit grade this quarter. We were pleased that the improvement in the process plant is driven from both key areas of plant availability now approaching the mid 80 percentage points for the quarter, finishing with an impressive availability of greater than 94% for September. Throughput rate also continues to improve, where we should see a substantial improvement in this area now that both secondary crushers are in place and commissioned.

Slide 8 shows the snapshot of the result and financial performance compared to 2010 corresponding quarter, underpinned by a 67% increase in gold production and a stronger price environment. This delivered about a 129% increase in revenue to over $89 million. As expected, mine production costs with both plant throughput and open pit production increases have increased, as well as the commencement of commercial production of the underground and dump leach operation. This has resulted in a 178% increase in EBITDA, not as indicated on the slide, but compared to the previous quarters, with an EPS of approximately $0.04.

Slide 9 illustrates the strong cash margins generated, with substantial cash now to fund our Stage 4 expansion program, which we'll speak shortly about and where we are, and we remain confident of internally financing such an expansion. As this position strengthens, the company will look into other areas of the project to improve and to provide more robustness and resilience of the long-term performance of the project.

On Slide 10, we highlight the plus $200 million in our cash balance, as Joseph had mentioned, as of the end of the quarter, with additional expenditure now being directed towards the second decline development and a larger exploration program, both on Sukari and in Ethiopia as the months roll out.

On Slide 11, this gives you a snapshot of Centamin's growth profile, which I won't dwell on; I think you've seen that in previous presentations.

Slide 12 gives you the growth of Sukari and the continued thrust of our exploration on the mine deposit.

Slide 13 provides an update of our 10 million ton per annum process plant expansion. The project remains on schedule for a first quarter 2013 commissioning. And as previously announced, key awards and production slots are now in place, with all major equipment now ordered. Mobilization of earthworks and civil contractors are expected this quarter and the TSF expansion is already underway. Detailed engineering on the process plant was 46% complete by end of quarter and tenders are out for the second seawater pipeline, capable of delivering around 900 cubic meters per hour to Sukari. Orders for the diesel HFO generators for the power plant have been placed with Wartsila and they've also been awarded the EPC contract for the construction of the new 35 megawatt power plant. By end of quarter, approximately $25 million had been spent on the project; this expenditure for quarter four expected to be higher than this, as mobilization of contractors and further equipment down payments are placed.

Slide 14 provides some further details of the underground operation, which continues to perform well and growing significantly every quarter. Along with the broad Sukari resource and reserve statement expected in this quarter will be an update on the underground reserve, as drilling continues to move further ahead of production activity. Significantly, the commencement of both an exploration drive to provide a long-term platform to test the down-dip extension of the Amun Deeps zone, as well as the recent approval and commencement of the Ptah decline towards Sukari North, all over the next 12 to 24 months, positioning the underground operation to be a significant contributor to the production profile of Sukari.

On Slide 15, that gives you an idea of the conduit to deliver the additional ton from the underground. Here is the secondary decline development, which was approved during the quarter and commenced in early October. For an estimated capital cost of $18 million, this will position the underground mine within what we hope is two major high-grade components of the ore body and allow subsequent development to drive the production rate to around 500,000 tons per annum by 2014. To support this requires additional drilling, which is where the initial placement of the exploration drive provides. The second aspect of this strategy is to make it expandable for what we need to progressively decouple the open pit operation from the underground, as we've discussed previously; and provide a separate, distinct and quantifiable reserves and resources for these operations and with that, we can allow them to be additive and independent, rather than conditional. Importantly, the second decline remains outside the existing open pit shell, thus allowing long-term uninterrupted operations from any open pit activity.

Slide 16 shows the latest of what we believe is very exciting assay returns that we continue to receive from V-Shear prospect, significantly providing shallow, high-grade intercepts on a prospect that is less than 2 kilometers from the Sukari process plant. With the massive world-class resourcing of the Sukari mine deposit, it's very easy to forget the incredible prospectivity the rest of the license hold. And with this renewed exploration focus regionally, management's very enthusiastic at the prospect of finding additional large-scale ore bodies that would justify further growth of the process capacity or high-grade deposits that would displace some of the lower-grade open pit ore. With intercepts, as you can see on that slide, were like 28 meters at 2.98 grams from 11 meters from surface; this provides a lot of encouragement to push exploration even harder.

The other push, of course, moving on to those next two slides, 17 and 18, as Josef had mentioned, is Ethiopia, where we are manning up post-acquisition and we intend to commence drilling in this quarter.

Slide 18 shows a brief description of those licenses, where our initial drill targets are, being Una Deriam, which will be the first target which we will start drilling hopefully during the quarter, the latter part of this year.

Slide 19 again highlights our targets and objectives that we have placed. And as Josef mentioned, we continue to deliver on our 2011 guidance now. We're back on track and the operation is performing very, very well and we hope it will continue to improve.

If I can hand back now and ask for questions, back to the host. Thank you. Handing back to the coordinator for questions-and-answers.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of [ph] Tom Bothill from Citibank (11:46). Please go ahead with your question; your line is now open.

Hi, it's John Bergtheil. You maintaining cash cost guidance for the full year of $550; can you just tell us what cash cost do you have to achieve in the fourth quarter to meet that?

We will need to be in the high $400s, John, to do that, so that will be driven by the higher throughput rate of the plant, as we mentioned in the presentation, and obviously a bit higher grade and bit more tonnage coming out of the underground as well; as well as getting the better efficiency, as well, from the open pit, which we really didn't have in July because of the blasting issues. So we had a much higher unit cost than we normally have for quarter three and we expect that unit cost for the open pit to go down. And that coupled with increased plant throughput, which will result in increased gold production, will drive that cash cost down.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Mikitchook from GMP Securities. Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Is the line open?

Yeah, I can hear you.

Just to follow up again on the grade, I guess are you going to provide any direct guidance on the grade that we should expect going through the mill in Q4 or is that kind of remains to be seen?

I think perhaps I went through it a little bit too quickly, Andrew. We did say that the open pit grade for this quarter through the plant would be about the same as what it was, around the 1.3 gram mark, 1.4. The underground grade will be that consistent 10 or 11 grams. We should see a bit higher tonnage coming from the underground to contribute to that, obviously as the stoping ore percentage increases. So we are expecting around that average, around that 1.85 gram mark being the average feed for the plant month-on-month and being for the whole quarter, until we can get back to our fully elevated cut-off grade situation.

Okay. And then just changing subject, V-Shear's and Quartz Ridge, is any of that going to make the resource when the update comes late in the year?

No, we have to get a lot more drilling and a lot more oriented core; we haven't got any oriented core in there at the moment, Andrew. But I think ore's at a few thousand meters or 1,500 meters of diamond drilling; that's oriented core. So we won't understand the structural setting in both those locations before we start playing with resource estimates that we don't get it wrong.

Okay. I think that's it. If there's any other questions, go ahead.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Louise Collinge from Evolution Securities. Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Hi there. Just one more question, just a follow-up one really on the cost as well. Obviously, I understand you're expecting to increase your output in Q4 and that should bring the unit cost down. But just a bit more detail, since it seems to me that you'll need to reduce your total cost quite considerably as well, in order to sort of meet the $550 an ounce as to the full year.

Well, the increase in production's a big driver to reduce that cash cost. And the extra 8,000 ounces or more that we would need to obviously to hit our guidance really has a very, very big impact on our cash costs that we report. As you can appreciate, the open pit production rate will be largely the same as what we've seen, a bit better than this quarter. We're hoping to do around 6.5 million to 7 million tons for the quarter compared to around 6 million for this last quarter. So total cost for the open pit, because of those inefficiencies that I mentioned in July, are likely to be about the same. So if you put that into the mix, where the open pit costs are the same, underground cost, total cost will be a little bit higher because there will be more stoping ore and process cost will be slightly higher because of the higher throughput. The rest of it is all going to be driven by effectively a 20% increase in ounces, which is effectively $120 an ounce just on top of that, so that's the big driver that pulls the cash cost down; the rest is the bigger contribution from the underground and the higher throughput, of course.

Okay, thanks for that. And also, I was just wondering if you'd just give us a sort of broader update on the regional exploration around Sukari. I think it was a year or so ago when we last got some results that sounded interesting from Quartz Ridge and obviously these ones today sound encouraging as well for the V-Shear area. I presume you still think those two areas are highly perspective. What about some of the other areas and what's your work program likely to be on those areas in the sort of near-term?

Well, we've identified several zones like the two that we are drilling into, but we've taken a step back and started our regional exploration from a first principles point of view by commencing a whole heap of geophysics on the license and we're expecting to start that in 2012. We'll have plenty of drilling, we think, both in V-Shear and Quartz Ridge to keep us going for another several months. So in that time, we'll be building a much more detailed targeting model, which will include geophysics and the rounded [ph] leg (17:13) and soil sampling that we've taken. That will generate a number of other targets for Sukari, rather than just targeting where the old mining has been.

Okay, that's great Thanks very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Hunter Hillcoridge (sic) [Hillcoat] from Investec. Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Hi, guys. It's Hunter Hillcoat here. Just a few quick questions. So I can plan for next year, what is the insurance cost?

That was just over $1 million, I think, Hunter.

Okay. And your capital that you incurred this quarter included, as you said, sort of $25 million worth of Stage 4 capital; the rest obviously comes from the stripping and underground development. What sort of proportion is the split between underground and open cut?

Underground development, I think, was around $4 million. I'm not sure what the stripping number was.

Okay. It will just be the balance; that's fine. The Stage 4, your $255 million CapEx excludes contingency costs. Given that you're halfway through the engineering and you've done some sort of a tendering, any sort of idea on what that contingency's going to be?

Well, typically for projects of this nature, they're anything between 15% and 20%. So we think our engineers are basically telling us that's sort of the level that they are comfortable at. Obviously, we're making sure the approvals are very tight gain beyond that level.

Okay, great. And last one, which is probably not fair on you, Harry. Your D&A costs, if you lift production in the fourth quarter in line with the third quarter, that means your D&A for the second half would be about $40 million; does that sound right?

You're right, it's not fair on me.

Josef?

No, I couldn't answer you either.

All right. Okay, thanks. That's all.

Thanks, Hunter.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Tim Dudley from Collins Stewart. Please go head; your line is now open.

Hi, guys. I had a similar question on the depreciation. I noticed the depreciation charge of $80 million was double kind of the quarterly rate in the first half. I just wanted to understand what some of the drivers were of that. And the second question I had was I heard your guidance on where the tonnage from the open cut could be in Q4; I'm just wondering whether the ore tons mined is going to be close to the 2 million mark, as it was in Q3, or closer to the 1 million mark in Q1 because I imagine putting ore to stops is a driver on your cash costs in the quarter.

Yeah, the strip ratio will go up a little bit, but not substantially. We're mining in Stage 2 pit at the moment, which has got quite large amounts of lower-grade material going into the core of the Sukari ore body until we have another sort of 4 or 5 or 6 months time. So the strip ratio will go up, but not substantially so.

Thanks. And you can't shed any light on the reason for the depreciation charge increasing?

I haven't really looked at that very carefully.

All right. That's all I've got. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Alex Millar from Numis Securities. Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Hi, guys. I'd just like some clarity on whether costs are being capitalized because I note that you've got some cash operating costs of $635, gold production of 50,539, so that's about $32 million in cash operating costs, but your P&L mine production costs are only $23.6 million. So I guess the question is were some costs capitalized and some clarity on that?

Yeah, we might have to get back to you on that.; I haven't got those numbers in front of me.

Okay, no worries. The second short question is when can we expect some full-year '12 production or cost guidance?

I think we're hoping for early in 2012, probably in January.

Okay. Great, thanks for that.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [ph] David Nevis from Westhouse Securities (21:41). Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Hi, yes. Just a follow-up question on cash costs again. If we're looking at for Q4 guidance then sub-$500 an ounce, how reasonable is it to take that forward-looking going into 2012, if we're thinking of how much the increased production from both underground and open pit will offset cost pressures at the moment and how sensible it would be to use a sub-$500 an ounce figure for 2012?

Yeah, we haven't finished our budgeting for that at the moment. A lot of the physical schedules are done, but we haven't costed that fully. And certainly open pit mine production rate will be increasing in 2012, as well, as I mentioned earlier, the contribution to operating cost that the underground would be making. I guess I think it's premature to try and make a call on that at this stage.

Okay. That's it. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [ph] David Parry (22:44), a private investor. Please go ahead; your line is now open.

Hello, Josef, could you tell me how long you think the exploration of the license area will continue for?

I'm sorry, could you repeat that? I couldn't quite get that.

Yes. How long do you think the exploration of the license area will continue for?

We can't see an end to it at the moment. We've actually only really just stepped off the hill or reinvigorated that effort off the hill in the last 12 months. So we see next year having $10 million in the exploration budget for the Sukari area; I wouldn't say that very much different for the year after that or after that. There's still a lot to do.

Could you see exploration continuing10 years from now?

Yes.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] As there are no further questions, I'll return the conference to you, gentlemen.

Okay. Thank you for joining us on the call today. We look forward to updating you on our Q4 results early in the New Year. And with that, we will end the call.