Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Michael Stoner — Group Corporate Manager, Centamin Plc
Marina Calero — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Daniel Major — Analyst, UBS Investment Bank
Timothy Huff — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP
Richard Seldon — Analyst, BCS Services Ltd

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to this presentation for the first half of 2022. As mentioned, I am Martin Horgan, CEO. I'm delighted to be joined today by my colleagues Ross Jerrard, CFO; and Michael Stoner, Head of Corporate Manager. First we'll take you through an overview of our first half performance. Ross will then take a deeper dive into the results, and then we'll look at some of the opportunities we're working on to underpin our work, which is focused on maximizing value of Sukari, our exciting pipeline of growth opportunities. We then finish and look forward to the second half of the year. And then I'll take the questions, of course, Ross and I'll be happy to take it. Just moving on to the disclaimer slide. I'm sure you all have read that and digested that by now. So, maybe we could just move on to next slide, please.

So, I'm delighted to report that I believe we delivered a really strong performance in the first of the year. We saw continued operation delivery against the plan of Sukari and we'll simultaneously advance number of our strategic projects. Sukari delivered a financial and operating performance in line with plan and the so called production of just under 204,000 ounces and all in sustaining cost of $1,446 per ounce, which is the seventh consecutive quarter of delivery against plan and continues to underpin our focus on consistency at the mine.

And this production and the financial performance also take into account both the transition of the underground mining operations from contractor to owner during the first quarter of the year, alongside that current global inflationary cost environment [ph] to find ourselves in (00:01:24). Due to our ongoing focus on compliance, operational plans aligned to the strict [ph] adherence (00:01:29) cost control measures, company remains on track to deliver our annual cost and production guidance for 2022. [ph]

There is (00:01:37) also a period of significant reinvestment in Sukari, we invested some $152 million into various projects that we believe will help to extract the maximum value from Sukari in the medium to long term. It's a clear demonstration of our faith in potential of the mine. [ph] We drew (00:01:50) the peak capital spending for the year with some 65% of our annual budget of $225 million invested during our first half.

Exploration is the lifeblood of our industry, and we remain committed to value creation through the drill bit. First half of the year, we invested some $17.6 million of our $25 million budget into our exploration projects in both Egypt and Cote d'Ivoire. We believe they have the potential to deliver a long term meaningful growth for Centamin.

Until this period of investment, we've maintained a robust balance sheet. We had some $175 million of cash and cash equivalents at the 30th of June, plus significant cost recovery balance due to [indiscernible] (00:02:25) Sukari as a result of our investment in the mine. We continue to progress our capital structure review during the first half and we'll update you later on this [ph] presentation (00:02:33). And having achieved delivery against plan in the first half, reflective of our confidence in the second half of the year, I'm pleased to announce today that the board has recommended an interim dividend of $0.025 per share, which is in line with our previously announced plan to recommend a minimum annual dividend of $0.05 per share for the full year.

Next slide, please. We remain focused on the protection of our workforce and the local communities that we work in. The threat that the re-emergence of COVID remains in the background and we've maintained our vigilance and kept in place a number of COVID protocols at Sukari site, mask wearing, social distancing, and the focus on hygiene was meant we've had no material impacts on our operations at the first half of the year from COVID. But away from COVID, our efforts are centered on our operational safety performance. We targeted zero harm workplace, and over the first half of the year, we unfortunately suffered a single lost time injury. The incident has been investigated and the corrective action plans issued as a result of this review.

Notwithstanding this incident, we've continued our progress around improving our operational safety performance. First half of the year [indiscernible] (00:03:34) maintained a positive momentum, we've been making since 2019 and our total recordable and lost time injury frequency rate. There's always room for improvement, and through training and vigilance, we aim to keep up this improvement in performance as we strive for that zero harm workplace. Next slide please.

Alongside the [indiscernible] (00:03:56) our people, we continue to develop our education and training programs that look to identify, develop and promote local talent that [indiscernible] (00:04:03). After the establishment of a Sukari Diversity Committee in 2011, I'm delighted to report that during the first half of the year, Sukari recruited 11 women into professional positions across the mine site, including administration, environmental and geology sections. This approach has been completed in line with recent changes to Egyptian labor law, that now opens up a wider range of roles to women in the mining sector. And we at Centamin are pleased to play our part in the development of the broader Egyptian mining sector. This is the first step and important road and we'll continue to promote gender diversity and employment targets set for the mine in 2022 and beyond.

In 2020, we started developing the Centamin capability framework, which includes succession planning and training needs analysis to ensure that we are attracting the best talent and developing the required skills and empowering the workforce with the knowledge and tools they need to deliver operational excellence. Several components of the framework continued into first half of the year, and they included our leadership development program, our employee development pathway and our vocational education and training. I'm really pleased to say that under the e Mobile Plant Apprenticeship program, which forms part of the vocational education and training section, all apprentices this year satisfactorily completed their units of competency for year one. That's a great outcome and our congratulations to all those apprentices for their hard work and success.

Moving on to the next slide. In 2021, we led our plans for the future development of Centamin and the maximization value at Sukari through production growth and cost reduction to the delivery of the new operation Doropo while exploring the [indiscernible] (00:05:35) the Eastern Desert in Egypt. We now have vision of becoming a multi-asset, multi-jurisdictional producer, [ph] while we deliver (00:05:42) growth while maintaining a payment of a dividend. This slide shows the [ph] first iteration (00:05:46) of that plan, the interim production case at Sukari plus the expansion potential of the underground with the addition of Doropo [indiscernible] (00:05:53) in 2025. And we progressed a number of the key studies and work streams that will underpin [indiscernible] (00:05:59) vision. And the second half of the year, we'll see updating a number of these exciting initiatives.

We'll update on the solar plant commissioning, [ph] through our (00:06:05) significant cost of decarbonization benefits of Sukari. We'll lay out the options for expanding the underground mining operations, [indiscernible] (00:06:11) how we see our capital structure evolving to support this growth while maintaining a dividend. In the fourth quarter, [indiscernible] (00:06:17) the ability to connect to the national grid, we saw significant further cost of decarbonization benefits at Sukari. We announced our annual [indiscernible] (00:06:31) Sukari. They will incorporate some of the stellar drill results we announced back in July. And later in the year, we'll finish up with a new Doropo prefeasibility study.

These are some of the key building blocks of delivering our vision for Centamin and are becoming thick and fast over the coming months and what I see is a strong pipeline of news flow.

I was asked last week by [ph] generous (00:06:42) investor to summarize in a simple way why they should look to invest in Centamin the so-called 32nd elevator pitch. I said, in essence, we're going to increase production by finding more gold and mine it more quickly. We're taking cost out of the business with a focus on decarbonization to ensure we maximize the cash flow from Sukari. Simultaneously, we're going to deliver you growth from our organic pipeline of projects. And while we're doing all this, we're going to continue to pay you a dividend.

And with that message, I'll now pass it over to Ross, who'll take you into deeper dive on the first half results.

Thank you, Martin. And good morning, everyone. Slide 8 [indiscernible] (00:07:22) some of our key financial highlights, a robust financial performance. With our production metrics and ounces on track, the increase in the gold price resulted [indiscernible] (00:07:31) being ahead of schedule with the revenue, EBITDA and free cash flow lines. Revenue for the six months was $382 million was generated from gold sales of 203,000 ounces at an average realized gold price of $1,872 per ounce.

EBITDA was $153 million at a 40% EBITDA margin. Our group free cash flow was negative $25 million. Our group operating cash flow generated was $128 million for the period reflecting the investments in the future of our operations with over $130 million worth of cash investments and CapEx as well as $33 million of profit share and royalty distributions to our partner EMRA and the government of Egypt. Capital expenditure was $139 million, again on track to schedule with good progress made on our key capital projects such as solar plant, paste-fill plant and TSF2 stages 2 and 3.

We ended the period with a strong and flexible balance sheet with available cash and liquid assets of $175 million after the payments of the 2021 final dividend of $58 million. I look forward to updating you on the capital structure review which is scheduled for completion in the third quarter.

Moving to slide 9, which shows our continued progress with cost savings initiatives and improved operating efficiencies. You will see from the bar graphs that the absolute cash costs in dollar terms have remained relatively consistent against the previous six months as shown in blue. Sustaining costs have increased with the increase in total material mined and also the impact of the increase in the cost of fuel. The additional underground transition capital purchases are also additional components for this period as shown at the very top of the bar chart on the right.

Moving on to page 10. We are now seeing the benefits of increased volumes mined and operational changes that have been implemented, which has helped counter the rising input costs. As can be seen on the graph, the open pit has seen an improved operating productivity with a record material mined and the waste stripping program progressing well over the two half-years. The underground has seen successful transition to owner mining, resulting in cost and productivities improving. You can see the cost per tonne reducing from $72 a tonne down to $56 per tonne for the last six months. Whilst in the processing plant, the increases in the processing cost is driven by rising input costs, primarily fueled, but also impacted by lower throughput due to scheduled plant maintenance for the period. And the fourth graph at the bottom right shows G&A with a consistent trend as we continue with ongoing investments in the workforce and integration of the underground staff component.

Moving to slide 11 and specifically taking a deeper dive into the owner mining transition in the underground, you can see the quarter-on-quarter performance of the underground. We have successfully transitioned earlier this year and when comparing to the previous half year, we have seen a 22% improvement in the owner mining costs with a 6% improvement in the material mined.

Credit to the team in delivering this transition, which at a high level is expected to deliver approximately $70 million worth of saving over the next five years. As you can see on the right-hand side, in terms of capital spent on the underground, we have spent $13 million in the first half, primarily covering the contract to fleet purchase and associated inventory. And in the second half, we expect another $12 million, which is to be spent across the remaining fleet purchases, ventilation upgrades and communication systems.

Moving to slide 12, we include our standard cost structure breakdown, showing the split of mine production cost, again with limited sensitivities. We can see on the left that processing and open pit being the biggest department at 41% and 36%, respectively. In terms of group cost breakdown in the center of the chart, again, most of the categories are largely consistent with prior periods, but you'll see the impact of fuel increasing from 17% to 23% of the cost base. This is our single biggest movement in price input that is largely outside of our control. Contractors have reduced by 7% as shown in the gold bar, due to the transition from underground contractor mining. And this has also meant to decrease in the Australian dollar component now down to 2% as seen on the right-hand side of the chart.

Next slide, please. I think it's fair to say that when we came out with our cost guidance at the beginning of the year, negatively received by the market. But as we stand at the half year, I'm pleased to report that we are on track and basically in line with our internal metrics that we had modeled. Recognizing inflation early has meant that we were able to maintain cost guidance, albeit that we are trending towards the upper end of the range.

Looking again at those group cost in a bit more detail, you can see that we have been able to manage to within 1% of the consumables versus the previous half. And this is a result of that's optimizing the consumables and reagents in the process plant to offset the increases in input costs driven by inflation. The transition to owner mining discussed earlier in the underground has resulted in a 22% cost saving. Unfortunately, a much of the good work is negated by the fact that we have seen a 34% increase in fuel costs driven by a 47% increase in crude oil prices in the half. Fortunately, our pilot plant is commissioning as we speak and we will be able to realize some of these savings in the second half, which will help counter some of the additional spend.

Martin will talk a bit more about the solar project in a minute, but it's approximately $25 million of annualized saving at the current pricing, a very exciting and timely project also with further expansion potential. Our labor cost has also increased 9% due to tightening of global mining labor markets.

Moving to slide 14. We've been updating you regularly on the cost savings program and, hopefully, this slide will be familiar to many of you. As a reminder, our cost saving program was launched over 18 months ago, and it is an initiative to extract $150 million of sustainable costs on a cumulative basis across that four-year period. Our program of initiatives are now seeing some meaningful progress through the funnel to ultimate completion and delivery with the solar farm open to truck trace, underground mining transition being some examples of initiatives are all, now largely delivered as we enter the second half. These initiatives are credit to the team in terms of implementing, delivered on time and on budget. And importantly, the investment we have made to date will now start to make some meaningful impact on our cost over the years to come.

Our project funnel is a busy slide. So, I'll summarize on slide 15 as follows as. To date, we have delivered $78 million of the $150 million cumulative target. And with the inclusion of our full year numbers on the solar underground and open truck trays in particular, I have every confidence that we will meet our 2023 target. As you can see, we currently still have another 16 initiatives either under review or already in progress. We have only summarized some of the initiatives, but the whole business is part of this program, whether it's the exploration teams, corporate or the full mine site, everyone is contributing. The largest and most exciting of these initiatives is the ability to tie into the grid power, which would reduce up our power cost substantially, and Martin will talk you through this project in a bit more detail in a minute.

Slide 16, please. We've entered the reinvestment phase as we look to reset the mine for the longer term. I'm glad to report that we are progressing well in delivering our key growth projects such as solar and underground transition, largely completed, and the remaining spend on base plant and further underground equipment being the two ongoing growth projects. We maintain our full-year CapEx guidance at $226 million. You will note on the bottom right of the chart, as we exit 2022, you'll see the profile decreasing into 2023, 2024 and beyond.

Slide 17 provides a breakdown of our free cash flow for the half. As mentioned earlier, the revenue increased primarily due to the higher realized gold price. Higher OpEx and CapEx is seen due to more tonnes moved to the open pit and also the rising input costs across the business. Approximately, 65% of the annual CapEx was also spent in the first half. This is what we forecast for the – against the second half. This resulted in a negative free cash flow number of $25 million. Although negative, our free cash flow was ahead of where we had budgeted being for this time of the year.

When looking at the cash and liquids balance and the evolution over the first half of the year, this is decreased primarily as a result of the negative free cash flow generated, but also the payment of dividends during the period. I think it's important that I highlight the three investments in Sukari, where a large portion of that corporate funding is to be returned to Treasury as part of the cost recovery mechanism in our Concession Agreement. I refer you to the financial statement, which shows that whilst we have continued to distribute profit share payments to both partners, there is a period of cost recovery in our due and also into the future we're funding will be returned to corporate after the necessary audits, and required procedures are being finalized in the country. Because of this nuance, we do not show any profit attributable to our non-controlling interest in SGM for the period in the P&L.

Moving to slide 18, our commitment to shareholder returns continues. For 2022, the board reiterates its intention to recommend a minimum dividend of $0.05 per share for the full year. Today, the board declared $0.025 per share interim dividend amounting to $29 million to be paid on the 7th of October, leaving an approximate minimum $0.025 final dividend to be proposed with the 2022 full year results. This reflects the company's confidence and outlook for the year and progress in delivering the reset plans and represents a dividend yield of approximately 4.8%, which we believe is both a sustainable level and allows an appropriate balance across the yield and growth.

Cumulative dividends paid now amount to $777 million over eight-year track record. We're currently undertaking a capital structure review, assessing operational cash flows across a range of operating scenarios, capital allocation opportunities to support growth and our mix of cash and debt and the dividend policy. This review is well progressed and the intention is to announce a capital allocation framework during the third quarter, balancing both growth and sector-leading shareholder returns on a through the cycle basis. And we look forward to updating you when it is finalized.

Turning to slide 19 and summary, we have maintained a robust financial strategy and continue to deliver continued improvement. We finished the half year with a strong balance sheet, cash and liquid assets of $175 million with no debt. Our balance sheet position allowed us the flexibility with a higher-than-normal CapEx profile to have the funds available to be able to deliver those milestones. We will continue to maintain a strong balance sheet going forward and we'll be able to provide more color in the third quarter when we finalize that capital allocation review.

We have continued to deliver on our cost-savings initiatives across the group. Many initiatives have been identified. It's a meaningful project [indiscernible] (00:20:07) being delivered and then more to come. We will continue to be vigilant on costs.

Importantly, we have delivered our key projects on time and on budget. Our treasury and strong cash flows, even during this reinvestment phase, [ph] means (00:20:22) we have financed our projects internally, continued to pay our partners, EMRA, and continued to deliver our own shareholder returns. This will be our ninth consecutive year of dividends, which we are very proud of, and that's the board's intention to continue with debt commitment to shareholder returns in addition to delivering on our growth plans.

And with that, I'll now hand back to Martin.

Thanks very much, Ross. A really excellent update there and obviously fantastic work by the team in this inflationary environment to stay on top of those rising cost inputs during the first half of the year. I mentioned earlier in my simple message to the [indiscernible] (00:21:02) investor of what we're looking to do at Centamin, increase production, cut costs, add up to diversification or paying a dividend. What I'd like to do now is take some of the individual building blocks within that vision.

Move onto the next slide, number 21. So, in terms of increasing production, I really see two elements to this. Firstly, we're going to use our geological knowledge to fully explore the Sukari concession and provide a larger reserve base. And then with that large reserve base, secondly we're going to seek to accelerate the rates at which we mine those reserves. So, it's not only the ability to increase the reserve base. The geology team have continued their excellent work in the first half of the year, building on the success of the 2021, where we doubled the underground mine life from 4 to 8 years.

We're continuing to extend the mineralization in the underground, with success both in the near term, current production areas of both Amun and Ptah and importantly across the longer term, extending the depth of the ore body into the Horus zone, and building on last year's identification of the high grade mineralization of the Bast zone, we've further excellent results, continue to support the zone's potential to provide significant high grade gold production to supplement the existing working areas.

Notable results from the first half of the year we've demonstrated: at Amun, 17 meters at 9.6 grams; in Ptah, 23 meters at 7.2 grams; across in Horus, an absolute standout, 54 meters at 15 grams; and in Bast, that continues to support our [indiscernible] (00:22:28) 10 meters at 64 grams, including 2 meters at [ph] 199 (00:22:30) grams and 4.5 meters at 267 grams a tonne of gold, which includes 4 meters at 300 grams.

During the second half of the year, the team will continue to update the resource and reserves estimates for Sukari based on the drilling data up to and including the 30th of June. And that will, of course, include the high grade Bast area. And we plan to release the updated resource and reserve estimates in late Q4 after our normal reporting schedule.

Next slide please. And away from the [ph] mining (00:23:00) orebody, the surface exploration team also enjoyed some encouraging success and they continue to demonstrate the potential for the development of smaller satellite pits across the Sukari concession. These targets could provide additional reserves and offer planning flexibility to the open pit mining operations. Notable results from two new target areas included 22 meters at 2.9 grams at Wadi Alam and 10 meters at 2.9 grams from V Shear East. So, based on a combination of these newly identified targets aligned to reassessment of the existing data on previously identified targets, the surface exploration team will commence a 25 to 30 kilometer drilling program in the second half of the year, with the aim of developing resources initially that can be converted to reserves and incorporated into the open pit mine plan at the earliest opportunity.

And during April, this Sukari team completed the first airborne geophysical survey in Egypt of the [ph] extensive (00:23:55) mining concession area. It's a significant step for Centamin and more broadly the emerging Egyptian exploration sector. The results are in and are currently under review and we look forward to updating you in due course on the findings of this exciting initiative.

Next slide, please. So, in expanding underground resource and reserve base, second part of the increase in production comes from the ability to increase the underground mining rates. The [ph] main limiting (00:24:18) factors today in underground production and the haulage capacity surplus using our [ph] current deep line (00:24:23) followed by our current equipment fleet and its capacity. So, earlier this year, we commenced this study to assess options of how we can increase production from the current rate of about 1 million tonnes a year of ore. We believe it's possible to increase underground tonnes mined by between 25% to 50% on an annualized basis.

We've been working with [indiscernible] (00:24:43) and we're assessing a suite of possible scenarios for increasing underground production. Each option will have a physical mine, design and implementation plan, the associated production increase, capital and operating cost estimates and an assessment of implementation risk. Work is focused on how we can increase haulage capacity through a range of options following associated stoping and development schedules and the supporting equipment requirements needed to increase those [ph] mine rigs (00:25:06). And this study will build on the interim case that we presented last December. And we look forward to updating in the third quarter on the progress of this work and its initial outcomes.

Next slide please. So, moving onto second leg of our message, how we take cost out of the business. Inflation is clearly at the forefront of everyone's thinking at the moment. And that's probably the question that's been [indiscernible] (00:25:30). I don't personally think that management team should start to consider cost control because of inflationary pressures. We should be doing this all the time irrespective of the external pricing environment.

I would like to say that the Centamin team has been looking at cost savings for a while now. As Ross has just discussed, our cost savings program was announced back in 2020 and looking to target $150 million of cumulative cost savings over the time between then and 2023 [indiscernible] (00:25:54) earlier. And as you have seen, great progress has already been made, having delivered some $78 million of cost savings across the business to-date.

And in addition to those cost saving initiatives, we also look at operational efficiencies and productivity gains. Where can we find those marginal incremental gains when aggregated across the mine site can actually deliver significant improvements. And I think this slide is a great [indiscernible] (00:26:18) of how a number of these initiatives have been combined to deliver significant benefits to Sukari. You know about our high performance truck trays, they're too light, have higher payload than the standard trays. And this enables us to increase payloads, reduce the fuel burn and [ph] tie away (00:26:32) on the back haul.

But when we combine those with the operating improvement programs, in this case, better whole load maintenance and truck shaping optimization, the result is a 12% improvement in productivity since August 2020. When you consider our [ph] fleet, it's (00:26:49) 90 million tonnes per year in material, we have 11-year mine life currently ahead of us, this 12% gain starts to become meaningful over the whole life of mine at Sukari. We continue to look at productivity improvements across our operations in an effort to fully optimize the site and deliver more of these types of outcomes.

Next slide, please. So moving on to our current flagship project at Sukari, the solar farm. So, we committed to the project back in 2020. Construction is now largely completed and the initial commissioning is underway, as we speak. We're currently [indiscernible] (00:27:15) at Sukari [indiscernible] (00:27:17), and we aim to finish fully ramping up the operation over the full load into the third quarter. It costs us $36 million to construct and the time of its commissioning could not have been better, given the current price escalation we're seeing in the diesel price.

In steady state, solar plant will provide 25% of our power generation capacity, displacing some 22 million liters of diesel each year and reducing our carbon emissions by 60,000 tonnes annually. Initially, we're looking at a three-year payback at current prices based on the two years. And subject to a successful commissioning of the plant, we can consider expansion in due course as we continue to take cost and carbon out of our operations. And with COP27 being hosted in Egypt later this year, I think this is a great example of how our sector can play its role in the global [ph] decarbonization – phased decarbonization (00:28:02) efforts to climate [ph] needs (00:28:05).

Next slide, please. Back in May, we had a real great pleasure to meet His Excellency, Dr. Shaker, who's the Minister for Electricity in Egypt. Over the course of presentation and subsequent rounds of our meeting, he outlined to us the progress that Egypt just made around power generation and its distribution network since 2014. To me, the future is miraculous. In eight years, his ministry has added over 14 gigawatts of power generation capacity [ph] with the (00:28:33) development of three gas-fired power stations, and with the associated development through some of the world's largest solar projects. Egypt's gone from having rolling blackouts in 2014 to now having a surplus and with a plan to potentially supplying Europe [ph] through a subsidy connected (00:28:47). And with that generation mix, the plan is to have some 40% of that capacity for renewables by 2030.

And to add to this increase in generation capacity, there's an infrastructure program and that's delivered in addition of an additional 3,500 kilometers of distribution network across the country. And when you standby, you can start to appreciate the transformation of Egyptian power sector over the last [ph] five (00:29:09) years. The great news for Sukari is that for the first time in its operating history, we now have a high-voltage grid line within 30 kilometers from the mine site and that creates a part of the system that now has a surplus of power generating capacity.

So recently, we've engaged with various authorities to discuss the connection of Sukari to the grid [ph] by the spur line (00:29:27) along our existing water pipeline easement. Service will commence in this third quarter and carry on to the fourth quarter. And in parallel, we'll have commercial negotiations. This is a huge exciting project for us. We believe it can further contribute to significant cost savings and also carbon reduction plans for us. Looking at the capital and [ph] indicative (00:29:46) capital cost, we believe it will be hugely competitive and it demonstrates a rapid payback period and associated IRR, and we really look forward to updating you on this exciting initiative as we head into the third quarter as we hope to make good progress in this opportunity.

Next slide, please. And we will [indiscernible] (00:30:05) into our pipeline of organic growth opportunities. I'm pleased to say that work progressed towards the delivery of the Doropo pre-feasibility study by the end of the year. Field program has been largely completed and include in excess of 100,000 meters of drilling, which is expected to convert the significant majority of [ph] the inferred (00:30:20) resource into the indicated category. We've also identified resource growth potential several of several of the main cluster deposits, and while the Kilosegui deposit, which is about 30 kilometers southwest of the main cluster, the current 7 kilometer long mineral resource area is open along strike in both directions and down dip. [ph] This upside potential (00:30:39) is not the continuous part of the PFS, but [ph] will be (00:30:41) into any subsequent [ph] studies (00:30:43). With the field work completed, work is currently focused on the engineering and review workstreams [ph] with our (00:30:48) consultants and engineers.

Mineral resource and reserve updates are currently in progress and are expected to be completed during the third quarter. And so, the plant design, comminution test work and the process plant front-end design has been completed, while a metallurgical test work program is underway. [ph] The drilling is as (00:31:04) expected, baseline studies and stakeholder engagement to support the evaluation of options for mine design, sequencing and in site infrastructure have all been completed and this has been incorporated into the PFS planning process. The PFS is expected to be completed late in Q4 2022, which will be followed shortly by a formal decision to proceed with a definitive study thereafter.

Next slide, please. So, after the finalization and awarded exploration permits during the early second quarter, alongside the establishment of an exploration team in Marsa Alam, field work commenced at our EDX portfolio. The initial work is focused on the Nugrus block which is adjacent to and surrounds the Sukari mining concession, and it comprised of BLEG sampling and mapping, building on the extensive remote work previously completed by the team. At Nugrus, this preparatory work identified in excess of 20 kilometers of alluvial artisanal workings and over 300 hard rock artisanal sites at Nugrus alone. Post the completion of the first half Nugrus work, operations will then move north of Um Rus and finally Najd blocks during the second half of the year, and the aim across Kilosegui programs through the identification of priority drill targets for testing at the soonest opportunity.

In parallel, government discussions remain on track around the finalization of exploitation term framework as it applies to these exploration concessions. Alongside our industry partners, we formed a working group and have been proactively engaged with the various ministries in Cairo as we seek to finalize the details of the exploitation terms and conditions that are going to be in line with internationally extended – accepted mining practice to enable us to take these projects forward. This work is progressing, and again, we'll update you during the second half of the year as we make progress in Cairo.

Next slide, please. As I mentioned earlier, the first half saw a period of strong delivery in compliance with our plans. The company is on track to achieve our full-year production of between 430,000 ounces to 460,000 ounces a year [indiscernible] (00:33:02). Cash costs are forecast to be in the range of $900 to $1,000 per ounce, and AISC between $1,275 per ounce to $1,425 per ounce for 2022. We note that the production target is mid-range at this time, while the cost guidance will likely trend towards the top of that guidance range. The capital budget for the year remained at $225 billion. As Ross mentioned, some 65% of that has already been invested during the first half of the year.

Total exploration and project development expenses remain at $25 million as we push forward both the Doropo and across the EDX. And finally, as Ross mentioned, we remain committed to our full-year recommended dividend of a minimum of $0.05 per share.

Next slide, please. So hopefully, [indiscernible] (00:33:49) that outlines the three key pillars of our strategy. Value-wise, maximization at Sukari, growth and diversification, and a commitment to stakeholder returns. And it certainly underpins our goal of becoming a multi-asset, multi-jurisdictional producer. We're well on our ways to finding the full potential at Sukari, with a focus on consistent operation delivery, we have a pipeline of news flow that will focus on production increases and cost reduction measures. The underground expansion study, solar plant commissioning [ph] with prior (00:34:16) evaluation and our resource and reserve update will further demonstrate the upside potential of the mine.

We're making great progress across all exploration portfolio and development projects, with the progression of a Doropo PFS and the commencement of the EDX field work, giving us a strong pipeline of organic growth opportunities. And finally, we'll retain our commitment around stakeholder returns to both our partners in the Egyptian government and all of the local stakeholders and, of course, the dividend. Key aspects of delivering our growth plans are maintaining a dividend with the capital structure review, which will outline later this year.

I would like to thank all of our team for about an excellent first half of 2022. That continued commitment and pursuit of excellence has delivered these strong results, and they are the foundation for which we will deliver the future upside of sentiment. And with that, I'd now like to open the floor for questions [ph] you might have (00:35:04). [Operator Instructions]

For those of you on the webcast, you can submit questions via the questions tab. Our first question comes from Marina Calero of RBC Capital Markets. Marina, please go ahead.

Good morning and thanks for the call. I have a question about your 2023 guidance. Looking at your slides, it looks like you still have roughly $70 million in potential cost savings. Can you remind us which of these are included in your 2023 all-in sustaining cost guidance? And maybe as an extension of that, can you also remind us which diesel price you factor into this guidance? Thank you.

Thank you, Marina. So that was in terms of guidance. In terms of – so I messed up my line, but is it in terms of capital or production for 2023?

All-in sustaining cost guidance.

Okay. Perfect. So, perfect. Ross, do you want to maybe take that one in terms of the cost basis question?

Yes. Hi, Marina. So, in terms of the all-in sustaining costs are, I guess the capital projects that drop off, but the only remaining one will be our waste stripping, I guess, CapEx that goes into that program. In terms of what we've factored into those prices and assumptions that the big one that hasn't been factored in was the full impact of the solar that we [ph] flow through (00:36:46) and the equal offset on that was the fuel price. As we entered into this year, we had budgeted $0.60 price per liter fuel price. We have done some factoring of that up to $1 a liter on an annualized basis. But that will be one of the key assumptions as we go into 2023 and we see the fuel price recently peaked and we're looking for that price to come down off that peak as we enter 2023. But the main CapEx projects that have been included in our [indiscernible] (00:37:27) dropping off as we go into 2023 and it's only the waste stripping that we'll have that full-year impact.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Alan Spence of Jefferies. Alan, please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, guys. I've got two questions. I'll take them one by one. The first one is on the dividend, and the – how to think about the final dividend this year. What is the criteria to potentially pay more than the $0.05 for the total a year? Is it the gold price? Is it the production targets, cash cost performance, a combination, or how are you thinking about that?

Good morning, Alan. Thanks very much. Well, look, I think sort of first and foremost, I think what hasn't changed is our dividend policy. I think that's been fairly consistent for a number of years now. And, of course, that dictates at least 30% of the free cash flow is applied to the dividend. Then there is a review of capital allocation and growth projects. And then there is the use of surplus cash flow off the back of that. And I think, historically, that 30% was then topped up with a sort of – there were too many growth projects in the business, and therefore, the company had [ph] in 10 years (00:38:48) sort of returned to 100% free cash flow via the dividend.

So, I think that in terms of the framework at which the board will look at the dividend allocation, that hasn't changed the recent free cash flow growth opportunities and then the balance of the remaining cash. So that sort of [indiscernible] (00:39:05) change. I guess what's different now, of course, is the growth projects that we have. We obviously got a number of identified opportunities, underground expansion at Sukari and [ph] obviously (00:39:18) what that's going to cost in terms of additional [ph] fleet for a traditional (00:39:22) infrastructure capacity in place and what's the timeline to implement it, and things like the connections to grew power, as we anticipate it'll be [ph] single-digit millions to put that spur line (00:39:31) in. But that's obvious. We've got to consider that plus the benefits.

Then, we look at more broadly, of course, EDX in the desert and Doropo as well. So, I think there'll be some more competition for the growth projects in terms of CapEx, in terms of cash allocation to that. But of course, backing up all that Ross made the comment earlier that currently we've been obviously funding all our growth from cash flow and we've said sort of quite clearly the sort of capital structure review, we're going to look to see how we manage the balance sheet. Do we add some sort of additional flexibility around a potential sort of revolving credit facility at the corporate level and then help cement that out as well? So, I think let's get that capital allocation, sort of capital structure review done during the third quarter. Let's look at, sort of, future cash flows in Sukari, future capital, sort of their allocation decisions around these growth projects, look at how we fund that from balance sheet, potentially a debt piece. And then obviously that then feeds into the final piece that is how do we maintain that against the dividends as well?

So, I think all of those things will be put together to look at that. And I guess, the board's going to come up with a recommendation for management around how we basically square away this by delivering both growth, [ph] and here (00:40:46) we believe we can do that quickly clearly. So that's kind of the framework. [ph] The other thing is that (00:40:50) certainly the framework of dividend hasn't changed. How we think about that is changing because of the increased number of growth projects that we've identified. But I think that sort of minimum $0.05 is key – is a key point to think about. And if we see fantastical for the gold price outperformance through the second half of the year, it's not sort of followed by [indiscernible] (00:41:12) performance. That's the sort of thing that that could lead the board to look at increased dividend at this stage. And – but if we sort of stay sort of steady state in terms of gold price, the current input basis that we're seeing stay on track for guidance in terms of the ounces with those growth projects. And I think we're going to be in and around that sort of market just like before. But there is obviously upside to that. It's unlikely that sort of input costs are going to drop off [indiscernible] (00:41:37) in the second half of the year. If anything, it's going to be, I would suggest gold price outperformance at this stage.

I mean, Ross, from your perspective, and you sort of, either ways you agree or disagree with that, but it certainly feels to me that's probably the one level that could impact on that dividend decision would be significant [ph] gold price performance (00:41:53). [indiscernible] (00:41:55) pretty much set?

That's right. And Alan, [ph] just to update that (00:41:59) we're [ph] guiding (00:42:00) through this capital allocation review. I think it's a sensible split between a cash element and a data element, and seeing how that all evolves. And as Martin said, I think it's the performance of the mine driven really by gold price and fuel inputs. And I think the big one is also the – I guess, the Treasury balance and the ability to get some of this cost recovery back and assess that against the balance sheet. But it's a minimum of $0.05. And if we get some tailwinds and some of this through then the board would certainly consider something more than that, but it's really those input costs and gold price that drive it. And that sensible Treasury split across cash and debt component.

Got it. Thanks. And Ross, the second one is actually for you is [indiscernible] (00:42:54) I tried to ask for the production results, you told me to wait. And so, there was a higher amount of stripping costs pushed through the capitalizing as opposed to push for the P&L in the quarter. Are you able to quantify how much that was?

Sure. Yeah. So $60 million that was capitalized for the half. Yeah, $62 million was capitalized for the half, so [ph] I don't know for the actual (00:43:29) quarter, but that was $63 million for the half.

I would say, Ross, that looking at the actual physical performance, Q1 and Q2 contract performance were largely split equally. I don't think there's a significant step up or down on that basis. So, I think, open pit volumes were pretty consistent. So just of that basis, I'd say probably fairly equally split, but that [indiscernible] (00:43:54).

All right. Thanks, guys.

Our next question comes from Daniel Major of UBS. Daniel, please go ahead.

Great. Thanks. First, question on the potential for grid power uplink. Can you give us any sense of potential OpEx savings as a consequence of this? And what proportion of your power would then be indirectly renewable in terms of what you're getting from the solar plant? And I guess, how much – I mean, if you were to link up the power and would that be all of the currently diesel-generated power would be shifted over or would only be a proportion that would be allocated, how should we be thinking about those kind of moving parts on this potential project?

Sure, sure. So, my [indiscernible] (00:44:59) is just under 11 plus [ph] down (00:44:58), so I'm going to have to think about sort of the multiplying fractions together here, which I'm now [indiscernible] (00:45:04), but maybe I'm going to take you through sort of the headline numbers. So, first starting place is that we basically are sort of daytime, if you like – well, not daytime, our daily load is about 45 megs is what we sort of – is our sort of standing power [ph] drill (00:45:19) on a daily basis. So, solar coming on, that will provide us with 36 megs for about 10, 11 hours a day, and then the balance sheet made up by diesel during the day so you could argue in the order of sort of 10 megs of diesel during the day and then obviously as sun goes down, we go back onto diesel and that full 45 megs will be basically by diesel. So, that's where we sit today once the solar plants are fully commissioned.

So, in terms of discussions with the power authorities and initial discussions were for 30 megawatts of power. They believe that that is something that they could sustainably provide down that power line. So, one could imagine that sort of on that mix now, during the daytime we have 36 megs of solar and then the balance of sort of 10, 11 megs strong from the grid during the daytime. So, that's how you blend on that basis. And then in the evening, of course, we'd have 30 megs of grid and about 50, 60 megs of diesel power coming through, so that's how we would look at this stage on a sort of grid connection basis.

In terms then of the sort of the CapEx, look, the industry is just still 3,500 line kilometers of new infrastructure and the initial discussions, the ability to take a 30,000 spur is something that it's not particularly challenging for that, they will set up in terms of putting this infrastructure in place. So, speed of implementation and then sort of – and cost of it, we believe will be sort of subject to finalizing the study, subject to finalizing commercial negotiations and [indiscernible] (00:47:01). It's a sort of three to six-month implementation project [ph] once you (00:47:05) sort of get to pull the trigger on it. So, we've got to allow [ph] to clear this (00:47:09) study and negotiation and then three to six months to implement. So, it should be fairly quick.

And then we also think that in terms of CapEx for this sort of length of – there's going to have to be some switchgear in there and the like. So, we think high-single digit, low-double digit millions for this style of initiative to come in as well. So, again not a significant sort of cost in terms of the CapEx there to implement over the timeframe.

The final thing that is in terms of the cost of it, so we would pay on an effectively [indiscernible] (00:47:41) basis the industrial tariff in Egypt, we know that that's low-single digit – low-double digits cents per kilowatt hour that we're paying. And the current diesel prices, you're probably looking at a about a 40% reduction on the current cost of generation using purely diesel at this stage as well.

So, as Ross mentioned, you sort of back solve all that and you can put the spreadsheet together and sort of [ph] run that (00:48:09) through there. But then, we think solar, the current diesel prices will give us a $20 million to $25 million per year annualized savings into cash. And then, the liquid power could be in the similar order of magnitude, $20 million of annualized savings from switching to grid as well. So, between those two initiatives, if we can pull out $40 million-plus of annualized ongoing cost savings, we think that's obviously pretty exciting and pretty is most of the dividend for this year, for example. And then, of course, on top of all that will be the decarbonization benefits, solar [indiscernible] (00:48:46) effectively zero. And then on the liquid power basis, they are targeting that 40% of renewables by 2030. I think that probably somewhere, as the future number [indiscernible] (00:48:58) sort of 30% at this stage, we're targeting 40%. So, what we're effectively doing there would be displacing diesel for power generation for a combination of gas and renewables. Now, gas is still a fossil fuel. It still has carbon emissions associated with it, but of a lower intensity than burning diesel. So – and so, yeah, we're not fully moving away from carbon emissions with the grid, but it would be significantly better from a gas and renewable basis from burning diesel.

Okay. So, that's just on a dollar terms. Make sure I've understood it right. It would be if you add in the solar versus and the switch to grid, it would be $40 million to $45 million savings relative to the current run rate using the diesel, is that the right way of thinking about it?

Yeah, exactly. Yeah. That's right. Ross?

Right.

That's about right.

Yeah.

I've got $25 million, further $15 million for that – sorry $20 million for the grid power and $15 million for the underground. So, that's $60 million factored in terms of those three initiatives that specifically – yeah, it's $40 million to $45 million for solar and grid power in terms of addressing your power question. Yeah.

Okay. Thanks. And then next question is, reconciling slide 6 shows the production profile with a potential production profile with Sukari underground expansion in 2024 and Doropo in 2025 with the CapEx or indicative CapEx profile on page 16. I guess first part of the question is you got the PFS for Doropo in Q4. What's the current thinking or any change in the timeline on PFS and approval?

And if we think about what's in that CapEx pipeline, with CapEx going from say, $225 million in 2022 to sub $200 million. I mean to achieve the volume uplift you're showing on slide 6, I'm assuming CapEx of the underground Sukari is going to have to come in 2023, is that included in the [ph] $16 million (00:51:18)? And I guess, to start production in Doropo in 2025, you'd also need to start spending CapEx in 2023. So, what's included in that number? And if we were to lay in the other two projects, how would that sort of chart on slide 16 look at your current sort of way of thinking?

Yeah, yeah, no problem at all. So, I think, so first and foremost I'll start with Doropo. So, PFS by the end of the year, at this point, you can only fast forward another year for feasibility. So, we would anticipate, full feasibility by the end of 2023. So, that taking into account the dry season in West Africa starting Q4 this year through to the end of Q2 next year, do field work, go back to the engineering groups and then finish up the [ph] data sets (00:52:10) second half of next year. So, that kind of feels that that's – well, that's the current timeline of [indiscernible] (00:52:18) work. Then I would suggest that [ph] if you've got a (00:52:21) period of front-end engineering, some early stage sort of works, if you took Doropo forward and probably looking at somewhere like 15 to 18-month build. So, I think on current estimates, we would see Doropo coming in sort of that – sort of during sort of that 2025 is where we're looking at this stage. And then sort of back solving from that, your CapEx expenditure for that build would sort of peak second half of 2024 through early 2025 as you basically headed in towards that full construction and commissioning from there. So, that's kind of the Doropo timeline piece, and obviously...

So, just to clear that...

Yeah.

So, is – realistically, I mean, finish the PFS in 2023, you think all you can achieve, if I look at slide 6, it looks like full production in 2025. I mean that seems fairly optimistic, entire construction in 12 months. Is that 2025... [indiscernible]

(00:53:46)

...in slide 6 [indiscernible] (00:53:23).

Yeah. That's it, there's probably a six-month shift on that slide, on slide 6 effectively.

Okay.

What we can do, of course, is that we can sort of start the field engineering, putting in engineering design, overlapping the end of the PFS. Some of that sort of 15-month to 18-month build we're talking about [indiscernible] (00:53:41) three or four months' worth of work and the construction period tends to be construction of accommodation for the construction crew, access roads, cofferdams, all that kind of sort of low level preparatory work. So, again, depending on the board's appetite and how aggressive we want to be, certainly we'll get a [indiscernible] (00:53:59) we're actually committed to putting a number of the sort of lower – sort of the CapEx spend items [indiscernible] (00:54:00). So it needs to post the PFS – sorry, completion of the PFS. We started to put in access pads, accommodation blocks, all those things such that when the actual full construction crew roll up, we've got everything's ready for them to go.

So, again, you can be fairly aggressive around shortening the timeline. It doesn't have to be a sequential linear approach to this. You finish this, move on to that, you can overlap a number of these initiatives, depending on board's risk appetite and depending on availability of funding. So, you could realistically be almost starting construction pretty much at the end of DFS. You could start some of that early stage, relatively low cost preparatory work that forms part of that sort of 15 to 18 months build as well. So, I do think there are – there is a way to sort of, as we've done successfully in the past, there's a way to sort of foreshortened that as well.

So, I would agree, yes, you're right, that that 2025 is probably a little bit aggressively at this stage and it's probably somewhere like a three to maybe maximum six months shift on that. But certainly, no more than that, given the approach that we'd like to take in terms of making sure we sort of foreshorten the construction phase, because ultimately, it's time that sort of – that becomes quite expensive. You've got a lot of head count on the business, a lot of standing fixed costs as well. I think it's time [indiscernible] (00:55:13) these things. The more you can foreshorten that time and overlap activities, more effective – it's cost effective, your build comes on that basis.

So I think that that's evolving. Of course, the final thing then to say is that we didn't sort of – how we would construct or fund the constructing of the Doropo. We're certainly not intending to try and develop that off cash flow and the balance sheet. Clearly, we see the role of a project finance or a structured finance piece at the asset level as part of that, thus minimizing the sort of the cash burn required from Centamin's contribution to that build processing as well.

But again, we'll flush that out as part of that capital structure review that we're talking about later this year effectively as well. So, it's about that – if you like, from a Doropo timeframe, how we see that [indiscernible] (00:56:01) at this stage. And I think the [indiscernible] (00:56:04) there is a number of ways that we can be sort of clever, if you like, around shortening that execution process to make sure we get some key decision point [indiscernible] (00:56:13) to then how we are getting those quickly and effectively to that fair scope as possible.

And sorry, Dan, your second question, that was around the CapEx on slide 16?

Yeah. I mean I guess you've part answered it, with respect to the Doropo piece on the CapEx upside relative to the declining profile you show on page 16. So, effectively it would be 2023 CapEx uplift...

So, that's Sukari, that's Sukari. That's – slide 16 is just Sukari. That's not EDX or Doropo.

So that doesn't include the underground? No, no. Yeah, but I'm just trying to get a sense of – but does it include the underground development to achieve that production profile on page 6? Is that included in the [indiscernible] (00:57:05) offer upside on a 2023 basis.

Yes. So that slide on 16 covers the Sukari concession, and excludes any Doropo site and includes underground CapEx and the like.

But I think important here, Ross, – what needs to be understood is that, so as you mentioned before, we've already purchased the orebody co contract and inventory at the start of this year. And the H2 of this year and that future look forward for the balance of this year is about 35% CapEx this year. That does include a significant amount of new additional underground equipment that's going to go into the underground. So that's actually a replacement for some of the older Barminco equipment we'll phase out and actually increasing a little bit of capacity as well.

So that so – so if you like there was a – if there is a [indiscernible] (00:58:02) fleet expansion for the underground already priced into the H2 CapEx for this year. So when we think about that for the future expansion, let's say, it's the lower end 20%, 25% production increase in the underground, that might be just simply throwing a couple of extra jumbos at the issue, doing some passing bays in the decline and then getting on with advanced development. So, at that point, at that lower end, we're talking, $10 million, $20 Million of CapEx to be able to implement that. It's not huge.

At the opposite end of the spectrum, if you went for 50% plus underground expansion, you might be looking at [indiscernible] (00:58:42) you might be looking at doubling the existing fleet capacity. You might then have to do a significant amount of additional development that goes into that in there. So what I would say, Dan, is that that some of that future underground expansion and forwarding effectively being future proofed in the H2 fleet expansion delivery schedule, which is included in this CapEx. And it's going to be the incremental CapEx of that goes into 2023 that will come in. But I think you should be thinking a few tens of millions of dollars, not sort of $50 million, $60 million, $70 million or $100 million of underground expansion as with CapEx. I honestly think it's going to be a lot lower than that, given the flexibility we've already got that we can deliver into that.

Okay. So to summarize that, if you're going to achieve the production profile up to 500,000 ounces, including the underground expansion you show on slide 6, it would be moderate upside for the CapEx profile 2023, 2024 that you show on slide 16. Is that the right way of thinking about it?

Correct. Absolutely. Yeah, bang on.

Got it. Great. That's all my questions. Thanks a lot.

Thanks, Dan. And by the way, Dan, I'll send you an email to [indiscernible] (00:59:55) various fractions of percentages that I've explained [indiscernible] (00:59:59).

To be honest I think we got that with the dollar number. [indiscernible]

(01:00:08)

Yeah, feel free to follow up as well.

Great. Thanks very much, Dan.

Our next question comes from Tim Huff of Peel Hunt. Tim, the line is yours.

Yeah. Thanks very much. Just two very quick questions. The first was, given that you've highlighted fuel and labor as the two major cost pressures in the first half, I was wondering, given we're five, six weeks in, if you could give us any color around how those two are progressing so far, coming into the second half, whether the pressures continued, whether they stabilized or whether you've even seen any of it easing.

And then the second question was a quick follow-up on the grid power. The timing is shorter than I thought, which is good news, but given that, I mean, you could actually get that implemented in three to six months, some of those cost savings might fall into the back half of 2023. The overall $20 million of cost savings that you highlighted, is that inclusive in the $150 million cost savings program, where do you guys see that as maybe a top up?

Okay, let's go, let's go back to front, Tim. So, that potential from the grid is included in the cost savings. That would be a new initiative into that. Whilst we haven't currently previously accounted for the potential grid within that, so that would be added to that, Tim.

Okay, that's helpful. Thanks.

And yeah, look, in three to six months, that's from the point of saying let's get on with it. So we've got to get through, a technical study by the Egyptian sort of power authority. We've got to have in-parallel commercial negotiation. We've got to get it [indiscernible] (01:01:58) done as well. So that's going to take a little bit of time, Tim, to be honest with you. I think the actual sort of implementation time is 3 to 6 months. So, let's say with the following, in the second half of this year, we're able to sort of put away all the technical work and the commercial negotiations and then at least the first half of next year, sort of, construction period. Yeah, that to me feels realistic, Tim, but subject to...

Okay. [indiscernible]

(01:02:23) as well. So, just to be clear, I think the actual execution element is relatively short. There'll be a bit of work before that to get to that point. And...

No, that's great. I was expecting those savings in 2024. So I mean, any sort of implementation period that short is good news.

Yeah. Look, absolutely. Don't hold me to this. [indiscernible] (01:02:47) on a public call. But look, [indiscernible] (01:02:50) something done a year from now would be great. So, coming on stream that sort of Q3 at this time next year. But let's see, there's a lots of [indiscernible] (01:02:58).

See how it goes. Yeah.

Yeah. Let's get the work done in country. Look, what's clear is that the sort of the electricity sort of infrastructure in Egypt, they are – they see it as a key national sort of infrastructure project. It's got full support from the presidential office, hence they've been able to make these astonishing sort of [ph] 3 gigawatt (01:03:03) 4 gigawatt gas-fired power stations concurrently and expanded the power lines as well. So it certainly got the momentum and it's certainly the execution still to do that. So hopefully we can crack on and get that done. But, no, as you say, it's hugely exciting for us and could be done fairly, fairly quickly.

Brilliant.

I would say that in terms of labor. So labor is about 12% of our cost base and about half of that is Egyptian. So if we are looking at sort of cost inflation around sort of local salaries, that would be applied to about 6% of our cost base, just as a sort of an order of magnitude. And I'll let Ross talk to that in a second. And I would say from a cost input basis, certainly we've seen a sort of a plateauing. We haven't seen the same rate of change as we've seen in previous months and sort of diesel, for example, that's sort of plateaued. Now, at the current level, we haven't sort of seen the sort of fairly sort of aggressive increases we saw over Q1, Q2. They now have sort of stabilized and [indiscernible] (01:04:11) WTI trading up and as high as it was expecting and hoping to see some of those savings being passed on in subsequent months as we go forward as well [indiscernible] (01:04:20). So Ross, in terms of the sort of the rate of change, it's certainly plateaued and looking at that and around sort of the labor discussion.

Yeah. No. You spot on in terms of labor, sort of half of the component and certainly that head count in terms of demobilizing, particularly around the underground staffing and the [indiscernible] (01:04:41) component there is in [ph] chain (01:04:41). So that we're focused on that and on top of it, but you've got the split right in terms of the local component [indiscernible] (01:04:50). Regarding your fuel question, we're averaging about $0.81 to-date on the fuel price against the budgeted price of $60. As Martin said, we are expecting that to plateau and hopefully come down. The good thing is that [indiscernible] (01:05:07) we're starting the first, 7 megawatts, 8 megawatts coming through the system now so as that ramps up into the second half, that'd certainly go a long way to mitigate sort of fuel escalation or pricing, but hopefully, we'll be able to bring that down, so.

That's brilliant.

But we'd model that through to the year – sorry – for the year, up to a $1, and we are averaging $0.81 at the moment, albeit that the current price is higher than that.

Okay. That's really helpful. I appreciate that.

Good.

Our next question comes from Richard Seldon of BCS Services. Richard, the line is yours.

What I was going to actually say, I didn't expect to be [ph] called (01:05:51), but all I have to say is, I was very impressed with the presentation and particularly the replies you've given to questions. So I've been a shareholder for a long time, but I should hold on and I can see getting my money back in due course.

Thank you, Richard. Yeah, look...

Thank you very much. I was impressed.

Thank you for your kind words. Look, I think, we're at a pretty key inflection point now. I think we've got some good momentum and hopefully an improving trajectory as we move on from there. Thank you.

Yeah. Well, thank you, that was excellent I thought.

We have no further questions on the phone lines. I will hand back for any webcast questions.

So, there has been a huge amount of overlap on the questions, on the webcast that have already been asked on the call, so to avoid duplicating I think the main one is the satellite ore bodies at Sukari, how soon before or from these deposits, how soon will it be before [ph] that could be fed to the mill (01:07:02) to help either raise or maintain grades.

Sure. So, as I mentioned the exploration team have laid out about a 25 to 30 kilometer drill program starting almost immediately for those that [indiscernible] (01:07:19). In fact, I [ph] can confirm through (01:07:20) an email that Ross signed the capital expenditure approval form two days ago. So, I can confirm the CEO has been signed and the team [indiscernible] (01:07:31), so clearly the first step is to take a number of these targets and develop them into resources and further indicated resources. And then as soon as we've done that, a little bit of test work around metallurgy to make sure there is nothing funky in there. It's going to sort of have a detrimental impact on the processing plants and then a few bits and things around sort of like [indiscernible] (01:07:51) just to make sure that we're sort of then not either over or under stripping the pits. We don't want to over strip them and take too much waste.

By the same token, we want to make sure that it's a safe operating pit environment [indiscernible] (01:08:03) as well. So certainly looking to press the accelerator as quickly as possible on those. I think realistically one could imagine that as soon as the resource work is done by the end of this year into the first quarter, these in-house sort of the targets, they're already permitted under the concession terms. So, we don't have to go and get formal approval for that. We can do things like some of the med test work in parallel with that resource drilling and there's some geo-tech hold as well.

So, I would certainly hope that by sort of the first half of next year, we were able to throw, certainly the first pit [ph] shelves (01:08:40) in terms of design around the first targets. And then obviously, as we progressively drill our [indiscernible] (01:08:44) target bring them in as well. And then in terms of scheduling them in, and look, these are small, relatively small targets. We've got some operational fleet capacity available at site. We could bring them in. So with the following wind, we could stop contributing to the mine plan second half of next year certainly the first target and I think we're starting [indiscernible] (01:09:04) them in to the south as the first target, we're going to drill off and maybe with the following wind second half of next year, we could see [indiscernible] (01:09:13) being introduced at the mine plan with subsequent roll out to the other targets that, this is subject to more, of course, proving to be valid resource – reserve opportunities.

That's the sort of, aggressive timetable, if we were able to be successful, that could come in. I think at this stage, I don't think much before the second half of next year, to be honest with you, just given the work stream that we've got to do. But just rest assured that we will press the accelerator as hard as we can to bring them in. And I think the same applies to the back in the underground. Obviously, we're hugely excited around the potential there. It is a small sort of area. These are fairly small, thin targets. They're sort of structurally legally complex.

So we've got to carefully drill them all off, to be able to throw a resource around it. Once you've got the resource thrown around it, the mine planning is relatively straightforward. I think the key to best, of course, would be the metallurgical treatment because we believe we've got quite a bit of gold within there is that if we're not careful, if we just throw the vast material into the processing plants, we think there's a material risk that that sort of that high grade gold just doesn't get picked up by the flotation of the CIO circuit. And actually we think that this is risk that all that we are anticipating.

It's just too big and too heavy that get caught up in the normal system. So one of the things we're doing right now is some test work, slightly we've got the networks and concentrate at site, some pilot scale work around that how do we basically won extract that high, that sort of high grade gold from this high grade material and then allow the tails of that gravity to go to the normal processing facility from there as well. So I think first a bit like surface work, let's get on resource and turnaround this first. The mining is relatively easy. I think that on the best work, again, it's about making sure that we really capture the full value of those areas specifically tragedy to drill off these areas, bring them into the mine plan and then see that gold is perhaps right through the processing plant.

Thank you, Martin. So there's one or two kind of outstanding questions that as I kind of largely covered off. We'll follow up on email, given that we've run well through the hour and I know the team needs to move on to other calls. So, Martin, if I could come back to you.

Well, thank you very much, Michael. Thank you everybody for taking the time. Obviously, lot to talk about, quite enthusiastic, as you could tell, trying to get it all across in one go. But look, I think just to summarize. Look, I'm really happy with the performance in the first half of the year. I think the team performed admirably, both production and on a cost basis. It's a real momentum in the second half of the year. And now as we continue to sort of bring Sukari back to that sort of 500,000 ounces, I think a lot of work has gone on in the last 12 months in terms of these background studies. I think it's a really strong pipeline of new second half of the year as we start to drop – what we've been able to fairly positive pieces of news flow that sort of takes us more back to 500,000 ounces of Sukari and then to offer that growth and diversification and I think important to a lot, of course, is the dividend as well.

So just thank everybody for their time as ever myself and Ross and Michael will remain happy to catch away from these webcasts. People got some questions. Feel free to reach out to the initial channels. We'll able to get back to you as quickly as possible, but thank you and everyone have a good day.