Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Dan Shaw — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
James Bell — Analyst, Bank of America
Thomas O'Hara — Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Paul Renken — Analyst, VSA Capital Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Centamin's 2017 Results Call. Also, to those that are dialing in, there is free video, so it will be presented later on during the process of presentation. The first one is near-term growth, the second one is medium-term growth, and the third one is long-term sustainability. I suggest that you download those now so when we do get to those video presentations, they are ready to run on your computers.

Joining me on the call today is Ross Jerrard, our Chief Financial Officer. I'll go through the first part of the presentation and Ross will come in and talk about the financial side of it, and then I'll go through some exploration and an overview for the year.

Okay, usual disclosure. Again, you see our philosophy, the sentiment has always been a growth through cash flow. We've got our operational track record. Sukari has been producing gold since 2009. Asset quality, Sukari is a world class deposit. It's in the top 20 global gold mines for production. We've got production guidance for 2018 of 580,000 ounces and importantly, a plus 20-year mine life from the open pit. Low cost with still significant growth potential to come from Sukari principally from the underground operations Amun/Ptah and potential future from the Cleopatra area.

Again, free cash flow. Sukari has recovered all its CapEx, et cetera. We're forecasting all-in sustaining costs of $770 an ounce, and we have an ongoing and we'll continue to have an ongoing focus on cost discipline. The other important thing as well, can't emphasize this enough, is prioritizing our shareholder returns. We are responsible custodians of cash. We have an announced and subject to approval at the AGM the final dividend for the year of $0.10, which gives a full year dividend of $0.125 for the year, and that's equivalent of, at the end of December, share price of 5.8% yield. And that's $144 million. We are returning 100% of our free cash flow that was generated from Sukari back to the shareholders.

Then while all that's going on, Sukari continues to grow, producing gold. That's also our next stage of growth which is the exploration development at Sukari, and also the near-term and longer-term growth in West Africa where we've also announced a resource increase from the Doropo Project in West Africa.

Okay. Just going back, track record. First gold was port at Sukari in 2009. But you can see, through that period of time, 2010 up to 2016, we had a ramp up in gold production to what was a record year of 551,000 ounces. And then this last year, 2017, we produced 544,000 ounces of gold. Importantly, the other thing to look at, here is the cash cost coming through. Here look, 2012, we were paying – we had subsidized fuel. That subsidy was removed. We're paying international fuel price. Again, you can see that still the cost discipline, that cash cost has been maintained and in fact, come down. We are strong cost custodians of our cash, our cost expenses to make sure that we maintain the returns.

And also, during this period of time we've gone through Egypt. It's gone through presidential changes from Mubarak, the army, Morsi, and then President Sisi. And during all this time, when people said Egypt's been in upheaval, we've continued to grow, we've recovered our assets and Sukari continues to deliver.

Highlights. Again, I've already mentioned it but the highlight, full year dividend, $0.125, $0.10 proposed. It's 100% of the free cash flow. Again, you can see 2016, that was an exceptional year. That's the year we recovered all of the $1.1 billion of capital expenditure into the mine at Sukari. Again, an unusual circumstance, not that many goldmines recover all their CapEx. Sukari has done it and we moved into profit share with the government of Egypt.

So that has come down slightly because we're paying our way in Egypt now. We're paying the government of Egypt, but that's still a 5.8% yield which is significant for gold mining companies but also that's a significant return for [ph] T 250 (04:52) companies as well. So what did we do during the year? We guided at the start of the year 540,000 ounces of gold, we produced 544,658 ounces of gold. We go out at the cash cost of $580 an ounce. We had a cash cost of $554 an ounce. We met our all-in sustaining guidance. We said $790 an ounce and that's what we achieved.

For 2018, we've put out an increase in production predominantly this is coming from the underground, 580,000 ounces of gold at $555 an ounce cash cost and an all-in sustaining cost of $770 an ounce. Again, a reduction in all-in sustaining costs coming through. We had record throughput through the processing plant. We'd guided at 11.75 million tonnes, we've put 12 million tonnes through the processing plant. This year in the processing plant, we're guiding 12.3 million tonnes.

Excellent underground performance. We produced – we mined 1.14 million tons of ore at a grade of 8.3 grams a tonne. And the guidance for 2018 is 1.3 million tonnes at 7.2 grams per tonne. We also had record total movement out of the open pit of just under 71 million tonnes at an overall mine grade of 0.66 grams per tonne, removing the dump leach material that was 0.79 grams per tonne. And for 2018, we're guiding 17.7 million tonnes of ore mined from the open pit at a grade of 0.7. That includes material going to dump leach and being fed to the plant, a grade of 0.95 per tonne which is the new ore reserve grade for the open pit. And again, full year dividend of $0.125.

Okay. The other thing we've announced at the start of the year is the board and the senior management structure which provides us with our governance and leadership. We have our Board of Directors. We have Josef El-Raghy, our Executive Chairman. We did announce that Josef has announced his intention to step down. We are in the process now of undertaking a search to appoint a non-executive chairman by the end of Q2, and then Josef doing an orderly handover until the end of 2018.

Also, the strengthening of our board. On February 5, Alison Baker will join us as an independent Non-Executive Director. Alison will bring more strength to the board for us. And we also have Ross who has been in our senior management. Ross Jerrard will come onto the board on February 5 as well joining myself on the executive side. So again, we've got a good board, we've got good depth in the board, building up strength in our independent directors as well. And then below that level, there's our senior management structure. Again, currently, Ross, he will be on the board, February 5.

As far as Egypt goes, Egyptian relations with government myself is Youssef El-Raghy based in Egypt. He's the general manager of Egyptian operations. Between Youssef, myself and Ross, we have regular meetings with EMRA, and we have very good strong dialogue with the government of Egypt in the country.

Then also that's joined us just recently in January, Mark Morcombe, who's joined us as the Chief Operating Officer. Mark was previously at Acacia. Mark has a very strong mining background, and in particular underground, and that's where we can really – with Mark coming on board we'll really be able to utilize those skills to see what other opportunities we have principally at Sukari with the further expansion of the underground.

Then we have Jonathan Stephens, Chief Development Officer; Norm Bailie is our Group Exploration Manager. Norm is being responsible for driving the exploration at Sukari and also across West Africa. And then we have Darren Le Masurier, he's our company secretary. And then we have Alexandra Carse who's just joined us late last year as our Investor Relations Officer.

Okay. Operational results. Health and safety, obviously everything we're doing we wouldn't be able to achieve it if we weren't doing it safely. We have a workforce in excess of 2,500 people across Egypt and West Africa, less than 1% of those employees are expatriates. And importantly, we're seeing a downward trend. And we've got – we have still further work to do but a downward trend in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. But while this has continued to trend down, well operations have scaled up. But everything we've achieved if we weren't doing it safely, we would not achieve those results.

Okay. Production summary, I've already talked about this but really what I want to emphasize is, when we put out guidance at the start of the year for 2017, we said to everyone the first half of the year would be relatively weak and the second half of the year would be strong. And we guided at 540,000 ounces and we delivered 544,658 ounces. What we said we were going to do, we did. And the ever important thing to look at, the second half of the year which we said would be strong, Q3 with 156,000 was a record, 156,000 ounces. Q4 was 154,000 ounces. If you annualize that, that's the a rate in excess of 600,000 ounces.

Again, costs as well. We came in with a strong cost, $554 per ounce cash cost production and all-in sustaining costs of $790 an ounce. Underground. The underground grade coming out of the underground was – 2016 was 9 grams a tonne, in 2017 it was 8.28 grams a tonne. Again, very strong performance from the operation in all areas, open-pit, underground, processing plant.

Okay. Just open pit operations. The open pit – even with the updated reserves that we put out at the start of the year, the open pit still has in excess of 20-year mine life. We increased material movement last year using the same equipment that we've used the previous year just through better efficiencies and utilization of the equipment.

The strip ratio including low-grade oxide material that would normally be treated as waste was 3.4. That's material that's gone to the dump leach pads, and down from 4.7 in 2016. Ore mine for the year came in at just over 16 million tonnes at 0.66 grams per tonnes, and excluding dump leach 0.78 gram per tonne, and fed to the plant was 0.89 grams per tonne.

For 2018, we're seeing steady state 70 million tonnes with a consistent grade profile coming through. We won't see the variabilities like last year 2017. We've said we've had a weak first half of the year and a very strong second half of the year. The production performance will be more consistent for the entire year.

Importantly, again, open pit mining cost per tonne mine slightly downward trend but good controls and nice costs, et cetera. And again, total totals mined similar amounts in 2018 compared to 2017, all about now consistency in the open pit. Underground operations, we increased the split between stoping and development. Until recently they've been generally around 50/50 split between development and stoping. We had record production from stoping of 684,000 tonnes at 8.9 grams a tonne and ore from development, 461,000 tonnes at 7.4 grams per tonne. The Ptah and the Horus declined. Horus is a lower Amun area, have been progressing at some planned rates. And the Horus decline is now through into that lower Amun levels and the upper Horus zone. And then there's a thrust fault that runs through there via Osiris zone.

Again, we'll see a bit more of this in the videos later on. But with development now being in front – development is actually almost three years in front of where production is where more ore will be coming out from the stoping. And that's how we've scheduled this year to mine 1.3 million tonnes at a grade of 7.2 grams a tonne with a production split between stoping of 65% and development of 35%.

Processing plant with a new record through the processing plant 12 million tonnes which is 4% higher than 2016. And that was all about improved utilization of the processing plant. The head grade fed to the plant was 1.57. That was in line with our guidance. Processing costs of $12.40 a tonne. We're up slightly from 2016 which was $12.20 a tonne principally due to an increase in the fuel price and a slight increase in reagent costs.

More tonnes going through, we did see a slight drop in recovery to 88.1%, but there's further work going on to fine tune recovery, carbon management, automation of flotation circuit. And with the fourth secondary crusher, we have forecast additional throughput for the processing plant for this year of 12.3 million tonnes per annum.

Okay. With that I'll hand over to Ross to give you discussion of the financial results.

Thanks, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. It's my absolute pleasure to talk you through the financials. I guess in terms of a general overview and not to harp on about 2016 but just setting the scene in 2016, we must remember coming off a fantastic year not only in terms of production but we had the tailwinds of a low fuel price, and it was also our final year of cost recovery. So going into 2017, to being able to deliver these numbers are an absolute credit to the team, and one in terms of being able to manage our costs but also being able to generate the cash that we have.

So in terms of high level numbers, a $554 cash cost of production, well below our guidance. The key things there are being able to control our costs, but in terms of the volume movements we talk about fuel a lot. But in terms of the volumes, we burned a lot more fuel, probably 8 million more liters and our average fuel price for this year is increased by the best part of $0.10 cents. Last year, we averaged fuel price of about $0.37 cents a liter, this year we're closer to $0.47 a liter. And the impact of that, both in terms of volume and prices, has been a big contributor to costs and we've been able to offset that against our cost saving initiatives, which I'll talk about a bit later.

Overall, our all-in sustaining costs of $790 were in line with guidance. We'll talk about our CapEx projects and our spends there. But we said that we were going to spend more, it's really driven by the rebuild program which we'll go through which needed to happen but we are back in line with our guidance.

Importantly, our free cash flow of $142 million was impressive and that's come down a lot from last year but that was and entirely due to the full-year impact of profit share which is I've got a slide that we'll show that split on. And the big one is really that our cash and liquid asset position hasn't changed year-on-year. We've been able to pay a dividend of $148 million during the year, the final for last year end the interim, and we've been able to finish with a very strong position. I'll highlight on the right there are our summary of cash costs. I know everybody is always interested in the split. And importantly, in terms of mining production costs, the dollar cost per tonne on the right there but Andrew has already spoken through that.

So this is probably the next slide in terms of what we're most proud about in terms of delivering on guidance. This time last year we stood up and said this is how we thought that 2017 would unfold and gave the guidance. And you'll see on the right there in terms of we either met or beat where we thought we we're actually going to be. There's been a lot of discussion around cost per tonnes but in terms of actual cash cost of production, I've mentioned fuel price in our movements there but in terms of actual absolute quantums moving down from a $312 million cash cost number down to $301 million, it was great result, and ultimately maintaining our all-in sustaining costs almost bang on, on the $426 million.

I'll talk about sustaining CapEx in a few minutes. But again, when we look at the 44 sustaining CapEx and what we actually delivered, we are bang on guidance which was on plan. In terms of our financial highlights, and I apologize, I know this is a busy slide, there's lots of numbers floating around. The top end are really in line with expectation in terms of where we were. When we look at net cash flow from operations, we were very similar to last year and it just shows the strength of the cash engine that Sukari is and the ability to generate that cash.

What I wanted to highlight here was the real impact on our cash position and the impact of that profit share to EMRA, $111 million or just sort of $112 million actually paid to EMRA during the year for 2017, representing that full year impact and ultimately, the effect on free cash flow. But when you look at our cash at the end of the year, we've been able to maintain a very strong position.

So what does it all mean in terms of our breakdown of our sustaining costs? That our mine production cost, although the quantum has gone up from $288 million to $309 million. A large portion of that is around that fuel and reagents and our input costs that I've spoken about. We've been able to manage that.

But importantly, everybody's come to the table and focus on costs, you'll see within range corporate and admin, but the big spends are around the sustaining CapEx costs. Our underground development in this profile here sitting at about $39 million, $40 million a year. It's very consistent, and going into next year, we expected that to be much of the same. There's a little bit more spend that we're budgeting in terms of a CHF plant, but it's that sustaining CapEx other that you'll see the big ramp up, and that's the rebuild program that happened this year. It was really – ramped up you would've seen through the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year in terms of our CapEx spend, and that will continue into next year as it ramps up. We're turning around two, two trucks a month and that work program will continue to for the next year.

In terms of profile, you'll see a number of $100-odd million going through for next year, and that also includes extra spend on tailings storage facility, as well as the secondary crusher, so you'll see that ramp up. In terms of a run rate, that $44 million to $45 million is probably the consistent sort of number that you'd see going forward. But ultimately, delivering bang on guidance and coming back at $790 per ounce.

The focus on control is something that we've really been quite proud about this year. It's meant that we've been able to extract about $20 million from the business, and this is a credit to the team onsite in terms of the various initiatives that have been rolled out. You'll see the breakdown of our costs on the left there. And we're very fortunate in terms of that mix across the board. Obviously, consumables is the major part it, representing the best part of 40% and contractors predominantly driven by our underground mining and obviously our drilling programs.

But fuel is the interesting one. In terms of [ph] oil (22:42) we pay it in Egyptian pounds that's based on U.S. dollars, and I guess our run rate in terms of where that fuel price goes and as we head into 2018 is a very important mix. But the one thing that I wanted to highlight was that labor, our costs, the 9%, we've had two salary increases in Egypt this last year of 20%, and our labor costs are still low in terms of our profile there.

So the components and the mix in terms of our cost breakdown is very unique in terms of comparison against other miners. Some of the initiatives that we rolled out was really around this cost discipline. We've had a major overhaul of our financial systems, it's still in progress, there's a lot more cost measurement and tracking systems, it's helped in terms of our spend on both rebuilds and expenditures. But importantly, you'll see in the financials that our warehouse stores have come down – coming down from about $90 million down to around $70 million, which is being able to extract working capital from the business. So there's been some good discipline there and we're very proud of the momentum that we've created in 2017 and will go into 2018.

So what does it all mean? We try to put together a simple model to explain how it unwound and it's both in terms of the cash bridge and also the free cash, which we talk about and how that links to dividends. But ultimately in terms of pure cash, we started the year with the best part of $400 million in the bank, obviously generated the $676 million in revenue and our mine production and our recurring operating costs of $330 million.

We've been able to extract this $19 million from working capital. We spend the best part of the $108 million on both CapEx and exploration spend, and obviously a full year of profit share payments of $112 million coming out the business and the payment of dividends resulting in our closing bank balance, $360 million at the end of the year.

I would highlight that there are timings in terms of our cash flow and in terms of ounces produced and sold. So when we look at our actual cash liquid assets and factor into account that last week's production, obviously that balance is built in and we're closer to the $400 million when you look at cash and liquid balances. In terms of free cash flow, and that's the important one for us when we benchmark against dividends, this is the bridge from 2016 to 2017, starting with $242 million that was generated last year. We've had a slight decrease in revenue, a slight increase in some operating costs but we've been able to have some saving in our capital movement.

And then we've been able to offset our increase in capital expenditure in terms of that rebuild program with the decrease in our exploration spends. So that $19 million is offset and obviously the scale up of $93 million dollars more profit share payments coming through in the year resulting in free cash flow being reduced to $142 million. That's still very healthy, and the important thing is that we think that's very sustainable going forward. So that's how it unwound year-on-year.

Moving on to our delivery, this is very important for us in terms of our stakeholder returns, and we believe that underwrites the business, but really that slice of the pie and how it all divides our $380-odd million, we've added back the royalty payments in here, but just to show that basically government take out the base part of 30%, $20 million in royalties, and profit share payments to the Egyptian government. We've invested the base part of 30% back into capital investment, and obviously the remaining 38% is our free cash flow. And then this year that's gone back into the dividend distribution.

Importantly, on the right, it's our contribution to Egypt, and really showing what we've actually physically paid in hard cash, and there's been direct contribution in terms of royalties and profit shares of $275 million that we've paid to the Egyptian government. We have fully recovered our costs, and I just wanted to highlight on the right there that we have this ratchet mechanism. And just to make it totally clear that, yes, there's ultimately a 50/50 share. But in the first two years, it's a 60/40 split. For the second two years, it's a 45/55 split, and it's based on a June year-end. So the first two years is up until June 2018, and then 2020 and thereafter, it's a 50/50 share.

So that 38% net free cash flow and what does it mean for our dividend. The slide show it's coming off the back of a great 2016. We've been able to back it up in 2017 with a fantastic result. It's a sustainable dividend stream that's made up of two parts. It's really a minimum of 30% of that free cash flow. It's allocated against the dividend before we allocate capital growth.

And then we look at our cash balance, and we've always spoken to a $250 million to $300 million need for having a cash balance in that region. And this year, it's resulted in a full payout of our free cash flow of the $144 million, which shows that subject to AGM approval, we kind of have paid out the base part of $390 million over the last four years in dividends – a sustainable dividend stream, and I'll show you what the future looks like in a minute. But we believe that it really benchmarks us and differentiates us from our peers.

Dividend yield of 5.8% as at the end of December. And when you look against others and our peers, closer to 3%, it's a fantastic result and something that we're really proud about.

So what does it all mean? I've got on the left there the 2017 guidance and what we said we were going to do. We spoke about this $250 million a part that would be generated, the first $100 million being allocated across as a profit share payment, and of the $150 million remaining, the first 30% going against our prioritized dividend. And ultimately after our growth capital which was exploration and capital, there was a base part of $60 million that we had allocated. So we did about, I guess, a part of $105 million that in the absence of another project coming along, that would be available for dividends.

How it actually unfolded? Of that $250 million, you'll see the split of $112 million and $138 million. It actually goes up to $250 million because of the savings and costs and working capitals of the $21 million and $8 million. It's actually $280 million. So when you look at it as $280 million and you take your 40%, it ends up being $112 million which we paid to EMRA.

And obviously our growth capital being spent brings our full-year dividend down to $144 million. It's not a once-off because when we look at 2018 and the numbers that we've put together for the budget, we think that we'd be in a similar position with the $280 million. And when we do our split, in this case, $120 million, $160 million, importantly, that second half the year, the ratchet mechanism for that profit share has kicked in. In this case, the $160 million, if we take our minimum dividend, we look at a $48 million payout. We've then got some growth capital which is $37 million being allocated with excess cash flow still sitting there of $75 million.

So you add those two together, it still results in a very high potential dividend payout, and that's on the backing of all our budgets where we've modeled this in the $12.50 gold price, obviously the 580,000 ounces. So in terms of sustaining it and continued growth in the future potential of the business, it's a very, very healthy position to be in.

I'll hand it back to you, Andrew.

Okay. Thank you, Ross. Now talk about the organic growth side. First of all, for those that have dialed in, the first video that we're going to go over to is the near-term growth video. And this is an overview of Sukari and the regional geology where Sukari is sitting in there. There's the main structures wrapping around through there and up across through there. Zooming in on to the actual Sukari porphyry itself, and you can see the outline of the porphyry, an aerial view of the underground mine progressing down through there, later-stage porphyry there, and then a sedimentary boundary running through there.

Now, zooming in and looking from south to north, this is looking up the ore body. You've got the main porphyries there in the red-purple. You've got the Amun/Hapi zones. You've got the Osiris thrust fault, and then down here the Horus porphyry, below the Osiris thrust fault coming through. This is the overall main porphyry that has been they modeled and formed part of the global resource. And then below this which is starting to be developed now, the Horus porphyry coming through. Overshadowed it now, this is the open pit as it stood at the end of 2017. There's the porphyry coming through there. You can see in the first half of the year we're mining predominantly waste, then we moved into the porphyry in the second half of the year.

Then it pans back out, and this shows the life of mine pit for Sukari which still has a 21-year mine life from today. And that's all the mineralization heading up to the north through towards the Cleopatra area for the life of mine open pit.

And then coming back in now, looking from south, we're showing the underground development that is being done since the start of the underground back in 2010, the Amun decline coming down. This is predominantly the Amun working. This is only Amun working through here that have been developed. And there's Ptah. And that's the stoping that's being done in Amun and Ptah in red to the end of 2017.

Then I'm coming further through. This is a development in gold, that's a development in Ptah, and then in Amun going down into Horus for 2018. This is over 77 kilometers worth of development to go into those areas. And these are the stoping blocks in Ptah in green that will be stoped in 2018, and across here in Amun in 2018 on both the eastern and the western contacts.

So just stepping back out, it gives you a section from south to north. There's the updated global resource for Sukari, 11.75 million, previous resource was 12.9 million ounces when you take into account depletion. The resources have been recovered. And importantly, the other thing, the measured component of the global resource from previously was just under 200 million tonnes has now gone up to 240 million tonnes through function of the drilling from the underground, not only identifying the high grade areas but also drilling out into the porphyry itself and giving more confidence in that classification, which again flows into the pit and that plus 20-year mine life from the open pit.

Okay. Moving on to the second slide, this is predominately about Cleopatra. This is a medium-term grade. So you can see the right-hand side is Amun/Ptah, and then coming up here, the red is the development that's being put in at Cleopatra, and the yellow is the drilling that has been completed Cleopatra to the end of 2017. Several drill fans coming through that have now been drilled.

Then we'll highlight on here that the grades, basically green and above is the intercepts above 5 grams per tonne. You can see the trend coming through there, see the trends coming through there. This is mapping from pierce points of the actual contact, and that's showing a sort of mineralized trends that Cleopatra is starting to show up.

Again, the red is the lower-grade large mineralized envelope for modeling purposes and the open pit. And then these gold-colored here, that's pierce points where there's drilling, and this is all Amun/Ptah areas that are above 5 grams a tonne and above.

Then coming through, also showing now is the plan drilling for 2018. There's three major areas where there's drilling that's going to be fanning out predominantly drilling out the pierce points on this western contact coming through here, where we've got very limited information. It's very much underexplored, and that's what they're drilling for 2018 we'll focus on.

Now, what this is showing, where we've got the white dots, that's where we actually have pierce points into the contact. Now when you zoom back out – step back out of the entire ore body, you can see the Amun/Ptah area, we've got – in Amun, we've got lots of pierce points on the contact, down here in Ptah also. But this Cleopatra area, you can see there's not that much in the way of pierce points on the western contact. And that's what the drilling will be focusing on and identifying the expectation is seeing the same sort of high grades we've seen through Amun and Ptah, the high-grade mineralization on the contacts. So that's offering the opportunity for the medium-term growth from the Sukari operation.

Okay. And then the final video that we'll have a look at is the long-term sustainability. Again this is just overview, the geology. And what we are looking at here is the previous underground resource. This was the underground resource in 2015, where we had a reserve of just over 0.5 million ounces. That was the open pit in 2015.

From 2015 to 2017, this is the drilling that's being done in the Amun area and across through the Ptah area, and importantly, this drilling coming down into lower Horus porphyry. And again, 2015 resource drilling, the shapes that have come through, now color-coding, and again, green and above, everything above is basically 5 grams a tonne. There's those areas that were previously outside of any resource coming through in here and down through there.

Same with Ptah. This is the Ptah drilling that's being done from 2015 to mid-2017. Again, green and above is pierce points, intercept is about 5 grams a tonne, and you can see again on that contact very high grades coming through that were all outside of the previous 2015 resource.

So just stepping back to have a look at it, 2015 resource now coming through. We'll show where the changes have come through for the 2017 resource. You can see there's been further growth in that area coming down into Horus. Again, coming down on this area of Ptah and down the bottom through here on Ptah. Just above the thrust fault, the Osiris thrust fault that come through this area.

Again, rotating about it, you can see it's predominantly sitting on that western contact but also through on the eastern contact as well. That's all new blocks in there that are in the new resource and new reserve for the underground of just over 750,000 ounces of gold.

Okay. So just a quick summary where the drilling has been focusing on. Obviously, the Amun area, and then coming down, we've got the Osiris thrust coming through here and then into the Horus zone. And what's interesting, this Horus zone where development from the Amun area will go through in 2018, you can see there's some very significant intercepts in this lower porphyry, 1 meter at 41 grams a tonne, 4 meters at 31 grams a tonne, 1 meter at 55 grams a tonne, 5.8 meters at 59.9 grams a tonne, 1.5 meters at 13 grams a tonne, 1 meter at 337 grams a tonne, 2.5 meters at 151 grams a tonne, 3.2 meters at 75 grams a tonne. And these lower results are all the outside of the latest resource and reserve that was put out for the underground.

We've got a small portion into the resource just up in there for the Horus area, and that came in – that's got a grade of 11.5 grams a tonne to 15 grams a tonne in the small portion that's been modeled. Also outside of the resource update is the gap. We always refer to it as a gap, we've called it BAST now. Again, because the Horus decline comes through there, we've put in more drilling in the second half of the year to come through, and we're seeing intercepts, 6.1 grams a tonne, 45.8 grams a tonne, 11.8 grams a tonne, 86 grams a tonne, 419 grams a tonne, again those results are outside of the latest resource.

Then Ptah, this is all within the resource update. Again, individual drilling points which has been added to the resource. Intercepts, 15 meters at 5.3 grams a tonne, 2 meters at 20.2 grams a tonne, 2.6 meters at 24 grams a tonne, 1 meter at 39.6 grams a tonne, 1.3 meters at 20.8 grams a tonne. Again, it's all on that western contact.

And then Cleopatra, with results that are starting to coming through, currently Cleopatra is not in the resource but the initial pierce points that have started their approach on the contact, we're seeing grades of 0.8 of a meter at 569 grams a tonne, 1 meter at 40 grams, other grades 13 grams a tonne, 11.8 grams a tonne, 14.1 grams a tonne. Again you can see the significant growth potential from the existing operation at Sukari from the underground operation.

Okay . And then stepping away from Egypt, we're also exploring in West Africa in Burkina Faso and in Côte d'Ivoire. We have over 4,500 square kilometers of permits and a further 2,500 kilometers under application. Excitingly for the Doropo resource, we announced an initial resource in Doropo at the start of 2017 of it was 1.3 million ounces. And that was 300,000 ounces of indicated material and 1 million ounces of inferred.

During the course of the year, with the drilling the team has undertaken in Doropo, that indicator resource has now increased by 1 million ounces to 1.35 million ounces indicated, and the inferred is stated somewhat was – it's at 0.9 million ounces. So we now have – in Doropo, we now have 2.35 million ounces of resource between 1.35 million ounces indicated and the remaining inferred.

That's exciting. It's all new surface. It's oxide – the ultimate test work so far has shown conventional CIL-type milling. The team has untaken further drilling, but that's looking very, very exciting as a potential project coming on in the near term.

The other exciting thing has been the ABC Project on the western side of Côte d'Ivoire that's basically initial work, and that has also proved very, very prospective, but it's a much earlier-stage exploration project. Then we have ongoing resource works in early this – first half of this year, just trying to identify and confirm further oxide resources around the existing Konkera resource in Burkina Faso.

Okay. Just as I've already talked about this, but this is the Doropo resource, the 1.35 million ounces. It's all sitting within a 5 kilometer radius and there's still further geochemical anomalies in that area that the team will be testing over the course of the first half of this this year.

Interestingly, this is this is all a granite-hosted domain. Historically, they're being deemed as not being prospective. The exploration team based in Côte d'Ivoire and the [ph] Barrick and Fidel (44:47) have done a phenomenal job ground-proofing and really developing that resource are area, and they've got to take credit for this discovery. And as I said, the initial metallurgical test work is all very, very encouraging.

Then across the ABC Project which stands for the Archaean-Birimian Contact, again, [ph] Barrick and Fidel (45:08), they were always interested in this ground, and they went and paved it. They did a whole lot of surface geochem work. And there's a strike length of 80 kilometers. Now they've done systematic mapping across. And then in the second half last year, they drilled seven lines over 12 kilometers. Now, it's still very early stage, but each of those seven lines spread over the 12 kilometers came back with mineralization. But it's still very much greenfields.

But this is one of the lines. This is an example, 24 meters at 1.6 grams a tonne, 14 meters at 1.4 grams a tonne, 39 meters at 2.3 grams a tonne, 19 meters at 1 gram per tonne, and 21 meters at 1.5 grams per tonne, 18 meters at 1.9 grams per tonne. This is earlier-stage exploration, but it's another one in the profile that looks exciting. And with Doropo and Cote d'Ivoire, I mean, this coming through as well, it's giving Cote d'Ivoire an emphasis for potential further growth for Centamin outside of Egypt. Combine these with Sukari, further expansion of the underground, successful results in Cleopatra, there is a good exploration pipeline within the group itself.

Okay. So quickly now, the outlook for 2018, we'll continue building on our solid foundation with forecast. We're going to mine 1.3 million tonnes from the underground, which is a 14% increase from 2017, principally driven by further increase in stoping material. As I said earlier, development is now [indiscernible] (46:50) in front of where stoping needs to be so we can lift that stoping right while we continue on with in excess of seven kilometers of development over the course of the year.

Guidance grade is we've guided the grade from the underground at 7.2 grams a tonne. And in 2017, we guided 7.3 grams a tonne, and we actually achieved 8.3 grams per tonne.

Open pit, the open pit is the backbone of the operation. It's a large-scale bulk mining operation. We mined 70.7 million tonnes. We forecast we're going to mine a similar amount for 2018. And importantly, we don't have any low-grade cutbacks to go through like we did in 2017. They'll be a more consistent open pit grade [indiscernible] (47:40) the processing plant over the course of the year.

Stage 4A is the principal cutback, and that's the principal ore source, and in fact, Stage 4A, 4B is the ore source from the open pit for the next five years.

Again, processing plant, we've guided slightly increased tonnes again, 12.3 million tonnes, eighth successive year of increased tonnes through the processing plant with the installation of the fourth secondary crusher. And this potentially – they may get a little bit more through the processing plant, and also while getting some more through, there's also the focus on doing that little bit to lift for recoveries. More tonne is going through the same processing plant, further automated flotation circuit, improved carbon management as well, has the opportunity to have a slight lift in recovery as well.

Okay. Centamin, what are we all about? Consistent strategic objectives, long-term sustainability. We've got the Sukari operation, large-scale, long-life, low-cost asset, strong margins. We are debt-free. We have cash and liquid assets at $418 million at the end of just December 31, 2017. As you've seen today, with subject to approval prioritizing stakeholder returns, focus on cash generation, we're profit sharing with the government of Egypt that's paying our tax in Egypt. We've recovered all the capital et cetera.

We don't pay any other tax in Egypt. Profit share is our tax. There's no VAT, there's no withholding tax. That is our tax on cash flow. And the dividends take our first priority on the use of free cash flow. We maintain a cash balance of between $250 million and $300 million. Anything in excess of that we will return to our shareholders as you will have seen today with the dividend proposal subject to shareholder approval for the full year for 2017.

Optimization is [ph] forever (49:46) opportunity to Sukari. Potentially increased high-grade underground production. If Cleopatra comes through as we would like to think it would, there's a potential of it's being engineered to be able to handle another million tonnes of material from that operation. Plant throughput, there's small increases in the tonnage for the processing plant but the processing plant – a plant milling in excess of 12 million tonnes is a big operation.

Open pit mining rate, we're at the rates we need to be for mining and ensuring we have consistent grade delivery from the open pit. Importantly, CapEx requirements have been sustaining CapEx have all been done. There's very little other CapEx required from the Sukari operation. And bearing in mind the operation has been in production since 2008. It's now 2018. The operations got another 20 years to go. Most gold mines have already opened and closed in that period of time we've been operating from 2008 to 2018. So you do have equipment rebuilds, replacement costs, et cetera, coming through. And also greenfields growth outside of Sukari, we've got the excitement of the Doropo discovery, well, growth of the Doropo resource, and the ABC Project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire. And we've also got the deposits we currently have in Burkina Faso. So we've also got some potential strong growth, internal growth pipeline projects coming through from Cote d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso.

Okay. With that, I'd like to hand back over for questions for Ross and myself. Thank you very much.

Hi. It's Dan Shaw from Morgan Stanley. A couple of questions. The first one, just on your search for new chairman, what kind of person are you looking for? What kind of skills do you want – going to bring to the role? You're looking more for someone with experience in the mining industry or from a financial background, legal background? What are your desires from that perspective?

We'd like – we'll bring in a chairperson that's going to add value. I mean, we have got a strong board. We got a strong board already from the legal side, the finance side. Alison coming on board as well, who's also strong from the financial side. So the new chairman coming in with process is under way. We will look and find the right candidate. Obviously, we've got a strong chairman that is leaving, leaving the organization, but we do have a strong board in place and we also have a strong executive and a strong management below that level.

Okay. Thank you. Then, Ross, one for you on the CapEx. So we're seeing a slight increase year-on-year. Can you just walk us through the kind of the bridge from $117 million CapEx to $118 million and what are the key drivers of the increase there?

Thanks, Dan. Yes, obviously CapEx is one of the key numbers there. Generally, so the underground sustaining CapEx spend, the profile is going to be relatively consistent. So you would have seen a number for – we guided $37 million, we ended up $38.6 million. Next year we're going to be close to sort of $38 million, $39 million. And the increase there is just that [ph] CHF (53:26) are coming onboard.

In terms of the other sustaining CapEx, that $16 million run rate of about $26 million was way low. And so we've ended up $44 million this year, and into 2018 we think that we will spend the base part of $52.5 million. The main drivers coming out of that is $30 million on rebuilds, the TSF which is about $15 million, and then a little bit of residual on the secondary crusher. That $52 million will drop down going forward as the rebuild program dips off. And you'll probably see that run rate of about $45 million being sustaining CapEx, other being at more consistent profile going forward.

Okay. Thank you. And then just a quick one on – location of your cash is in European banks or I think that's where it has been the past?

Yes. Yes.

Okay. And then just one final one, in terms of your greenfield explorations, what are your thoughts around timelines in terms of potentially moving that to the next stage and looking at development. Is that one year, two years away? How should we think about that?

Look, with Doropo, it's a very encouraging resource increase. The team has further work to do, but I would like to think with Doropo that we do an internal study and have a look at what we've got in the second half of the year to see if there is a project there. But bearing in mind, we're not going to develop something just for the sake of developing it. A project has to be robust. It has to be able to return its CapEx, et cetera. We're not going to develop a mine just for the sake of adding more ounces to the book.

So while we're sitting here this time next year, you'll probably have a better idea about whether or not you're likely to go ahead with that.

I'd like to think sooner, to be perfectly honest. I mean, Doropo was exciting. The results are looking very encouraging. We still got more work to do, but I would like to think sooner. And also on the greenfield side, the ABC Project on the western side of Cote d'Ivoire, I mean, very early stage, but that is also an exciting landholding.

Thank you very much.

Yeah. Good morning. It's James Bell at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Just two questions. Firstly on the underground, the reserve grade dropped from 6 down to 4.5. I just wondered if you could walk us through what changed there and if that's got any impact on how we should think about grades longer term from the current underground. And then secondly, just on Cleopatra, kind of similar to Dan's question on the greenfield, obviously some promising results. I realize it's early days. Can you sort of give us a timeline on what you're thinking on resource studies maybe putting some ore from there through the mill? Thanks.

Okay. Well, look, the resource grade for the underground is still 6.8 grams per tonne. Now with the reserve grade, some of the areas that we moved into reserve are relatively – they're on the Osiris for us, so they're very flat dipping stopes. So we've applied a much higher dilution factor from our – our stopes sort of basically long-haul open stopes where you've got 10% dilution. Some of these stopes, we've applied 50% dilution. We've only just started mining some of those. So we preferred to go on the side of caution.

I mean, we've always – but if you historically look at that, what we said we're going to do in the underground and then what we've done as well, it is a snapshot in time. And it's going to be up to us to keep everyone updated on a quarterly basis with results coming out from the underground there, and also drill results, et cetera, in that area.

On Cleopatra, Cleopatra drilling is under way. There's two rigs just going flat out there now. We are continuing to develop Cleopatra where we've seen high-grade intercepts. We've got seven kilometers worth of development budgeted for in Cleopatra this year, which we'll develop towards the first cluster of those high-grade assets. In our guidance for the year, it includes nothing from Cleopatra. So, again, we'll be updating on a quarter-by-quarter basis.

I'm sorry, just one more. In terms of the excess cash, I really like the way you guys have laid out 2018. Outside of factors that you guys can't control, so oil price, gold price, what other risks are there to that excess cash not coming back as a dividend in your view?

I think there'd be very limited risk going on that – we've put some sensitivities around – it's really around our inputs in terms of generating that cash. We extract the cash. It's all sitting offshore. And then in the absence of another opportunity coming along, that would be given back as dividends.

Thank you. Tom O'Hara from Exane. This is going to sound very pedantic this question, but your underground grade guidance for 2018 is 7.2 and last year 7.3.

Yes.

Obviously that has happened last year. There's potential for that to be exceeded quite substantially. Why the small sorts of notch lower this year in grade guidance? Is there something different especially given the stoping share of or risk going up?

We've pulled down our development grade. At this point in time where the development has to drive through, we have used a lower development grade than we had for 2017. Stoping grades [indiscernible] (59:32) what their reserves are in those areas. But we have these 35%, those tonnes that's coming from development and we have used a lower development grade.

It's right that you generally take quite a large haircut on the expected development grade anyway, don't you, when you sort of put your guidance together?

Look, it depends where you're developing through. Like – again, Sukari is unique because if you're just developing through low-grade porphyry that's going 0.9 of a gram, it gets holed out of a decline. It goes to the ROM pad. The processing plant is sitting there. You've got a big plant that you can feed it through, because the open pit of that period of time is feeding 0.9 of a gram. Your portal is at the ROM pad. You just put that on the ROM pad and feed it through. A lot of operations, that material would just be going to a low grade stockpile if you're just a straight underground mine. So that's sort of what makes Sukari unique with the big processing plant portal at the ROM pad. And all the porphyry is mineralized to some extent.

Again, it's the same thing with the material that goes to dump leach pad from the oxide, it's the same thing. Normally, you would report that as waste, but because you've got to dump leach pad there, you can put that oxide on to a leach pad and slowly leach it. So that's where Sukari is unique and it's a nice thing to have. It's the nature of the deposit.

Then final question on the greenfield projects. How do you sort of envisage – that's early days, obviously, so let's say we had set this time next year and you're confident in that as a project. How do you envisage that project sort of shaping up? Is it – do you start with an open pit, book mining operation like you have at Sukari then go from there?

Well, it will never be like Sukari. Sukari is a world-class deposit. But Doropo is, at this point in time, it looks like there's a shallow oxide open pits which could be started up through. Initially, it could be a dump leach or a heap leach, whilst you were constructing a CIO plan. Again, initial funding would have to come from our existing cash. We do maintain a cash balance of $250 million to $300 million dollars which is for those sort of purposes. So while Sukari continues to generate cash, you can continue to pay your shareholders and have that consistent delivery of dividends. That's our first priority.

And then if you start off relatively small, operation has to generate its own cash work flow, some of what we did at Sukari, so it funds its own growth so that you're not continuing to take from the cash pool. We're not going to develop something for the sake of developing it. But the Doropo project looks exciting outside of Egypt.

Paul Renken, VSA Capital. First of all, I was wondering what your upper and lower cutoffs grades were for your dump-leach.

Dump – so the only material that goes to dump – Sukari is predominantly sulfite, okay? So it's only the oxide skin which is less than 5% of the total. Anything about 0.32 of a gram if it's oxide goes to the dump leach.

Okay. And the second question I had was for the breakdown, what the 2017 and 2018 West African exploration budgets are or were.

They're non-sustaining, so we spoke about this sustaining capital. This next year's non-sustaining, there's a number there of $37 million.

Just for Africa?

No. No. Of that $15 million is for Sukari, $22 million is allocated to West Africa which is a [ph] 13-6 split, 13-7 split (01:03:40), Burkina being the lower mountain [indiscernible] (01:03:44) taking that $13.6 million I think it's allocated.

That's for 2018?

That's for 2018. So $22 million all up.

And also, that $15 million at Sukari, that also includes 7,000 liters of decline development in Cleopatra.

You'll see an adjustment for Cleopatra in this year's financials. There was actually revenue generated and we've offset that against our revenue line and the costs that have come on.

Okay. Well, let's hand over any questions from online.

[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from [ph] Anthony Dursley (01:04:50), private investor. Your line is now open.

Oh, good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for the update on what's happening at Sukari, et cetera. I wondered, is there any idea how Law 32 is progressing through the Egyptian parliament? Or if there's any chance of a court case being concluded in the sort of up and coming months?

Good morning, [ph] Tony (01:05:21). There's been no progress through the court system throughout the course of 2017. I mean, we would love there to be progress but it's just tied up in the legal system. We'd like to see it all done, cleared up, and finished with. As soon as – if we have any information, we would be making that information available.

Thank you. It's just that I do feel that the sentiment, in some way, is penalized by the markets unnecessarily because I know you have a good relationship with EMRA. And I understand that there's little for you to – there's nothing for you to answer regarding the court case because you've done nothing wrong. The accusations were false.

So, it's just a shame that these things they used, in my opinion, to hold the companies back in some way by the market is just a shame. And I keep asking the same question. I'm sure you would like both Law 32 and the court case out of the way as much as we do. And I apologize for asking once again and I appreciate that things are out of your hands but, once again, thank you for everything you've done in the past year.

Thank you, [ph] Tony (01:06:48).

[Operator Instructions]

All right. Well, it doesn't appear that we have any more calls. So on that note, I'd like to wrap it all up and thank you all for coming along today. For those of you around, we're around here for a little bit longer. Feel free to have a chat. Thank you very much for attending. Thank you for calling in.