Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Pardey — Chief Executive Officer, Centamin Plc
Nick Hatch — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
Richard Hatch — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Nikolas Toleris — Analyst, Mirabaud Securities LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Centamin 2015 Annual Results Presentation. The summary, 2015 summary, goal production guidance was revised mid-year from 420,000 to 430,000 to 440,000 ounces. We came in at the top end of the guidance range at just over 439,000 ounces.

Cash cost production of $713 per ounce, was down from $729 per ounce in 2014. Importantly, our Q4 cash cost was $667 per ounce. All-in sustaining costs were significantly below our initial guidance of $950 per ounce, principally, due to rescheduling of some of the sustaining capital items. [ph]

EBITDA, (01:05) gross operating margin reduced [ph] through gold (01:07) price, high costs associated with inventory movement compared with 2014. Cash and liquid assets is $230.7 million, up from $162.8 million at the end of 2014.

At front-end we've had a final declared dividend of $0.0197 per share, so our full-year dividend to be approved at $0.029 per share, which is approximately $33.7 million, and at the top end of our policy payout of 15% to 30% of the net cash flow.

Earnings per share of $0.047, down from $0.0721 per share in 2014. Contributing to this was the $6.3 million write-off in exploration from Ethiopia, where we're withdrawing from doing further exploration in Ethiopia and a $6.8 million tax charge in relation to foreign exchange gains on cash holdings held within Australia.

Importantly, during the year, Sukari's reserves increased to 8.8 million ounces, up 7%, principally from positive results from ongoing underground drilling. And exploration in Burkina Faso and Côte D'Ivoire progressed, we're looking at total resource growth coming through later this year in 2016.

Operational [ph] view (02:33) full-year production was at the top end of the guidance range. Q4 production at the [audio gap] (02:40) 450,000 to 500,000 per annum ounce range is we've used as our base case. Record production from the open pit totaled tonnes mined up 28% on 2014. Grade was slightly below average what we forecast at the start of the year, but the pit development is progressing as per the plan and grades have returned to what we've reported in our initial Capital Markets Day in May last year.

Record production from the underground, tonnes up 20% on 2014 and underground grades have remained stable at importantly above 6 grams per tonne. Processing, we continue to ramp up and reached the base case target of 11 million tonnes per annum in the fourth quarter. And recovery has improved and is now just under 89%.

Processing, we've seen there's a strong ramp-up in the productivity in the tonnes milled. You can see historical, the ramp-up, stage 4 coming online, and importantly, 2015 had significant ramp-up for stage 4 fully coming online. Head grades have obviously reduced with the increased tonnes as the operation has scaled up and now the work for the processing plant is to get that potential up towards the 12 million tonne per annum rate and recoveries up to around 90% and focus on that long-term goal of lifting Sukari to produce well in excess of 500,000 ounces per annum.

The open pit, the performance, we had a fatality in Q4, in late November in Q4 where we had a drill rig open up, fall down into a cavity. The convergence of two geological structures. So that did have an impact on our Q4 production rates from the open pit and an impact on the grades.

We had a period where we had four days, we had no production from the open pit. And then, we restarted production in the higher areas of the open pit and it was a 10-day period in late November, early December where we were not mining high-grade ore from the bottom of the open pit, while we did the full investigations, remedial actions before we deemed it's appropriate to go back into that mining in that part of the pit.

We've had record total material movement, up 28% on 2014; increased fleet utilization and blasting following back in 2014 – October 2014 when we could increase the ammonium nitrate to 40 tonnes per day delivered, and we continue to receive that. We have no issues with ammonium nitrate accessories, et cetera. Everything now is functioning normal and has for all of 2015. So that's a question we always get asked.

And importantly, now, we've got the development back on track for the open pit, the open pit grades are returning to the reserve average grade, which we presented in the Capital Markets Day, and we'll see going forward for 2016, 2017, 2018 onwards.

Underground. Productivity is seen above our base case of one million tonnes per annum where we mined just under 1.2 million tonnes, a 20% increase on 2014. And importantly, the average mine head grade is 6.5 grams per tonne. Earlier 2014, we'd seen some volatility in the grades in the underground that is all now steady state, and we're continuing to deliver a grade around 6 grams, 6.5 grams per tonne. Ptah decline and ore grade – ore development is progressing as per the plans and our underground drilling continues to support further reserve growth.

Production forecasts, et cetera, we put our guidance to 2016 of 470,000 ounces at a $680 per ounce cash cost and all-in sustaining costs of $900 per ounce. The table provides the outlook for 500,000 ounce growth going through to the remaining years 470,000 ounces for this year; 2017, 497,000 ounces; 2018, 488,000 ounces; and 2019, 507,000 ounces. Importantly, that is based on the base case for the processing plant of 11 million tonnes per annum and the underground delivering at a million tonnes per annum.

There's the opportunity to lift that processing further to around 12 million tonnes per annum, the underground on an annualized basis from the Q4 numbers is operating in the vicinity of 1.2 million tonnes per annum rate. And it is capable of handling up to 1.5 million tonnes per annum with the existing infrastructure. So there is a lot of opportunity there to further growth with gold output from Sukari. Basically, just talked about that now, and the other one is also getting net recovery up to 90%, currently standing at just under 89%.

Financial review. Our earnings were impacted by the exploration write-off in Ethiopia and the tax charges from the foreign exchange gain in Australia. Ahead of these exceptional items, the business is still generating substantial cash, cash flows. There was an 8% drop in gold prices, it was the main factors on the drop. However, our cash flows was still very healthy and allowed increased dividend payout to the top end of the 15% to 30% free cash flow.

Our $5 million prepayment against profit share, which we expect with current gold prices to come into play in 2017. There was also a $34 million exploration spend outside of Egypt. And net of these, there was around a 40%, $70 million increase in cash and liquid assets to over $230 million. And importantly, Centamin remains debt-free, unhedged and is, therefore, fully exposed to the gold price.

Breakdown of the unit cost per ounce. Production cash costs were $713 an ounce. It was down from the $729 an ounce in 2014. There was a positive impact on the cash costs principally due to a big reduction in the fuel price, the international fuel price. Although the costs were above the guidance at $700 an ounce and the high production of 439,000 ounces, the original forecast of $700 will be based at $420 per ounce.

Sukari, we've really been focusing on getting the operation up to its nameplate capacity, and importantly, what we really have to focus on this year is driving those operating costs down so that we can get further gains and further margins. There's further efficiencies that we can still gain from Sukari that we need to really push and drive hard for this year and moving forward.

Cost per ounce, the overall trend with the increased throughput is falling. All-in sustaining costs are continuing to come down, and a big focus for this year is continuing to drive those operating costs down further. Again, I'm talking about this is a big year for us to really focus on those operational costs and really driving down increase and really improving our cost focus.

Free cash flow importantly on the base case model, the operational free cash flow, you can see coming through including exploration afterwards dividend payments. We're still in a very strong position with cash and liquid assets going through to the $458 million in 2019. All the major expenditure and capital at Sukari is complete. And with this projected cash build after dividends and explorations, it provides the finance for the next stage of growth of Centamin.

So again, you can see over the years, the cash build, opening cash balances in 2015 through the closing cash balances at the end of 2019. There's cash flow from the operations, you have the dividend payments, that's all factored in there. The dividend payments, exploration costs, maintaining those. And then, in 2017, with profit share kicking in with the government of Egypt, you can still see there's significant cash flows moving forward. And as I said before, this cash flow will fund the next stage of growth for Centamin.

Exploration review. Our total reserve to Sukari increased by 7% to 8.8 million ounces. Principally, it takes out of a reduction in fuel prices from what we'd used before. The underground reserve has increased through further drilling and development as we go on and with results that we're seeing, we expect to see further growth in the reserves at Sukari.

Again, just as a reminder, most of you are very familiar with this slide, but this is a final open pit shale coming through here. You've got the Amun decline which comes down through here. This black area is what's been stoped up until the end of 2015. The Amun area, the huge statement to come online. The Ptah decline driving to the north and the Ptah resources in this area. And importantly, since that reserves, the underground was released, these further drilling [ph] steps (13:26) that we're seeing, examples, five meters at 39 grams, 21 meters at 46 grams, 13 meters at 48 grams. That's all in Amun area, and then, heading out to Ptah, 5 meters at 50 grams, 18 meters at 17.9 grams per tonne, 31 meters at 6.8 grams, 38 meters at 9.1 grams.

So, again, the drilling is really, really giving more strength to the underground and showing that the underground is going to be a long-term part of Sukari and has a lot more still to deliver.

Again, looking at the Ptah Zone, these ones in red. This is a [ph] 10, 9.50 (14:09) north. These results [ph] 13 at 9.9, 13 at 8.8, 4 of 6.9 (14:13). These are all again outside this currently reported underground resource. And importantly, you step just 450 meter service at north, and again, you can see that you're seeing continuity as the development in the drilling is coming through these areas. We're seeing a continuation of those grades, and then, importantly, that strike length over the plus 400 meters. Again, giving us the support to show that the Sukari underground is an important and a long-term part of Centamin's growth strategy at Sukari.

West Africa. West Africa, last year, we really lifted our exploration pace in West Africa, predominantly in Burkina Faso, where we have just over 2,200 square kilometers of tenement and in Côte D'Ivoire, where we are more of a greenfields exploration phase. We have 1,500 square kilometers of tenements approved and another 1,800 square kilometers under application.

There's an existing resource in Burkina Faso with approximately 3.2 million ounces, which is basically on this Konkera area. We have focused our exploration during the year across the entire belt, doing a lot of geophysical surveys, so further soil sampling and geochemistry, and we've really focused spending on Wadaradoo to the north and Napelapera down to south. So we currently have four multipurpose rigs drilling in that area and a further one rig drilling down in this area, Napelapera.

And again, Wadaradoo to the north, we're starting to see some very consistent intercept coming through. You can see about 26m at 1.6 g/t Au, 39m (sic) [36m] (16:05) at 1.2 g/t Au 16m at 6.5 g/t Au, 18m at 5.8 g/t Au, 38m at 3.3 g/t Au, and again, that's on the 320° Structure. We have a major structure coming running down through here, which we call the 020° Structure, and then, we have splays running off that, which is the 320° Structures. And so we're finding mineralization all the way along this structure, which we're currently drilling.

And then, we have the splays come off the 320° Structures, approximately, we think a 150 meters out from the intersection of those structures. This is where we start to see this brittle dilation and we start to these grades coming through on the 320° Structures. So the team is systematically drilling along these two structures to identify further resources. And with the way that drilling is going at the moment, we expect later this year, we'll be coming out with a resource at Burkina Faso.

So, in summary, we've got a track record of project delivery. Sukari is generating significant free cash flow opportunities for optimizing production at Sukari, reducing the costs and this will lead to that free cash flow; shareholders returns $231 million in cash and liquid assets, no debt, no hedging with this continuing on, this will fund our next stage of growth, which at this stage, our growth strategy is growth for exploration both at Sukari and in West Africa.

I'll hand over for any questions now. Thank you.

Hi. It's Nick Hatch from Canaccord. Can you talk a bit about the recent devaluation of the Egyptian currency and how you expect that to impact costs?

Yes. It's only about 10% of our overall operating cost exposed to Egyptian pound, mostly Egyptian salaries is the large focus there, plus a few consumables. So there's a positive impact from the devaluation. It's relatively minor in terms of the overall impact. And I think, in any case, you will see some inflationary pressures over time offset that. We're seeing inflation in the double-digits, low-double-digits sort of level. So, yeah, I don't think there's a really meaningful impact on us. [ph] Philip? (18:43)

Could you talk a bit about all these really good underground drill results, if you're considering more of the idea of perhaps [ph] doubling (18:55) up the underground or investing within the mine, say, if your [indiscernible] (19:00) or your West African exploration doesn't return results?

Well, realistically, the obvious choice that would give us the best return is further growth of Sukari. So as the drilling and the development progresses, and we've still got capacity from the existing infrastructure about to 1.5 million tonnes per annum. There is opportunity there that will increase this [ph] underground effort. (19:25) The important thing is having – when we did the big ramp-up in 2014, we saw that unstableness in the grade. The important thing is to consistently deliver the grade. So it's focusing on quality over quantity. But, yes, there is opportunity there and that's part of the underground exploration and development to maximize productivity, but most importantly, have the right growth

And with the Ptah decline getting further out to the north now as well, we're getting more access to that part of the ore body to drill it down in the exploration [indiscernible] (20:00). So you can get more information and more confidence to make that decision over the coming quarters maybe, year-to-year sort of period. [inaudible]

(20:12-20:19)

Yeah.

Correct. Yes. We wouldn't rush in and do anything drastic. And as I said, it's important to maintain the quality ounces coming out.

Great. Any other opportunities in Egypt that you're looking at and how is the discussion with the government going on in [ph] physical (20:36) terms in Egypt?

Egypt has a lot of opportunities. The exploration potential in Egypt is huge. Egypt has been through a series of parliamentary elections, et cetera. There is now a parliament in the country. They're settling in. They seem to be settling in very well. So it's the ideal time this year is to go and really approach them about trying to bring in a modern day mining code tax, royalty, [ph] rental-type (21:02) arrangement.

Would that affect Sukari overall?

No. Sukari is covered by the Concession Agreement Law No. 222 of 1994, so it'd have no impact on Sukari.

Yes. So Egypt have these process of [indiscernible] (21:19) concession block system [indiscernible] (21:22) the oil-and-gas industry. So the conversation, as we'd like to direct it and [indiscernible] (21:31) would be to adapt and modify the mining code to a more standard rent royalty tax system to find another successful mining jurisdiction. So, hopefully, that will progress in that direction. We'll see.

You've got your eyes on anything else?

Well, I think [indiscernible] (21:52)

There's various targets across Egypt. I mean, even within Sukari itself 160 square kilometers we have. All our exploration has really focused on the main Sukari ore body. And the underground, we also – at some point, we need to really go back and look at what else we have in our existing 160 square kilometers.

Back in the 1990s, when Centamin started out in Egypt, we had 5,500 plus square kilometers of Eastern Desert under exploration license, which we gradually relinquished on over time and focused on the commercial discoveries at Sukari. We've done work on other parts of the region. We know the areas [indiscernible] (22:35). [inaudible]

(22:40-22:51)

Basically, we manned up our own team. When we did the initial ramp-up, we had the same sized team. That's really all it was. Now we have more underground mining engineers, underground geologists. When we did the ramp-up initially, we did it with the same team of basically four people. Now we've tripled the number of people that we have in the underground from the outside. So there's more strength in the engineering and the geological side than what we had previously. [inaudible]

(23:20).

Correct. Yes. [inaudible]

(23:24)

Basically, that's right. [inaudible]

(23:31-23:40)

Look, most of it's been deferred. Most of that was equipment rebuilds. And when the hours were coming up, equipment rebuilds, equipment didn't get to the required hours where we needed those rebuilds. Plus, we've also introduced some oil sample testing. So rather than just scheduling a rebuild on the hours of operation with the oil testing, you convinced that to prolong it out further – you check the oil, look for the metal and the oil, and that gives you an indication of what sort of way you're seeing on your engines and your major components, and you can then delay that further, or in some cases, you may have to bring it forward. It's getting smarter in how we schedule and when we do complete our rebuild.

Sukari has gone through a rapid expansion phase. Now, it's really a case of the team onsite knuckling down and focusing. We've got the ramp-up done. There's still incremental increases in ramp-up. Really focusing on cost side of things and driving that down. And I believe there's a significant gains that we can still make from that.

Those maintenance costs haven't been deferred in the sense that you'd expect to see a lot of cost that we didn't spend in 2015 then coming in in this year or next year is smooth and scheduled is sort of more optimal. These are the equipment we've got. [inaudible]

(25:06-25:19)

You've got Sukari. I mean, Sukari is a significant deposit. So our goalposts are very high, because whatever we do, whatever we have, we do not want to detract from Sukari. I'm not going to take Centamin to be 1 million ounce a year producer, if it's going to cost me $1,200 an ounce. So you can sort of work out the baseline in Sukari. So it's quite a high hurdle rate. [indiscernible]

(25:45)

Yeah. And it's all about I'd rather be producing 700,000 ounces at a very low cost than 1 million ounces at $1,200 an ounce. Again, it's quality over quantity. That's the important thing.

And we have done a lot of [ph] DD (26:03) over the last 12 months, 18 months. And when you start looking into a lot of places, and you look into the finer detail, you see issues. And so it doesn't work. And that's why, we've really adopted the strategy of growth by exploration. We can control it, et cetera, and we know we can deliver. We've built Sukari. We've expanded Sukari. Sukari is generating cash flow. So we can use that cash flow to build an extra operation.

And again, whatever we do, it would be on a similar model as Sukari, start out relatively small so that it can generate some cash flow. And that cash flow can move into funding that operation rather than taking further cash flows from Sukari. So we'll maintain our dividend policies going forward. [inaudible]

(26:55-27:00)

Yes. Yes.

Yes. It's already coming through this quarter. [indiscernible] (27:09).

Yes. And so far, we're going well. We put out our guidance at the start of the year. We're seeing no reason why we'll have to suddenly re-guide. So that open pit is the backbone of Sukari.

At $1,200 gold price that you got meaningful contributions. Is the government starting to [indiscernible] (27:26).

Yeah.

So no reason why that shouldn't happen or is that all...

No reason why that shouldn't happen, it's simply a question now of working through the residual of the cost recovery this year and early next year. And then, we start paying profit share pretty straightforward. Obviously, we started prepaying to the tune of just under $29 million now cumulatively. So that will help. And those numbers that you've seen in the presentation were all pro forma per the terms of the Concession Agreement without taking into account those prepayments.

So the idea there was to smooth out the schedule rather than going from zero, zero, zero, and then a big lump part. So I think that has the effect that we were intending is creating the goodwill. So the relationship is strong and good and so fully audited from [indiscernible] (28:22) side. They're aware of the process and the cost recovery and the accounting that goes into it. So this is transparent and [indiscernible] (28:32) I think. [inaudible]

(28:33-28:39).

Well, it's more of a modification at the cost recovery. So we've essentially deferred our own election. Some of the recoveries. Some of those line items. So it will come at various points in time. We'll come at the front end of the cost recovery. Again, it will smooth out the payment. So instead of seeing – I forget the number. I think it's $48 million in the first year and that will be slightly less than that. But it won't be $28 million less than that.

Can you remind me again what the size of this [indiscernible] (29:15) amount is?

There's a number in there. That is over $200 million now. $208 million is the pro forma prepayment that we've recognized in expense. And that's not something that we carry on the balance sheet, though. That is just breaking out the value of the subsidy essentially that we've expensed and not received since the beginning of 2012. In reality, the discussions with the government in that context are ongoing. We do have a strong claim in the court. And our case is robust, we believe, in terms of our rights. That that was paid unnecessarily.

And the decision to remove the subsidy in the first place is made incorrectly. But in reality, we're not going to receive that quantum of payment from the government under this current economic climate. That's the point of negotiation going forward, how that is resolved. We don't provide any guidance, but equally, we don't provide any carrying value on the balance sheet for that. We fully expensed the full international price on a profit and a cash flow basis since the beginning of 2012.

Is there a scheduled hearing on that?

Yeah. They're ongoing. We have a series of hearings, and that part of the process is actually waiting for a State Commissioner's report. Normally, in these processes, you get an advisory report from the State Commissioner's Office in all appeals, all hearings. So that's the part of the process there that we're waiting for in our case. But look, the real point of this is that it will most likely be ultimately resolved through negotiation with the government. The new government understand our position and those talks are ongoing.

And your exploration budget for Burkina and Côte D'Ivoire?

We've said $25 million outside of Sukari. But, predominately, most of that will be – $18 million to $19 million will be in Burkina Faso and $6 million in Côte D'Ivoire. Burkina Faso is much more advanced exploration than what Côte D'Ivoire is. In Côte D'Ivoire, we've done some drilling last year. We now have a multipurpose drill rig in there and we'll have a second multipurpose drill rig commencing drilling there as well. So it's in early stage, but initial results are proving quite encouraging as well.

Is there a reason why unlike other miners who have very long lives, they're looking at solar panels, all these nice zero cash down incentives to sort of hedge out in the event of a higher oil price? Why is it essentially not [inaudible] (32:10)?

We're constantly – we've looked at solar power. We continue to look at solar power. We are looking at gas potential. A lot of the – some of the oil field [indiscernible] (32:25) clearing off. They're starting to capture that. That is another opportunity as well. It's a capital cost. Like solar power, it's basically when you do on the detailed work, it's around $2 million a megawatt in Egypt to get it all installed, but if you went full solar power, it's a significant capital outlay.

It's an 18 megawatt, 75 megawatt power station. And you need to run it at night as well, so you need all the batteries that would go with that. And so it's a pretty big ask to converse to carry fully...

So, look, we're not ignoring...

Perhaps not fully. Yeah. Yeah.

So it's not high in our list at the moment, but we are constantly reviewing alternate energy sources both to carry and potentially if we're going to development somewhere else like West Africa, it was the same thing that partially use the solar power.

Okay. If there's no more questions in the floor, maybe we'll open it up to the line.

We have one question on the telephone. [Operator Instructions] Your line is open. Please proceed.

Good morning, all. It's Rich Hatch from RBC. Just a couple of questions. Firstly, just on the Concession Agreement case. You're able to just clarify whether there is a date to the Constitutional Court Law 32 please?

No. In the short answer, no, sorry, we're not involve in that court process. So we don't know the timetables of the hearings. So the law has been ratified by parliament, the new parliament. So that's progress. That has to happen and then also the other thing that has to happen is the Supreme Constitutional Court has to approve the new law. So hopefully, now that we've got the new parliament, they've approved it – the Constitutional Court will follow suit fairly soon. But we've got no insight into the timing or timetable for that, I'm afraid.

Okay. Thanks, Andy. So I suppose you can't guide us to whether you're expecting a final or an interim judgment then?

Sorry, Richard. I didn't catch that last part there.

Just whether you expect a final or interim judgment, I suppose, you said in the release, there's the potential for both, right?

Does anyone [indiscernible] (35:14).

Final interim judgment.

Final interim judgment on...

I'll follow up with you, Andy, on the e-mails.

Yeah. I think it's pretty clear as far as our Concession Agreement case goes, we have the new law. The final stage of approvals for the new law is with the Supreme Constitutional Court. If that happens, the case should fall away very quickly. If for some reason that doesn't happen, and the law is not approved, then the process reverse to the merits of the appeal, which is in process as well. We think the appeal process as we've seen in a number of other cases in parallel, as you know, there are other appeal processes with other investors in a similar position to us that would also be subject to this new law.

In those cases, those hearings have also been adjourned pending, we think, those lower courts waiting for the approval of the new law. So if that new law [ph] isn't (36:17) approved and the appeal court rules on the merits, then we believe we've got a very strong case for that.

I think the bottom line here, as always, has been we've got the full support of the government. We've continued to operate through the whole of this process. The third party individual that brought this case and the first case is now discredited. He is in jail. He's got his own issues to deal with. The new law speaks to the government's intent to stabilize and honor these existing contracts and attract further foreign investments. This case will go away in time. We're certain as we can be in that respect. It's just a question of timing.

Okay. Thanks, Andy. And then, the last question is do you have any – are you able to guide on any production seasonality over the course of the year?

Sorry, Richard. There's a really broken line. You have to repeat that again.

Don't worry. I'll follow you up on e-mail.

Sure.

We will now take our next question. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hello, guys. Nikolas Toleris from Mirabaud Securities. Two quick questions. The first one has to do with the EMRA payments. Could you please give us some more color on how will you split those $29 million within the next few years? You said that you won't pay back in one installment, but you will split it, but how long will this take?

Like I say, it will be smooth over a period. I can't give you the exact details of when that will come out, but it will have the effect of smoothing the payment to EMRA towards that 50/50 steady state. That's been the idea. That's been the reason why we made those prepayments to progressively move up from zero. So I think if you're modeling it, that's probably how we should look at it, spread over a smooth period rather than in one lump.

Okay. And the second question is with your exploration in West Africa after you will finalize the Ivory Coast exploration as well. Is there any plan considering if both areas have economic answers to mine? Are you considering building up line in Ivory Coast and exploiting both assets in order to get the better terms offered in that country rather than Burkina Faso?

You broke up a little bit, but Burkina Faso and Côte D'Ivoire as far as exploration entities, they're separate entities. If we went to a construction phase in Burkina Faso, that would be independent of Côte D'Ivoire. Burkina Faso's exploration is in a more advanced stage than what Côte D'Ivoire is. Côte D'Ivoire is more early stage, but initial results are encouraging. Again, that would be a standalone operation in its own right.

Okay. That's clear. Thank you very much.

There are no further questions over the telephone.

Great. Okay. There's no further questions in the floor, then we'll wrap it up. Thanks, everybody.

Thank you very much.

Cheers.