Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Martin Horgan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Ross Jerrard — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Centamin Plc
Alexandra Barter-Carse — Head-Corporate Communications, Centamin Plc
Alan Spence — Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Raj Ray — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Ltd.
David Radclyffe — Analyst, Global Mining Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everybody. I hope everybody is well. Thanking you this morning to taking the time to dial in. I'm Martin Horgan, CEO of Centamin. I'm joined today by Ross Jerrard, our CFO and Alexandra Barter-Carse, Corporate Comm. We'd like to take you through some of our key achievements in the first half of what's been a busy first half to 2021. There's a quick disclaimer slide there, which I'm sure you've all read. I think put simply first half has been a period of delivery, so I find obvious, but it's important for us.

In particular, we're delivering against our stated plans and goals that we set out in December. Recently outlined that last year's Capital Markets Day started well. I think we're different company today one that offers both in return via our dividends this one has significant growth potential from a number of identified organic opportunities. At Sukari we produced to 4,000 ounces of gold at all in sustaining cost of $1,186 per ounce. Both these metrics were in line with budget and we remain on track to meet guidance for this year.

We've commensal in advanced key projects initiatives which are instrumental in supporting our target of Sukari being a 450,000 to 500,000 ounce producer in the next decade and beyond. It includes our waste tracking program with 36 megawatt solar plant, our Underground Paste Backfill Plant, as our Centamin Capability Framework. And this record performance underpinned our dividend commitment which we're pleased to announce today as $0.04 US and we'll continue to visit the group level.

We completed our West African review as promised and promise our Doropo Project in Cote d'Ivoire has been confirmed as the priority development opportunity to be our potential next mile. We started the PFS and we'll deliver that next year. And we've skewed over 3,000 square kilometers of exploration ground in Egypt. This will allow us to leverage off our knowledge and infrastructure to explore the highly exciting Arabian Nubian Shield in Egypt.

And throughout all this we've maintained our financial robustness, our balance sheet of $312 million in cash and liquids and no debt in hedging. I think we can reflect on a busy first half of the year with a sense of satisfaction. What we recognize it's just the first step in our journey to unlock and deliver the full potential of sentiment. As I mentioned, we're on track to meet our 2021 guidance of 400,000 ounces to 430,000 ounces of gold producing all-in sustaining costs of between $1,150 and $1,250 per ounce.

And as you can see here, we've not had a clear trajectory heading back towards 450,000 to 500,000 ounces of production at a $900 all-in sustaining cost by 2024. On the top end of that guidance there is a 25% increase from our current target. Our key focus remains our people and maintaining their self-safety, health and well-being. We collectively strive to create a zero harm workplace at all operations, and this remains our primary goal as a management team. It is not group safety record, I am pleased to note that the overall trend of the recent past is improving, notwithstanding the sales performance in relation to lost time injuries, this remains a key focus within the company and an area that we'll continue prioritize.

Of the first of the year, we maintained our full COVID protocols across the group in both Egypt and West Africa. I'm pleased to announce our comprehensive planning and execution of this plan, we've suffered no material disruptions in production, sales or on our supply chain. We continue to work with our local host jurisdictions and stakeholders in combating COVID and we'll continue to do so for the foreseeable future. I'm also pleased to note the continued record of having no material environmental incidents in our operation. We continue to rearview our E&S capacity on site and are actively updating our operating policies and procedures to ensure we operate in line with international best practice.

Back in December, we talked about our desire to attract and retain the best local talent in Egypt with a commitment to training. As the last 18 month have shown us our focus on training as well as being the right thing to do as a responsible mining company also makes sense from a business perspective and having a predominantly domestic workforce. I'm delighted to join the first half of the year before we launched our capability framework at Sukari.

It's a structured approach to training focused not only providing technical skills, but also leadership and management capability and capacity. This approach sourced first launch our Employee Development Pathway Program focusing on training entry level employees up to proficient level and setting out a clear structured path of training and promotion department by department.

The initial phase commenced with leadership development program accompanied by our succession planning exercise support the upward mobility of our workforce. Departments will continue to partner with internationally recognized knowledge partners and our CEOs to provide independent training which leads to formally recognized international accreditation.

Next four months, we looking forward to rolling out the supervisor and management training, our technical skills apprenticeship program and a structured graduate training program. We want to attract and retain the best young bright ambitious individuals from Egypt. In short, we have an exciting and multifaceted approach to developing and investing in our people for the long-term.

Now, I'd like to handover to Ross to walk you to another solid financial performance. Thanks, Ross.

Thank you, Martin. My pleasure to present our 2021 interim results. Centamin is a financially robust highly cash generative business committed to responsible mining and balanced stakeholder returns. Stronger commodity prices resulted in revenue of $367 million being achieved which is ahead of schedule. Taking advantage of the strong pricing we were able to accelerate our key operational program at the mine, which underpins the future financial resilience and flexibility for the longer term.

Our CapEx spend of $78 million was behind where we had forecast for the half, but we do maintain our full year spend, meaning the balance of the CapEx spend will be H2 weighted. This will be predominantly invested in long-term sustainability of the business across a few key projects, namely waste stripping, solar and the paste-fill plant.

Underlying EBITDA was $190 million, which was ahead of schedule and at a healthy 52% EBITDA margin, principally driven by higher gold prices which were up 9% in addition to well managed costs, which I'll speak to you in a bit more detail later. Group free cash flow of $16 million was generated for the half, again ahead of forecast and importantly, we finished the period in a net-net cash position of $312 million with no debt, hedging or gold streaming.

A critical element of our strategy is maximizing long-term margin through managing the bottom line, whilst we have benefited from a higher gold price during the period and have taken advantage of that to get ahead of schedule with some of our key operational programs. We have made marked progress against our stated cost initiatives and performance objectives. The STRETCH program launched to extract a minimum of $100 million of costs from our operations over four years is now fully underway. We have been able to maintain our absolute cost consistent over the last number of period, whilst delivering a 22% increase in total material mined as shown on this graph.

There is ongoing focus and cost containment with the longer term view that the unit rates will flatten or reduce over time as indicated on these graphs. Open pit improved operating productivity and open pit resulted in a record material mine in addition to the ramp up of the contracted waste stripping program. Underground, the underground was equally impacted by lower ton, as there was reduced mining this year due to the infrastructure upgrades from underground remediation. We did see a better tonnage performance in Q2 but still behind what was scheduled.

Processing maintain more consistent volumes and a reducing cost profile as we took the opportunity to move forward some scheduled maintenance into the first off. Processing unit rates were impacted by a continued reduction in consumables and reagent. In G&A, we have maintained the slightly enervated G&A costs mainly due to the impact of COVID and the additional rosters and allowances that were introduced on the fight to ensure we ensure the mine operates largely fully staffed. The G&A cost unit rate uses the process in terms of the denominator. So, any reduction in tonnage process also has an impact on the G&A unit rate.

There continued to be limited fluctuation and sensitivity across our main cost centers as indicated didn't cost breakdown and also the foreign exchange compensation as indicated here on these by pie chart. We have and will continue to focus on cost reduction and efficiencies across all operations that drive our cash flow generation. The pie chart on the left shows operating cost breakdown, a major component of the cost basis of the processing fund, almost 40%. And that's where we believe there's the most opportunity to further reduce the cost base in the near-term. And therefore, a number of our initiatives are focused in that area.

Excellent progress was made throughout the period against our cost savings program which was launched last year with $44 million worth of savings delivered in 2020, another $12 million has now been delivered over the last six months taking the total to $56 million of savings since the launch of the program. There's a long list of cost savings initiatives, some of which have already been delivered and include examples such as the new Fuel Transport Agreement, which reduces the transport of fuel to site by $5 million per annum, improve finite supply terms, which both reduce the unit rate, but also ensure longer future supply; the completion of the new tire workshop, reducing the demand for all new tires, negotiated in-country agreements to recycle the 60-millimeter grinding ball, reducing the reliance on imports but also reducing the cost base substantially; and the new Visiofroth camera installation in the process plant.

I must highlight that $16 million worth of cost savings were already embedded in the 2021 to 2023 medium term outlook and were therefore budgeted. So for us to hit our cost metrics, these initiatives needed to be delivered. I'm happy to report that we are at the low end of our cost guidance. And these cost initiatives are being delivered. We are seeing the impact on the cost base and, importantly, these are sustainable.

There are some big initiatives currently being finalized and numerous others under investigation as seen in funnel. We are targeting a further $30 million to $40 million through additional initiatives that have the potential to deliver further saving. Several work streams are underway to evaluate these opportunities. These include programs assessing the underground mining contract, process plant optimization opportunity, expat reduction programs and dynamic gas blends in our haulage fleet, just to mention a few examples.

And it won't stop here. Across the group, we're developing a culture of continuous improvement whether that be through the workforce delivery, innovation or further supply chain optimization. Capital allocation continues to be disciplined and closely qualified against value creation. The company continues to exercise a balanced approach to responsibly maximizing operating cash flow generation, reinvesting for future growth and prioritizing sustainable shareholder return. It is vitally important that we maintain a solid treasury through a capital reinvestment base.

Construction of our second tailings storage facility, extending our tailings capacity to 2030, was our largest capital project that was delivered on time and likely ahead of budget. This is now commissioned and we are progressing with the third list.

Preparatory works ahead of the solar project construction progressed well with site earthworks not complete and the civil engineering works for a high-voltage switchgear station nearly complete. The builder will commence from H2 with expected commissioning by this time next year. Our ongoing focus of creating a positive work environment for our employees saw significant upgrades to the Sukari camp, including new accommodation which is now complete. And we now have a new Astro football pitch and a larger gym with larger recreational areas currently being built.

Investments in technology, people and training are additional critical areas as the company continues to invest to further improve operational performance. The key projects in the second half include the solar project, waste-stripping program and paste plant (sic) [paste-fill plant) (00:12:52) in working on the TSF2 lift. Annual guidance of the $225 million CapEx is maintained, meaning 65% spend is now expected in the second half.

H1 free cash flow generation was ahead of schedule. This was due to the increased revenue driven by the higher gold price, offset by the decision to accelerate the open pit mining activity resulting in a higher operating cost base, primarily, due to the more material move but offset against the lower spend on CapEx.

Centamin continues to maintain a strong balance sheet with cash and liquid assets of $312 million on 30th of June. This is after generating $16 million of free cash for the period and paying out last year's final dividend of $34 million during that period. Unique amongst our peers, Centamin has never had debt, hedging or streaming in place, thereby maximizing the strength and flexibility of the balance sheet today and offering shareholders gold exposure throughout the cycle.

Maintaining a sustainable dividend policy is central to our strategy and is underpinned by our free cash flow generation. This year, Centamin announced at the beginning of the year its intention that the 2021 dividend distribution would be underwritten during this peak investment year. Today, we announced the 2021 interim dividend of $0.04 per share or $46 million to be paid on 30th September 2021. This implies a final dividend of $0.05 per share or $59 million for the 2021 financial year. Both are subject to board and shareholder approval.

Importantly, our dividend distribution, which are a cornerstone of our strategy, remain industry leading. With an interim dividend of $226 per ounce sold resulting in a dividend yield of approximately 6.3% over the last 12 months, its well above the FTSE 250, which is currently sitting at approximately 2.3%.

Our cumulative dividends paid out now amount to $720 million. Reviewing performance against our financial strategy and delivering on our continued improvement, we have a strong balance sheet, with $312 million of cash and liquids at the end of the period. We are going through an investment phase and we will be utilizing our balance sheet to finance core activities but we will continue to maintain a strong balance sheet position.

We said at the beginning of the year that we plan to extract cost from the business over the next three years. Our absolute costs have remained unchanged, notwithstanding a significant increase in material moved during the period. There's been further good progress against our cost savings program, and these are genuine identified opportunities that are sustainable and are being delivered.

We disciplined in our capital allocation. We have delivered the TSF2 and camp project on-time and on-budget. We're making good progress with the waste-stripping and solar project. We will continue with this discipline, solar stripping and paste-fill being the main projects for H2. And we're very much focused on free cash flow generation and have generated $16 million for the six month which is ahead of where we had forecasted at the beginning of the year.

We will continue to generate free cash in the second half at a $1,500 gold price. And we've delivered our eight consecutive year of dividends with our interim dividend of $0.04 per share today. And it's the board's intention to distribute $105 million for the full year, implying final dividend of $59 million by 2021, subject to the necessary approval.

With that, I'd like to hand back to Martin because the first half has been much about financial delivery as it has been operational, strategic delivery on our promises.

Thanks so much Ross and well done to you and the finance team. It's been a fantastic first half of the year. We have a busy second half year coming up but I think that first half has really put us into a strong position. So before we move off this slide, I'd like to just pause a second. What you can see there is a 785-dump truck at Sukari, what I actually see is something slightly differently. I see this is a real success story for Sukari and for Egypt.

Back in 2020, we identified the idea that we could convert our owner fleet at Sukari using high-production truck tray. Basically, that's a tray that is lighter than the standard one and benefits from a larger payload capacity. This allows a faster truck that burns less fuel, has increased productivity and reduced operating costs while reducing both tire wear and greenhouse gas emissions. We also made equipment to deploy these types of trays at our fleet. We work with the local gypsum supplier, Aresco, to see if we can actually get them fabricated in country rather than importation.

The great news is we could. And what actually you see on that slide there is that firstly, it's locally fabricated trays in use at Sukari. That's a win for us and clearly a win for Egypt in terms of local content generated by the Sukari mine. And our local supplier can now also market this product to the international market and must potentially provide a further boost to the Egyptian economy. And this highlights one of these changes we're trying to bring about at Sukari and Ross mentioned it before the change in mindset around continued optimization of operations.

Not a new concept, but we're empowering and asking site management to constantly think about identifying opportunities to improve our operations. And it's this culture of continuous improvement is one we believe will help to deliver our vision of a world-class mine operating at a world-class ore body at Sukari and it's going to help support that target of realizing $100 million of cost savings by 2024.

I'll talk next about a real example of how this mindset is working on improving operations at Sukari. As we said before, we mentioned the end of 2020, we announced an accelerated waste-stripping program at Sukari's open pit to improve the operation flexibility and underpin more consistent production delivery. Six months later, I'm delighted to say we're ahead of schedule on this key program, which further highlights a number of improvements we've made at the mine.

On a headline basis, we moved a record amount of material over the period to 48 million tonnes against the budget of 40 million. And within this, the significant amount was great. We moved 41 million tonnes against the tonne of 35 million. And you might point out that we have mobilized capital limited and therefore we'd expect to hit record numbers of material moved. And yes, capital did, and did a great job of mobilizing early and ramping up faster than planned. They actually moved 155% more tonnes than they planned over the period.

But the real driver of this outperformance is our own fleet and our fleet moves some 5.5 million tonnes more material than planned in the first half of the year versus an 11% increase over planned. And this performance puts us ahead of where we planned to be for this key program around stripping.

The question is, how do we achieve this? I've talked in the past about realizing marginal gains in a mature operation. And this is a really good example of this in practice. In the open pit, we've been targeting getting our fleet working to industry standard benchmarks. We've looked holistically our open pit operations to see where we can improve our performance, from blasting for better fragmentation, giving us better instantaneous dig rates, align with better truck and shovel loader matching and improved haulage design.

And what you actually see there is the result of this focus which delivered this outperformance that we saw in the first half of the year. The chart on the right-hand side of the page is the control chart. And it measures the daily performance of various pieces of equipment and allows us to track their productivity and performance. This chart shows the performance of an open pit shovel. And [ph] as you can see (00:20:27), we've been able to deliver an 11% improvement in performance over the last 12 months. This is a sustainable result and one that will help to underpin our future operational performance.

Over the last 12 months, as you know, we placed a significant amount of effort into getting our geological understanding to get Sukari into a better place. By better understanding the geology, we'll be able to better plan the operations in more [ph] competence that'll (00:20:51) lead to better production performance and ultimately result in enhanced return. And in addition, by understanding the orebody better, we'll be able to focus on building out the resource base to underpin our growth aspiration. As I mentioned previously, we're now looking at an extensional model of resource development over and above the replacement strategy. We want the total resources to grow each year rather than just replace what we've depleted. And I still continue to believe this orebody is [ph] drill (00:21:17) constrained and not geologically constrained at this time. And the geology team have been really busy during the first half of 2021. We kicked off a re-logging exercise, where we sought to reinterpret the orebody based on existing drill core. We've completed the first part of the orebody on a 200 meter spacing basis and have now commenced the in-filling this on the 25 meter spacing basis. We'll have this completed in the first half of 2022.

On the right-hand side, you can see a hand-drawn section. And this slide was generated as part of that re-logging exercise and covers the entire orebody, both the open pit [ph] and (00:21:48) the underground. Understanding this geological framework at Sukari is key. And I know we've made some great strides recently that will improve our future operation. We've developed a common set of rock types and codes across the entire orebody map to help consistency in that logging and reinterpretation. We've completed the structural model. We will be utilizing the resource update that will underpin the life of asset update later this year. We've completed some 79,000 meters of open pit drilling and some 49,000 meters in the underground. And again, [ph] all will help (00:22:16) to underpin that geological interpretation. We are really looking forward to giving some more information on this work as part of our Geology Day which is scheduled for the 23rd of September where we'll take a deeper dive into this and the exploration work as well.

But as a bit of a teaser, here's a long section you're familiar with, with some of the selected intercepts from the second quarter drilling campaign. I think, as you'll see, it really is a great orebody and it really continues to deliver [ph] for us (00:22:42) and some really eye-catching results. I'll reiterate my comments [ph] from (00:22:46) before. I really do think we're drill constrained rather than geologically constrained. And as you look at some of those intercepts, you can really see why we're excited about where we can go with [indiscernible] (00:22:53). At Ptah, 46 meters at 13.5 grams, 44 meters at just under 5 grams. At the Ptah [indiscernible] (00:23:01) area, 45 meters at 9.8 grams, 49 meters at 15 grams, 10 meters at 9.45 grams. Across in [ph] Amun and (00:23:08) the Top of Horus, 18 meters at 6 grams, 8 meters at 17.7 grams and down into Horus Deeps, which is a long-term potential, 5 meters at 2 grams, 5 meters at 3 grams and 15 meters at 2.5 grams. So, really, we do think there's lots more to come. And understanding that geology really will be key to be able to deliver that resource growth that we're hoping to be able to do for you.

And on a final note, our life of asset update is due later this year. We're very much looking forward to giving you this update. We're [ph] relaying out (00:23:36) our long-term vision for Sukari. I would like to add that [indiscernible] (00:23:39) our current best understanding of the long term potential of the asset, our geological understanding improves as resources grow and along with our commitment to continuous improvement, I believe it'll be a base case upon which we'll build and refine over the coming years to further improve an already fantastic asset.

I'm very much looking forward to updating you all on these plans later this year. We've talked a lot about Sukari. It is our flagship and [ph] its (00:24:07) production [indiscernible] (00:24:08) pay the dividend. And I think the growth and diversification aspects of our strategy has really started to emerge over the first half of the year.

This includes organic growth in our portfolio and we're now expanding that portfolio with more ground in Egypt [ph] in (00:24:20) Eastern Desert. I'm really pleased we've been able to recognize the vast potential of our organic growth opportunities. And I know that we have both the technical and the financial ability to deliver it. The good news is that we're operating in two fantastic geological terrains, the Birimian of West Africa and the newly emerging exciting Arabian Nubian Shield of Egypt. We've used words like prolific quite frequently, but in the case of Birimian, it really does apply. It's produced an 8.5 million ounces – [ph] in fact (00:24:49), 8.5 million ounces in 2020 and hosts a compliant reserve in excess of a 100 million ounces of gold. It has, of course, been subject to some significant investment over the last 20 years, but it's only via this investment that discovery progress – the discovery process has been advanced. Exploration is a function of time and money and I think the best explorers [ph] will (00:25:08) have to move the discovery process along as quickly as possible under the most cost effective manner.

Our West African portfolio is focused on Cote d'Ivoire and [ph] and consistent with (00:25:18) Doropo and ABC project. With a significant portion of the Birimian hosted in Cote d'Ivoire, an established mining sector, we believe it's a great place to operate. But then we have the Arabian Nubian Shield. We know it hosts Sukari and we believe it has the potential to [ph] add other (00:25:32) significant gold deposits. Historically, it's been a profound goal terrain and we believe it's been underexplored and underinvested in the modern era. And we believe that the Arabian Nubian Shield of Egypt is going to move – emerge as a real focal point for exploration [ph] for (00:25:47) Centamin and amongst the number of our international mining peers. However, we of course do have a distinct advantage given our operating history, our in-country infrastructure and team that allows us to move more quickly in this fast emerging hotspot for gold exploration. So, during the first-half of the year, we completed that West African review with the intention of seeking to identify development opportunities [ph] that are (00:26:12) commensurate with our investment criteria.

We [indiscernible] (00:26:15) projects that have the scale and quality that would be meaningful for Centamin and help us deliver our vision of a multi-asset producer across a number of jurisdictions. Out of this review, we identified the Doropo project as one that meets our hurdle rate. And as you can see from the metrics, we believe Doropo has the potential to be a robust mine that will complement our portfolio. With the review complete and backed by our West African development experience we have in the business, we launched a prefeasibility study earlier this year that entails a 17,000 meter drilling program [ph] on (00:26:45) an extensive ESIA baseline program.

We're really looking forward to updating you the progress of this as we complete the work during the 2022. And although this took place after the end of the first half of the year in July, we, alongside B2Gold and Barrick, were able to agree both the terms of the exploration phase and the road map for the negotiation of exploitation terms for a significant exploration land package in the Eastern Desert of Egypt. We have the option on three blocks that cover in excess of 3,000 square kilometers of ground and we've got two distinct strategies. We've got the [indiscernible] (00:27:21) block which is proximal to the existing Sukari mine. We believe it has the potential to generate satellite targets [indiscernible] (00:27:26) to the mine. The Najd and [indiscernible] (00:27:30) blocks represent areas that [ph] they're hosted mining target would likely (00:27:24) be standalone development opportunities.

We're looking to finalize [ph] full (00:27:38) legal formalities with EMRA in the coming weeks and preparation for commencement of field work later in 2021. We have already started, however, to do remote desktop work and have generated a number of targets that would allow us to prioritize our field work program once [ph] they (00:27:51) start later in Q3, Q4. And again, we very much look forward to updating you on these areas our plans and potentially host some more detail on our Geology Day in September. [ph]

Where (00:28:07) I started the presentation today, I'd like to conclude with the same message. The first half of this year was about delivery, delivery on our promises and into our strategic objectives and goals. I'm sure you're all very familiar with our three pillars of our strategy, which is the value maximization of Sukari, the growth and diversification of the business and our commitment to stakeholder returns. [indiscernible] (00:28:27) tangible progress across all three of these areas [ph] and has (00:28:32) been delivering, despite continued global challenges and persisting COVID pandemic.

At Sukari, we delivered on the first half 2021 guidance. We started [ph] layering (00:28:42) those productivity gains and we've launched our capability framework. In terms of growth and diversification, we continue to unlock the Sukari potential underground. We've added those 3,000 square kilometers of Egyptian land holding and we've commenced the PFS at Doropo. And in terms of our stakeholders returns, the $0.04 dividend declared today, reconfirming the intended $0.05 dividend later this year and maintain that strong financial position.

By delivering into our plans, I believe Centamin is in a better place – stronger place today. We have an improving asset in Sukari that has the robustness to continue to underpin our commitment to the dividend and we also have a number identified growth opportunities that we have the team and the financial flexibility to deliver on behalf of the stakeholders. I'm really happy with the work that has been to-date. A lot of hard work has gone in to deliver these results. We have a great team, I'd like to thank them and all our partners that have contributed to this success. And with that, I'd like to thank you all for listening. We'll now open up for Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] You can also submit your question via the chat box on the webcast. First question today comes from Alan Spence at Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Thanks and good morning. I've got a few questions, I'll just take them one at a time. The first one is on the open pit in the first half, just give a sense what the grade would have been if that 1.8 million tonne wasn't reclassified [ph] from waste (00:30:09) to low-grade ore?

Good question, Alan. Off the top of my head, I can tell you that that low grade material came in at about [ph] 0.45 of 1 (00:30:20) gram. So that's a little [ph] fair material would have been there, we're putting (00:30:23) to the stockpiles on that material. So – and off the top of my head, [ph] I'd note, but I can't say (00:30:30) that it – but I can then – what I'll do, Alan, is [indiscernible] (00:30:33) into the question, we'll have a quick look and see if I can answer [ph] by the time we get around those again (00:30:36).

Okay. Fine. Thanks. The second [ph] one is on the (00:30:41) cost cutting plan, $100 million by the end of 2023, would you be able to give us some sense on where you see that being at the end of 2021 and end of 2022?

Ross, do you want to maybe take that one?

Yes. Hi, Alan. I guess, from – that $100 million, we are already $56 million and I'm [ph] quietly (00:31:03) confident that we're going to be well past that. So, I think the key big ones that will [ph] drop will be furlough that come through (00:31:12) and that's going to – and that will come in mid next year and thereafter, will be basically $9 million or $10 million a year and then we've got some exciting initiatives with the explosives contract and the big underground contracts and the like that we'll be able to deliver through. So, to be honest, I think by sort of 18 months, [ph] then (00:31:30), we're going to be hitting that $100 million metric and exceeding [ph] it, I think the back of the costs (00:31:36), the potential is more than $100 million.

Okay. Fine.

I think, we [ph] actually – we're (00:31:41) ahead of plan.

Okay. Okay. And last one, [ph] should we also (00:31:45) – pretty significant working capital build in the first half. I'm just wondering how much of that was timing and we could expect a release in the second half versus potentially higher [indiscernible] (00:31:57) or reagents things like that just kind of filtering through? [ph]

There's (00:32:03) mainly timing that was coming through in terms of where we [ph] sat. There was a bit of (00:32:07) inventory buildup that we've seen, but really it was released in timing and trade receivables, one shipment versus two that we had at the end of the year, and then some sort of prepayments and normal scheduling. The big one was around scheduling [ph] where the solar we had actually forecast that accelerated at the end (00:32:29) – earlier in the year. And that's all been pushed back into the second half. But it will drop between now and basically December. So, there's going to be an acceleration. It's really the timing of those milestones and that was the big one.

Okay. So, most of that, we can assume, will be released in the second half?

That's right. That's right. [ph] You'll see a lot (00:32:50) [indiscernible] (00:32:51).

Okay. Thank you very much.

The next question comes from Raj Ray from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, Martin and [ph] Jim (00:33:06). My question is related to the exploration that you have done for the first half of the year and it's ongoing. So, 79,000 meters of open pit and 49,000 meters of underground drilling, just wanted to get a sense of how much of that has been infill versus expansion drilling. And also, what should we expect for the Geology Capital Markets Day in terms of potential visibility on the resource to reserve conversion and identification of new targets? So, if you can throw some light there. Thank you.

Sure. No problem at all. So, on the open pit, the drilling, [ph] I'd (00:33:43) start with that one, Raj. And, obviously, a significant portion of that is infill around grade control [ph] and infilling gaps in the (00:33:49) resource and a little bit of that – a portion of that has been into [ph] some – sort of the (00:33:55) areas where we had very limited drill data. [indiscernible] (00:33:59) in the Cleopatra open pit zone, [ph] at the top end of the pit in the north (00:34:02) and also in the western [indiscernible] (00:34:04) complex as well. So, we have had two programs where you could argue that they are extensional into the open pit. The exact number of [ph] leases (00:34:10) that went into those two areas I can dig out and find for you, Raj. But I would say that, at least, 90% of the drilling was – in the open pit was around that kind of infill type [ph] with (00:34:22) two areas of extensional [indiscernible] (00:34:24) drilling [ph] in those I mentioned (00:34:26).

In terms of the underground, about half of that is grade control infill. So, preproduction drilling ahead of sort of mining. And then the balance then was that resource development. And [ph] of that (00:34:44) balance into resource development, some of it clearly is sort of upgrading from inferred to indicated, and indicated to measured that [ph] you'd probably categorize that as being, if you like (00:34:54), sort of infill drilling. And, of course, a lot of it was also extensional drilling, looking to sort of test new areas, [ph] death extensions, Down to (00:35:02) Horus, Top of Horus, an area called [ph] Horus Neck (00:35:04), which is starting to develop now as well. So, yeah, I would say that sort of in the underground, it's kind of half between sort of preproduction drilling and resource drilling, and of that resource drilling, again, sort of split between sort of categorizations or increasing [ph] competence and (00:35:21) categorization and some extensional drilling as well. So, yes, I hope [ph] that's the answer to (00:35:27) the question in terms of broadly how we split the drilling out in the open pit and underground. In terms of the Geology Day and we sort of talked internally about sort of the life of asset really will focus on [indiscernible] (00:35:39) clearly and where we will focus on how we see the balance of the life of the mine [ph] looking (00:35:44) as of today, current cost base, current geological knowledge and so on and so forth. But I do think that's a starting position. I do think as we're able to further refine the geology, maybe [ph] some more of (00:35:53) these cost savings, bring things to like for example, are looking at heap leach [ph] these type of (00:35:57) opportunities, I think we'll [ph] blend (00:36:00) look to build and refine that and further improve as we go forward. But we did recognize that there's also a lot of information both in terms of the exploration bid round, in terms of West Africa that really doesn't really fit [ph] as part of that (00:36:11) [indiscernible] (00:36:12). And I think with the change in people that we've had, change in the processes and [ph] change in (00:36:15) a lot of this potential upside growth that we've got, we really felt that sort of the Geology Day is an ability to sort of highlight and showcase the growth potential that we have in the business. And I think equally as importantly is the people and the processes that will deliver that growth for us as well.

So I think when you think about the Geology Day, it will be on a broader group basis. It will be about the people, the approach that we're taking, how we're actually delivering these [ph] trends (00:36:39) and then start to lay out for you, where we see this – the growth and where this can go from [ph] there (00:36:45) as well. And then, we think – I'd say that's quite distinct from the life of asset [ph] too later in the year, which really will be focused (00:36:49) on where we see Sukari going for the year, for the balance of its life.

Thanks, Martin. And just a follow-up question on that drilling. How much remaining drilling have you budgeted for the open pit and underground for 2021? What is the total meters for the year? [audio gap]

(00:37:17-(00:37:29) [indiscernible]

(00:37:30) [ph] you're on mute there, Martin (00:37:31).

Sorry, Ross. Yeah, I'll get back to you on that one, Raj, in terms of the [indiscernible] (00:37:42)...

Yeah. No worries.

I know it's 90,000 meters for underground. Yeah.

Okay. But given the drilling that's been done this year, how confident are you that you're going to replace or potentially add to the open pit and underground reserves?

On the open pit, obviously, I think that was relatively well-defined anyway. I think what we're looking to do with that enhanced drilling is to really sharpen up our understanding. As you'd have seen from the previous work that we had – we've had historically this persistence sort of conversion of low grade to waste. So, I think that we'll see in the open pit, [ph] it's (00:38:16) better definition of delineation of the ore zones, the waste zones and allow us to [ph] do better (00:38:20) sort of mine planning. And – but, I anticipate that that [ph] will (00:38:24) really will be about identifying those low-grade zones. So, [ph] where (00:38:27) they will contribute some ounces, I don't expect it to be a hugely sort of contributory factor to global ounce sort of inventory for the open pit. It's about better sort of understanding and therefore, better planning.

In the underground, of course, that's slightly different. Obviously, we are targeting the extensional model. And so, look, yeah, I think certainly this first [ph] pass (00:38:47), we've had about eight, nine months of the new team working at it, work – [indiscernible] (00:38:51) go into this work as well, putting this new system in place, putting these new targeted areas in. So, really, I think this first step will be the first iteration of applying this extensional model and we expect also to continue to grow in 2023 and on from there as well. So, look, if we come out with a depletion, sort of a replacement number at this stage, but have the systems in place to have that sort of extensional model in place for future years that wouldn't be a bad result. Maybe, we'll come out slightly ahead of depletion on that basis. But it's about putting that system in that approach for the medium to long-term as well.

Thanks, Martin. That's it for me. [Operator Instructions]

Operator: [Operator Instructions] We have a question from [ph] Anthony (00:39:43) [indiscernible] (00:39:44) Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, Martin, and the rest of the guys. My question is probably going to be quite boring after listening to the analysts that have been speaking, but I'm just a retail investor that's been invested in Centamin for so long, I think, I've almost got a mortgage on it, but my question is about, there's an outstanding case for a diesel subsidy, that was a dispute, the Egyptian government decided to change the rules regarding diesel subsidies and I understand that as a result of that, Centamin could be owed around about $22 million, this has been going on quite a long while now and I wondered if any progress has been made on it.

Ralph, that predates me, I'm sure and possibly even predates you, Ross, but maybe a little bit [indiscernible] (00:40:51) than I'm Ross given your slightly longer sort of tenure with the business. Ross?

Yes. I am happy to take that, [ph] Tony (00:40:57) and unfortunately, there is nothing – there's no progress in [ph] the quarter than that and as fuel prices (00:41:05), I mean, we originally had subsidized prices and they changed that [ph] on us (00:41:11) and we're contesting that in the court, but there's [ph] no legal update on it (00:41:18).

Well, it has – sorry, Ross, I don't wish to be rude, but it actually has been going on rather a long while, and sort of eight years or so, I believe and if that was part of the original agreement and the [ph] courts where (00:41:37) they appeared to be just sticking on it, could it not be taken to the international court?

Yes, [ph] it was. We could pursue other (00:41:47) alternatives or look at that. I think we've got to look at that in terms of their overall position with government and the various agreements that at the moment we're trying to navigate that through the Egyptian court with [indiscernible] (00:42:04).

Yeah, I understand where you're coming from, Ross, but you don't want to sort of rock the boat as it were or spoil the relationship you have with the government. But Centamin over the years has contributed a great deal to the Egyptian economy and continues to contribute. And in sometimes – I'm just a retail investor, so you'll have to forgive my perhaps simplified view of looking at things, but from my point of view, we – I see Centamin as fulfilling and more everything that it promised to do in Egypt and it seems to me that they – government sometimes fails to appreciate that. I think that there doesn't seem to be the will to pursue this issue and I think, it needs, should I say, [indiscernible] (00:43:07) along a bit. You've got a good working relationship with the government. Surely, you can speak openly with them and say, look, do you really think this is right? Do you really think this is fair? As with original court case, that was put on hold because of Law 32, which I think the FCC have been considering now for about two year.

Again, a ridiculous situation. You've got – some brokers actually giving a discount or discounting the Centamin share price because of an outstanding court case. And yet the case was based on evidence from a guy with a political agenda admittedly against the government, not against Centamin. But nevertheless, it affects the share price of Centamin. That has been sitting on hold now, well, since 2012 or something like that. So what – the point I'm trying to make is that it seems Centamin aren't really being treated fairly, if that makes sense, over the diesel fuel case or the outstanding court case that's still on hold which is ridiculous, as we know, because you are working in partnership with EMRA. And if the court case had any validity then you wouldn't have continued working with the government. [ph]

Tony (00:44:48) absolutely. I looking in isolation – sorry, Martin, I was just going to say, well, a number of these are – we've got a very good relationship with both our partners, EMRA and government. And we're discussing this in conjunction with a number of different areas, particularly, around new areas, concession agreement and terms and things. So whilst I understand your frustrations and totally understand it's been long outstanding in the court. It is part of a broader discussion with government and for us, it's long-term in Egypt. And we've got that relationship in...

I appreciate it. I appreciate what it's like or what it must be like. Having worked in local government, I can understand that these negotiations can be sensitive. And you enjoy a good relationship with the government. But I feel that you've been more than fair and it's about time there was some reciprocation. I'm sorry if my question is after all the other technical questions sounds rather simple in comparison but from a private investor's point of view, the sort of figures that are involved when we're talking about the €22 million on diesel fuel case, well, I could see that being – if that could be agreed or got back then that would go some way towards the cost of clearing the open pit. Perhaps that's a simplified way of looking at things. I'm just a retail investor. [ph]

Tony (00:46:29), it's Martin here, and I think it's a fair comment. Look, I would say a couple of things and I'm more than happy to take this offline and have a sort of the chat with you about this, so we feel free to get on... [indiscernible]

(00:46:44)

Well, that's very good. I apologize if I've taken up the time.

No, no, not at all. Look, I would say two things, though. So one, more than happy to do that but then secondly, just to your comment, look it's just – look I've been in this place just over a year now, and Ross and I have been putting a lot of effort into – so it's really, from my perspective, building those relationships. It obviously hasn't worked until I got here as well. And I think there' a number of areas where we've made some really good progress.

So I think this bid round that we've done on the exploration, we've worked very closely with EMRA and the government there to make that work. And I think we are building those relationships and we're in a very good position. I think we are recognized and well-respected in Egypt as someone that does what they said they're going to do. So I think that's great. And I think to Ross' point, when we look at these things, do look at them in [indiscernible] (00:47:28)

I'll take your point, Martin. Yeah, can I just say as a retail investor, it's very apparent to me how attitudes have changed in the company. I'm really impressed with what you've done so far. And I'd also like to thank your staff, Alex in Investor Relations and also Bobby Morses with Buchanan for all the help they've given me over the past years. So I would like to take the opportunity of speaking with you in the future if that's possible.

More than happy to do that. And thank you for the kind comments. I really appreciate it. And look, it's your company, you're the shareholders, we've run it on your behalf. So look, it's really kind of you to say that. Thank you. But yeah, let's pick that up in more detail...

So I won't take up any more of this meeting time because I know the analysts [indiscernible] (00:48:25) that have got probably more important things to talk about than I have. But thank you for your time gentlemen anyway.

No problem. We'll talk again soon and we'll set that up. We'll have a chat. No problem at all.

Thank you very much. Thank you, Martin. Thank you, Ross.

Our next question is from David Radclyffe at Global Mining Research. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning guys. I've just got a couple of grade questions. Firstly, in terms of the waste-stripping, obviously, you're talking staying ahead of schedule here. How should we think about that if it's full in terms of any upside here to the grade profile from [indiscernible] (00:49:04) bring forward maybe near-term some high-grade ore? And then on a, sort of, similar basis for the underground, I come back to that slide you put in with the results there, they obviously look very encouraging. They're well [indiscernible] (00:49:19) reserve. It may not be accurate but they do kind of look close to existing infrastructure.

Historically, I guess we've seen similar results but we're still mining from the underground at, sort of, liquefied ground or thereabout. So how should we think about those results practically in terms of near-term upside here to mine planning sequencing from a grade perspective?

Okay. No problem and thanks for the question. On the open pit stripping, that is a dedicated campaign on the eastern side of the pit to, particularly, push back that wall there. So that is – it's three years of programs spread over four calendar years. So it was a half this year, Two full years and then another half at the back end. So it's a three-year program. So look I think that good start has been made on that, that's pushing along. But that is a sort of a three-year program. So I don't think we're going to see second half of this year early into next year that, sort of, increased flexibility flowing through and the grade coming through just yet. I think that's something that we'll look at it and see coming through into the second half of 2022 and beyond.

So I think really it's about sort of them effectively pushing the pit back and getting those cutbacks done to give us that flexibility down the track as well. So I think for the balance of this year and into next year, no material or no significant impact on the grade profiles from the open pit. But clearly, we've just got to get that stripping done, get that out of the way and being ahead of schedule and that is a is a great start for that program as well. And the way I think about that is it means that the program finishes sooner is the way I'm thinking about the ability to push that and outperform on that basis.

In terms of the underground, yeah, you're right, a lot of those hits are near to the existing infrastructure. And I think that's been one of the things that the Geology Review has done for us, I think, which has been sort of – we feel, sort of, quite, sort of excited about it, is that clearly the, sort of, the medium to long-term view of the underground is into Horus, Horus Deeps and so on. And that is the, sort of, the natural depth extension of where we think geologies pointing at the stage.

So when you look on a medium-term view three to five years and beyond, the direction of travel is the depth effectively. But as part of the review again early this year or late last year into the early this year is that we identified a number of areas that are actually close to existing infrastructure that we felt were worthy of follow-up. And so a number of these intercepts actually are going back in and looking at areas that were passed over in the past or not fully recognized of their potential and drilling off those.

So a number of these intercepts are actually close to existing working. So the great news about that, of course, is that one is that we can identify and build resources in these areas, is that it's incredibly, sort of, that quick and cheap to access them using existing infrastructure. And if we're able to do that, that means it gives us a lot more flexibility in the short term. So what we're looking at here is the potential to add ounces in the underground that, sort of, support net-term mining i.e. in the next one to two to three years while we continue to do that those sort of medium to long term view of chasing down the Top of Horus and the Horus Deeps as well.

So we're hopeful that this work will deliver increase in ounces in and around existing infrastructure and then give us a say reduced time and cost to be able to get into those outlets from there as well. Yes and look obviously, there are some very eye-catching widths and grades in there. The ore body does have a history of delivering these types of, sort of, bonanza results. And we'll continue we believe to throw them up as we sort of progress through the geology and start build on some of the target.

Right. Brilliant. Thank you.

Currently, we have no further questions on the telephone line. I will hand the floor over to Alex for the webcast questions.

Thank you Seth. Martin, just sticking with ops for a minute. We've got a couple of questions, just looking for an update on the challenges we had in Stage 4 West of the open pit last year?

Sure. So, as we're aware, there was, sort of, area of potentially geotechnical instability that we identified that late last year. And obviously, we've moved to basically suspend operations before there was any sort of failure. So, actually, the good news from back then was that we didn't actually have a geotechnical incident. We prevented one from happening by some early intervention, which was the right thing to do.

Since then, we've been progressing, sort of, rehabilitation, if you like, work in that area, and that's been a number of different sort of strategies predominantly unloading weight from a bulky area. So, effectively stripping waste material from above this particular area of instability in an attempt to sort of reduce the weight that's pushing down on this area. We've done some dewatering in there as well to make sure that there isn't any, sort of, groundwater that, sort of, that's taken out of that situation. And we've also, sort of, reviewed the geotechnical, sort of, aspects of it as well, a fault play, sort of, structurally what are we looking at from here.

And then off the back of all that, we did then redesign, if you like, the area and how we get to [indiscernible] (00:54:26) to make sure that we can go in and mine this space as well. So, that work has just been continuing. We've been getting on with that through the first half this year and we're scheduled to start getting into the Stage 4 West area second half of the year. We're going to pick our way through that.

We are sort of want to make sure that safety first clearly our priority. So we're being, I would say, cautious. But it's in plan for the second half of the year that we start to get back into this area and open up from production basis while focusing on reducing the waste stripping – sorry, increase the waste stripping to reduce the weight of that area as well. So, long answer, short, it remains on track, progressing well and we're working through that area. We'll continue to work the second half of the year.

Great. I've got a couple of growth questions here. Starting with West Africa. So we've been exploring in West Africa since 2015 and we're now looking to progress Doropo to development. What time limits have we put around our Egyptian exploration program?

So time limits are under the Egypt exploration code are a series of eight years that we we're able to explore. So the first renewal, if you like, comes after the first two years of exploration. So, I think what we're looking to do is obviously if we make a discovery, we'll use as much as the ATF. We'll be as quick as we can within the ATF frame. But really in terms of our discussions with government where you're looking at relinquishment and reapplication for the next two years is demonstrated by work achieved is that there's effectively a two-year window.

So, what we're looking at is obviously a work program that takes us to that sort of the two-year point whereby we'll have done a huge amount of work, hopefully identify potential areas of follow up. We'll drop a portion of the exploration ground and then move on from there as well. So, the easiest probably think about it is sort of two-year cycles, which are aligned then with the government sort of relinquishment program, which is standard across all exploration programs.

And then, you speak about optionality embedded within the business. Is there potential to expand Sukari profile?

Oh, interesting. Yeah. Well, look, I think from my perspective, it already is a pretty big CIO plan, 12.5 million tonne throughput rate with comparably appropriate level, a 90 million tonne a year open pit and 1.5 million tonne a year underground. So, Sukari itself already has a pretty substantial operational out today. Having said that, where we able to identify that the ability to look at the stockpile of low grade material of the heat beach, could we contemplate an expansion through the heat beach type approach for some of the low grade material. Let's see what the test work says, that's one way we could look at expansion.

And then we also have to look at things like the exploration program. We've got airborne geophysics coming up later this year. So, that's going to give us some more information around the [indiscernible] (00:57:33) block which is the exploration bid round. We've been awarded close to the Centamin – sorry close to the Sukari mine. And again, if we do exploration work and throw up a satellite feed from there as well. So, I think on the current ore body that we have, with an underground and processing facility we have, I think sort of all ore growth will contribute to an extension of mine life.

Having said that, if we find something satellite that's of sufficient scale, then I think that's something that we would have to look at on standalone basis to see if it warranted a capital investment program to increase processing capacity serves to further sort of bring down bring on satellite ore body as well. So, I think the answer is that yes, we could look at it, but it would really be subject to the sort of geological exploration success away from the main ore body. But if we did it then then absolutely why not.

Thank you. And then also the potential to expand Doropo and at what gold price levels would speed up or slow down any of growth plans here?

Look, again, exploration is a long-term game. It seems that by the time you start exploring, make a discovery push it to an exploration phase into a development phase and then into construction sort of six, seven years of being in a very aggressive quick 9, 10 years will be about normal. So, I think the secret about this is to make sure that when you're looking at opportunities that you pick a long-term gold price that usually it makes sense. And then you plan on that.

So, I think from my perspective gold dropped down to $1,000 an ounce, I don't predict to stay there but I think that we'd have to be looking carefully around the exploration opportunities. If gold went to $2,500, $3,000 an ounce, I don't think that would change it either as well. So, I think what the sort of long-term prices that we use, there's sort of quality of asset we're looking for you won't have $1,000 an ounce all-in sustaining, you won't have 10-year mine like it takes you to at least to one complete cycle as well. So, if you're targeting the right exploration opportunities, they should be within reason robust against changing the gold price up and down and also sort of there to deliver through the cycle as well.

So, I don't think it really changes our exploration strategy. We're not for the chasing marginal sort of projects that we need $1,500 to work, for example. We look at things that can work at the range of gold price [indiscernible] (01:00:00) given the scale and longevity.

Just a continuation of that too, our PA studies that we announced in West Africa earlier in the year, we used a 5% discount rate. Do we consider this to be a reasonable discount rate for West Africa or for these countries?

Look, I think the $0.05 discount rate I think that is a market convention when we look at all our peers that are out there sort of exploring and developing and operating in West Africa market convention is that sort of people that published NPV at a 5% discount rate. And so it's not to sort of confuse the issue or do that I think we reported numbers in line with market conventions. So I think the 5% people can read into that term, but we're reporting in line with what our peers would do. I think in terms of how we would assess it internally and obviously our own discount rate that we could use to apply to projects when we think about things [indiscernible] (01:00:59) project financing that type of approach as well, I'm pretty sure we're not going to get to the 5% loans interest rates to develop the opportunity as well probably 7%, 8%, 9% would be probably more in line of where we thought we would be as well. So, I would just say that, yeah, the 5% is something that we look at as an internal risk as sort of the number. It's more of a market external comes sort of their convention.

Understood. And we speak so positively about the opportunities we think there are obvious within the Arabian Nubian Shield, would we consider exploring in Sudan?

I actually work in Sudan back in my former life at Toro back in 2009, 2010, 2011. Yes, we had a lease exploration ground in Sudan. Sudan was a great place to work actually, a very interesting place to work, but I now appreciate a year lots of analogies in terms of the terrain, the geological potential and the technique there as well. So, in Sudan, somewhere I personally have experience of working and positive experiences of working there as well.

Look, I think the reality is that with sort of 3,000 square cases of desert potentially in the sort of application right now and the Sukari mine there plus West Africa, taking on huge chunks of sort of Sudan exploration basis, I think this day take a bit of probably better deal in at this stage certainly on an exploration basis, yeah. So look I wouldn't be close to the idea of having had positive experiences in the past and the rocks of the rocks they continue for me to get into Sudan as well and probably look quite prospective down there as well.

And one more question on the growth side, but is there an update on the valuating of strategic option for Batie West?

We're working through. No, we're working through that. Look, I think I said on the Q2 discussion that we had is that we believe there is a project at Batie. We believe that there is an opportunity there that could be developed. We just recognized that from a Centamin perspective, it doesn't meet our sort of the criteria. We're a [indiscernible] (01:03:23) producer at Sukari and we're looking for projects that have got that scale and critical mass that meet that are meaningful to us. And so Batie despite being a viable operation, doesn't quite sort of cut the mustard for us. But that's not to say it wouldn't look suitable in someone else's portfolio, maybe a company that's not producing [indiscernible] (01:03:40) enough, producing a bit less than that.

It's already busy in West Africa and would like to add another asset to their portfolio and possibly take a slightly more sort of a different approach to how they might develop the project from there. So, look I think that plenty of larger companies do exploration work, find projects that don't quite meet their hurdle rates and then look to divest them, rocks gold recently picked up and announced the development of assets before they picked up from new credit.

So, a great example of a large company divesting is a smaller company that is picked up and then it's a viable operation. So, I think that that model which is what we're looking at. And I think we owe it to the Centamin shareholders, but we also owe it to the – picking out the government that if there is an opportunity that we pay to help to realize the opportunity on behalf of the stakeholders for the project.

Thank you. And then just a strategic question. So, we've underpinned dividend returns for 2021 at $105 million. Is the company minded to express a commitment for years going forward through the reset? [indiscernible]

(01:04:55) Ross, CFO. Ross, this one is for you I think.

Yeah. I think an answer to that Alex I think could be done in conjunction with the life of asset with the license, taking on the board the gender in terms of how we view the next period. I wouldn't say that dividend, shareholders, stakeholders returns are very much central to our core focus and what are the key pillars, so I think anything that moves away from that would be unusual, I do think that we required any confident from a dividend perspective that that will still be a core pillar of our strategy, I mean, we're proud of that track record, now it has got eight years of dividend payable track record everyone if you set going, but I think later this year we'd be able to put more light on that.

Okay. Thank you. And Ross, while you are tracking, I've got last and final question, but a cross question for you. What was the driver between the jump in cash cost in H1 from H1 last year, and was this in line with our Sukari life of mine plan?

This is half, half and half?

Yes, half and half, yeah.

Yeah. I think a large portion of that would be our input costs that have gone through in terms of what we had budgeted. I think on fuel price and other input that would have been a big chunk of that, for the cash cost input. I think the key thing on that and what we have been quite confident is a lot of that is seen in line with budget and expectation and what we've hurdled and we're really tracking quite nicely in terms with the expectations in where we actually saw where that's going. So, whilst there were jumps and lot of retrospective in already in terms of our budget.

And forgive me, [indiscernible] (01:07:02) the question was focused on unit costs, where you are exactly right as put in that graph the absolute costs are flat, the US million dollar cost across that period are flat, which I see is the second part of this question...

Yeah. The unit costs have been at the moment...

Yeah. And then the second part of the question is, how much are we expecting cost to rise during the three-year life of mine plan for Sukari? [indiscernible]

(01:07:35)

Yeah. We actually are – we're trying to reduce it our cost sailing initiative, so I think the inflation is one to watch, we're sitting at 4% to 5% in Egypt and the way we have built that into the budget, interest rates in Egypt also relative tax credits, typically there would be a catalyst that would move that at the moment both inflation is I think flat, the US dollar sitting at $15.71 is pretty much consistent that all things being equal, let's call it a level plain field, but it would mean a catalyst to actually move that. I think the one thing to point out from a COVID costs – both in the COVID costs into our budget, but it's the shipping and logistics that we're really seeing a jump driven by COVID and logistics and things that's probably one area that is out of way, but really the rest is our costing and profiles as low costs.

Great. Thank you. That's all the questions that I have online.

Okay. Thank you very much, Alex. Look I think some good question there and I think just to reiterate messages as we sort of look back on the first half of the year sort of satisfaction of a lot of work delivered into stated goals, I think that's important for us and I think changing that sort of perception of the business now where we believe we are which is something with a fantastic asset that underpins the dividend, but also now with a number of identified growth opportunities that we can deliver into as well.

So, I think Centamin offers quite an interesting proposition now for investors with that yield and growth potential in the business. And the team the robustness to be able to deliver that it's that as well. I think it's a great first step along the journey for the reset. I'm looking forward to telling people at the Geology Day in September and on into the life of asset later this year in December. Well, thank you to everybody for taking the time today. And we're happy to take questions and comments off cycle. Just feel free to get hold, Alex. I have you set it up and take it on from there. Thank you very much everybody.