Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Josef El-Raghy — Executive Chairman, Centamin Egypt Ltd.
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Egypt Ltd.
Andrew Mikitchook — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Daniel Lian — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International Ltd.
Andy S. Davidson — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Keith S. Watson — Analyst, Mirabaud Securities LLP
Keith F. Muir — Investment Manager, Aberforth Partners LLP
Tim P. Dudley — Analyst, Collins Stewart Europe Ltd.
Charles R. Cooper — Analyst, Oriel Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Centamin Q4 results. Throughout the call, all participants will be in listen-only mode and afterwards there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

Today, I'm pleased to present Josef El-Raghy and Pierre Louw. Please begin your meeting.

Good morning and welcome to the Q4 results for Centamin. We have a presentation that's on the website and you have access to now and we'd like to start by going straight to slide 3.

Slide 3, highlights the performance for the quarter and underpinned by record gold performance, coming in just under 59,000 ounces which brought the full year gold production to 202,698 ounces. And in line with our revised cash cost guidance as well with cost for the year at $556. This was brought about by a great quarter for cash cost in the fourth quarter coming in at $473, and saved the company round the year out with a cash and liquid assets balance of $200 million, we still remain debt and hedge free so very well placed for the year ahead.

The quarter saw that the processing plant ramp up to 5 million tonnes per annum. This really started to hit its stride certainly in November and December as the guys started to take control of and bed down that Stage 3 secondary crushing.

Published in the quarterly as well was an updated resource and reserve figure. Probably most importantly within that reserve figure was the new underground reserve figure, remembering that our previous reserve figure was really, I mean – took us six months of production from the underground up to the end of December. We were targeting an increased reserve there of 12 months to 18 months of production. And in fact, the 1.1 million tonnes at 16 grams per tonne is probably is past our expectations of where we thought we'd be by end of year, with the drilling from underground having gone very well in the last six months. This takes our total reserves now up by 1 million ounces to 10.1 million ounces and our resource total has moved to 15.5 million ounces.

If we go through to the next slide, if we can, slide 4 breaks down quarter-on-quarter from Q3 to Q4 and also going back to the comparison to Q4 last year. You can see the big step up in the total mined tonnes with 7.7 million tonnes mined for the quarter, a record quarter for us, and same as well with the ore process cracking through that 1 million tonnes for the quarter. The grade was a big driver in the quarter as well, trading over – head grade of over 2 grams per tonne.

Possibly the only disappointment for the quarter was on gold recoveries which dipped under 85% for the quarter. This was predominantly through poor recoveries in October. We did see a return to better recoveries through the second half of November and December. And we would be hoping for recoveries back into the high 80%s through this year.

If we go to slide 5, you can see the trend in gold production for us through the year, quarter-on-quarter a good increase in gold production and we should see that continuing as we go through this calendar year.

Operating cash cost, as I mentioned, a decrease on where we were this time – well, Q4 2010 but a significant decrease on Q3 and Q2 as we had less of those one-off maintenance costs hitting us in Q4 and obviously the impact of the higher production with a better grade and better tonnes through the quarter.

Slide 6 depicts open pit and underground, both performing very well in the quarter. As I mentioned, the increased tonnes from the underground also allowing us to start increasing our stripping as well, which we got behind on in Q1, Q2 and Q3 with the reduced movements from the open pit but certainly getting those tonnes going again in Q4 and you should see those sorts of material movements continue as we go through this year.

Underground production, the increased stoping activity as we get more development in the underground has led to an increased head grade for that quarter and well ahead of our budgeted head grade, which we've always guided towards the 10 grams a tonne to 12 grams a tonne. Underground is probably the standout performer through that quarter.

Slide 7, again, looking at further records for the quarter and this is with ore processed getting over that 1 million tonnes, still room to move on the upside there and we would hope that we can improve on that again in this quarter. We did have plant productivity and availability fall off at times through the quarter and that did also impact on our recoveries where we were running fairly inconsistently at times in the quarter. And that's an area where we can do better and should get resultant better total tonnes through the plant if we do so.

Financial review on slide 8, that's published and I don't intend on reading through that line by line. Slide 9, cash margins with the – obviously, the strong gold price and the lower cash costs through the quarter, very strong cash margin of almost $1,200 an ounce which is certainly an increase quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year.

Cash generation, as I mentioned, we started and finished that quarter with roughly the same in terms of cash and liquid assets. And that's at a time where our capital expenditure certainly is picking up where we've invested in the quarter in exploration and also Stage 4 activities where we're now over $50 million into that Stage 4 expansion project both on plant, engineering and mobile equipment.

Slide 11 is a slide that you've seen before and depicts our three pillars of growth. Firstly, that growth at Sukari, growth at Sukari we saw in the quarter with the updated resource and reserve figures and also the ramping up of production. That growth at Sukari, key part of that is Stage 4, Stage 4 is underway, won't be really until this quarter that we see marked sort of Stage 4 underway on the ground. Most of Stage 4 to date has been on the engineering and procurement front with construction effort really to kick in Q1 this year.

In terms of the existing license in Sukari regional exploration, we continue to work of the hill as well as expanding that resource and reserve at the hill. And the third pillar of growth being growth beyond Sukari in the wider Arabian-Nubian Shield. We saw a further establishment of [indiscernible] (08:29) activities in Ethiopia, procurement of a drill rig, and that drilling will commence in this quarter.

Slide 12 was the growth of resource and reserve at Sukari which I mentioned already and underpinning that reserve growth was the underground reserve component with 1.1 million tonnes at a strong head grade of 16.3 grams per tonne or 600,000 ounces. Perhaps a very important part of the growth in the project and that was really the focus of our drilling this year. It was not so much the drilling in the Northern part of the hill but more expanding that underground reserve component of our resource.

Slide 13 covers Stage 4. Stage 4 at this point in time remains on track for commissioning in Q1 2013 with all the major engineering and procurement activities on track. Plant earthworks and civil works have begun, batch plant setup. The new crane set up and commissioned and already starting to do some work on site on initial civil works.

Slide 14, it covers the underground. I mentioned the production for the quarter, very strong production of 70,000 tonnes at 19 grams which really helps bring those cash cost down. We've got a strong grade. Underground performing well as we get more development work in place. One of the key parts of the underground for the future will also be the underground in the northern or central part of the hill, but further north of our existing operating front.

With that in mind, we kicked off the secondary decline development which you can see on slide 15, known as the Ptah Decline that started off in October and is due for reaching the targeted area by the middle of this year and development work going in from there. We wouldn't expect any real production from that northern part of the decline until the end of this year.

But it's the important part of being able to ramp up production in excess of what we would expect this year, somewhere between 300,000 tonnes and 350,000 tonnes. For this year, we're able to take that further when we are operating the underground on two distinct fronts.

Slide 16 covers the exploration of the hill, no real significant intersections in the quarter from V-Shear's. It was really much more of the same, but we still continue drilling there, and we still see that as an ability to feed the Sukari plant in the future from regional, smaller satellite deposits around the hill.

Slide 17 covers the growth outside of Sukari and as I mentioned drilling in Ethiopia in the north will commence in this quarter.

Slide 18 is an overview of Sheba or Ethiopian licenses, but that's fairly much unchanged from the last quarter.

Slide 19 is a summary on what is ahead of us for 2012. We've published our guidance for 2012 of 250,000 ounces at approximately $550 per ounce. That will be where we drive the operating team whilst we really ramp up our construction effort in Stage 4 and that sets us up well for what should be a strong year this year, with growth again in 2013 and 2014.

As I mentioned, one of the key parts of that is the accelerating access to the higher grade ore zones at depth with the Ptah Decline which is well underway, due to hit that targeted area mid-year and production towards the end of the year able to come out of that.

We've published an increased resource and reserve for Sukari today. We would see further work on resource and reserve growth going on through the year as the focus shifts not so much from drilling from the surface but more from the Exploration Decline and the Northern Decline, as we're able to drill from inside the hills and into the ore zone rather than the longer holes from surface, which we probably won't be seeing more of – or too much more of as the year goes ahead.

And whilst we're doing that, we'll continue to assess our growth opportunities both within Egypt and within this Arabian-Nubian Shield in what promises to be a strong operating year for the company and the year that will continue to focus on expansion. And we see ourselves as well-positioned for the growth that we should deliver.

With that, Kim, I'll turn the call over to any questions that there may be. Hello?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Andrew Mikitchook from GMP Securities. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, Josef. How are you?

Well, Andrew. How are you?

Reasonable. Just a few questions here. The guidance that you gave for 2012, does that assume – and I think in their PowerPoint, you keep talking about 10-gram to 12-gram – 10-gram to 11-gram underground ore. Is that how you're modeling it even though you had a much stronger Q4 and have a much stronger reserve grade?

Yeah. We've got about 10 grams to 12 grams per tonne even though the reserve is higher. We also will be trading some lower grade development ore from the underground as we continue that development work but then it's fair to budget that sort of grade for the year.

Okay. And in terms of costs, should we – are you guys seeing any pressures like on a unit cost basis, say between 2011 going to 2012 or is that fairly stable and you're not seeing that much – what level of impact are you seeing?

I've got Pierre with me at the moment, so I might hand that over to him.

Hello, Andrew. Yes, we were looking at the cost quite critically. When we did our budget process, we did make assumptions on increases in our basic supply to the process plant and also, we looked at increases in the labor. But we don't expect any big bumps this year. I think it will be a fairly stable year for us as things are settling down and our supply in Egypt is becoming more stable.

Okay. And this is a question, I guess, it comes up every conference call. Any ability at this point, Josef, for you guys to give us some guidance on the grade profile coming out of the pits even throughout 2012? It does seem if you back calculate on a quarterly basis, it does seem to vary quite a bit as to what comes out of the pit and then what actually even shows up into the mill. How – should that be more stable in 2012 and beyond 2012, how should we at least conceptually think about that?

Okay. For this quarter that we're in currently, I think we're going to have slightly lower grades from the open pit. But over the year, we should be looking at something around 1.6 grams, 1.7 grams per tonnes from the pit. Slightly better in the backend of the year, and as a result, this quarter will not be our strongest on ounces. If you're looking at how we see the quarters roughly, we might be looking at ounces production of something more in line with 50, 60, 70, 70, as the year progresses, as a result of variations in open pit grade. But to give you next year, we think it's fair that we're probably looking at, again, that sort of 1.7 grams, 1.8 grams from the pit, and that's about as far as we're happy to give guidance on at the moment.

Okay, last question. What about strip ratio? Should it be similar in 2012 as in 2011?

2012, the strip ratio, we're probably looking around that three again.

Okay. I will let other people ask questions. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Daniel Lian from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Hi, Josef. Just firstly a follow-up on your guidance of 250,000 for this year, how much of an improvement in – firstly, recoveries, and secondly, plant availability on Q4 are you assuming to reach your guidance for this year?

And then the second question on fuel subsidies in Egypt, there's been kind of a lot of rumors about and chat about how sustainable the current level of fuel subsidies in Egypt are. I don't know if you have a view on that, and how much of a – whether you're kind of factoring any possibility of fuel price increases in your cost estimates? Thanks.

Dan, I'm sorry, I missed your first question, so I'll just answer the second one and get you to repeat the first one. Second one on fuel subsidies, the fuel subsidies are a huge burden here in Egypt and we've always been very clear that we're of the understanding that at some point in time those subsidies will be removed. We hope they are removed progressively and in a responsible fashion, and we don't see any reason to believe that won't be the case.

We've also been pretty clear with people that the impact on our production of an increase or a removal of those subsidies, if it was one – in one pit, it could be around that $100 an ounce mark if our production's at that 250,000 to 300,000 ounce level. The first question that you asked – I missed it, if you could repeat it?

Yeah, the first question was, I mean, obviously your recoveries and your plant availability was lower in Q4 than where you would like it to be. I'm just wondering, in terms of your guidance for this year, how much of an improvement have you assumed in recoveries and plant availability together?

Sorry, recoveries for this year, we're budgeting in the guidance around 86%. And plant availability, we would be hoping for a return to those 85% to high 80%s.

Okay, great. Thank you. And just to clarify, those assumptions then to get you to your 250,000-ounce guidance for the year?

Well, yes. It might get a little bit higher than that but we're comfortable guiding at that 250,000 level.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Andy Davidson from Numis. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, Josef. Yes, thanks very much for that, and I think most of my operational type questions have been answered. But just perhaps you could say something about the operating environment in Egypt now and how you see things? I think you mentioned that things have settled down and your supply lines are more stable. And then also perhaps you could say how far you've got with the CEO search with the replacement for Harry?

In terms of operating environment in Egypt, last week was quite an important week for Egypt. It was the anniversary of the revolution and all in all it was a fairly peaceful week which was good to see. Egypt now has a lower house of parliament, the Shura elections are occurring now and Egypt's moving towards, I guess, the last key part, which is the presidential position being filled mid-year.

All in all, though, our operating environment – the perception of it was that it was quite difficult. With the exception of this time last year and the two or three weeks around that period of time, we have had a pretty stable operating environment. Our personnel haven't had any threats to their safety and our assets have remained secure, as has our tenure.

In terms of your second question with regards to the CEO search, we are just kicking that off now. We didn't do anything last year, it's underway. I can't really say how long that will take. It won't be a replacement for Harry that is of the same caliber, but we'll do our best.

Sure. I hear you there. That's great. Thank you, Josef. Cheers.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Keith Watson from Mirabaud. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Morning, Josef. Yeah, likewise, most of the operational questions have been, I think, answered. But could I just clarify something that I thought I heard for the underground ore mine, was that 350,000 tonnes, or between 300,000 tonnes and 350,0000 tonnes for 2012, was the sort of target you were looking for?

Yeah, it'll be in that range, 350,000 tonnes has found its way into that presentation.

Yeah.

But, yeah, we're looking at 300,000 tonnes to 350,000 tonnes for the year.

Okay. And can I just check, at your current sort of mine activity rates, what or how many weeks or months of diesel stocks you currently have and explosive stocks? Do you have that figure to hand?

We usually run with between three and four weeks of diesel on site. We don't have any seasonal influence on our trucking, so that's ample capacity. With explosives, we're looking at two different things, you're looking at the accessories, which we import, and we generally hold between two and three months worth on site. And then the other consumable for explosive is ammonium nitrate. And that gets trucked towards from a plant that's only about 300 kilometers away. And we receive a truckload every few days, between three and five days.

Okay, that's fine. Thanks very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [indiscernible] (25:56). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open. [indiscernible] (26:04), your line is now open. Okay, we don't seem to be having a response from [indiscernible] (26:07) who is our final question. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Keith Muir from Aberforth Partners. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi. This is Keith Muir from Aberforth Partners in Edinburgh here.. Just looking at your Q4 revenue, I see your gold bullion sales are $87.5 million, but your total revenues – sorry, it was $78.5 million and total revenue is $85.8 million. What's the difference? Where's the additional revenue come from?

Actually, if you look at the published quarterly, at note number four, we have a breakdown there of the revenue. Gold sales making up $85.5 million (sic) [$84.496 million] and then the rest being interest, marketing commission and some silver proceeds, moving those to $85.8 million.

Note four?

That's correct. Yes, on page 35, I think of the published document.

All right. Because when I was looking through that, I saw bullion sale was sort of $78 million. All right, all right, I've got it now, note four. All right. That doesn't tie in with the tonnage of some of the entities that you've sold in the average sales price that you've got for your gold sales, so where does the additional come from?

Yeah. It's correct because remember that we had additional gold sold last quarter or ounces last quarter, that would have come into revenue now.

Right, right. Okay.

It doesn't relate exactly to gold sales ounces but it does relate to gold production for the quarter.

Okay.

Ore production.

Okay. And we should expect to see that repeat this period given the difference between gold produced and gold sold?

Correct. Yeah, there's always that sort of a lag between the two.

Okay. Thanks. That was good. Thank you for that.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Tim Dudley from Collins Stewart. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning, guys. I just had two questions, one related to the Stage 4 expansion. You note that you are going for a larger primary crusher. I just wanted to know, what's the kind of increase in capacity of that crusher that you're looking to buy? And I'm a bit confused, you – I understood you were going for a primary crusher, an additional primary crusher before. So was that not included in the capital cost, or the previous capital cost estimate?

Yeah. Tim, the primary that we've included in the – that we've described in the quarterly, has the capability of doing 10 million tonnes, and that's 10 million tonnes per annum, and that well passed that actually. The initial stage for expansion didn't cater for an additional primary. The one that we have at the moment should be able to do 10 million tonnes, but it is old. And it would be quite a constraint on our ability to hit 10 million tonnes per annum, if we had extended periods of maintenance with that crusher. And we took the view that investing the time and the money now was going to be better for us in the long run in order to be able to made our production targets.

So the primary crusher that's there now will be replaced totally by this new crusher, there might be two?

No, there will be two and allows the flexibility and to have those periods of extended maintenance if required. Both of them should be able to do 10 million tonnes, the new one should be able to do it a lot better.

Yeah.

And well pass that.

Okay.

So where we're driving this? We did not want to be constrained by crusher capacity. As we run milling circuit now, we are able to do more than 5 million tonnes per annum with this milling circuit, not consistently yet, but in the future we should be able to. And if we can do that with the new circuit as well, then we didn't want to be constrained by the old primary crusher.

Okay, if the capacity went to 20 million tonnes on the front-end, where would be the next kind of bottleneck in terms of lifting throughput above 10 million tonnes?

Once we'll have that additional crushing capacity, the milling configuration that we have will never get to 20 million tonnes. You might see if all things running well get to sort of 12 million tonnes to 13 million tonnes with a big tailwind. That's pretty much configuration we'll run with, but we certainly will have additional crushing capacity.

Okay, thanks for that. And second question I just had was on depreciation. Can you say what the depreciation was for the quarter and whether you're expecting any kind of change in the rates into the next year?

I don't foresee that we will have many swings in the depreciation. I just need to get my note closed now, sorry. Yeah, depreciation over the last two quarters were fairly very similar and I see that going forward the same way. It will increase, as we go ahead with Stage 4, and we capitalize Stage 4, obviously, and – but other than that, I don't see any big changes in that. The numbers remain where they are now.

Okay. What was the number in Q4?

The amortization number is approximately $13 million and the depreciation just under $5 million.

Okay, thank you very much.

The amortization number, just to be clear on the amortization number, obviously, that will change as the stripping ratio change and it will impact some other ways looking onto the income statement.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Charles Cooper from Oriel Securities. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a question on the underground mining operation. In your Q4, you had a significant spike in your grades – underground grades. Now, not necessarily expecting that to be replicated over the next 12 months or so, could you explain why the high-grades were achieved, i.e. were you just focusing on the high-grade zones and will you be looking to do that over the next couple of quarters? Or just explain a little bit of your methodology on the underground operations this year, please.

Charles, if you remember back in the previous quarters we were doing quite a bit more development work with the underground, and with that pulling up some lower-grade materials. So, for that quarter, we fired a couple of big stopes and we also got the telehandlers, the remote boggers, up and running in the quarter, which allowed us to clear out most stopes properly for the first time and really meant that we delivered good grade to the plant.

I think that's an exceptional quarter for the underground and we'd probably say through quarter-on-quarter this year that we're more towards that 10 grams to 12 grams a tonne production.

Okay. So, your guidance for year would be still 10 to 12 for the year then?

Yeah.

Okay. All right. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Andrew Mikitchook from GMP Securities. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, Josef. Just two quick follow-up questions. You said that you were thinking the availability for the current Stage 3 plant would be somewhere from 85% to high 80s. Is that a reason we'll estimate for the Stage 4, or with this new crusher and newer equipment and all these, should that gradually improve beyond that, maybe into the 90s somewhere?

Yeah, we'd love to think that we're operating in the low 90s, but reality is what it is. And we saw how we operated this year, and I don't think you get quantum shift from one year to the other. So, grinding or pushing those availabilities into the high 80s this year would be a good achievement and hopefully do better, if we look forward towards the middle or the end of next year.

Okay. And this improvement for this year, is it kind of gradual, or is it you're more or less at that level now for throughput at the Stage 3 plant?

We should see a better quarter on tonnes, hopefully, this quarter than that October autumn break. So, certainly, November and December finished with a blurry on the tonne. In terms of ounces production, this first quarter is not the best quarter from the pit. As usual, it's in the back half of the year. So, you should see production in the order of, as I mentioned before, so, 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 and 70,000, that's a bit --

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [ph] Chris Miller (36:31), a private investor. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Morning, Josef. I'm sorry to harp on about 2012 production figures. Clearly, originally, in 2011, we were initially hoping for 250,000 to 290,000 ounces. There were some issues with blasting permits and inspectors, I understand. Given that we're now producing more gold from underground, is the 250k forecast for this year a case of under-promising and, hopefully, over-delivering? Or is there something more fundamental that's happened to make you give such a conservative estimate?

Thanks, [ph] Chris (37:17). Well, anytime we tell whether it's under-promising and over-delivering, in terms of how we've looked at last year and how we look at this year, we still do have catch up this year to pick up from the material what we didn't ship last year. So, you can't simply get those out for this year that we thought we were going to get last year or trends like last year's production, I mean, uniformly. So, there is waste stripping to do. We think 250,000 ounces is achievable and we hope we get there.

I think that's echoed by all private investors. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [indiscernible] (38:07). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Hi, Josef. Two quick questions for you. What are the unit mining and milling – mining costs both for underground and open pit, if you could them break them down for us? As well as, milling costs, what you're seeing on a per tonne basis?

Our mining cost per tonne for the fourth quarter was actually very good compared to the previous two quarters. With the additional material we moved, we ended up running around $1.80ish per tonne. The processing cost, we were running about between $10 and $11 per tonne for processing. Underground at this stage, it's early days for underground, so it is sometimes expensive and sometimes a little bit cheaper, depending on how we move it. But we're running around about $110 a tonne there.

Okay. And then going forward, if you're trying to see how much you're capitalizing on those costs? How can we best model that going forward? Will you carry on capitalizing costs for the next two years or how do you – how are you thinking of that?

Going forward, our mining unit costs and process unit costs will be coming down as the tonnes goes – as the tonnes increase through the process plant and our mining tonnes increase. And from underground as well, it is still very much an unknown for us, the underground. But I would say that we should be running around about the same numbers for underground. I don't foresee that there will be big changes at this time. As we go deeper, obviously, it will become more expensive.

For the capitalization of waste, it depends on our strip ratio. Currently – next year, we're planning a strip ratio of approximately three. So, I believe that the capitalization would be very – at very similar levels as what it was this year, because we were running overall about three, four for this year as well, 2011 as well.

Excellent. Thank you so much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from [indiscernible] (41:14). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open. [indiscernible] (41:23), your line is now open. We seem to have lost [indiscernible] (41:30). [Operator Instructions] As there are no further questions, I'll turn the conference to you, gentlemen.

Okay. I'd like to thank you all for joining us for the Q4 update. We would see quite a few of you next week down at INDABA, and happy to update you further on that. And also, we'll be running an analyst site visit towards the end of March. If you like, contact Katharine Sutton in our London office, who will be happy to give you details of that.

So, with that, I thank you all and sign off for today's call.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.