Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
Brock P. Salier — Analyst, GMP Securities Europe LLP
Jonathan M. Guy — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd. (Broker)
Alison H. Turner — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Yen Yee Voo — Analyst, Nomura International Plc
Bart Jaworski — Analyst, J&E Davy

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Centamin Interim Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode and afterwards there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

And today, I am pleased to present Andy Davidson and Andrew Pardey. Please begin your meeting

Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us on the call. As the operator said, I've got Andrew Pardey, our Chief Operating Officer, with me. I'm just going to, as usual, just do a very brief run-through through the highlights and then open up the call for questions and answers.

So, the second quarter saw the first material production from a new Stage 4 expanded plant and we had record throughput in the quarter of just under 2 million tonnes, as a consequence, the productivity level through the new plant – through the expanded plant is expected to continue to ramp-up during the second half. And the key driver, obviously, therefore, are continued quarterly increases in production.

The second quarter saw a slightly lower average head grade, which resulted in co-production in the quarter of just over 81,000 ounces. Those, slightly lower than expected grades, were primarily a result of below-forecast grades in the underground development ore. And I can say that we are starting to see those grades return back to normal levels and we do expect those grades to continue to track up in the second half as well.

So, positive from the underground operations, particularly those with the high mining rate. The operation continues to perform very well on the mining front. Productivity set another record quarter. And with those continued high mining rates and grades continuing to track up, together with the increasing plant throughput, as a result of the ongoing ramp-up, means that we continue to expect increases in quarterly production through the remainder of the year and reiterate our guidance of 420,000 ounces for the full year at $700 an ounce operating cost.

Quarterly cash costs for the second quarter were above that $700 an ounce guidance level for the full year. The quarterly number was $783 an ounce. Those costs were – high costs were a reflection really of the same slightly lower production due to lower grades and those costs should come back down into the line with the full-year average or will bring the full-year average back into line with guidance, I should say, as production continues to rise through the remainder of the year.

Cash flow generation despite the challenges in the quarter was strong. We had EBITDA of $32.6 million and cash from operations of just over $20 million. And this really indicates – points towards our expectations of continued increases in free cash flow generation as production continues to ramp up. And the expansion CapEx, as we're already seeing, continues to decrease towards that steady-state, sustaining CapEx guidance that we've put in our presentation for some time now.

The balance sheet remains strong, with $133 million of cash and liquid assets. And as a result of our good cash flow generation going forward and the strong balance sheet, strong position of the growth profile coming out of Stage 4, completing that program and ramping-up production, as we've foreshadowed in our AGM in May, the board has declared a maiden dividend of $10 million, which equates to $0.0087 a share.

So, with those good cash flows, returns to shareholders and strong balance sheet, we also remain well placed to fund our ongoing growth programs. We've ongoing exploration projects in West Africa and Ethiopia, new projects in Burkina Faso is well underway.

But of note, I think during the quarter on that front, on the exploration front, I think, in particular we highlight the exploration results from the drilling underground in Sukari, which are outlined in the table on page seven of the results. I think both that supports our confidence in the medium- and long-term growth of the reserve and the mine life resource drilling underground continues.

So, we expect to see continued resource and reserve growth from underground in the coming years, and continue to expect the underground operations to be substantial long-term operation for the mine as a whole.

With regard to the co-proceedings that are ongoing, no material updates on those procedural matters from the second quarter. In the second quarter, though, we did have a new law passed in Egypt in late April. We mentioned this in our press release at the time, that that new law restricts the capacity for third-parties to challenge contracts between investors and the government. We believe that in due course Centamin will benefit from this new law and we continue to discuss with our advisors how that will be applied in our case.

And with that, operator, I think I'd like to just hand over to questions, please. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brock Salier. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Morning, Andy. Just a quick one on the underlying dollar per tonne of rock cost. It seems like your underground mining and processing dropped quite substantially on a per tonne of rock basis. Tell me how much of that was related to your sort of part-quarter contribution from Stage 4 and how much of that is you're just driving cost out of the business? And I guess, by extension, should we expect that dollar per tonne of rock to continue saving into the third quarter and fourth quarter?

Good morning, Brock. Yes, I think you're right, just like that, we did see $1 per tonne decrease, particularly in the processing, and that is a function of the ramp up, the increased efficiencies you get with this and the higher rates of productivity. We expect to continue to do those kind of rates better going forward. I think where we get to ultimately remains to be seen. But I think we're not there yet with the ramp up, so I think, consequently, we're not there yet with the unit cost. So, there is probably more to come, I'd suggest.

All right. Great. And on the capital spend, I think a budget year-to-date is sort of somewhat dependent on the trucking fleet coming in. Could you give us a little more color on how you handle the new trucking fleet and waste stripping once the increased explosives use come through?

Brock, good morning. All of the standard mining fleet is now onsite. And the additional trucks and excavators are there. And they'll be used to continue on with stripping for the longer term development at the mine, so we can continue to have – continue with ore supply from the open pit.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Guy. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Thanks very much. And could you just talk about where you are with the permission to use additional explosives and whether you feel that that's going to impact 2015 production as things stand? And by when you need to get that final approval, if it isn't to impact 2015?

Good morning, Jonathan. Well, we haven't provided annual guidance for 2015 yet. Obviously, we have the 450,000 ounce to 500,000 ounce long-term number in the market. We continue to be in the final stages of approval. We continue to expect the permit in the near future. We can't give a timeline on it. And it's really too early to say, from our point of view, what any impact might be on 2015 guidance. I don't think we're near that kind of situation yet, and we've been clear that it's not going to have an impact on 2014 production.

And if we are in a situation where we still haven't received it, by the time that we come, sit provide guidance for 2015, we'll obviously provide there the relevant full disclosure, but I don't think we sit here and regard that as a realistic expectation at this stage.

Okay. Thank you. Just briefly second question, obviously some pretty phenomenal exploration results from the quarter. What are your thoughts on that and how do you feel that could impact the – or the year-end reserve statement for this year?

Yes. Thanks, Jonathan. Now you're right. They are great results in my view as well. I think they support our outlook for the medium and long terms of setting the intro for the mine. They're supporting our beliefs that these high grades is going to continue within both the Amun area, where we're currently producing, but also we're starting to get some good results from the Ptah area as well as we get the development into those natural and best expense drifting of Ptah decline. And with regards to resource/reserve update, maybe Andrew should answer that on when we expect to announce.

At this stage, we're expecting to do a resource/reserve update in 2015.

And do the positives results you're getting out of Ptah make you think about bringing back – or ramping up there more quickly or stick with Plan A at the moment.

We'll stick with plan A, Amun, and we will continue on with developing Ptah, so that we have the second ore source available to it. But at the moment in the short term only ore is coming from the Amun area. And later on, as we develop and develop more there, Ptah will be the second source of ore.

Thanks very much guys.

Thanks, Jonathan.

Our next question comes from the line of Alison Turner. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, gentlemen. I was just wondering if you can give us a little bit more color on Burkina Faso. You haven't told us much about what you've been doing there this half, and clearly that's likely to become of increasing interest as it progresses. I just wonder if you could give us a little bit more update there.

With Burkina Faso, I think we – after that take over, we've recently been drilling there the one rig in March. We have since upgraded. We've got a second rig that is also drilling. Both two rigs are focusing on resource development program at Batie West area and we're in process of organizing a third rig to come down [indiscernible] (12:04) that will focus on exploration, more of the Greenfield and Brownfield-type exploration, with the first two rigs focusing on the resource development and expansion.

Yes, I think, Alison, I'd also like to add, when we acquired Ampella, there was a resource there and it's not [indiscernible] (12:25) at the time and still [indiscernible] (12:29) resource and we needed to do more working. And the real reason why we acquired the project was the very prospective about licenses – quite excessive suite of licenses across the regional district [indiscernible] (12:40). And there is a lot of prospects to drill, lot of work to be done and that's the focus of a very systematic exploration program that Andrew and his team has started to put in place now.

So, we'll start to see the results coming over the next months, and then next year, hopefully, we'll have more to say in terms of how we see that project going forward in terms of development and getting to production in due course and what sort of shape and size that project may look like. At the moment, we don't have any preconceived ideas on what the projects scale, size, cost, production, profile, et cetera would look like and that's, obviously, going to flow out with the exploration results we get over the next couple of months.

Sure. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Will Castro (13:28). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Hi. Sorry, it's [ph] Vikas Chaudhary (13:43). I wasn't sure whether it's me or somebody else. Gentlemen, couple of quick questions for you. The first one is in terms of your guidance for the remainder of this year. That seems like 130,000 for each quarter from now on and for the cost of $700, are you really confident are we going to actual meet that target? And the second question is to do with the – for the ongoing court case. Now, it's almost four months now since that April ruling came out from the Egyptian government. Are you in a position to give us any kind of timeframe how long more you meet with your lawyers and you acquire [indiscernible] (14:18) look into that before we can make our case?

Maybe I will deal with that court case question first and then Andrew can deal with the guidance question. The court case is ongoing. It's been a lengthy process. As we guided, it would be from the beginning, early 2013 that's when we filed our appeal, we were very clear that this is likely to be a two-year process. It's bureaucratic, lengthy. And we're now in the part of the appeal processes and what's call the merits here which is actually the part of the court that will make the final ruling in due course whenever that may be. But as always, we've not been able to provide a timetable because the court doesn't give us the timetable. And so, we can't provide any clear indication on when we expect this to be resolved, other than saying, we're near the end of the process than we are at the beginning.

My, sort of, gut feel is that it will be some time in the first half next year when we get the next – I mean the next ruling in October is not going to be the final ruling. I think our legal advisors are clear on that one in terms of expectations. But we don't control the timetable. We haven't been given the timetable. Those are our best case estimates with regard to that at this current point in time. So, hopefully, that answers that question on that one. Maybe Andrew can say more about the guidance.

So, with the guidance, we are expecting, say, a production increase quarter-on-quarter for the remainder of the year through a combination of processes. The plant throughput is progressively increasing as the ramp-up and understanding how to operate the new circuit continues to improve and also the grade from the underground operations. But the underground this year is on target to deliver over 800,000 tonnes of ore. And the productivity so far has been good and the development is now in place for providing access to these additional high-grade stoping blocks, which will increase the average grade and some production in the second half of the year.

I don't think whether you should look at 130,000 ounces per quarter for Q3 and Q4. This is a progressive ramp-up of the plant on the throughput basis and grade will – starting to come through now and the underground grade, in particular, will probably – on the open pits for that matter, grade will probably be stronger in Q4 than it is – is expected to be stronger in Q4 than it is in Q3. So, I think, you will see more in Q4 than Q3, because that's the nature of the ramp-up as well as – as the grade profile as well.

And the cost?

And the cost – the operating cost will come down accordingly with the increases in productivity. The grade is, obviously, a key driver of that throughput, you get more ounces, you even cost per ounce reduces. On an absolute dollar, cost obviously – cost continue to go up in dollar terms, in line with the ramp-up. But there's the productivity offset, so that will come through in the coming quarters?

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next comes from the line of [ph] Jason Hill (17:53). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning. My question rela3tes to your joint venture with Alecto Minerals. I was wondering how you thought that was going and when you expected to have some news on the exploration and drilling.

Yes. The Alecto JV, we're done drilling down on the southern prospect and we're waiting for those results to come back to determine our focus and the way we take that JV forward. And on the western prospects that we've got, that's a very much an earlier stage project, where we're still going through the processes of geochem and rock chip sampling, before we would look at moving into that drilling phase. They're still in the early phases, but there has been a lot of groundwork completed in both of those prospects.

And are you happy with what you've seen so far?

From a geological point of view on the southern one, yes, that looks very interesting. As I said the western block is more – it's very early stage, so it really – it depends on getting all the geochem results back and interpreting those to identify trends.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Cailey Barker. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Morning, gents. Yeah. Just a question on CapEx and exploration spend. And, obviously, CapEx has come right down, while exploration costs have jumped up this quarter. Could you just give us an idea of what we can expect for the second half on steady state?

Hi, Cailey. Yeah, for the steady state, we've had in the presentation for some time, in the range of $80 million to $100 million per annum, which you would regard essentially as sustaining CapEx as a whole. That half is about $40 million to $50 million per annum would be for the underground development and the rest would be for open-pit development and for maintenance CapEx – your standard maintenance CapEx.

The residual CapEx for the open-pit fleet, there is still a residual amount of that to come I think the number is in the region is $60 million to $70 million for the remainder of the year total, including the sustaining CapEx. So, if you look at our guidance at the beginning of the year, $140 million for CapEx, including roughly $40 million, $45 million for the open-pit fleet build up, we've probably got about $70 million – $60 million, $70 million of that remaining in the second half.

Okay.

Overall, yeah.

Thanks. And on the exploration side?

The exploration spend, I think the current run rate is what we discussed – guided to about $12 million per annum for the underground. And $10 million – I think, probably Burkina Faso will be in the region of $7 million or $8 million for the year, probably a bit more next year. And Ethiopia is relatively low spend, is in early stage and a low level of spend. So, the project would be $1 million to $2 million or less, depending on results – or more, depending on results, yeah.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just a second question just on the profit sharing, obviously, that's moved into the next financial year. Is that a big jump or is that just – it's just moved over the – just slightly moved over the end of the period?

I think it's sensitive, because we're getting towards the end of the cost-recovery period, excluding the amount that is to be recovered from the Stage 4 expenditure. And now, the Stage 4 has been completed, those costs start to get recovered as well. The gold price, obviously, is another sensitivity. Depending on what gold price you use, you can shift the needle quite considerably in a way in terms of – because we're getting relatively close, where you can shift it back few quarters, but with a lower gold price. And that's essentially what happened really. So, yeah, no change to the model, the forecast and the sensitivities of the profile – of the accounting model.

Got it. That's all for me. Thanks.

Thanks, Cailey.

Our next question comes from the line of Yen Voo. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. This is Yen Voo from Nomura. And on the interim dividend of $0.0087 per share, what is the guidance for the final dividend? Is there a 50-50 split or like other companies of one-third/two-third for final year?

Hi, Yen. Well, we haven't guided on quantum for the full year. This is the first interim dividend payment – it's the first dividend payment we've made. So, the AGM or the annual policy guidelines for the Board would be its discretionary policy we laid in the guidelines. This is the sort of payment – I think if you look at standard practice, it's usual that you find the interim dividend is exactly half of what the full year is. But I'm not preempting what we may or may not do at the full year. And I think this is a first dividend payment, interim dividend payment. It sets the scene, sets the stage for a sustained competitive yield going forward. And we feel very strongly that's where we can position ourselves and where we intend to position ourselves, I think, a competitive payout and certainly these share prices yield.

And you would still maintain the 15% to 30% of net cash flow of sustaining CapEx, right?

Yeah post sustaining CapEx and after the profit share with the Egyptian government, we'd pay the Egyptian government their profit share when that kicks in first, and then out of the remaining cash flow, then we'll use up 15% to 30% as a guideline to report.

So, based on your $0.0087, what's the implied payout of the 15% to 30%? Is that still – was that within the range?

You mean the payout on a yield basis?

Yeah.

Well, I think [indiscernible] (25:27) I probably can't. But I think it is just over 1% yield on the interim payout. And I think from what I've seen and where the rest of the industry is, I think we already – just based on what we've paid in the interim, that's just reasonably competitive yield even if you annualized it. So, I think with potential further dividend to come in the full year, then we should be able to have an overall payout for the year. It's very competitive versus the sector.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Bart Jaworski. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Congrats on the daily ramp-up and the exploration results. I was just wondering given we're sort of halfway through the third quarter, wondering if you could provide any color on the throughput rates you're getting right now with the recoveries and maybe the underground grades?

Hi, Bart. Yeah, look, we don't, as you know, provide the monthly figures. I think we'd just say that in July we saw progress with the underground grades mines and also further increases in plant productivity. So, those are the two key drivers, which are acting in the right direction in July and in the period to-date. We expect further improvements on all fronts in the coming months. And hence the reason, there's no change in the guidance of course and the expectation. Another thing worth highlighting is that we've completed a mill reline in the period, today, which has brought forward slightly in September, so that's another reason to expect productivity to be slightly better. But look, I mean all of these things are just speaking to grades and productivity going in the direction that we've indicated they need to go.

Okay. Thanks for that. And on the results that you got from the exploration from the underground, definitely some zingers in there absolutely looking very robust. Just wondering where exactly do they plot in terms of being – are they within the current resource envelope or are they outside of it?

The Ptah ones are outside of the current underground resource and the Amun reserves, some of the Amun reserves within the current resource and others are just below the actual reported resource area. What they're showing us is a continuation of the supply grading below the existing areas in Amun.

And is there a map or a long-section or a cross-section that we could see the boundaries versus your intercepts?

We will get that updated in time. We've got a site visit coming up in September. So, I think that would probably be the appropriate time for us to...

Got you.

...to update people on that site visit with the detail of where some of these reserves coming from, but then obviously that will in public disclosure at that time.

Okay. Perfect. And just the last question on the court case. So, you mentioned this earlier that October may not – is definitely not the final and we knew that before, but I thought before the general thinking was that it may be thrown out in October given the new legislative environment within Egypt. Is that no longer the case?

Well, first think, Bart, I think you can say anything is definite in these things. Certainly, our expectation and our legal advisors' advice to us that the next hearing will not be the final one, based on the wording of the judge's comments at the end of the last – at the last hearing. In terms of the new law, you'll be allowed and it's been reported in the press that there is a challenge by some of these third-parties that are taking claims against their companies such as us. They're challenging the constitutionality of this new law. We can't comment on that as the process has got to go through the Supreme Constitutional Court before we get clarity on how this new law is going to be expedited.

Our legal advisors, again, have said to us quite clearly that this constitutional claim should not have any merits and shouldn't find any sway in the Supreme Constitutional Court, but that obviously remains a matter for the court. But, again, with these new court processes we don't have a timeline on that. All I would say is that, I suppose, sitting as an outsider to that particular process, I would expect the government and the court, the judiciary, in general, are quite incentivized to get this issue resolved as quickly as possible, so we can have the clarity on all these cases and move forward. But that's just my view. We're in the process – we're in the court process for that new law. We'll get the clarity in due course.

Right. So, the constitutional court decision may not happen until later this year, i.e. after your October court date?

That's certainly a possibility. But look, I think the important thing here, Bart, is the expected final outcome has never changed. We've continued to operate all through this appeal. We continue to enjoy the full support of the government in this matter. We have no reason to doubt, whether it's by virtue of this new law or by something else, the court case going its due course outside of the scope of this new law or by some other means, we've no – we have very little to help. But you can never say with 100% certainty that – we have confidence we possibly can be that we will continue to operate and I think that's the track record since this...

Yeah.

...this originally broke out 18 months to two years ago there.

And recently, there has been no precedence in terms of other companies in your predicament that have got positive judgments.

No. There have been other hearings and other cases since the new law was brought out, and those cases have been adjourned. And this constitutional hearing has been given the opportunity to go ahead, which [indiscernible] (32:24).

Okay. Perfect. Thanks very much for that.

Pleasure. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Alison Turner. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, gents. I wondered if you could just give us your thoughts on the political situation more broadly in Egypt at the moment, particularly as we approach parliamentary elections later this year.

Yeah, Alison, we don't – I mean, we don't comment on the wider politics in Egypt, but I think the operation has continued without material interruptions since the beginning of 2013. I think in that context, we continue to server a good and improving operational environment. I think that's the key point.

So, the outlook for Egypt, I think, it's broadly being recognized by investors, the investment community as improving. And that is helping sentiment to invest in our share price. But we've always had the line there's a dichotomy between the reality on the ground and the perception of the headline risk – political risk in Egypt. But yeah, we're seeing those two things coming to line now, where the perception is starting to realize that actually the outlook and the operating environment in Egypt is much better that it has been in some time.

Thanks.

Thanks, Alison.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Lloyd Johnson (34:11). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Good morning, gentlemen. What news have you got on the fuel subsidy court case?

Well, that's a process that is ongoing. I think we've always made the argument that yes, we'll pay for the international price going forward from that point in January 2012 when the subsidy was removed, but we dispute the means by which the subsidy was removed from us selectively that we should fit in with the mechanism, in the broader sense, once it's settled, and I think that's the key point.

I think you're seeing now the government starting to address the fuels subsidy issue, because that's the mechanism by which fuel subsidies, generally, in Egypt will be removed. It's something that will be clarified over time. We're starting, as you say, to get progress on that. But it's difficult to say in that context where we will get resolution on our argument that we should essentially fit in with whatever broader mechanism is determined for removal of fuel subsidies in Egypt.

Yes, yes. And at the moment, is that a process that is being held in a queue behind the principal court case or in theory should this be being dealt with at the same time?

It's a separate case, in a separate court, separate – and it's not related to the Concession Agreement and it's really its own process.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.

Pleasure. Thank you.

As there are no further questions, I will return the conference to you, sir.

Well, thank you very much, operator, and thank you for everybody on the call and thanks for the questions. We look forward to speaking to you all again soon. Thank you. Cheers.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.