Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, are we on the line now operator?

Yes, sir. You are live in the call.

Yeah. Okay. Sorry everyone. Hello all, thanks for joining us, the Q3 Results Presentation. Glad you could join us. As usual, I'm not going to give a presentation, just open it up straight away for Q&A, please. Thank you very much.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of James [indiscernible] (1:05). Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Hi, James. Sorry, I should have mentioned James and everyone, I have Andrew Pardey with me as well, it's not just me.

Hi, Andrew.

Hi.

And just on the Stage 4 timing just so I can make sure that I've got this right. You've got $7 million left to spend and that includes all the costs for the upgraded mining fleet so that's all in about $7 million left to spend and on the Stage 4 when would you expect to start commissioning and start ramping up assuming that you get all the necessary permits in place?

Yeah, James. There is $7 million left to spend at the Stage 4 budget. There is some fleet component incorporated in that Stage 4, roughly $55 million out of the $325 million is for open pit mining fleet. Beyond the Stage 4 allocation, there's another $80 million of CapEx of which we spent roughly $70 million to-date. So, as a roundabout, $15 million left to spend in total. So, that's – yeah, that's the remaining.

So, the total budget would be for the Stage 4 plus the fleet expansion, so around $400 million, $405 million. And just to clarify that a bit further as well, we do break out the CapEx spend in the MD&A. In the notes to the MD&A, there's a bit of a detail there on where the capital was spent in the nine months to date between those various cost centers, which is essentially the Stage 4 CapEx, the open pit fleet beyond the Stage 4, the ongoing fleet build up, then the underground development, the open pit development and the sustaining CapEx, so, you get all those numbers broken out in that.

Thanks Andy. Just on the timing, when you'd expect to start ramping up with the – to the 10 million tons?

The plan is we'll have the plant operating at capacity in the second half of next year. First half of the year we'll be ramping it up and by middle of the year we'll have it up it to the designed capacity.

Okay. One more question, a more general one on the court cases, both in terms of the license area and in terms of the fuel subsidy, is there anymore, I read the MD&A briefly, but is there any more detail you can give us on likely timings, I was under the impression there was a court case going to be on the 19 of November, is that likely to be largely procedural, or would that be a decision made one way or the other or some kind of recommendation, if there's any color you could give us, would be appreciated?

Sure, James. Look, in both cases, there is no time table, so we don't know the end result and that's always been the case really. The next hearing in the concession agreement appeal is on the 19, but we have no indication that a judgment will be forthcoming on that day. We are expecting it to be procedural. So, we still remain in the process, and we still have no clear idea of when the final ruling will be made. However, the last hearing did move the appeal up to the Merits Circuit, so there is progress. That Merits Circuit, which is a division of the Supreme Administrative Court, is the Circuit that will make the final rulings. So, we are making progress towards resolution of this appeal, but as yet we don't know when that final ruling will come.

Thank you. One last question, just in terms of starting to split the profit share with the government, you mentioned in the MD&A that you'd be looking to do that in Pharaoh Gold Mines next financial year which is June to June as I understand it. Would it be going straight to 50-50, or would that be sort of a sliding scale where they take 10%, 20%, 30%, and also would you be looking to recoup the dividends that have already been paid out, this year, or last year, in Pharaoh Gold Mines financial year to the government or is that just a matter still open to discussion?

You're talking about the $8.2 million there with the [indiscernible] (5:46).

Yeah, exactly.

Yeah, that was an advance that was made and we calculated that by adjusting the cost recovery model at our own discretion. The recovery of those costs that we moved essentially to the right will come in time, so we will recover those that advance payments through the cost recovery mechanism in essence.

And, the sliding scale question. Yeah, the standard term of the – terms of the profit-sharing agreement do provide for a sliding scale, whereby there's an additional 10% to us in the first two years of profit-share, and then that moves down to 5%. So, effectively it's a 40% to the government in the first two years, and then 45% for two years thereafter and then it moves to 50-50. That's all provided for in the standard in the Concession Agreement, and that is set together with the fact that cost-recovery is ongoing was after profit-share commences, means you do get a phased increase if you like a phasing in as a profit-share will steady built-up over several years towards that steady state.

Thanks for the color, Andy. I appreciate it. Good luck guys, I'll get off and let someone else go.

Thanks, James. Cheers. [Operator Instructions]

There appears to be no further questions or comments at this time. Please continue.

Okay. Well, that was short and sweet. But if there are any questions that anybody has and would like to ask them offline, then please do get in touch [indiscernible] (7:52). Hopefully, you've all got my contact details, or you'll find them on the website, if not, or on the release. But otherwise thanks very much for joining us and you all have a good day. Cheers. Thank you.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for the day. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.